<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651778</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SHAPED ABRASIVE PARTICLES AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K314	C04B35111	B24D300	B24D1800	B24D314	B24D1100	C04B35626	B24D306	C04B35626	B24D300	C09K314	C04B3510	C04B35111	C04B3510	B24D1800	B24D1100	B24D304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C04B	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	C04B	B24D	C04B	B24D	C09K	C04B	C04B	C04B	B24D	B24D	B24D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K3	C04B35	B24D3	B24D18	B24D3	B24D11	C04B35	B24D3	C04B35	B24D3	C09K3	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	B24D18	B24D11	B24D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of making abrasive particles having a specified shape and abrasive articles containing abrasive particles having a specified shape. The method for preparing such an abrasive particle comprises the steps of: (a) providing a dispersion containing particles of a precursor of alpha alumina, preferably particles of alpha alumina monohydrate, in a liquid, which liquid comprises a volatile component; (b) providing a mold having a first surface and a second surface opposed to said first surface, said first surface having an opening to a mold cavity having a specified shape; (c) introducing the dispersion into said mold cavity; (d) removing a sufficient portion of the volatile component of the liquid from the dispersion while the dispersion is in the mold cavity, to form a precursor of an abrasive particle having approximately the same shape as the shape of the recess of the mold cavity; (e) removing the precursor of the abrasive particle from the recess of the mold; (f) calcining the removed precursor of the abrasive particle; and (g) sintering the calcined precursor to form the desired abrasive particle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG JAMES G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG TODD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEONARD WILLIAM K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWENHORST DONLEY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG, JAMES, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG, TODD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEONARD, WILLIAM, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWENHORST, DONLEY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to abrasive particles,
and, more particularly, a method of making abrasive
particles having specified shapes.Three basic technologies that have been employed
to produce abrasive grains having a specified shape are (1)
fusion, (2) sintering, and (3) chemical ceramic.In the fusion process, abrasive grains can be
shaped by a chill roll, the face of which may or may not be
engraved, a mold into which molten material is poured, or a
heat sink material immersed in an aluminum oxide melt.
U.S. Patent No. 3,377,660 discloses a process comprising
the steps of flowing molten abrasive material from a
furnace onto a cool rotating casting cylinder, rapidly
solidifying the material to form a thin semisolid curved
sheet, densifying the semisolid material with a pressure
roll, and then partially fracturing the strip of semisolid
material by reversing its curvature by pulling it away from
the cylinder with a rapidly driven cooled conveyor,
whereupon the partially fractured strip is deposited onto a
collector in the form of large fragments, which, upon being
rapidly cooled and solidified, break up into smaller
fragments capable of being reduced in size to form
conventional abrasive grains. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,073,096
and 4,194,887 disclose a process comprising the steps of
(1) fusing an abrasive mix in an electric arc furnace, (2)
dipping a relatively cold substrate into the molten
material, whereby a layer of solid abrasive material is
quickly frozen (or plated) on the substrate, (3) 
withdrawing the plated substrate from the molten material,
and (4) breaking the solidified abrasive material away from
the substrate and collecting it for further processing to
produce abrasive grains.In the sintering process, abrasive grains can be
formed from refractory powders having a particle size of up
to 10 micrometers in diameter. Binders can be added to the
powders along with a lubricant and a suitable solvent,
e.g., water. The resulting mixtures, pastes, or slurries
can be shaped into platelets or rods of various lengths and
diameters. The resulting shaped grains must be fired at
high temperatures, e.g., 1,400°C to 1,800°C, at high
pressures, or for long soak times, e.g., up to 10 hours.
Crystal size may range from under one micrometer up to 25
micrometers. To obtain shorter residence times and/or
smaller crystal size, either the pressure or temperature
must be increased. U.S. Patent No. 3,079,242 discloses a
method of making abrasive grains from calcined bauxite
material comprising the steps of (1) reducing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for preparing an abrasive particle
suitable for use as an abrasive grit in an abrasive

article, said method comprising the steps of:

(a) providing a dispersion containing
particles that can be converted into alpha

alumina in a liquid, which liquid comprises a
volatile component in an amount of at least 10% by weight of said dispersion;
(b) providing a mold having a first surface
and a second surface opposed to said first

surface, said first surface being planar and
having an opening to a mold cavity having a

specified shape;
(c) introducing said dispersion into said
mold cavity;
(d) removing a sufficient portion of said
volatile component of said liquid from said

dispersion while said dispersion is in said mold
cavity to form a precursor of an abrasive

particle having a shape approximately
corresponding to the shape of said mold cavity;
(e) removing said precursor of said abrasive
particle from said mold;
(f) calcining said removed precursor of said
abrasive particle; and
(g) sintering said calcined precursor of
said abrasive particle to form said abrasive

particle.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising
the step of gelling said dispersion prior to introducing

said dispersion into said mold cavity.
The method of Claim 1, wherein said
dispersion is introduced into said mold cavity under a

pressure of less than 690 kPa (100 psi). 
The method of Claim 1, wherein said first
surface of said mold is exposed to the atmosphere

surrounding said mold at least during step (d).
The method of Claim 1, wherein step (d) is
conducted under ambient temperature and pressure

conditions.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising
the step of drying said precursor of said abrasive particle

after it is removed from said mold and before said
precursor of said abrasive particle is calcined.
The method of Claim 1, wherein said mold
contains a plurality of cavities having specified shapes.
The method of Claim 7, wherein said mold
contains at least 20 cavities.
The method of Claim 1, wherein said
particles that can be converted into alpha alumina comprise

alpha aluminum oxide monohydrate.
The method of Claim 1, wherein said
dispersion further contains a modifying additive or

precursor of a modifying additive.
The method of Claim 1, wherein said
dispersion is introduced into said mold cavity in such a

manner that no exposed surface of said dispersion extends
substantially beyond the plane of said first surface of

said mold.
The method of Claim 1, wherein any portion
of said dispersion that had been applied to said first

surface of said mold during step (c) is removed from said
first surface of said mold prior to step (d). 
The method of Claim 1, wherein any portion
of said dispersion that had been introduced into said mold

cavity in step (c) and had extended beyond the plane of
said first surface of said mold is removed from said mold

prior to step (d).
The method of Claim 1, wherein said second
surface is planar and said mold cavity extends completely

through said mold to a second opening in said second
surface, and no exposed surface of said dispersion extends

substantially beyond said plane of said second surface of
said mold.
The method of Claim 14, wherein any portion
of said dispersion that had been applied to said second

surface of said mold during step (c) is removed from said
second surface of said mold prior to step (d).
The method of Claim 14, wherein any portion
of said dispersion that had been introduced into said mold

cavity in step (c) and had extended beyond the plane of
said second surface of said mold is removed from said mold

prior to step (d).
The method of Claim 1, wherein the opening
of said mold cavity is in the shape of a triangle.
An abrasive article comprising a binder and

abrasive grits, wherein at least 10% by weight of said
abrasive grits are abrasive particles, each of said

abrasive particles having a front face and a back face,
said front face having substantially the same geometric

shape as said back face, said faces being separated by the
thickness of said particle, the ratio of the length of the

shortest facial dimension of said particle to the thickness
of said particle being at least 1 to 1.
The article of Claim 18, wherein the
geometric shape of said abrasive particle is triangular. 
The article of Claim 18, wherein the
geometric shape of said abrasive particle is rectangular.
The article of Claim 18, wherein the
geometric shape of said abrasive particle is circular.
The article of Claim 18, wherein the ratio
of the length of the shortest facial dimension of said

particle to the thickness of said particle is at least 2
to 1.
The article of Claim 18, wherein the ratio
of the length of the shortest facial dimension of said

particle to the thickness of said particle is at least
5 to 1.
The article of Claim 18, wherein said
abrasive grits further comprise erodable agglomerates.
The article of Claim 18, further comprising
a backing having at least one layer of said abrasive grits

adhered thereto by means of a binder.
A coated abrasive article comprising a
backing having at least one layer of abrasive grits adhered

thereto by means of a binder, said abrasive grits
comprising abrasive particles, each of said abrasive

particles having a front face and a back face, said faces
being separated by the thickness of said particle, said

faces having the geometric shape of a triangle, the
thickness of said particle being substantially uniform and

being less than the length of the shortest side of said
triangle, wherein from about 35% to about 65% of said

triangular-shaped particles are oriented with a vertex
pointing away from said backing and from about 35% to about

65% of said triangular-shaped particles
are oriented such that a base is pointing away from said

backing. 
The article of Claim 26, wherein up to 20%
of said triangular-shaped particles have neither a base nor

a vertex pointing away from said backing.
The article of Claim 26, wherein said
abrasive grits include erodable agglomerates.
The article of Claim 26, further including a
size coat.
The article of Claim 26, further including a
supersize coat.
A coated abrasive article comprising a
backing having at least one layer of abrasive grits adhered

thereto by means of a binder, wherein at least 10% by
weight of said abrasive grits are abrasive particles, each

of said abrasive particles having a front face and a back
face, said front face having substantially the same

geometric shape as said back face, said faces being
separated by the thickness of said particle, the ratio of

the length of the shortest facial dimension of said
particle to the thickness of said particle being at least 1

to 1, whereby during the use of said article during
abrading, the area of each abrasive particle in contact

with the surface of the workpiece continually changes, but
the sum of the areas of each abrasive particle in contact

with the surface of the workpiece essentially remains
constant.
The article of Claim 31, wherein said
abrasive particles have faces that are in the shape of a

triangle, wherein from about 35% to about 65% of said
triangular-shaped particles are oriented with their

vertices pointing away from said backing and from about 35%
to about 65% of said triangular-shaped particles are

oriented such that their bases are pointing away from said
backing. 
The article of Claim 31, wherein said
abrasive grits further comprise erodable agglomerates.
The article of Claim 31, wherein said
article is a bonded abrasive article.
The article of Claim 31, wherein said
article is a nonwoven abrasive article.
The article of Claim 31, wherein the
thickness of said particles is from about 25 to about 500

micrometers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
