<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659148</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIQUID REAGENT CONTAINER HAVING A PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CLOSURE MECHANISM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61J105	A61J105	B65D4704	B65D4728	G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3504	G01N3504	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61J	A61J	B65D	B65D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61J1	A61J1	B65D47	B65D47	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention disclosed is a sealed fluent material container (10) having a chamber (22) with an opening (28) provided with a manually operable primary closure mechanism (36) and a secondary closure mechanism (70) that may be operated either manually or automatically. Manual removal of the primary closure mechanism (36) from the chamber opening allows the secondary closure mechanism (70) to extend a laterally moveable tongue (70) from a horizontal guide recess (80) on the top of the container (10) to a normally closed position covering the opening (28). An engageable tab (74) on the secondary closure (70) permits the retraction of the moveable tongue (70) against the biasing means (84) to expose the chamber opening. The container (10) has particular utility for use in automated chemical dispensers, analyzers and related equipment for the analysis and testing of blood, physiological fluids and other biological samples.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DADE INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DADE INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PFADENHAUER ERNEST H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARK WILLIAM A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PFADENHAUER, ERNEST, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARK, WILLIAM, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LIQUID REAGENT CONTAINER HAVING A PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CLOSURE MECHANISMField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a fluent material container suitable for use with automated chemical dispensers and related equipment. More particularly, the invention relates to a sealed container having a chamber with an opening, a manually operable primary closure mechanism and a secondary closure mechanism that may be operated either manually or automatically. Removal of the primary closure mechanism from the chamber opening allows the secondary closure, in the form of a resiliently biased laterally moveable tongue, to extend from a guide recess to a normally closed position covering the opening. An engagable tab on the secondary closure mechanism permits the retraction of the moveable tongue against the biasing mechanism to expose the chamber opening. The present invention has particular utility for use in automated chemical analyzers and related equipment for the analysis and testing of blood, physiological fluids and other biological samples.Background of the InventionA wide variety of automated clinical analyzers are known in the art and widely used in hospitals, clinics, and research laboratories. A particularly popular example of such a device is the multi-channel type analyzer in which a series of different tests are performed simultaneously and in parallel with one another. The typical multi-channel analyzer generally utilizes liquid or solid reagents to react with a particular constituent present in a sample. Reaction parameters are then monitored using a photometric system or electrically sensitive probes to determine reaction rates, sample constituent concentrations or other similar characteristics.The usual method employed for performing photometric procedures is to place the sample solution in a small 

cell, tube, or cuvette provided with transparent walls and interposing the sample solution between a light source and a photosensitive detecting element. When electrical parameters such as ion concentration are to be determined, a probe is actually immersed in the mixture of reagent and sample. In order to perform multiple tests on each sample, most contemporary multi-channel analyzers incorporate several liquid reagent storage reservoirs along with automated transfer and dispensing devices such as aspirating probes. Small aliquots of the sample are combined with the appropriate reagents and evaluated using appropriate techniques.Although multi-channel automated analyzers incorporating liquid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A fluent material container for use in an automated dispensing system, said container comprising: a sealingly covered chamber for containing a fluent material, said chamber provided with a generally horizontally disposed opening at its top, said opening having a vertically projecting peripheral lip; manually operable, removable primary closing means for releasably sealing said opening; manually operable secondary closing means for releasably sealing said opening subsequent to the removal of said primary closing means and adapted to mechanically interface with an automated dispensing system; and means for biasing said secondary closing means to a normally closed position covering said opening and sealingly engaging said projecting peripheral lip.
2. The fluent material container of claim 1 wherein said opening is provided with an externally threaded neck defining said projecting peripheral lip and said primary closing means is an internally threaded screw cap disposed upon said neck.
3. The fluent material container of claim 1 wherein said secondary closing means is a laterally displaceable, generally planar sliding tongue disposed within a generally horizontal guiding recess provided on the top of said sealingly covered chamber adjacent to said opening, said tongue adapted to sealingly engage said projecting peripheral lip when extended from said guiding recess.
4. The fluent material container of claim 3 wherein said means for biasing said secondary closing means is a spring disposed within said horizontal guiding recess in compressive engagement with said sliding tongue. 


 5. The fluent material container of claim 3 wherein said vertically projecting peripheral lip defines a generally circular opening edge.
6. The fluent material container of claim 5 wherein said tongue is provided with a tapered leading edge and is angled to slidingly engage said opening edge.
7. The fluent material container of claim 2 further comprising an externally threaded lug projecting from said fluent material container and adapted to receive said internally threaded screw cap subsequent to the removal of said screw cap from said externally threaded neck.
8. The fluent material container of claim 1 wherein said sealingly covered chamber is wedge shaped.
9. The fluent material container of claim 6 wherein said primary closing mechanism is an internally threaded screw cap provided with a plurality of generally vertically disposed external friction ridges and said tapered leading edge of said sliding tongue is provided with a racheting pawl adapted to engage said plurality of generally vertically disposed friction ridges.
10. The fluent material container of claim 6 wherein said sliding tongue is provided with an operating tab adapted to mechanically interface with an automated dispensing system.
11. A fluent reagent container for use in an automated dispensing system, said container comprising: a sealingly covered chamber for containing a fluent reagent, said chamber provided with an externally threaded neck defining a generally horizontally disposed opening having a projecting peripheral lip; 


 a manually operable, removable internally threaded screw cap on said neck for releasably sealing said opening, said cap having a plurality of generally vertically disposed friction ridges on its exterior surface; a manually operable secondary closure for releasably sealing said opening subsequent to the removal of said screw cap and adapted to mechanically interface with an automated dispensing system, said secondary closure disposed within a generally horizontal guiding recess provided on the top of said container; and a biasing spring disposed within said horizontal guiding recess in compressive engagement with said secondary closing means and biasing said secondary closing means to a normally closed position covering said opening and sealingly engaging said projecting peripheral lip subsequent to the removal of said screw cap from said neck.
12. The fluent reagent container of claim 11 wherein said secondary closure is a laterally displaceable, generally planar sliding tongue, said tongue adapted to sealingly engage said projecting peripheral lip when extended from said guiding recess.
13. The fluent reagent container of claim 12 wherein said sliding tongue is provided with a tapered leading edge and is angled downwardly toward said projecting peripheral lip.
14. The fluent reagent container of claim 11 wherein said sealingly covered chamber is wedge shaped.
15. The fluent reagent container of claim 13 wherein said tapered leading edge of said sliding tongue is provided with a rachet pawl adapted to engage said plurality of friction ridges on said screw cap. 


 16. The fluent reagent container of claim 13 wherein said sliding tongue is provided with an operating tab affixed to said leading edge and adapted to mechanically interface with an automated dispensing system.
17. The fluent reagent container of claim 11 wherein said externally threaded neck defines a generally circular opening.
18. The fluent reagent container of claim 11 further comprising an externally threaded lug projecting from said liquid reagent container and adapted to receive said internally threaded screw cap subsequent to the removal of said screw cap from said externally threaded neck.
19. A liquid reagent container for use in an automated dispensing system, said container comprising: a sealingly covered substantially wedge shaped chamber for containing a liquid reagent, said chamber provided with an externally threaded neck defining a generally circular horizontally disposed opening having a projecting peripheral lip; a manually operable internally threaded removable screw cap threaded onto said neck for releasably sealing said opening and having a plurality of vertically disposed friction ridges; a manually operable, laterally displaceable, substantially planar sliding tongue disposed within a generally horizontal guiding recess provided on top of said chamber for releasably sealing said opening subsequent to the removal of said screw cap and adapted to mechanically interface with an automated dispensing system; and a biasing spring disposed within said horizontal guiding recess in compressive engagement with said sliding tongue and biasing said tongue to a normally closed 


position covering said opening and sealingly engaging said projecting peripheral lip.
20. The liquid reagent container of claim 19 wherein said sliding tongue is provided with a tapered leading edge and is angled downwardly toward said projecting periphera1 1ip. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
