<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622659</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A liquid crystal display apparatus using a two-terminal device as a switching device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F1136	G02F11335	G02F11365	G02F1137	G02F113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The display apparatus of this invention performs a 
display by modulating the optical characteristics of a 

display medium. The display apparatus includes: a first 
substrate (6); a second substrate (11) facing the first 

substrate; a display medium (15) interposed between the 
first and the second substrates; a plurality of bus lines 

(7) disposed on the first substrate (6), the bus lines 
being arranged substantially in parallel to each other in 

a first direction; a plurality of counter electrodes (12) 
disposed on the second substrate (11), the counter 

electrodes being arranged substantially in parallel to 
each other in a second direction which is perpendicular 

to the first direction; arrays of reflection electrodes 
(10) disposed on the first substrate (6) to substantially 

completely cover a respective one of the bus lines (7); 
and a nonlinear resistive layer (8) mainly made of zinc 

sulfide and an insulating layer (9) having a through hole 
(9a) which are disposed between each of the bus lines and 

a reflection electrode in a corresponding one of the 
reflection electrode arrays, wherein the nonlinear 

resistive layer (8) is electrically connected to the bus 
line (7) and the reflection electrode (10) through the 

through hole, and the nonlinear resistive layer (8) is in 
a non-conductive state when a voltage of a value smaller 

than a predetermined value is applied, and is in a 
conductive state when a voltage of a value equal to or 

larger than the predetermined value is applied. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADACHI MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKANO KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADACHI, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKANO, KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a liquid crystal
display apparatus using a two-terminal device as a
switching device, and particularly relates to a
reflection type liquid crystal display apparatus using a
two-terminal switching device.Portable OA equipment such as personal computers have
been developed in recent years. Accordingly,
cutting-down of the producing cost and the reduction of
the power consumption of liquid-crystal display (LCD)
devices used for such OA equipment have become important
challenges.In order to display high quality images by providing
pixels at a high density, each pixel is supplied with a
nonlinear active element (switching device) for driving
the LCD apparatus. This system of driving is referred to
as the "active matrix driving system". The switching
devices are mainly available in two types: two-terminal
devices such as MIM (metal insulator metal) elements,
diodes, and varistors; and three-terminal devices such as
TFTs (thin film transistors) and MOS-FETs (metal oxide
semiconductor field effect transistors).The three-terminal devices have excellent functions
as switching devices and are suitable for displaying an
image having various tones, for which different pixels
are used for different tones. However, 
the three-terminal devices have inconveniences in
that the complicated production process including
repetition of exposure to light can easily cause defects
in the obtained devices, resulting in low production
yields.The two-terminal devices, which have a simpler
structure than that of the three-terminal devices,
are produced by a simpler method due to, for example,
the fewer steps of masking required. Accordingly, the
production yield of the two-terminal devices is higher
than that of the three-terminal devices and the production
cost is lower than that of the three-terminal
devices. For these reasons, methods for driving pixels
using the two-terminal devices, especially by utilizing
a nonlinear part of the operating characteristics of
the two-terminal devices, have been actively studied
and developed.Among such two-terminal switching devices at
present, the MIM-TFD (thin film diode) element using
Ta2O5 as the insulator layer is widely employed.Figures 15 and 16A to 16C show an example of
a conventional display apparatus 80 including a conventional
MIM-TFD element. Figure 15 is a plan view of a
pixel and the vicinity thereof in the display apparatus
80. Figure 16A to 16C are cross-sectional views of the
display apparatus 80 shown in Figure 15 looking along
section lines
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display apparatus for performing a display by
modulating the optical characteristics of a display

medium, the apparatus comprising:

a first substrate (6,16,21,27);
a second substrate (11) facing the first substrate;
a display medium (15) interposed between the first
and the second substrates;
a plurality of bus lines (7,17,22,28) disposed on the
first substrate, the bus lines being arranged substantially

in parallel to each other in a first direction;
a plurality of counter electrodes disposed on
the second substrate, the counter electrodes (12) being

arranged substantially in parallel to each other in a
second direction which is perpendicular to the first

direction;
arrays of a plurality of reflection electrodes
(10,20,26,32) each disposed on the first substrate to substantially

completely cover a respective one of the bus lines; and
a nonlinear resistive layer (8,18,24,30)
and an insulating layer (9,19,25,29) having a through

hole (9a,19a,25a,29a) which are disposed between each of the bus lines
and each reflection electrode in each corresponding one of

the reflection electrode arrays,
wherein the nonlinear resistive layer is
electrically connected to the bus line and the reflection

electrode through the through hole, and the nonlinear
resistive layer is in a non-conductive state

when a voltage of a value smaller than a predetermined
value is applied, and is in a conductive state when a

voltage of a value equal to or larger than the predetermined 
value is applied characterised in that the non-linear

resistive material is made of a semiconductor mainly comprising zinc sulphide.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the insulating layer is formed on the nonlinear resistive

layer to cover the nonlinear resistive layer.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the insulating layer is formed on the first substrate

to cover the bus line.
A display apparatus according to claim 2, wherein a
second insulating layer (23) is formed between the bus line

and the nonlinear resistive layer.
A display apparatus according to claim 3, wherein a
second insulating layer (31) is formed between the nonlinear

resistive layer and the reflection electrode.
A display apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein
the insulating layer is formed of a substance selected

from the group consisting of a polymer compound and a
photo-sensitive resin.
A display apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein
the insulating layer is formed of a substance selected from the group consisting

of silicon nitride, silicon oxide, polyimide,
and acrylic. 
A display apparatus according to claim 4, wherein
the second insulating layer is obtained by anodizing

the bus line.
A display apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein
the second insulating layer is formed of a substance

selected from the group consisting of a nitrogen compound
and silicon oxide.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a
surface of the insulating layer is made uneven which

causes a surface of the reflection electrode to be
uneven.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the reflection electrode is formed of a material selected

from the group consisting of Al, Ag, Cr, Ni, Cu,
Ti, and alloys thereof.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the counter electrodes are substantially transparent. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the through hole has an opening having an area of

10 µm
2
 to 1000 µm
2
 inclusive.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the through hole is located substantially under the

center of the reflection electrode.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the nonlinear resistive layer has a thickness in the

range of 50 nm to 500 nm.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the nonlinear resistive layer includes an impurity.
A display apparatus according to claim 16, wherein
the impurity is selected from the group consisting of

manganese, copper, rare earth elements, compounds
including a rare earth element, the group III elements,

and compounds thereof.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the nonlinear resistive layer is made substantially of zinc sulfide

having a composition expressed by Zn
x
S
(1-x)
, where x
satisfies the condition of x 
 0.5.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the width of the bus line in the second direction is

smaller than the width of the reflection electrode in
the second direction.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the width of the bus line in the second direction is 

larger than the width of the reflection electrode in
the second direction.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the width of the bus line in the second direction is

substantially equal to the width of the reflection
electrode in the second direction.
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the display medium is a liquid crystal.
A display apparatus according to claim 22, wherein
the display medium is a cholesteric-nematic phase

change guest-host mode liquid crystal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
