<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650139</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetic surface pressure input panel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L500	G01L114	G01L114	G01L522	G06F3046	G06F3033	G01L522	G06F3041	G01L500	G06F3033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G06F	G06F	G01L	G06F	G01L	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L5	G01L1	G01L1	G01L5	G06F3	G06F3	G01L5	G06F3	G01L5	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An active matrix surface pressure input panel 
comprises a flexible magnetic sheet (2) stacked onto a circuit 

plate (4). The circuit plate includes an insulating base plate (10) 
with first and second groups of intersecting electrode lines (20,30) 

and a multiplicity of detection elements (44) formed thereon. Each 
detection element includes a magnetic sensitive element 

coupled to the electrode lines and configured to generate an 
electrical signal corresponding to the distance between the 

magnetic sensitive elements and respective overlying portions 
of the magnetic sheet. The electrode lines are coupled to an 

electrical circuit that determines the relative location of 
each electrical signal to map an overall surface pressure 

distribution. With this configuration, the surface pressure 
input panel exhibits high definition over a relatively large 

detection area so that complicated surfaces, such as 
fingerprints, can be accurately detected and reproduced. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENIX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENIX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMORI TERUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMORI, TERUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surface pressure input
panels generally and more specifically to a magnetic surface
pressure input panel suitable for detecting complicated
surface contours and irregularities such as a fingerprint
pattern.The inside surface of the fingertip has intricate
contours that are unique to each individual. This has made
the fingerprint pattern an important vehicle for
identification, particularly for law enforcement purposes. To
facilitate identification via fingerprints, efforts have been
made to develop fingerprint detection devices capable of
electronically mapping an individual fingerprint pattern.
Accurately mapping the contour of each person's fingertip,
however, has proven to be a difficult and expensive task.
This is because each fingerprint pattern is made up of a large
number of convex portions, or ridges, separated by concave
portions or grooves that generally extend in random directions
around the fingertip. These ridges and grooves have minute
dimensions, on the order of 100 µm, making them difficult to
detect.Conventional fingerprint detection devices generally
employ a surface pressure input panel that includes a contact
sheet which changes in some manner when it is engaged by the
various ridges and grooves of the fingertip. One such device
comprises a conductive rubber sheet that undergoes local
variations in conductivity when engaged by a surface with a
pressure differential. Similar devices include a resistive
film that varies in resistance with changes in surface
pressure. These devices employ a means for detecting the
changes in the contact sheet or film in order to 
electronically map the contour of the fingertip. The
detection means, however, typically has difficulty detecting
small pressure changes, particularly when a non-uniform
pressing force is applied or the fingertip is contaminated
with grease, sweat or the like. Therefore, these devices are
often incapable of accurately detecting the small surface
variations necessary for mapping the contour of a fingertip.Other fingerprint detection devices have attempted
to overcome this problem by employing MOS field-effect
transistors or piezoelectric thin films to detect small
surface variations (e.g, see Japanese Patent Application No.
Hei 5-61966). These devices, however, generally require
complicated manufacturing techniques and relatively expensive
materials, such as silicon semiconductor substrates. Although
these devices can produce high definition, they are difficult
to manufacture and, therefore, are very
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surface pressure input panel comprising:

a flexible magnetic sheet (2) having a first major surface which is a magnetic S pole and a second major surface on the opposite side of the sheet (2) which is a magnetic N pole; and
a circuit plate (4) having the magnetic sheet (2) stacked thereon and comprising an insulating
base plate (10), first and second groups of electrode lines (20,30) formed on the insulating

base plate (10) and crossing one another at crossing points (46), and magnetically
sensitive elements (40) associated with crossing points (46) formed by the electrode lines

(20,30), connected to associated electrode lines and facing the magnetic sheet (2), the
magnetically sensitive elements (40) being adapted to generate electrical signals as a

function of a distance between the magnetically sensitive elements (40) and respective
overlying portions of the magnetic sheet (2), so that, upon the application of an electrical

potential to the element (40) the generated electrical signals can be sensed and the relative
locations of the elements (40) can be determined.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the magnetic sheet (2) generates a
magnetic field, the magnetically sensitive elements (40) comprise magnetic resistance

elements having a resistance that varies as a function of the magnetic field to which the
elements (40) are subjected, the strength of the magnetic field to which the elements (40)

are subjected being generally proportional to a distance between the magnetically
sensitive elements (40) and respective overlying portions of the magnetic sheet (2).
The input panel of claim 2 wherein each magnetic resistance element (40)
is directly connected to the electrode lines (20,30) associated with the crossing point (46)

for the element (40). 
The input panel of claim 2 further including switches (12) connecting each
magnetic resistance element (40) to the electrode lines (20,30) associated with the

crossing point (46) for the element (40).
The input panel of claim 4 wherein the switches (12) are thin film
transistors, the transistors operatively connecting first ends of the magnetic resistance

elements (40) to associated first and second groups of electrode lines (20,30) for use in
determining the relative location of each magnetic resistance element (40), and including

signal lines (25) connected to second ends of the magnetic resistance elements (40) for
use in detecting the generated electrical signals.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the magnetic sheet (2) generates a
magnetic field, the magnetically sensitive elements (40) comprise conductive elements

adapted to generate a voltage corresponding to the strength of the magnetic field to which
the elements (40 ) are subjected, the magnitude of the magnetic field being generally

proportional to a distance between the conductive elements (40) and respective overlying
portions of the magnetic sheet (2).
The input panel of claim 6 wherein the conductive elements (40) are Hall
effect elements.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the flexible magnetic sheet (2) has a
surface adapted and sized for receiving a fingertip, the fingertip having an inside surface

with contours, the magnetic sheet (2) being adapted to deflect generally in conformity
with surface contours of the fingertip when the fingertip is pressed onto the surface of the

magnetic sheet (2).
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the first and second groups of electrode
lines (20,30) form an x-y grid. 
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the electrode lines of each group are
substantially parallel and spaced approximately 20-150 µm from each other.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the flexible magnetic sheet (2) has a
surface adapted and sized for receiving a fingertip, the fingertip having an inside surface

with contours, the magnetic sheet (2) being adapted to sink in conformity with surface
contours of the fingertip when the fingertip is pressed onto the surface of the magnetic

sheet (2).
The input panel of claim 11 further including an elastomer (60) positioned
between the magnetic sheet (2) and the magnetically sensitive elements (40), the

elastomer (60) being adapted to sink in conformity with surface contours of the fingertip
when the fingertip is pressed onto the magnetic sheet (2).
An apparatus for use in mapping physical surface irregularities of an object,
the apparatus comprising:


a surface pressure input panel according to claim 1, wherein said magnetic sheet (2) is adapted to deflect locally in
substantial conformity with the surface irregularities when an object is pressed against a

first side of the sheet (2); 
means for determining the relative locations of the magnetically
sensitive elements (40) from which the electrical signals emanate;
whereby the surface irregularities can be mapped on the basis of the
generated electrical signals and the relative locations of the magnetically sensitive

elements (40).
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the determining means comprise first
and second groups of electrically conductive lines (20,30) which cross each other, and

means (48) for insulating the lines (20) of the first group from the lines (30) of the second
group.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the first and second groups of lines
(20,30) are generally perpendicular with respect to each other and define an x-y grid of

lines.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the lines are carried on the base plate
(10).
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the magnetically sensitive elements (40)

are arranged in an x-y array.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the magnetically sensitive elements (40)
comprise magnetic resistance elements having a resistance that varies as a function of the

magnetic field to which the elements are subjected, the magnetic field generated by the
magnetic sheet (2) being generally proportional to a distance between the magnetic

resistance elements and respective overlying portions of the magnetic sheet (2). 
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the magnetic resistance elements (40)
are each electrically connected to an associated electrode line of the first and second

groups such that, when an electric potential is applied to the associated electrode lines,
a current flows through the magnetic resistance element, the magnitude of the current

being substantially proportional to the magnetic field to which the magnetic resistance
elements are subjected.
The apparatus of claim 12 including a thin film transistor (12) operatively
connected to the elements and the determining means.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the magnetically sensitive elements (40)
comprise conductive elements, the apparatus further including means (50,52) for directing

a current through the conductive elements (40), the conductive elements being adapted
to generate a voltage generally proportional to a density of the electric current and a

magnitude of a magnetic field from the magnetic sheet (2) to which the elements are
subjected.
An apparatus for use in mapping physical surface irregularities of an object,
the apparatus comprising:


an input panel according to claim 1 wherein said magnetic sheet (2) is adapted to
deflect locally in substantial conformity with the surface irregularities when the object is

pressed against the sheet; 
means, connected to the first groups of electrode lines (20) for applying an
electric potential to the first and second groups of electrode lines; and
a detection circuit operatively connected to the first and second electrode
lines (20,30) for sensing the generated electric signals and determining the locations of the

magnetically sensitive elements (40) to thereby enable a reconstitution of the surface
irregularities ofthe object.
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the magnetically sensitive elements (40)
comprise magnetic resistance elements.
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the magnetically sensitive elements (40)
comprise Hall effect elements.
A method of obtaining a fingerprint pattern from a fingertip comprising the
steps of:


providing a circuit plate (4) having first and second groups of electrode
lines (20,30) formed thereon, lines of the first group and second groups crossing at

crossing points (46), a plurality of magnetically sensitive elements (40) formed on the 
circuit plate (4) and a flexible magnetic sheet (2) mounted on the circuit plate (4), the

magnetically sensitive elements (40) being adapted to generate electrical signals as a
function of a distance between the magnetically sensitive elements (40) and respective

overlying portions of the magnetic sheet (2);
pressing the fingertip into contact with the surface of the magnetic sheet (2)
such that the magnetic sheet generally conforms to contours of the fingertip and deflects

toward at least some of the magnetically sensitive elements;
detecting the electrical signals; generated by the
magnetically sensitive elements (40);
determining the relative locations of the magnetically sensitive elements
(40) generating said electrical signals; and
recreating the fingerprint pattern by analysing the electrical signals and correlating the electrical signals with
the location of the magnetically sensitive elements (40) giving rise to those signals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
