<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638138</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING WORKING FLUID FOR A POWER PLANT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01K2104	F01K2508	F01K2500	F01K2500	F01K2100	F01K2506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01K	F01K	F01K	F01K	F01K	F01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01K21	F01K25	F01K25	F01K25	F01K21	F01K25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and a method are provided for forming a gas hydrate for use in the production of pressurised gas due to the decomposition of said gas-hydrate in storage means (5, 6) and for controlled delivery of said pressurised gas as working medium to a turbine engine (3) which is preferably coupled to a generator for the production of electricity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEW SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL LIMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEW SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AVAKOV ARAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AVAKOV SERGUEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AVAKOV, ARAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AVAKOV, SERGUEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and 
method for producing working medium for supply to an 
engine of a power installation. More especially the 
invention relates to the area of power-plant engineering 
of electricity-generating installations for the 
transformation of low-potential and high-potential 
thermal energy into mechanical and electrical energy, and 
also in the area of a means of preparation of a working 
medium for such installations. There exists an electricity-generating installation 
containing a high-potential heat source. The 
installation has a closed circuit with an intermediate 
heat-transfer medium, a power turbine, heat-exchangers 
for heating and cooling the working medium. Patent USSR 
No. 70147, Int. class. F03G7/00, publ. 1948 applies. There also exists an electricity-generating 
installation containing a turbine for driving a load, a 
cooler, a circulating pump and two or more chambers for 
preparing the working medium, all of the above connected 
by means of pipelines. The chambers are connected to 
the turbine and have a heater, a separator and sealing 
devices at the outlet. The circulation pump is 
connected to the cooler and to each of the chambers to 
form a circuit for the circulation of liquid. Patent 
USSR No. 1170180, Int. class F01K25/00, publ. 1985 
applies. There exists a means for the preparation of the 
working medium of an electricity-generating installation, 
consisting in the filling of the intermediate heat-transfer 
medium circuit with a volatile liquid and its 
subsequent evaporation in the heat-exchanger by air 
compressed in the compressor and the supply of the vapour  
 
to the turbine. Patent USSR No. 70147, Int. class 
F03G7/00, publ. 1948 applies. There also exists a means for the preparation of the 
working medium of an electricity-generating installation, 
including the filling of one or more chambers with a 
liquid, the introduction into one of the chambers of an 
additional component and the raising of its pressure, the 
heating of the working medium formed in it and, following 
the supply of the working medium to the turbine, the 
performance of these operations in another chamber. 
Patent USSR No. 1170180, Int. class F01K25/00, publ. 1985 
applies. Further, US-A-3943719 discloses apparatus for 
supplying working medium to an engine (e.g. turbine), 
this apparatus comprising generating means for producing 
working medium and delivery means for supplying said 
working medium to an engine. In particular the 
generating means comprises
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for supplying working medium for a gas 
expansion engine, especially a rotodynamic motor such as 

a turbine, comprising generating means (5, 6) for 
producing working medium, storage means (5, 6) for the 

working medium, and delivery means (I) for supplying said 
working medium to an engine (3) from the storage means 

(5, 6), said delivery means (30, I) including control 
means (27, 28) for controlled delivery of the working 

medium from the storage means (5, 6) to the engine (3) 
characterised in that said generating means (5, 6) 

comprises reactor means arranged and adapted for the 
formation of a gas-hydrate from which the working medium 

for the engine (3) is obtained, said storage means (5, 
6) holding the gas hydrate formed by said reactor means, 

and in that a liquid recirculation circuit (11, 12, 39) 
is provided for the reactor means, said recirculation 

circuit (11, 12, 39) including a recirculating pump (9, 
10, 40 ) and a heat-exchanger (13, 14, 38). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the storage means comprises a plurality of separate 

containers (5/6 5A/6A), the delivery means (30, I) 
including conduit means for supplying working medium to 

the engine (3) from the containers (5/6 5A/6A), and in 
that the control means comprise valves (27, 28) operable 

for sequential delivery of working medium from the 
containers (5, 6 5A/6A) to the engine (3) via said 

conduit means. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 1 or 2, 
characterised in that return conduit means (2) are 

present for return of expanded working medium from the 
engine (3) to the reactor means (5, 6), whereby the 

engine (3) and the working medium supply apparatus 
operate in a closed cycle. 
Apparatus as claimed in anyone of the preceding 
claim, characterised in that the heat exchanger comprises 

a cooler.  
  

 
Apparatus as claimed in anyone of claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the heat exchanger comprises a 

heater. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the reactor means includes 

a separator (5S, 6S). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the reactor means include 

an emulsator (7, 8). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterised in 
that each storage container (5, 6) is connected to the 

inlet of the engine (3) from the gas outlet of the 
containers,
 the outlet of the engine being connected to 
the gas inlet of the reactor means. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that a gas impeller (20) is 

located in one or more circuits (24/26, 25/26) for the 
recirculation of unreacted gas to the reactor means (5, 

6, 54). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterises by 
the containers being constructed with one or more 

external separators and/or one or more external reactors, 
connected via a gas-hydrate emulsion outlet to the 

containers with a separator being situated at such 
outlet of the container and connected via its liquid 

outlet to the liquid inlet of the containers, which are 
in addition connected to the circuit for the circulation 

of liquid. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 4 and 5 
characterised by the heater and the cooler being 

constructed in the form of an integral heat-exchange 
device, supplied intermittently from external sources 

with at least two heat-transfer media at different 
temperatures. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims characterised by the provision of an additional 

heat-exchanger (19), using a high-temperature heat-transfer 
medium, installed immediately prior to the  

 
engine (3), to heat the working medium passing to the 

engine. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, characterised in 
that an electrolyser (50) is provided supplying heating 

medium to said additional heat exchanger (19) thereby 
forming an additional circulation circuit, an electric 

power source being present for the electrolyser (50). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13 characterised in 
that said electric power source comprises a generator (4) 

driven by an engine (3) which is supplied with working 
medium from said storage means. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 
characterised by being equipped with an additional 

turbine (53) while the electrolyser is equipped with an 
oxygen and/or hydrogen outlet (52) connected to the 

additional turbine (53). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, 
characterised in that there is provided one or more 

liquid-jet compressor or inducer devices (60, 61) for 
mixing water and gas for the formation of gas hydrate. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, characterised 
in that a bank or battery of said compressor or inducer 

devices is present; said bank including an aligned array 
of throat means defining a plurality of mixing chambers 

(60) for gas and water, a manifold (63M) receiving 
recirculated water and provided with a plurality of 

discharge nozzles (63A) each corresponding to a relevant 
mixing chamber (60), and means (64A) for supplying gas so 

that a water jet or stream discharge from said nozzles 
(63A) draws the gas for mixing with the water in said 

mixing chambers (60). 
A power installation including an engine, and 
apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 

supplying working medium to said engine. 
A method of producing a working medium for supply 
to a gas expansion engine, especially a rotodynamic 

machine such as a turbine, comprising introducing liquid 
and an additional component such as water and a gas into  

  
 

a reaction chamber to form by reaction a gas-hydrate from 
which the working medium is obtained and storing the gas-hydrate 

so produced in storage means, charactersied in 
that for maintaining desireable conditions of reaction in 

the reaction chamber the liquid is passed in a 
recirculating circuit including heat exchanger means. 
A method as claimed in claim 19, characterised in 
that the liquid is cooled in said recirculating circuit. 
A method as claimed in claim 19, characterised in 
that the liquid is heated in said recirculating circuit. 
A method as claimed in anyone of claims 19 to 21, 
characterised in that, gas that has not reacted is 

recirculated to the reaction chamber.  
 
A method as claimed in anyone claim 19 to 22, 
characterised in that said additional component comprises 

a working gas such as methane propane capable of 
producing gas hydrate. 
A method as claimed in anyone of claims 19 to 23, 
characterised in that the working medium is additionally 

heated by high temperature heating means (19) prior to 
delivery to an engine (3). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
