<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645328</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sheet feed and presenting assemblies
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H118	B65H310	B65H334	B65H300	B65H310	B65H108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H1	B65H3	B65H3	B65H3	B65H3	B65H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sheet feed assembly for feeding sheets from a stack 
comprises a vacuum feed device (8) which is movable to feed 

a sheet from the stack in the feed direction while the 
sheet is hold on the feed device under vacuum. A sheet 

holding device (18) is spaced from the vacuum feed device 
adjacent the stack in use for selectively preventing sheets 

from being fed from the stack. A control device (20,26) 
coupled to the vacuum feed device (8) and to the sheet 

holding device (18) selectively supplies a vacuum to the 
vacuum feed device to cause the device to feed a sheet and 

at substantially the same time to deactivate the sheet 
holding device so as to allow a single sheet to be fed by 

the vacuum feed device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUE DE INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DE LA RUE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROTHERSTON COLIN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROTHERSTON, COLIN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to sheet feed and sheet
presenting assemblies.Sheet feed assemblies are used in a wide variety of
fields to feed sheets from a stack. Examples include
banknote dispensing and also photocopy paper dispensing.
A known system for dispensing sheets from a stack makes use
of a vacuum feed device such as a rotatable wheel through
which suction is applied selectively to draw a sheet from
a stack upon rotation of the wheel. Examples of such
devices are disclosed in US-A-3041067, DE-A-3921582, and
EP-A-0413471. In these assemblies, it is important to
prevent sheets from inadvertently being fed or two sheets
being fed at once. This problem is addressed in US-A-3041067,
for example, by providing an auxiliary holding
device upstream of the vacuum feed device, to which vacuum
is supplied. In use, vacuum is supplied both to the
holding device and to the vacuum feed device, the vacuum
force at the holding device being higher so that no sheets
are fed. When it is desired to feed a sheet, pressure is
additionally supplied to the holding device to reduce the
overall vacuum force allowing a sheet to be drawn away.A similar arrangement utilizing an additional holding
device is described in DE-A-3921582. In this case, when
the feed device has seized a sheet and starts to pull it
away, the suction applied to the holding device is
temporarily shut off so that the sheet can be removed.DE 2062108 describes a sheet feeding arrangement in
which a sheet holding device is used to pick up the
trailing end of the sheet. The device feeds the sheet
using a peeler wheel to which vacuum is supplied via an
internal fixed shoe. There is an overlap period in which
vacuum is applied to both devices and additionally
atmospheric pressure may be supplied to the peeler and the
holding device through vents.The problem with both these earlier approaches is that
they lead to a very noisy operation. In accordance with one aspect of the present
invention, a sheet feed assembly for feeding sheets from a
stack comprises a vacuum feed device which is movable to
feed a sheet from the stack in the feed direction while the
sheet is held on the feed device under vacuum; a sheet
holding device spaced from the vacuum feed device adjacent
the stack in use for selectively preventing sheets from
being fed from the stack; and a control device coupled to
the vacuum feed device and to the sheet holding device to
selectively supply a vacuum to the vacuum feed device to
cause the device to feed a sheet characterised in that at
substantially the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sheet feed assembly for feeding sheets from a stack,
the assembly comprising a vacuum feed device (8) which is

cyclically movable to feed a sheet from the stack in the
feed direction while the sheet is held on the feed device

under vacuum; a sheet holding device (18) spaced from the
vacuum feed device (8) adjacent the stack in use for

selectively preventing sheets from being fed from the
stack; and a control device (20, 26) coupled to the vacuum

feed device (8) and to the sheet holding device (18) to
selectively supply a vacuum to the vacuum feed device (8)

to cause the device (8) to feed a sheet characterised in
that at substantially the same time the control device (20,

26) deactivates the sheet holding device (18) so as to
allow a single sheet to be fed by the vacuum feed device

(8), and wherein the control device controls the supply of
vacuum to the feed device asynchronously with respect to

the cyclic movement of the feed device.
An assembly according to claim 1, wherein, when
activated, the sheet holding device (18) applies a vacuum

to the leading sheet in the stack, the assembly further
comprising a source of air under pressure (25), the control

device supplying air under pressure from the source (25) to
the sheet holding device (18) when the sheet holding device

is deactivated.
An assembly according to claim 1 or claim 2, further
comprising a source of air under pressure (25), the control

device being adapted to supply air under pressure from the
source (25) to the vacuum feed device (8) when vacuum is

not supplied to the vacuum feed device (8).
A sheet feed assembly for feeding sheets from a stack,
the assembly comprising a vacuum feed device (8) which is

movable to feed a sheet from the stack in the feed
direction while the sheet is held on the feed device (8)

under vacuum; a sheet holding device (18) spaced from the
vacuum feed device (8) adjacent the stack in use for 

selectively preventing sheets from being fed from the
stack; a source of air under pressure (25); and a control

device (20, 26) coupled to the vacuum feed device, the
source of air under pressure (25) and to the sheet holding

device (18) to selectively supply a vacuum to the vacuum
feed device to cause the device to feed a sheet

characterised in that at substantially the same time the
control device (20, 26) deactivates the sheet holding

device (18) by supplying air under pressure from the source
(25) to the sheet holding device (18) so as to allow a

single sheet to be fed by the vacuum feed device.
An assembly according to claim 2 or claim 4, wherein
the control device supplies air under pressure to the sheet

holding device (18) for only part of the time during which
a vacuum is supplied to the vacuum feed device.
An assembly according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the control device supplies vacuum to the sheet

holding device (18) after vacuum ceases to be supplied to
the vacuum feed device (8).
An assembly according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising a nudging device (15) positioned between

the vacuum feed device (8) and the sheet holding device
(18); and a controller for causing the nudging device

periodically to move into engagement with a leading sheet
in the stack, to nudge the sheet in the feed direction, and

then to retract away from the sheet.
An assembly according to claim 7, wherein the
controller causes the nudging device (15) to nudge the

leading sheet when the sheet is being fed by the vacuum
feed device (8).
An assembly according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising a support member (3) against which the

stack is urged in use, the support member having a
depressed section (14) adjacent the vacuum feed device (8);

and an auxiliary suction device for communicating an
auxiliary vacuum through the depressed section of the

support member. 
An assembly according to claim 9, wherein the
auxiliary vacuum is less than the vacuum applied by the

vacuum feed device (8).
An assembly according to claim 9 or claim 10, when
dependent on claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the nudging device

(15) engages with the leading sheet through an aperture (87)
in the depressed section (14) of the support member (3).
An assembly according to claim 11, when dependent on
claim 9, wherein the aperture (87) is adjacent the position

(86) at which the auxiliary vacuum is communicated through
the support member (3).
A sheet feed assembly according to any of the
preceding claims, wherein the vacuum feed device includes

a rotatable member (8) having a plurality of holes or
grooves (51) around its circumference, and an internal

porting member (49) about which the rotatable member
rotates, and having an outlet which communicates with one

or a number of the plurality of holes or grooves (51) of
the rotatable member (8).
An assembly according to claim 13, wherein the control
device comprises a pair of valves (20,26) connected

respectively to the vacuum feed device and the sheet
holding device and each having two input ports

(21,22;27,28) coupled in use to sources of vacuum (29) and
pressu
re (25) respectively, and an output port which is
selectively connectable to either one of the input ports.
An assembly according to claim 14, when dependent on
at least claim 1, wherein the valves are rotary valves

(20,26), the rotational frequency of the valves being
different from the rotational frequency of the rotatable

member (8).
An assembly according to claim 15, wherein the ratio
of the two frequencies is a non-integral value.
An assembly according to any of claims 14 to 16,
further comprising a fluid control valve which causes

pressure to be continuously supplied to the two said inlet 
ports of the valve connected to the vacuum feed device when

it is desired not to feed a sheet.
An assembly according to any of claims 14 to 17,
wherein the valve (20) connected to the vacuum feed device

(8) is mounted concentrically with the rotatable member
(8).
A sheet feed assembly according to any of the
preceeding claims, the assembly further comprising a sheet

presenting assembly for presenting a stack of sheets to be
fed, the sheet presenting assembly comprising a support

member (3) towards which the faces of sheets in a stack are
urged; a sheet exit (7) through which sheets are withdrawn

from the stack, the sheet exit (7) being positioned at one
end of the support member (3); a biassing member (2) for

urging the sheet stack towards the support member; a first
sheet guide wall (4) extending in the urging direction

alongside the sheet stack towards the support member and
terminating at a position spaced from the support member to

define the sheet exit (7); and a second guide wall (5)
laterally spaced from the first guide wall and extending

towards the support member whereby a stack of sheets is
positioned between the first (4) and second (5) guide walls

in use, at least one of the first and second guide walls
(4,5) being shaped adjacent the support member to extend in

the sheet exit direction.
An assembly according to claim 19, the sheet
presenting assembly further comprising means for vibrating

at least sheets near the support member (3) in such a way
that they are urged to take up an overlapping arrangement

in the sheet exit direction by the shaped part(s) of the or
each of the first and second guide walls (4,5).
An assembly according to claim 20, wherein the second
guide member (5) includes a wall section (130,131) adjacent

the support member, the wall section presenting at least
two steps facing generally towards the sheet exit which

engage trailing ends of sheets in use whereby as sheets
approach the support member under the biassing action their 

trailing edges engage the wall section (130,131) of the
second guide member (5) so that the sheets are urged

successively nearer the sheet exit (7).
An assembly according to claim 21, wherein the wall
section (130,131) extends generally linearly towards the

sheet exit (7) as it approaches the support member (3).
An assembly according to claim 21 or 22, wherein the
steps are provided only in a region (131) of the wall

section (130,131) near the support member (3).
An assembly according to any of claims 21 to 23,
wherein the wall section (130,131) overlaps the support

member (3) so that no sheets can move laterally away from
the sheet exit (7).
An assembly according to claim 24, wherein the surface
of the part of the wall section overlapping the support

member (3) and facing the sheet exit (7) is at an obtuse
angle to the support member.
An assembly according to any of claims 21 to 25,
wherein the wall section comprises a resilient arm, and

wherein the vibrating means comprises a motor and an
eccentric cam rotated by the motor to cause the resilient

arm to vibrate.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 26,
wherein the support member (3) is an upright plate.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 27, the
sheet presenting assembly further comprising a nudging

device (15) and a controller for causing the nudging device
periodically to extend through the support member (3)

between the sheet exit (7) and the sheet guide wall to
engage with a leading sheet in the stack, to nudge the

sheet towards the sheet exit (7), and then to retract.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 28,
wherein the support member (3) has a depressed section (14)

adjacent the sheet exit (7), the sheet presenting assembly
further comprising a suction device for communicating

vacuum through the depressed section (14). 
An assembly according to claim 28 and claim 29,
wherein the nudging device (15) engages with the leading

sheet through an aperture (87) in the depressed section of
the support member.
An assembly according to claim 29 and claim 30,
wherein the aperture (87) is adjacent the position (86) at

which the vacuum is supplied through the depressed section.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 31,
wherein the sheet guide (5) is laterally movable towards

and away from the sheet exit to accommodate different sheet
sizes.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 32, the
vacuum feed device (8) being positioned adjacent the sheet

exit (7) of the sheet presenting assembly.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 33,
wherein the sheet holding device (18) is connected to the

sheet guide wall for movement therewith.
An assembly according to any of claims 20 to 34, when
dependent on claim 20, wherein the vibration frequency is

greater than the sheet feed frequency of the vacuum feed
device (8).
A sheet feed assembly according to any of claims 1 to
18, the assembly further comprising a sheet presenting

assembly for presenting a stack of sheets to be fed, the
sheet presenting assembly comprising a base (1) on which

edges of sheets are stacked in use; a support member (3) at
one end of the base towards which the faces of the sheets

are urged by biassing means (2); a sheet exit (7) through
which sheets are withdrawn from the stack; and an

oscillating device for oscillating the base in a horizontal
plane relative to the support member.
An assembly according to claim 36, wherein the
oscillation frequency is in the order of 3-15 Hz.
An assembly according to claim 36 or claim 37, wherein
the base is substantially horizontal.
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 32, and
in accordance with any of claims 36 to 38. 
A sheet handling system including a sheet feed
assembly according to any of claims 1 to 18 and a sheet

transporting system for transporting sheets fed to it by
the sheet feed assembly.
A sheet handling system comprising a sheet feed
assembly according to any of claims 19 to 32, and a sheet

transport system for transporting sheets fed to it by the
sheet feed assembly.
A system according to claim 40 or claim 41, wherein
the speed at which sheets are transported by the sheet

transport system is substantially the same as the speed at
which sheets are fed by the sheet feed a
ssembly.
A method of feeding sheets from a stack using a sheet
feed assembly comprising a vacuum feed device (8) which is

cyclically movable to feed a sheet from the stack in the
feed direction while the sheet is held on the feed device

(8) under vacuum, and a sheet holding device (18) spaced
from the vacuum feed device (8) adjacent the stack in use

for selectively preventing sheets being fed from the stack,
the method comprising selectively supplying vacuum to the

vacuum feed device to cause the device to feed a sheet
characterised in that at substantially the same time the

sheet holding device (18) is deactivated so as to allow a
single sheet to be fed by the vacuum feed device (8), and

wherein vacuum is supplied to the feed device (8)
asynchronously with respect to the cyclic movement of the

feed device (8).
A method according to claim 43, wherein the sheet
holding device (18) is activated by supplying vacuum

thereto, the method further comprising supplying air under
pressure to the sheet holding device when the sheet holding

device is deactivated.
A method of feeding sheets from a stack using a sheet
feed assembly comprising a vacuum feed device (8) which is

movable to feed a sheet from the stack in the feed
direction while the sheet is held on the feed device under

vacuum, and a sheet holding device (18) spaced from the 
vacuum feed device adjacent the stack in use for

selectively preventing sheets being fed from the stack, the
method comprising selectively supplying vacuum to the

vacuum feed device to cause the device to feed a sheet
characterised in that at substantially the same time the

sheet holding device (18) is characterised by supplying air
under pressure to the sheet holding device so as to allow

a single sheet to be fed by the vacuum feed device.
A method according to claim 44 or claim 45, wherein
air is supplied for only part of the time during which

vacuum is supplied to the vacuum feed device (8).
A method according to any of claims 43 to 46, wherein
vacuum is supplied to the sheet holding device after vacuum

ceases to be supplied to the vacuum feed device.
A method according to any of claims 43 to 47, wherein
air under pressure is supplied to the vacuum feed device

when vacuum is not supplied to the vacuum feed device.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
