<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637948</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLEXIBLE LOWER LIMB PROSTHETIC ASSEMBLY WITH REMOVABLE DRESSING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F250	A61F250	A61F260	A61F260	A61F264	A61F268	A61F278	A61F280	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELIKICHERLA MADAN MOHAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELIKICHERLA, MADAN MOHAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TELIKICHERLA MADAN MOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TELIKICHERLA, MADAN MOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLEXIBLE LOWER LIMB PROSTHETIC ASSEMBLY WITH REMOVABLE DRESSING CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSFLEXIBLE LOWER LIMB PROSTHETIC ASSEMBLY WITH REMOVABLE DRESSINGThis application is a continuation-in-part ofApplicant's copending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 408,884, filed on September 18, 1989 (U.S. Patent No.5,108,455, issued April 28, 1992). That application was in turn a continuation-in-part of Applicant's then copending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 260,617, filed on October 21, 1988, and now abandoned. Application No. 408,884 is expressly incorporated by reference herein.TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to rehabilitative devices especially suitable for amputated limbs, and more particularly to a lower limb prosthetic assembly for immediate post-operative application in above knee amputations, below knee amputation and knee disarticulations.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe loss of a lower extremity, even by careful surgical amputation, has profound physical and psychological consequences to the patient. It has long been known to remedy some of these consequences by providing a permanent prosthetic device to restore to the patient part of the function once performed by the lost limb. It is now generally accepted, however, that early post-operative weight bearing may be extremely valuable in both the physical and psychological rehabilitation of the amputee. By resuming ambulation with partial or full weight-bearing at an early stage, postural reflexes can be maintained, even while the residual stump is healing 

 -z-and being readied for a definitive fitting of a permanent prosthetic device.Many advantages are offered by fitting a prosthetic device immediately after amputation. These include early ambulation, more rapid healing of the amputation site, decreased post-operative pain and edema of the stump, shorter hospitalization times, earlier fitting of a definitive prosthesis and a general improvement of the physical condition of the patient by preventinghypostaticpneumonia, phlebothrombosis, disuse weakness and psychological depression. The immediate post-operative prosthetic device thus aids the amputation team (consisting of- the surgeon, the physiatrist, the prosthetist and the physical therapist) in the efficient treatment of the amputee.Until recently, the amputation site was treated post-operatively with disposable soft compressive dressings, non-removable rigid dressings, or with so- called removable rigid dressings made from a plaster or fiberglass cast. These last
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
>
tf -
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A lower limb prosthetic assembly for immediate post-operative amputation applications, comprising: a temporary weight-bearing prosthetic device including:
(a) an open-ended quadrilateral thigh socket having an ischial weight-bearing shelf for supporting the patient without contact to the amputation wound;
(b) a support member attached to and extending from the quadrilateral thigh socket for supporting the patient; and (c) means for adjusting the length of the support member to a particular patient; and an independent, removable, replaceable, size- adjustable dressing adapted for immediate post-operative placement around the patient's amputation stump, the dressing having means for providing mild uniform circumferential compression to the amputation stump and for suppressing edema of the stump, the dressing being dimensioned to leave the portion of the patient's gluteus maximus over the ischial tuberosity free for engagement with and support by the ischial shelf of the temporary prosthetic device.
2. The prosthetic assembly of claim 1, wherein the support member includes a medial upright and a lateral upright, each of the medial and lateral uprights including an upper and a lower portion, and a knee joint connecting the upper and lower portion; and an endoskeletal shank attached to the lower portions of the medial and lateral uprights. 


 -so-
3. The prosthetic assembly of claim 2, wherein the knee joints include locks, and the prosthetic assembly further comprises a manually-operable cable release for the knee locks.
4. The prosthetic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a padded sleeve on the ischial shelf of the quadrilateral thigh socket.
5. The prosthetic assembly of claim 1, wherein the endoskeletal shank includes medial and lateral shank portions.
6. The prosthetic assembly of claim 5, further comprising a back affixed to the medial and lateral endoskeletal shank portions, restricting dorsal movement of the dressing and enclosed stump.
7. The prosthetic assembly of claim 5, further comprising a ventral knee pad connected to the medial and lateral uprights adjacent to the knee joints.
8. The prosthetic assembly of claim 2, wherein the means for adjusting the length of the support member connects the endoskeletal shank to the medial and lateral uprights.
9. The prosthetic assembly of claim 2, wherein the support member further comprises a foot assembly affixed to the endoskeletal shank.
10. The prosthetic assembly of claim 2, wherein the endoskeletal shank is substantially U-shaped and possesses medial and lateral vertical portions. 


 11. The prosthetic assembly of claim 10, wherein the shank further comprises means for adjusting the horizontal width of the shank.
12. The prosthetic assembly of claim 11, wherein the horizontal adjusting means comprises a pair of overlying horizontal parts extending from the medial and lateral portions of the shank, and means adjustably fastening the horizontal parts to one another.
13. The prosthetic assembly of claim 12, further comprising a foot assembly adjustably affixed to one of the horizontal parts of the endoskeletal shank.
14. The prosthetic assembly of claim 1, wherein the dressing is rigid and comprises a substantially stump-shaped rigid cast portion for placement around the stump, the cast portion being open- ended at the top and shaped to enclose and secure around the stump at its bottom so as to apply mild compression for suppressing edema of the stump, the cast portion having four interconnecting shell sections with vertical separations extending from one end of the cast portion to the other end of the cast portion, wherein the vertical separations are substantially located at 0째, 90째, 180째, and 270째 of the circumference of the cast portion, the cast portion having (a) locking means at two of the opposing vertical separations so that the cast portion can be separated into two pieces for removal and inspection of the physiological status of the stump and rejoined and locked onto the patient's stump; and (b) sizing means between the other two opposing vertical separations so that said cast portion can be adjusted in size circumferentially. 


 -31-
15. The prosthetic assembly of claim 1, wherein the dressing is rigid and comprises a substantially stump-shaped rigid cast portion for placement around the patient's stump, the cast portion being open-ended at its top and shaped to enclose and secure around the stump at its bottom, so as to apply mild compression for suppressing edema of the stump, the cast portion having (a) two separatable vertical half shells wherein each half shell has two vertically- separatable overlapping sections including an outside overlapping section and an inside overlapping section, the overlapping sections being slidably adjustable for adaptation to different sized stumps; (b) sizing means on the cast portion for adjusting the cast portion in circumferential size and for holding the overlapping sections together; and (c) locking means for securing the two half shells together around the amputation stump.
16. The prosthetic assembly of claim 1, wherein the dressing comprises a pad, and the circumferential means is disposed about the pad for compressing the pad against the patient's amputation stump.
17. The prosthetic assembly of claim 16, wherein the compressing means comprises a multipiece rigid shell having (a) means for adjusting the circumference of the dressing by adjusting the positions of the shell pieces with respect to one another, and (b) means for splitting and reclosing the dressing by separating one or more of the shell pieces from the others. 


 18. The prosthetic assembly of claim 16, wherein the circumferential means comprises a hollow cylindrical shell of adjustable circumference positioned about the pad.
19. The prosthetic assembly of claim 16, wherein the circumferential means comprises at least one releasable strap circumferentially disposed about and secured about the pad.
20. The prosthetic assembly of claim 19, wherein the pad includes a generally cylindrical body and a hemispherical closed end, the pad having a plurality of laterally tapered, longitudinally extending petals formed by longitudinally extending cuts through the body and through part of the closed end.
21. The prosthetic assembly of claim 19, wherein the circumferential means further comprises a rigid shell positioned between the pad and the circumferentially disposed at least one strap.
22. The prosthetic assembly of claim 21, wherein the shell is configured as a hollow cylinder having a plurality of separable and longitudinally extending pieces.
23. The prosthetic assembly of claim 22, wherein the dressing further comprises (a) an end cap received over the pad in the cylinder, and (b) means urging the end cap towards the end of the stump and compressing the pad against the end of the stump. 


 -3B-
24. The prosthetic assembly of claim 19, wherein the circumferential means further comprises a fabric cover positioned between the pad and the circumferentially disposed at least one strap.
25. The prosthetic assembly of claim 24, wherein the pad includes a generally cylindrical body and a hemispherical end, the body and end being longitudinally split by a longitudinally extending cut through the body and through part of the hemispherical end, the cut extending in the hemispherical end to at least the axis of the cylindrical body.
26. The prosthetic assembly of claim 25, wherein the dressing further comprises at least one end strap secured to the fabric cover, crossing the cut in the hemispherical end of the pad.
27. A dressing for immediate post-operative amputation applications, comprising an independent, removable, replaceable, size-adjustable dressing adapted for immediate post-operative placement around a patient*s amputation stump, the dressing comprising means for providing mild uniform circumferential compression to the amputation stump and for suppressing edema of the stump, the dressing being dimensioned to leave the portion of the patient's gluteus maximus over the ischial tuberosity free to bear the full weight of the patient.
28. The dressing of claim 27, wherein the dressing comprises a pad, and the circumferential means is disposed about the pad for compressing the pad against the patient's amputation stump. 


 29. The dressing of claim 28, wherein the compressing means comprises a multipiece rigid shell having (a) means for adjusting the circumference of the dressing by adjusting the positions of the shell pieces with respect to one another, and (b) means for splitting and reclosing the dressing by separating one or more of the shell pieces from the others.
30. The dressing of claim 28, wherein the circumferential means comprises a hollow cylindrical shell of adjustable circumference positioned about the pad.
31. The dressing of claim 28, wherein the circumferential means comprises at least one releasable strap circumferentially disposed about and secured about the pad.
32. The dressing of claim 31, wherein the pad includes a generally cylindrical body and a hemispherical closed end, the pad having a plurality of laterally tapered, longitudinally extending petals formed by longitudinally extending cuts through the body and through part of the closed end.
33. The dressing of claim 31, wherein the circumferential means further comprises a rigid shell positioned between the pad and the circumferentially disposed at least one strap.
34. The dressing of claim 33, wherein the shell is configured as a hollow cylinder having a plurality of separable and longitudinally extending pieces. 


 35. The dressing of claim 34, wherein the dressing further comprises (a) an end cap received over the pad in the cylinder, and (b) means urging the end cap towards the end of the stump and compressing the pad against the end of the stump.
36. The dressing of claim 31, wherein the circumferential means further comprises a fabric cover positioned between the pad and the circumferentially disposed at least one strap.
37. The dressing of claim 36, wherein the pad includes a generally cylindrical body and a hemispherical end, the body and end being longitudinally split by a longitudinally extending cut through the body and through part of the hemispherical end, the cut extending in the hemispherical end to at least the axis of the cylindrical body.
38. The dressing of claim 37, wherein the dressing further comprises at least one end strap secured to the fabric cover, crossing the cut in the hemispherical end of the pad. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
