<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633478</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for testing electronic circuit boards.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3102	G01R3104	G01R3128	G01R31312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A test method whereby an electric pulse signal is 
supplied to a pin (16) of an integrated circuit (8) on 

an electronic circuit board (6), and, by means of an 
electrode (27) facing the casing (11) of the integrated 

circuit (8), the electric field (E) produced inside the 
casing (11) by the pulse signal is detected. In the 

event the pin (16) or the bonding wire (18) is 
interrupted electrically, a very weak electric field (E) 

is detected, and a faulty connection signal generated. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPEA SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPEA SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONARIA LUCIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONARIA LUCIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and 
device for testing electronic circuit boards. Devices for testing electronic circuit boards are 
known which provide for testing the electrical 
continuity, and so detecting any faulty connections, 
between the pins of the integrated circuit on the board 
and the chip inside the integrated circuit. Continuity is tested using the so-called "cold" 
technique, i.e. with no supply to the board, and by 
effecting measurements not necessarily related to 
operation of the integrated circuit (e.g. using clamping 
diodes connected between the pins and a ground pin, or 
lateral transistors connected between the pins). The cold technique can only be applied to certain 
families of (e.g. digital) integrated circuits, and is 
not altogether reliable. It is an object of the present invention to 
provide a device enabling fast, troublefree testing of 
circuit boards featuring any type of integrated circuit. According to the present invention, there is  
 
provided a method and device for testing electronic 
circuit boards, as claimed respectively in Claims 1 and 
7. A preferred, non-limiting embodiment of the 
present invention will be described by way of example 
with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: 
Figure 1 shows a schematic electric block diagram 
of a test device in accordance with the teachings of the 
present invention;  Figure 2 shows a partially transparent view in 
perspective of a portion of an electronic circuit board 
supporting an integrated circuit;  Figure 3 shows a view in perspective of a 
mechanical detail of the Figure 1 device;  Figure 4 shows a view in perspective of a first 
variation of the Figure 3 detail; Figure 5 shows a view in perspective of a second 
variation of the Figure 3 detail; Figure 6 shows a view in perspective of a third 
variation of the Figure 3 detail; Figure 7 shows a view in perspective of a fourth 
variation of the Figure 3 detail. Number 1 in Figure 1 indicates a device for 
testing electronic circuit boards wherein a circuit 
board 6 supports a number of integrated circuits 8 
mounted on the upper surface 6a of board 6. More specifically, each integrated circuit 8 
(Figures 2, 3) comprises a parallelepiped plastic casing  
 
11 housing a rectangular chip 13, and presents a number 
of pins 16 arranged along the two longer sides of casing 
11 and connected to chip 13 by bonding wires 18 inside 
casing 11. Pins 16 present respective end portions 16a housed 
inside through holes (not shown) in board 6 and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of testing electronic circuit boards 
(6) supporting at least one electronic component (8); 

characterized in that it comprises the steps of: 

a) positioning at least one electrode (27) of 
electrically conductive material facing a portion (28) 

of the casing (11) of said electronic component (8); 
b) supplying an electric pulse signal to at least 
a first pin (16) of said electronic component (8); 
c) detecting, by means of said electrode (27), the 
electric field (E) induced by said pulse signal; 
d) generating a measuring signal (m(t)) related to 
the strength of said electric field (E); 
e) comparing said measuring signal (m(t)) with at 
least one threshold value (Mlim), for detecting 

connection defects. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized 
in that said electric pulse signal is a rectangular 

voltage pulse. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that said step b) of supplying an 

electric pulse signal to at least a first pin (16) of 
said electronic component comprises the step of 

grounding at least another pin (16) of said electronic 
component (8). 
A method as claimed in any one of the foregoing 
Claims, characterized in that said step b) of supplying 

 
an electric pulse signal comprises the step of placing a 

respective contact element (50) in contact with each pin 
(16) of said electronic component (8), and sequentially 

supplying said signal to said contact elements (50). 
A method as claimed in any one of the foregoing 
Claims, characterized in that said electric signal is a 

low-power signal. 
A method as claimed in any one of the foregoing 
Claims, characterized in that said electronic component 

is an integrated circuit (8). 
A device for testing electronic circuit boards 
(6) supporting at least one electronic component (8); 

characterized in that it comprises: 

generating means (21) for generating an electric 
pulse signal; 
connecting means (50, 23) for supplying said 
electric pulse signal to at least one pin (16) of said 

electronic component (8); 
at least one electrode (27) of electrically 
conductive material, which is positioned facing a 

portion (28) of the casing (11) of said electronic 
component (8), and provides for detecting the electric 

field (E) induced by said pulse signal; 
supporting means (40; 40a; 40b; 40c; 40d) for 
supporting said electrode (27); 
detecting means (30, 37) for detecting a 
measuring signal (m(t)) related to the strength of said 

electric field (E); 
comparing means (37) for comparing said 
measuring signal (m(t)) with at least one threshold 

value (Mlim), for detecting connection defects. 
A device as claimed in Claim 7, characterized 
in that said generating means (21) produce a rectangular 

voltage pulse. 
A device as claimed in Claim 7 or 8, 
characterized in that said supporting means (40) for 

supporting said electrode (27) comprise a pressure 
structure (53) movable in relation to a base (43) 

supporting said board (6); 
   said pressure structure (53) comprising 

axially-deformable elastic means (59) interposed between 
a movable portion (55) of said pressure structure (53) 

and said electrode (27). 
A device as claimed in one of the foregoing 
Claims from 7 to 9, characterized in that said 

supporting means (40) for supporting said electrode (27) 
comprise at least one plate (56) on which is formed at 

least one metal pad defining said electrode (27). 
A device as claimed in one of the foregoing 
Claims from 7 to 9, characterized in that said electrode 

(27) comprises a number of electric wires (78) supported 
on a frame (76) and intersecting one another to define a 

grid structure (79); 
   the intersecting portions of said wires (78) being 

positioned facing said casings (11) of said electronic 
components (8). 
A device as claimed in Claim 11, characterized 
in that said electric wires (78) extend in two 

perpendicular directions (X, Y) to define a 
rectangular-mesh grid (79). 
A device as claimed in Claim 7 or 8, 
characterized in that said electrode comprises a metal 

plate (27); 
   said supporting means (40a) for supporting said 

electrode (27) comprising at least one 
axially-deformable elastic appendix (59) presenting an 

end portion (74) supporting said metal plate (27). 
A device as claimed in Claim 7 or 8, 
characterized in that said supporting means (40c) for 

supporting said electrode (27) comprise at least an 
elastic membrane (88) supported on a frame (86); 

   said frame (86) and said membrane (88) defining a 
chamber housing said board (6), and means (90) being 

provided for generating a vacuum by means of suction 
inside said chamber. 
A device as claimed in Claim 7 or 8, 
characterized in that said supporting means (40d) for 

supporting said electrode (27) comprise at least a rigid 
plate (93); 

   said rigid plate (93) defining a chamber for 
housing said board (6), and means (90) being provided 

for generating a vacuum by means of suction inside said 
chamber. 
A device as claimed in one of the foregoing 
 

Claims from 7 to 15, characterized in that said means 
(21) for generating an
 electric pulse signal generate a 
low-power signal. 
A device as claimed in one of the foregoing 
Claims from 7 to 16, characterized in that said 

electronic component is an integrated circuit (8). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
