<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Porous articles and methods for producing same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F210	A61F210	A61F228	A61F228	A61F230	A61F230	A61L2700	A61L2756	B29C3900	B29C3914	B29D2800	B29D2800	C23F100	C23F100	D04H170	D04H170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61L	B29C	B29C	B29D	B29D	C23F	C23F	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61L27	A61L27	B29C39	B29C39	B29D28	B29D28	C23F1	C23F1	D04H1	D04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A porous mesh for use in forming articles comprising 
a network of pores and protrusions. The porous mesh has a 

specifically delineated mesh structure having a 
pore/protrusion size between 25 and 1500 microns and the 

pore structure is based on a uniform distribution of pores 
and protrusions on a cast or molded sheet wherein said 

pores and protrusions have similar effective diameters. 
The resulting material is advantageously applied to 

several bio-medical applications, including reconstructive 
surgery and arterial replacement. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERPORE INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERPORE INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE EUGENE W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE, EUGENE W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a select 
class of porous articles having a three-dimensional 
network of interconnecting pores, the mesh used to form 
selectively shaped porous articles, and processes for 
producing the mesh. The porous articles and underlying 
mesh of the present invention are specifically engineered 
for medical applications, such as arterial replacement and 
reconstructive bone surgery. Porous materials are of paramount importance in many 
engineering disciplines. For centuries, woven fabrics 
have been applied to numerous filtration operations with 
the woven matrix impeding the passage of large suspended 
matter while permitting the flow of the suspending media. 
More recently, non-woven membranes characterized by 
tightly controlled pore size and distribution have been 
developed for use in ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis 
operations. These materials have a parallel pore network 
consistent with their flow-through objective. Other porous structures have been designed for light 
weight structural support duty and are often applied in 
aerospace and aircraft construction, e.g., wing design. 
In these structures, the focus is on the managed 
translation of forces and loads throughout the structure. 
The ancillary network of pores associated with these  
 
designs are solely directed to the support of certain 
forces while minimizing the associated mass. In the medical field, there has recently developed a 
need for porous articles for use in conjunction with 
certain medical procedures. These procedures include 
reconstructive surgery and repairing of highly comminuted 
fractures. The healing of a bone break can be accelerated 
by the inclusion of porous matrix adjacent to the break 
point, enhancing bone growth. In reconstructive surgery, 
a damaged bone, such as a tibia, is rebuilt. This often 
requires the insertion of a suitable prosthesis device to 
provide the desired shape. A prosthesis device is an engineered element that 
achieves certain biological functions when placed within a 
living organism. An important class of prosthesis devices 
is directed to repair and/or replace human body elements, 
such as knee or hip joints. To replace a biological joint 
in an acceptable long lasting manner, the replacement 
element must join with the surrounding tissue. This is 
also true in applications of artificial skin and 
artificial blood vessels. The proper melding of the 
prosthesis is accomplished through the use of an 
appropriate material having a micro-network of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A non-woven porous mesh in sheet form, said mesh 
comprising: a continuous sheet having a substantially 

uniform thickness between opposite sides; a series of 
openings extending through and from one to the other side 

of the sheet, said openings being distributed in a 
substantially uniform pattern throughout a two-dimensional 

area of the sheet; and a series of raised protrusions 
extending substantially normal to and outwardly away from 

one side of said sheet, wherein the protrusions are of 
substantially uniform height and are distributed in a 

substantially uniform pattern corresponding to said 
pattern of openings but offset therefrom forming a 

topographical surface wherein said openings are 
respectively centered within a rectangle defined by four 

adjacent protrusions within the body of said mesh. 
The non-woven porous mesh of claim 1, wherein said 
mesh is made of a biocompatible materi
al and wherein said 
openings have a cross-sectional dimension that prevents 

insertion of said protrusions therein when plural sheets 
are layered. 
The non-woven porous mesh of claim 1, wherein said 
openings have an effective diameter of about 25 to about 

1500 µm. 
The non-woven porous mesh of claim 2, wherein said 
protrusions extend from said sheet a distance about equal 

to the thickness of said sheet and said sheet thickness is 
equal to one-half the effective diameter of said 

protrusions. 
The non-woven mesh of claim 4, wherein said mesh 
comprises silicone rubber, is flexible, and may be 

contoured to specific rounded shapes. 
A process for manufacturing a non-woven porous mesh 
comprising the steps of: 

   selecting a form having a flat shape and uniform 
   thickness between a first and second side that is suitable 

for molding polymeric materials; 
   creating openings in and normal to said form 

extending therethrough wherein said openings have 
substantially similar effective diameters and are 

distributed across the sides of said form in a 
substantially uniform pattern; 

   creating plural troughs in the first side of said 
form whereby a trough, running parallel to the plane of 

the first side with a width corresponding to the effective 
diameter of said opening and depth approximately equal to 

one-half the effective diameter of said openings, is 
established between each pair of adjacent openings; 

   filling said form with a curable material in a fluid 
state; 

   curing said curable material; 
   deflashing said cured material; and 

   removing said cured material from said form. 
The method of claim 6, wherein the steps of creating 
said openings and troughs further comprises the steps of: 

preparing a mask defining the two dimensional location of 
said openings and troughs; treating the surface of said 

form with a photosensitive material; selectively exposing 
said form to electromagnetic energy filtered by said mask; 

removing the exposed portions of said photosensitive 
material; and chemically etching the exposed surface of 

said form. 
The method of claim 6, wherein the steps of creating 
said openings and troughs comprises the selective 

machining of the form using electron discharge. 
The method of claim 6, wherein said openings have an 
effective diameter of 25 to 1500 µm. 
A non-woven porous material having a void volume 
percent between twenty and eighty, comprising a network of 

repeating interconnected blocks wherein each block has at 
least six protrusions extending out therefrom, and wherein 

said protrusions are grouped in co-planer opposing pairs 
aligned along each of the three orthogonal planes 

intersecting in the block, and further form connective 
arms between adjacent blocks so that substantially all of 

said blocks are each connected to six adjacent blocks 
within the body of said material thereby forming a uniform 

matrix of passageways aligned with said connective arms. 
The non-woven porous material of claim 10, wherein 
the passageways have an effective diameter between 25 to 

1500 µm and said block is a cube. 
The non-woven porous material of claim 10, wherein an 
interface of said void volume represents a mathematically 

minimal surface. 
The non-woven porous material of claim 10, wherein 
the material is formed of silicone rubber. 
A process for making a non-woven porous material 
having a void volume between twenty and eighty percent and 

a matrix of passageways in said material comprising the 
steps of: 

   forming an open mesh wherein said mesh has uniform 
thickness between opposite sides, a uniform pattern of 

openings between said opposite sides and a corresponding 
but offset uniform pattern of protrusions extending 

outward from one surface of said mesh wherein said 
openings are respectively centered within a rectangle 

 
defined by four adjacent protrusions within the body 

of said mesh; and 
   layering plural segments of said mesh 

alternatively so that protrusions of adjacent layers 
are substantially aligned and in contact. 
The process of claim 14, comprising the further 
step of bonding together the aligned protrusions from 

adjacent layers of mesh. 
The process of claim 14, wherein said layering 
step further includes the use of a mandrel to define 

the shape of the resulting layered structure. 
A non-woven mesh in sheet form, the mesh having 
a substantially uniform pattern of openings across its 

surface that extend through the sheet and a 
substantially uniform pattern of protrusions extending 

outward from the surface of the sheet to a 
substantially constant height, the protrusions being 

distributed in a pattern that substantially 
corresponds to the pattern of the openings, but offset 

therefrom, so that a substantially even distribution 
of openings and protrusions across the mesh surface is 

established. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
