<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656248</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28D102	B28D108	B28D700	B28D700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28D	B28D	B28D	B28D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28D1	B28D1	B28D7	B28D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
1)
The
hydraulic
system
 , with a pump by variable capacity 
self-adjusting, that operate all the movements 

of service. 
2)
The
bedplate
with
track
, that is realized by sections 
of steel electric-welded and stabilized, variables 

on length from 6 to 12 metres (fig. N° 2 and 
fig. N° 2A). 
3)
The
 
machine
levelling
system
, that happened 
through 6 jacks for a bedplate with track of 6 metres 

c.a.(fig. N°2 part. 1 and part. 5), 8 jacks for 
a bedplate with track of 12 metres c.a.(fig. N° 2A 

part. 1 and part. 5) and a verification with levels 
of precision by a centralized reading. 
4)
The
 
blade
 
carrying
 
the
chain
, that is realized 
with a bi-conical form (fig. N°3 part. 3), with the 

vertex of the truncaded cone more short always conveyed 
to the primitive diameter of the wheel drive 

(fig.N° 3 part. 1) and the vertex of the truncaded 
cone more long always conveyed to the primitive diameter 

of the wheel extreme (fig. N° 3 part. 4). 
5) 
The
links
composing
the
chain
, with their particular  
 

design (fig. N° 4 part.3) , that permit to utilize 
all thickness of blade carrying the chain usually 

of 30 millimetres c.a. 
6)
The
positionament
of
the
blade
carrying
the
chain 
in
horizontal
 that happened, as well as by a hydraulic 
jacks with run-end fixed in advance and safety-valves 

operated by the hydraulic system with a pump 
by variable capaci
ty self-adjusting, through arms of 
levers by toggle or similar with run-end adjustable 

(fig. N° 5 part. 3). 
7)
The
positionament
of
the
blade
carrying
the
chain 
in
vertical
 that happened, as well as by a hydraulic 
jacks with run-end fixed in advance and safety-valves 

operated by the hydraulic system with a pump 
by variable capacity self-adjusting, through an electric-hydraulic-mechanical 

controls that is connected 
to the hydraulic system above-mentioned. 
8)
The
base
by
verifiable
descent
and
levers
by
toggle 
with
run-end
fixed
in
advance
 that is placed on 
the centre of the machine for his raising and for 

the replacement of the bedplate with track (fig. N° 
1 part. 6 and part. 7). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAR MEC S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAR. MEC. S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAVONI AMADIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAVONI, AMADIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This industrial invention have for object remarkable 
innovations of the stone-cutter for quarry machines. These machines have the advantage to cut, by means 
of a blade carrying the chain, blocks of marble, 
travertin or other types of stone of any dimension 
but have some disadvantages to regard to their 
structure and use. They have two differents hydraulics 
systems (primary and secondary), in which the 
primary transforme all the electric power in hydraulic 
power for the rotation with variable speed of 
the chain and the secondary is used for the advancement 
of the machine on pieces of tracks. These pieces 
of tracks, are assembled in quarry before to begin 
the cut and it is necessary levell them with 
bolts regulated by hand with remarkable waste of time. 
The blade carrying the chain is realized with a 
form almost parallel and does not utilize so to the 
better the 180 grades c.a. of the wheel drive; besides 
the thickness of the blade carrying the chain 
(usually of 30 millimetres c.a.) just on the point 
of support of the links composing the chain is reduced 
to 20 millimetres c.a. with the consequent  
 
weakening of the links that composing the chain. The 
positionament of the blade carrying the chain in horizontal 
or in vertical happened through hydraulic 
control and plates with bolts with remarkable waste 
of time; besides to replace the machine for the subsequents 
cuts, is necessary to replace the pieces of 
tracks and remake the levelling by the bolts regulated 
by hand with another waste of time. The innovations 
that are bring on to the above-mentioned stone-cutter 
for quarry machine have the object to improve 
the efficiency of machine itself assuring also 
a long-lasting in the time for the strength of the 
solution adopted, a remarkable saving of time in the 
use and a major security for the operator. In accordance 
with the innovations, this object is accomplished 
in the stone-cutter for quarry machine in 
which : 
The hydraulic system is only one and operate all 
the movements of service with a pump by variable capacity 
self-adjusting. In substition of the pieces of tracks there is a 
bedplate with track realized by sections of steel 
electric-welded and stabilized, variable on length 
from 6 to 12 metres c.a. The levelling of the machine happened through 6  
 
jacks for a bedplate with track of 6 metres c.a., 8 
jacks for a bedplate with track of 12 metres c.a. 
and a verification with levels of precison by centralized 
reading. The blade carrying the chain have a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
characterized by the hydraulic system with a pump by 

variable capacity self-adjusting that put on all the 
movement of service slow or speedy. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the claim 1), characterized by a bedplate 

with track (fig. N° 2 part. 7, fig. N°2A part. 
7 and fig. N°1 part. 1 ) realized with section of 

steel electric-welded and stabilized, united between 
themselves in rettangular form (variable from 6 to 

12 metres c.a.) milled, with rounds slides (fig. N° 
1 part. 2) applied through bolts, toothed rack (fig. 

N° 1 part. 3) and wheels for the moviment ahead or 
back of the bedplate with track (fig. N° 2 part. 2 

and fig. N° 2A part.2), hydraulics jacks applied to 
the four corners outsides (fig. N° 2 part. 1 and 

fig. N° 2A part. 1) for the levelling and to the 
centre hydraulics jacks foreload (fig. N° 2 part. 5 

and fig. N° 2A part. 5) to recover the flexion of 
the bedplate with track indipendetly from the level 

of the plain of the quarry. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the preceding claims, characterized by 

 
a levelling system through hydraulics jacks in measure 

of 6 for a bedplate with track of 6 metres c.a. 
(fig. N° 2 part. 1 and part. 5), in measure of 8 for 

a bedplate with track of 12 metres c.a. (fig. N° 2A 
part. 1 and part. 5) and by levels of precison by 

centralized reading system. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the preceding claims, characterized by 

a blade carrying the chain of bi-conical form realizable 
in differents lenghts (fig. N° 3 part. 3), 

with the vertex of the truncaded cone more short always 
conveyed to the primitive diameter of the wheel 

drive (fig. N° 3 part. 1) always utilizing so the 
180 grades c.a. of the wheel drive; besides also the 

vertex of the truncaded cone more long is always 
conveyed to the primitive diameter of the extreme 

wheel (fig. N°3 part. 4). It is realized by an only 
section of steel and on the outside profile it is 

obtained a groove for the accomodation of the guide 
of the chain (fig. N° 4 part. 2) while under the same 

a groove more little and deep (fig. N°4 part. 1) 
for the accomodation in superposition of the pipings 

for the lubrication of the chain and extreme wheel 
of the blade carrying the chain. On the truncaded 

cone more short there is a particular handgrip (fig. 
 

N° 3 part. 5) that through bolts and holes permit to 
assemble it to a special support (fig. N° 3 part. 6) 

that is assembled itself on the oscillating reducer 
that receive the blade carrying the chain and it is 

provided with a longitudinal register (fig. N°1 
part. 8) for the tension of the chain. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the preceding claims, characterized by 

links composing the chain with a particular design 
(fig. N° 4 part. 3) that permit to utilize to the 

maximum the thickness of the blade carrying the 
chain (fig. N° 4 part. 4) about 30 millimetres c.a. 

and to receive internally the guide of the chain. 
This thickness permit to realize besides at the two 

laterals drain-holes (fig. N° 4 part. 6), a frontal 
hole (fig. N° 4 part. 7) working mostly by drain and 

in smallest part working by central guide of the 
little tooth of the tool-holder (fig. N° 4 part.8). 

The tool-holder, characterized by a particular design 
with a little tooth of assemblage and central 

positionament up the links, a frontal hole corresponding 
to the frontal hole of the links for the 

drain, assembled repeatedly in a series of seven 
pieces (of which to fig. N° 4 part. 9 are drawn the 

first and the last) to distribute the load of strain 
 

during the cut. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the preceding claims, characterized by 

the positionament of the blade carrying the chain in 
horizontal through hydraulic jack with run-end fixed 

in advance and safety-valves operated by the hydraulic 
system with a pump by variable capacity self-adjusting 

and arms of levers by toggle system or similar 
(fig. N° 5 part. 3) with run-end adjustable 

(fig. N° 5 part. 4) that operated themselves for 
traction contemporanously to the descent of the blade 

carrying the chain until to the attainment of the 
horizontal position. There is saving of time because 

the movement is completely automatic. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the preceding claims, characterized by 

the positionament of the blade carrying the chain in 
vertical through hydraulic jack with run-end fixed 

in advance and safety-valves operated by the hydraulic 
system with a pump by variable capacity self-adjusting 

and by a special mechanical device by electric-hydraulic-mechanical 
control connected with 

particular automatisms to the hydraulic system with 
a pump by variable capacity self-adjusting and operate 

any means able to block it whether a piston-pin 
 

or a hook or other. There is saving of time because 
the movement is completely automatic. 
Innovations of stone-cutter for quarry machines, 
according to the preceding claims, characterized by 

a base by verifiable descent and levers by toggle 
with run-end fixed in advance, applied in the centre 

of the machine (fig. N° 1 part. 6 and part. 7), operated 
through the hydraulics system with a pump by 

variable capacity self-adjusting, for the lowering 
of the machine and of the bedplate with track, it 

replacement or rotation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
