<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611069</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hinged orthopaedic brace having compliant support components
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F501	A61F502	A61F501	A61F502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An orthopaedic brace (10) for supporting a joint has a 
plurality of compliant support components, including a 

hinged shell (12) of stiffened elastic material and at least 
one supple support strap (14,16) engaging the brace at two 

points on opposite sides of the hinge to stabilise the 
weakened joint throughout its range of motion. The 

shell has a pair of cuffs (22,28) adapted to engage the body 
adjacent to the joint and connected to one another 

across a rotatable hinge (34,36) by 
arms (24,30,26,32) integrally extending 

from the cuffs. The support strap is adjustable in 
length enabling the user to modify the support strap 

tension, and consequently the degree of support the 
brace provides to the joint. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEBOLON JOSEPH F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEBOLON, JOSEPH F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to orthopaedic braces, 
and more particularly to a hinged orthopaedic brace that is 
substantially free of any rigid support components, thus, having only 
compliant support components. Orthopaedic braces are commonly employed on the body of a 
user to stabilise a skeletal joint that has been weakened by injury or 
other infirmity. Such braces are made up of a number of rigid 
support components that are dynamically linked together by one or 
more hinges to support the joint during user activity. The brace is 
positioned on the body such that the hinges traverse the joint being 
stabilised, while the rigid components are secured to the body at a 
plurality of contact points above and below the joint. Typical hinged 
orthopaedic brace constructions are disclosed in US Patents 
4,633,867; 4,697,583; and 5,063,916. A further example of a knee 
brace is described in DE-B-1024204. The utility of conventional hinged orthopaedic braces is, 
however, diminished by a number of drawbacks. The rigid 
components of conventional braces are bulky and non compliant, 
often rendering them uncomfortable for the everyday user and 
difficult to initially size and fit. Conventional braces pose additional 
problems for athletic users. Specifically, certain athletic 
competitions, such as soccer and rugby, have rules barring the use 
of braces with rigid protruding components because the components 
create a risk of injury to other players from contact therewith. 
Conventional braces can also be disadvantageous to the athletic 
user because the braces have an irregular  
 
surface which reduces the desired ability of the user 
to control balls or other objects impacting the surface 
and rebounding therefrom during athletic competitions. Accordingly, it is an object of the present 
invention to provide an orthopaedic brace that 
overcomes the above-described drawbacks. In 
particular, it is an object of the present invention to 
provide a hinged orthopaedic brace that provides the 
user with a high degree of comfort while wearing the 
brace. It is also an object of the present invention 
to provide a hinged orthopaedic brace having compact 
components for ease of sizing and fitting. It is 
further an object of the present invention to provide a 
hinged orthopaedic brace having only compliant support 
components, ie. a hinged orthopaedic brace that is 
substantially free of any rigid support components, yet 
which provides for control and stability of the desired 
joint. It is another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An orthopaedic brace (62) having anterior, posterior, lateral 
and media sides mountable on a limb for supporting a joint between 

the proximal and distal portions of the limb, said orthopaedic brace 
comprising; 


a) a compliant shell (12) comprising, 

1) a proximal cuff (28) conformingly 
positionable on the proximal portion of the limb; 
2) a distal cuff (22) conformingly 
positionable on the distal portion of the limb; 
b) hinge means (34, 36) pivotally engaging 
said shell for rotating said proximal cuff (28) relative to said distal 

cuff (22) about the joint; and 
c) a support strap (14, 16) engaging said 
brace at at least two engagement points, 
 
characterised in that in use a first engagement point (38) on said brace is 

adjacent to the proximal portion of the limb on a first side of the limb 
which is either the anterior or posterior side of the limb and a 

second engagement point (42) on said brace is adjacent to the 
distal portion of the limb on a second side of the limb opposite the 

first side of the limb, such that said support strap extends laterally or 
medially from the first side of the limb across the joint to the second 

side of the limb; and in that the brace is substantially free of any rigid 
support components. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 1 wherein said first 
engagement point (38) is on said proximal cuff (28) and said second 

engagement point (42) is on said distal cuff (22). 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 1 wherein said support strap 
(14, 16) is a first support strap (16) medially extending from the first  

 
side of the proximal portion of the limb across the joint to the second 

side of the distal portion of the limb. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 3 further comprising a second 
support strap (14) engaging said brace at said at least two 

engagement points (38, 42) such that said second support strap 
(14) extends laterally from the first side of the proximal portion of the 

limb across the joint to the second side of the distal portion of the 
limb. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 1 wherein said support strap 
is a first support strap (14) laterally extending from the first side of 

the proximal portion of the limb across the joint to the second side of 
the distal portion of the limb. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 5 further comprising a second 
support strap (16) engaging said brace at said at least two 

engagement points, such that said second support strap extends 
medially from the first side of the proximal portion of the limb across 

the joint to the second side of the distal portion of the limb. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 1 wherein the first side of the 
limb is the anterior of the limb and the second side of the limb is the 

posterior of the limb such that said support strap (14, 16) extends 
from the anterior of the proximal part of the limb to the posterior of 

the distal part of the limb. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 1 further comprising a guide 
strap (80, 82) having a first end attached to said support strap and a 

second end connected to said shell.  
 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 1 wherein said shell further 
comprises, 


a lateral proximal (30) arm and a media proximal arm (32), 
said proximal arms (30, 32) connected to said proximal cuff (28) and 

extending distally therefrom generally longitudinal to the limb, and 
a lateral distal arm (24) and a medial distal arm (26), said 
distal arms (24, 26) connected to said distal cuff (22) and extending 

proximally therefrom generally longitudinal to the limb. 
The orthopaedic brace of claim 9 wherein said hinge means 
comprises a first pin (34) adjacent to the joint pivotally connecting 

said lateral proximal arm (30) to said lateral distal arm (24) and a 
second pin (36) adjacent to the joint pivotally connecting said medal 

proximal arm (32) to said media distal arm (26). 
An orthopaedic brace according to claim 4 or claim 6 further 
comprising two guide straps (80, 82) each having a first end 

attached to either said first support strap (14, 16) or said second 
support strap (14, 16) and a second end attached to said shell (12). 
An orthopaedic brace as claimed in any preceding claim 
which is adapted for mounting on a leg for supporting a knee joint, 

said proximal cuff (28) being conformably positionable on the upper 
leg above the knee and said distal cuff (22) being conformably 

positionable on said lower leg below the knee such that said support 
strap (14, 16) extends laterally or medially from the anterior side of 

the upper leg across the knee joint to the posterior side of the lower 
leg. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
