<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644829</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENGRAVING HEAD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2608	B41C105	G03F720	B23K2606	B23K2608	G03F720	B23K2606	B41C102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B41C	G03F	B23K	B23K	G03F	B23K	B41C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K26	B41C1	G03F7	B23K26	B23K26	G03F7	B23K26	B41C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser engraving head (6) for use in preparing a medium for a printing process includes a deflector (AOM). The deflector, which may be an acousto-optic modulator, deflects the laser beam which is focused by a lens (L) onto the surface of the medium. The lens (L) may be arranged telecentrically with respect to the deflected laser beams so that the exit pupil (P) defined by the range of deflected beams is located at the back focal plane of the means for focusing. A number of interchangeable beam expanders (20) may be provided mounted within the head and moveable so that one of the expanders is brought into the path of the beam to provide a desired cell size. Control circuits for the head may modify the control signal applied to the deflector to compensate for variations as a function of deflection angle in the cell size produced on the medium. Where the deflector is formed of a material, such as germanium, which is subject to thermal run-away, then the head may include sampling optics which deflect a portion of the beam upstream of the deflector and a power sensor which receives the deflected beam and is monitored to detect the incidence on the deflector of optical power exceeding a predetermined threshold.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZED INSTR LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZED INSTRUMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS SIMON HUGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS, SIMON, HUGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a laser engraving 
head suitable for use, for example, for preparing anilox 
rollers. It is particularly concerned with a head 
incorporating an acousto-optic beam deflector, such as that 
described in our International Application No. WO92/09399 
filed 18th October 1991, and published after the earliest 
priority date of the present application. Conventionally, when a laser engraving head is used to 
prepare an anilox cylinder, a ceramic-coated roller is 
rotated and the laser engraving head is moved parallel to 
the longitudinal axis of the roller. Typically the 
engraving head includes a plane mirror which receives light 
from the laser which is fixed at one end of the engraving 
apparatus. The head focuses light from the laser onto the 
surface of the roller. The combined effect of the rotation 
of the roller and lateral movement of the engraving head is 
to produce a helical pattern of cells on the roller. 
Typically the laser is pulsed, with one pulse corresponding 
to each cell. Alternatively, to produce the helical cell pattern the 
roller may be moved laterally past the head whilst 
rotating, the head being fixed. This has the advantage of 
a fixed optical path length from the laser. As described in our above-cited application, hitherto 
the speed with which cells can be engraved has been limited 
by such effects as channelling between adjacent cells, and 
smearing or deformation of cells. A significant increase 
in the frequency of engraving can be achieved by using a 
beam-deflecting device such as an acousto-optic deflector 
to deflect the engraving beam between cell sites. This may 
be used to track a given cell site as the roller moves at 
high speed, and also to skip between cell sites so that the 
cells are engraved in an order which serves to minimize 
problems such as channelling.  
 According to the present invention, a laser engraving 
head for use in an apparatus for preparing a medium for a 
printing process includes an acousto-optic modulator (AOM) 
for deflecting the laser beam, and means for focusing the 
laser beam onto the surface of the medium, and a stop 
arranged to provide an optical dump for an unwanted order 
output from the deflector, wherein the 
means for focusing are arranged telecentrically with 
respect to the deflected laser beams, the exit pupil 
defined by the range of deflected beams being located at 
the back focal plane of the means for focusing, and wherein 
the head further comprises a plurality of interchangeable 
beam
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser engraving head for use in an apparatus for 
preparing a medium for a printing process including an 

acousto-optic modulator (AOM) for deflecting the laser beam 
and means (L) for focusing the deflected beam onto the 

surface of the medium, and a stop (50) arranged to provide 
an optical dump for an unwanted order output from the 

deflector, wherein the means for focusing (L) 
are arranged telecentrically with respect to the deflected 

laser beams, the exit pupil defined by the range of 
defelcted beams being located at the back focal plane of 

the means for focusing, and wherein the head further 
comprises a plurality of interchangeable beam expanders 

(20) mounted within the head (6), a selected one of the 
beam expanders (20) being movable into the path of the beam 

between the deflector and the means for focusing in order 
to provide a desired cell size. 
A laser engraving head according to claim 1, in which 
the stop (50) comprises an aperture for passing one beam 

order, an inclined mirror surface (52) arranged to reflect 
divergingly the unwanted beam order, and an absorbing 

surface (53) arranged to receive and absorb the reflected 
unwanted beam order. 
A laser engraving head according to claim 2, in which 
the mirror surface (52) and aperture (51) are provided by 

a truncated hollow conical mirror and the absorbing surface 
(53) is formed on the inner surface of a housing around the 

conical mirror. 
A laser engraving head according to any one of the 
preceding claims in which the beam expanders (20) are of 

the cross-over type. 
A laser engraving head according to any of the 
preceding claims, in which the means for focusing (L) are 

fixed in one position behind a pressurised air nozzle (24). 
A laser engraving head according to any one of the 
preceding claims, in which the final optic of the means for 

focusing (L) forms a window to a sealed compartment  
 

separating the other optical components from the machining 
environment. 
A laser engraving head according to claim 6, in which 
the acousto-optic modulator (AOM) is fixed in one position 

between the sealed compartment and the corresponding fixed 
coupling optics to give the required angular and lateral 

offset to its incident beam. 
A laser engraving head according to any one of the 
preceding claims, in which the acousto-optic modulator 

(AOM) is formed of a material subject to thermal run-away, 
further characterised by means (SO) for deflecting a 

portion of the beam in the optical path to the deflector, 
the deflected portion of the beam being directed to an 

optical power sensor (TD) and the output of that sensor 
being monitored to detect the incidence on the deflector 

(AOM) of optical power exceeding a predetermined threshold. 
A laser engraving head according to claim 8, in which 
the acousto-optic modulator (AOM) is a germanium device. 
A laser engraving head according to claim 8 or 9, in 
which the power sensor (TD) is a thermopile having a rapid 

response time. 
A laser engraving head according to any one of claims 
8 to 10, further comprising means responsive to the optical 

power sensor arranged to cut-off or attenuate the laser 
beam when the optical power on the deflector exceeds the 

predetermined threshold. 
A laser engraving head according to claim 11, 
including a voltage comparator for comparing the thermopile 

output with a fixed reference voltage. 
A laser engraving head according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising means for producing a 

test engraving by operating the acousto-optic modulator to 
shut-off the beam at times when the beam is impinging on 

the medium outside a predetermined circumferential portion. 
A laser engraving system comprising an anilox roller 
(2) mounted in an engraving apparatus including a laser  

 
engraving head (6) according to any one of the preceding 

claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
