<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for stabilizing rhodium compound
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J2706	B01J2713	B01J2728	C07B6100	C07C51573	B01J3140	C07C5156	C07C5300	C07B6100	C07C5312	C07C5154	C07C5112	B01J2732	C07C5110	B01J3140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	C07B	C07C	B01J	C07C	C07C	C07B	C07C	C07C	C07C	B01J	C07C	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J27	B01J27	B01J27	C07B61	C07C51	B01J31	C07C51	C07C53	C07B61	C07C53	C07C51	C07C51	B01J27	C07C51	B01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A concentrated catalyst solution provided in the 
carbonylation reaction in which methyl acetate or 

dimethyl ether is chemically bonded with carbon 
monoxide in the presence of a catalyst system 

comprising a rhodium compound and an alkali metal 
iodide to produce acetic anhydride is subjected to a 

carbonylation treatment with carbon monoxide or a 
mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen before it is 

applied to a process for separating the tar contained 
in the catalyst solution, thereby increasing the 

iodide ion content of the catalyst solution, thus 
enabling the rhodium compound to be stabilized. 
 
When the concentration of the iodide ion in the 
concentrated catalyst solution is increased by this 

method, there is no possibility of the balances 
between the rhodium concentration and, the alkali 

metal concentration and the iodine concentration of 
the carbonylation reaction system being disturbed even 

when the catalyst solution as reprocessed is returned 
to the carbonylation reaction system. Further, the 

increase in the iodide ion concentration of the 
concentrated catalyst solution enables the rhodium 

compound contained in the concentrated catalyst  
 

solution to be stabilized, which prevents the rhodium 
compound from settling from the catalyst solution even 

during the heat treatment conducted for the purpose of 
removing components each having a low-boiling point 

contained in the catalyst solution before the process 
for separating and removing tar from the concentrated 

catalyst solution, so that the loss of the very 
expensive rhodium compound can be minimized. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for 
stabilizing a rhodium compound 
contained in a catalyst solution contaminated with tar 
formed as a by-product in the carbonylation reaction 
in which methyl acetate or dimethyl ether is 
chemically bonded with carbon monoxide in the presence 
of a catalyst system comprising a rhodium compound and 
an alkali metal iodide to produce acetic anhydride. A reaction of carbon monoxide, alone or together 
with hydrogen, with methyl acetate or dimethyl ether 
in the presence of a rhodium catalyst to produce 
acetic anhydride is very useful from the viewpoint of 
industry. It is known that the addition of various 
cocatalysts is useful for this reaction . It is also 
well known that the most serious problem of this 
reaction resides in a lowering in the reactivity due 
to accumulation of tar as a by-product. For this  
 
reason, in order to conduct this reaction on an 
industrial scale, it is necessary to remove the tar 
outside the system. In the above-described reaction, since use is 
generally made of a homogeneous catalyst, the tar and 
rhodium catalyst are contained in one and the same 
solution. Therefore, the development of an efficient 
tar/rhodium separation process capable of minimizing 
the loss of the rhodium compound, which is a very 
expensive catalyst, is indispensable to the practice 
of the above-described reaction on an industrial 
scale. Typical examples of the tar/rhodium separation 
processes of the type described above include (1) 
extraction with an aqueous methyl iodide/hydroiodic 
acid solution, (2) precipitation/insolubilization of a 
rhodium complex by heat treatment and (3) extraction 
with an alkane or a cycloalkane (see U.S. Patent No. 
4,476,238; published on October 9, 1984; Halcon-SD-Group 
Inc.). Among these processes, the process (1) 
has a drawback that, since the reaction system is 
contaminated with hydroiodic acid, a compound 
containing iodine should be removed outside the 
reaction system for the purpose of keeping the balance 
between the rhodium concentration and the iodine  
 
concentration in the reaction system. The process (2) 
has a drawback that this process is very complicate 
due to the occurrence of sedimentation of the rhodium 
compound as a solid. The process (3) has none of the 
above-described problems and enables the tar/rhodium 
separation to be conducted in a very simple manner 
(see the above described U.S. Patent No. 4,476,238). However, as described also in the U.S. Patent No. 
4,476,238, in the process
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for stabilizing a rhodium compound 
contained in a catalyst solution contaminated with tar 

formed as a by-product in the carbonylation reaction 
in which methyl acetate or dimethyl ether is 

chemically bonded with carbon monoxide in the presence 
of a catalyst system comprising a rhodium compound and 

an alkali metal iodide to produce acetic anhydride, 
characterized in that the catalyst solution as such or 

alternatively a catalyst solution mixture formed by 
adding a diluent comprising at least one of the 

compounds present in the carbonylation reaction system 
to the catalyst solution is treated with carbon 

monoxide or a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 
before the catalyst solution or the catalyst solution 

mixture is applied to a process for separating the tar 
contained in the catalyst solution. 
The method for stabilizing a rhodium compound 
according to claim 1, wherein said diluent is a 

solvent containing methyl iodide. 
The method for stabilizing a rhodium compound 
according to claim 2, wherein a part of a circulating 

stream within the reaction process is used as the 
solvent containing methyl iodide.  

 
The method for stabilizing a rhodium compound 
according to claim 1, wherein said catalyst system 

comprises rhodium iodide and lithium iodide. 
The method for stabilizing a rhodium compound 
according to claim 1, wherein said catalyst system 

comprises rhodium iodide, an alkali metal iodide, an 
aluminum compound and a boron compound. 
The method for stabilizing a rhodium compound 
according to claim 1, wherein said catalyst solution 

comprises a concentrated catalyst solution provided by 
conducting flash vaporization after the carbonylation 

reaction. 
A method for regenerating a catalyst solution 
contaminated with tar formed as a by-product in the 

carbonylation reaction in which methyl acetate or 
dimethyl ether is chemically bonded with carbon 

monoxide in the presence of a catalyst system 
comprising a rhodium compound and an alkali metal 

iodide to produce acetic anhydride, characterized by 
comprising the step that the catalyst solution as such 

or alternatively a catalyst solution mixture formed by 
adding a diluent comprising at least one of the 

compounds present in the carbonylation reaction system 
to the catalyst solution is treated with carbon 

monoxide or a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen  
 

before the catalyst solution or the catalyst solution 
mixture is applied to a process for separating the tar 

contained in the catalyst solution. 
The method for regenerating a catalyst 
solution according to claim 7, wherein the step of 

removing a component having a low-boiling point 
contained in said catalyst solution is provided 

between the step of treating said catalyst solution 
with carbon monoxide or a mixture of carbon monoxide 

and hydrogen and the process for separating the tar 
contained in said catalyst solution. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
