<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629299</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL CABLE AND PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B644	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OESTREICH ULRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER REINER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OESTREICH, ULRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER, REINER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Optical cable (OC1) with a plurality of ribbon 
stacks (BSl to BSn) of optical waveguide ribbons (BDl to 

BDk) which are arranged in at least one layer around a 
core element (KE), characterized in that supporting 

elements (SEl to SEn) designed as independent profiles 
are provided in the interstices formed by the ribbon 

stacks (BSl to BSn), and in that said supporting elements 
(SET to SEn) extend in the radial direction at least just 

as far as the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) such that said 
supporting elements (SEl to SEn) contribute to a 

positional securing of the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) in 
the radial direction and/or in the circumferential 

direction. 
Optical cable according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the core element (KE) has at least one tensile-load-resistant 

element (CE). 
Optical cable according to Claim 2, characterized 
in that a thickening layer (AS) is applied to the 

tensile-load-resistant element (CE). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the core element is 

designed as a tube (KR). 
Optical cable according to claim 4, characterized 
in that at least one optical waveguide (LWLl to LWLn) is 

arranged in the tube (KR). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the ribbon stacks (BSl to 

BSn) are arranged directly on the core element (KE). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the ribbon stacks (BSl to  

 
BSn) are arranged with their radially innermost ribbon 

line (e.g. DBl) in each case nestling in the circumferential 
directional, curved in an arcuate manner, 

against the core element (KE). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the optical waveguide 

ribbons (BDl to BDk) are assembled to form an 
approximately rectangular ribbon stack. 
Optical cable according to one of claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the optical waveguide ribbons (BDl 

to BDk) within their ribbon stack are provided with an 
increasing number of optical waveguides (LWl to LWm) 

towards the outside. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radial extent of the 

ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) is chosen smaller than their 
extent about the circumference. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a radial extent between 1 

mm and 3 mm, preferably between 1.5 and 2 mm, and an 
extent along the circumference of between 1.5 mm and 5 

mm, preferably between 2 and 3 mm, is chosen for the 
ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that between 2 and 10 optical 

waveguide ribbons (BDl to BDk) with preferably 2 to 16 
optical waveguides each are provided for the ribbon 

stacks (BSl to BSn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a filling material is 

provided between the optical waveguide ribbons (BDl to 
BDk) and/or remaining interstices. 
Optical cable according to Claim 13, characterized 
in that the filling material is designed so as to 

be adhesive. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the ribbon stacks (BSl to 

BSn) are laid up on the core element (KE).  
 
Optical cable according to Claim 15, characterized 
in that a lay length of between 400 and 700 mm is 

chosen for the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that adjacent ribbon stacks (BSl 

to BSn) have at their base, at their radially innermost 
ribbon line, a clearance of between 0.5 mm and 1.5 mm. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the supporting elements 

(SEl to SEn) bear against the core element (KE). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the supporting elements 

(SE1 to SEn) only partly fill the interstices. 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 1 -18, 
characterized in that the supporting elements (SEl to 

SEn) largely completely fill the interstices between the 
ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the supporting elements 

(SEl to SEn) have an approximately wedge-shaped cross 
section. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a stiff material is chosen 

for the supporting elements (SEl - SEn). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 1 to 21, 
characterized in that an easily deformable material is 

used for the supporting elements (SEl to SEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a material containing 

swelling agent is chosen for the supporting elements (SEl 
to SEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the supporting elements 

(SEl-SEn) are composed of varying materials. 
Optical cable according to Claim 25, characterized 
in that the supporting elements (SEl to SEn) have 

a radially extending hard supporting body (STn) in the 
interior and, if appropriate, a cushioning outer region.  

 
Optical cable according to Claim 25 or 26, 
characterized in that a stiff supporting body (QTn) 

running transversely to the radial extent of the 
supporting elements (SEl to SEn) in each case is 

incorporated into the latter. 
Optical cable according to Claim 25, characterized 
in that one T-girder-shaped supporting body (TTn) 

in each case is incorporated into the supporting elements 
(SEl to SEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the supporting elements 

(SEl to SEn) are fixed in their position. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a plurality of layers (LA1, 

LA2) comprising ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn, BSl* to BSn*) 
and supporting elements (SEl to SEn, SEl* to SEn*) lying 

therebetween are provided. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a cover layer (SS) is 

applied externally on at least one lay-up layer (LA1, 
LA2) of ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) and supporting 

elements (SEl to SEn) incorporated therebetween. 
Optical cable according to Claim 31, characterized 
in that the cover layer (SS) has a thin, hard 

outer layer (HAS). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 31 or 
32, characterized in that the cover layer (SS) has a 

soft, cushioning inner layer (WIS). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 31 to 
33, characterized in that the cover layer (SS) is 

designed as a transverse-pressure-resistant tube. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that at least one outer sheath 

(AH) and/or at least one reinforcement (BW) is provided 
on the outside. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the ribbon stacks (BSl-BSn) 

are accommodated in chamber elements in each case.  
 
Method for producing an optical cable (OC1) 
according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 

in that the supporting elements (SEl to SEn) designed as 
independent profiles are introduced externally into the 

interstices formed by the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn), 
with an extent in the radial direction at least just as 

far as the radial extent of the ribbon stacks (BSl to 
BSn), such that the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) are 

secured in their position in the radial direction and/or 
in the circumferential direction. 
Method according to Claim 37, characterized in 
that at least one further layer (LA2) of ribbon stacks 

(BS1 to BSn) and supporting elements (SEl to SEn) is 
applied onto a first layer (LA1). 
Method according to Claim 37 or claim 38, 
characterized in that the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) and 

the profile-shaped supporting elements (SEl to SEn) are 
laid up jointly into their respective layer (LA1, LA2). 
Process according to one of Claims 37 to 39, 
characterized in that the optical waveguide ribbons (BDl 

to BDk) taken off from supply bobbins (VBDll to VBDlk; 
VBDnl to VBDnk) are combined to form ribbon stacks (BSl 

to BSn), in that the latter are applied around the core 
element (KE), in that the supporting elements (SEl to 

SEn) are taken off from supply bobbins (VSEl to vSEn) and 
in that said supporting elements (SEl to SEn) are introduced 

into the interstices between the ribbon stacks (BSl 
to BSn). 
Method according to one of Claims 37 to 40, 
characterized in that, after the application of the 

ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) in the respective lay-up layer 
(LA1, LA2), said ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) are passed 

through an extruder head (EK) which extrudes profiles of 
supporting elements (SEl to SEn) and in that said 

supporting elements (SEl to SEn) are introduced into the 
interstices between the ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn) with 

the aid of a feed device (ESE). 
Method according to one of Claims 37 to 40,  
 

characterized in that a cover layer (SSl, SS2*) is 
applied externally onto at least one lay-up layer (LA1, 

LA2) of ribbon stacks (BSl to BSn, BSl* to BSn*) and 
supporting elements (SEl to SEn) incorporated 

therebetween. 
Method according to one of Claims 37 to 42, 
characterized in that at least one outer sleeve (AH) 

and/or a reinforcement (BW) is applied externally. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
