<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613739</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bending processing method and apparatus therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D700	B29C5308	B29C5300	B21D706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B29C	B29C	B21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D7	B29C53	B29C53	B21D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bending processing apparatus (1) includes upper 
and lower molds (27,28) made of a flexible synthetic resin 

material which are interposed between end surfaces of a 
plurality of driven cylinders (15) opposing an equal number 

of movable cylinders (18). This arrangement is 
mounted on a base stand (11) and an article (31) to be subjected to 

bending processing is supported by pressure between the 
upper and lower molds. A control unit (19) is provided for 

controlling a stroke amount, stroke order and speed of 
the respective cylinders such that pressing force may be 

uniformly obtained during bending processing, thus 
wrinkling or folding in the article during processing is 

prevented. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KINUGAWA RUBBER IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KINUGAWA RUBBER IND. CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUGA HAJIME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI MASATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUGA, HAJIME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, MASATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a 
bending apparatus for bending weatherstripping, core bars 
of weatherstrips, or the like. As is well known, a core bar, which is embedded 
in solid rubber for forming weatherstrips, is subjected 
to bending processing beforehand in accordance with a 
shape of a vehicle body opening portion to be covered by 
the weatherstrip. Conventionally, a stretch bending 
system, a draw bending system and a press bending system 
are well known. However, according to the stretch bending 
system, terminal portions of the core bar, or 
weatherstrip must be clamped before effecting bending 
processing, the clamped ends being discarded after 
processing such that wastage of material and additional 
labour required become drawbacks of this process. According to the draw bending method, it is 
possible to effect bending of weatherstripping into 
various shapes by replacing appropriately shaped wheels 
of varying sizes according to the shape desired. 
However, according to this method, only two-dimensional 
shapes are available, which may be insufficient for 
modern processing requirements. According to the press system, as for example 
shown in Fig. 8, a straight piece of core bar 2 is set 
across an appropriately shaped mold groove 1a of a lower 
mold 1 while an upper mold 3 having a reciprocally shaped 
mold projection 3a is lowered onto the core bar 2 to 
effect bending operation. However, according to such 
press system bending processing, springback may occur to 
the article (i.e. the core bar 2) after processing such  
 
that the article may partially resume its original shape. 
Thus, such occurence of springback must be taken into 
consideration in the shape of the mold and additional 
engineering complexity and increased costs are incurred. Also, according to press type bending 
processing, when the upper and lower molds 3, 2 are 
brought together, the molding pressure therebetween as 
applied to the core bar 2 is uneven along the length of 
the core bar 2. Thus, particularly when a length of 
rubber weatherstripping is fitted over the core bar to be 
processed, such non-uniform molding pressure may cause 
folds and/or wrinkles in the finished article or mahy 
otherwise and may mar the finished appearance and/or 
performance of the finished article.  
 The generic document SU 1 147 471 A describes a bending 
apparatus having a plurality of first and second pressing 
members, which are arranged opposite to each other. During a 
bending process the first pressing members
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bending apparatus (1), comprising: 

a) a plurality of first pressing members (15) arranged 
in a lateral row and movable in first and second 

directions along parallel axes; 
b) a plurality of second pressing members (18) arranged 
in a lateral row of equal number as said plurality of 

first pressing members (15) and axially aligned 
therewith, respectively, such that ends of said second 

pressing members (18) face ends of said first 
pressing members (15); 
c) driving means active for driving said first pressing 
members (15) in said first or second directions at a 

controlled speed; 
d) resistance means active to regulate movement of said 
second pressing members (18) according to contact by 

said first pressing members (15) moving in said first 
direction; 
e) control means (19) active to control said driving 
means such as to drive said first pressing members 

(15) in said first direction against said second 
pressing members (18), a degree of movement of each 

of said pressing means (15, 18) in said first direction 
being determined in accordance with data provided 

to said control means (19); 
  
 

characterized by 

f) a first flexible mold (27) retained along the ends of 
said first pressing members (15); 
g) a second flexible mold (28) arranged facing said 
first mold, retained along the ends of said second pressing 

members (18); 
h) said control means (19) establish a uniform clamping 
pressure between said first and second molds (27, 28) 

lengthwise therealong, said control means (19) then 
being active to initiate bendig operation by controlling 

said lateral rows of first and second pressing 
means (15, 18) to further move in said first direction 

at said controlled speed while maintaining said 
uniform clamping pressure, outermost ones of said 

first and second pressing means (15, 18) being urged 
to move first, followed by inwardly adjacent ones of 

said first and second pressing means (15, 18) being 
sequentially controlled to move such tha
t movement of 
the centermost of said first and second pressing 

means (15, 18) is performed last. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said first and second pressing means (15, 18) comprise a 

plurality of first and second fluid cylinders. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said first and second molds (27, 28) are formed of 

synthetic resin. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
stopper members (16) are provided for limiting a degree 

of travel of said second pressing means (18) in said 
first direction.  

 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
each of said 

lateral rows of said first and second pressing means (15, 
18) comprise an odd number of fluid cylinders. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein 
movement of said first fluid cylinders (15) are controlled 

according to piston movement caused by relativ 
oil pressure in first and second working chambers 

thereof and said second fluid cylinders (18) are controlled 
according to piston movement caused by relative 

air pressure in first and second working chambers thereof. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
photoelectric monitoring means (38, 39) are provided in 

the vicinity of an area between said upper and lower 
molds (27, 28) at each side of said apparatus (1). 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein 
said photoelectric monitoring means (38, 39) is connected 

to an automatic shut-off circuit. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
positional sensors are provided for each of said first 

pressing means (15), said positional sensors are active 
to input positional data to said control means (19). 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein two 
start switches (40, 41) are provided, activation of both 

of said start switches being required to initiate bending 
processing operation. 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said first and second molds 827, 28) are formed of 

rubber.  
 
A bending apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said first and second molds (27, 28) are formed of 

spring steel. 
A bending processing method wherein an article to be 
subjected to bending processing is retained between 

first and second flexible molds (27, 28), characterized by
 
moving the first flexible mold (27) at a controlled speed 

in a first direction via a lateral row of first pressing 
members (15) moving along parallel axes;
 
contacting said first flexible mold (27) with the second 

flexible mold (28), supported by a lateral row of second 
pressing members (18) axially aligned with and of equal 

number as a number of said first pressing members (15), 
such as to establish a uniform clamping pressure between 

said first and second flexible molds (27, 28); and
 
controlling outermost ones of said first and second 

pressing means (15, 18) to further move in said first 
direction, followed by inwardly adjacent ones of said 

first and second pressing means (15, 18) sequentially 
such that movement of the centermost of said first and 

second pressing means (15, 18) is performed last, said 
movement being carried out at said controlled speed 

while maintaining said uniform clamping pressure between 
said first and second flexible molds (27, 28). 
A method as set forth in claim 13, further including the 
initial step of inputting control data specifiying a 

degree of movement of each of said first and second 
pressing means (15, 18) in said first direction. 
A method as set forth in claim 13, further including 
steps, after said controlling step, of resisting movement 

of said second pressing means (18) such that movement  
 

of said first and second pressing means (15, 18) in 
said first direction is terminated and, applying finishing 

pressure higher than said clamping pressure 
between said first and second flexible molds (27, 28). 
A method as set forth in claim 15, further including a 
final step of moving said first and second pressing 

means (15, 18) in a second direction opposite said first 
direction to assume an initial position of said first 

and second pressing means (15, 18). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
