<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612199</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical heating element, its manufacture and use
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B316	F24C706	H05B316	H05B368	H05B374	H05B306	H05B312	H05B324	F24C700	H05B306	H05B322	H05B312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	F24C	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	F24C	H05B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	F24C7	H05B3	H05B3	H05B3	H05B3	H05B3	H05B3	F24C7	H05B3	H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical heating element for a radiant electric 
heater comprises an elongate electrically conductive 

strip (1) adapted for edgewise mounting on a base (3) of 
thermal and electrical insulation material. The strip 

comprises an elongate continuous portion and a 
discontinuous portion integral, and preferably 

substantially coplanar, with the continuous portion, the 
discontinuous portion comprising a plurality of mounting 

tabs (2) extending in a direction away from the 
continuous portion at spaced-apart locations, for 

securement to or in the base. Provided in each tab is at 
least one aperture such as a hole (5C) or slot (5B, 5E) 

or slit (5A, 5D) , whereby thermal conduction into the 
tabs (2) from the continuous portion is reduced or 

minimised and also variation in electric current density 
along the continuous portion of the strip (1) is reduced 

or minimised when the strip is electrically connected for 
operation in a radiant electric heater. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS, JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electrical heating element for 
a radiant electric heater, more particularly, but not 
exclusively, for use with a glass-ceramic smooth top 
cooker. More particularly, the invention relates to a 
heating element in the form of an elongate strip of 
electrically conductive material, such as a metal or a 
metal alloy, arranged for edgewise mounting on a base of 
thermal and electrical insulation material by means of 
integral tabs extending edgewise therefrom and secured to 
or in the insulating base. The invention also relates to 
a method of manufacturing such an electrical heating 
element and to a radiant electric heater incorporating such 
an electrical heating element. When a heating element is secured to a base by tabs and 
brought to radiance for heating purposes by passing an 
electric current through it, there is a disadvantage in 
that the strip glows less brightly in the regions adjacent 
to the tabs. The reason for this is two-fold. Firstly, 
heat is conducted from the strip into the mounting tabs and 
then into the base. Thermal conduction into the base can 
be reduced somewhat by employing a base with very good 
thermal insulation properties, a particular example of such 
being microporous thermal insulation material. Secondly, 
it is found that the electric current density in the strip 
varies along the length of the strip, being lower in the  
 
regions adjacent the tabs than elsewhere. In such regions 
the strip is effectively wider on account of the tabs, and 
electric current flows though the tabs in addition to the 
strip, so resulting in the lower current density referred 
to above. Strip-type heating elements are known, for example, from 
GB-A-1 569 588, US-A-600 057 and US-A-4 292 504. According to GB-A-1 569 588 the heating conductor strip is 
slotted alternately from opposite edges to give the 
conductor strip a zig-zag form and anchoring tabs extend 
from the strip and penetrate an insulating sheet to secure 
the strip to the sheet. The tabs may be notched some 
distance from the lower edge of the strip to form a bending 
point. Thus, the heating part of the strip is 
discontinuous and there is no teaching of providing holes, 
slots or slits in the tabs to improve the uniformity of 
radiance of the strip along its length. According to US-A-600 057, a heating element may be 
provided in strip form, but there is no consideration of 
improving the uniformity of radiance of the strip along its 
length. According to US-A-4 292 504, a heating element of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical heating element for a radiant electric 
heater, the element comprising an elongate electrically 

conductive strip (1) adapted for edgewise mounting on a 
base (3) of thermal and electrical insulation material, the 

strip comprising an elongate continuous portion and a 
discontinuous portion integral with the continuous portion, 

the discontinuous portion comprising a plurality of 
mounting tabs (2) extending in a direction away from the 

continuous portion at spaced-apart locations, for 
securement to or in the base characterised in that there is 

provided in each tab at least one aperture (5A, 5B, 5C, 5D, 
5E) whereby thermal conduction into the tabs (2) from the 

continuous portion is reduced or minimised and also 
variation in electric current density along the continuous 

portion of the strip (1) is reduced or minimised when the 
strip is electrically connected for operation in a radiant 

electric heater. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 1, 
characterised in that the discontinuous portion of the 

strip (1) is substantially coplanar with the continuous 
portion thereof. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 1 or 
2, characterised in that the at least one aperture is in 

the form of at least one slot (5B, 5E) or slit (5A, 5D)  
 

which extends into and along each tab (2) from the 
extremity thereof remote from the continuous portion. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 3, 
characterised in that the or each slot or slit is straight 

(5A, 5B) or bent or curved (5D, 5E). 
An electrical heating element according to claim 3 or 
4, characterised in that the or each slot or slit is of 

uniform (5A, 5B) or non-uniform shape (5D, 5E). 
An electrical heating element according to claim 3, 4 
or 5, characterised in that the width of the discontinuous 

portion of the strip (1) is greater than the length of the 
tabs (2) and the or each slot or slit extends beyond its 

associated tab and into the remainder of the discontinuous 
portion of the strip. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 1 or 
2, characterised in that the at least one aperture is in 

the form of at least one hole (5C) provided in the 
discontinuous portion. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 7, 
characterised in that the at least one hole is in the form 

of a single hole (5C) provided in each tab (2).  
 
An electrical heating element according to claim 8, 
characterised in that the width of the discontinuous 

portion of the strip (1) is greater than the length of the 
tabs (2) and the hole is dimensioned to extend beyond its 

associated tab and into the remainder of the discontinuous 
portion of the strip. 
An electrical heating element according to any 
preceding claim, characterised in that the strip (1) is 

provided of corrugated form along its length. 
An electrical heating element according to any 
preceding claim, characterised in that the strip (1) 

comprises a metal or a metal alloy. 
An electrical heating element according to any 
preceding claim, characterised in that the tabs (2) are 

uniformly spaced apart along the strip (1) and are 
dimensioned such that gaps between the tabs form 

complementary profiles of the tabs. 
An electrical heating element according to any 
preceding claim, characterised in that one or more selected 

regions (13, 21, 22, 23) of the heating element is or are 
formed with localised increase in effective cross-sectional 

area over a required length, or required lengths, of the 
conductive strip such that the one or more selected regions  

 
operate in a heater at a lower temperature and/or with 

lower visible radiance than the remainder of the element. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 13, 
characterised in that at the one or more selected regions 

(21, 22, 23) localised increase in cross-sectional area is 
achieved by increased thickness of the strip and/or 

increased effective width of the strip. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 14, 
characterised in that the at least one aperture is omitted 

from the tabs (2) in the or each selected region (21, 22). 
An electrical heating element according to claim 14, 
characterised in that a plurality of spaced-apart tabs at 

the or each selected region are replaced by a single 
elongate tab (23) extending along the or each selected 

region without an aperture formed therein. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 14, 
characterised in that an additional piece (13) of 

electrically conductive material is bonded to the strip (1) 
at the or each selected region to locally increase the 

thickness of the strip, and optionally the width of the 
strip, at the or each region. 
An electrical heating element according to claim 17, 
characterised in that the additional piece (13) of  

 
conductive material is formed of the same material as the 

strip (1). 
A radiant electric heater comprising a base (3) of 
thermal and electrical insulation material and an 

electrical heating element partially embedded therein, the 
electrical heating element comprising an elongate 

electrically conductive strip (1) comprising an elongate 
continuous portion and a discontinuous portion integral 

with the continuous portion, the discontinuous portion 
comprising a plurality of mounting tabs (2) extending in a 

direction away from the continuous portion at spaced-apart 
locations, the tabs bein
g secured on or in the base (3), 
preferably by embedding in the base, characterised in that 

there is provided in each tab at least one aperture (5A, 
5B, 5C, 5D, 5E), whereby thermal conduction into the tabs 

from the continuous portion is reduced or minimised and 
also variation in electric current density along the 

continuous portion of the strip (1), when energised, is 
reduced or minimised. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 19, 
characterised in that the insulation material comprises 

microporous thermal and electrical insulation material. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 19 or 20, 
characterised in that the strip (1) takes a form as claimed 

in any one of claims 2 to 18.  
 
A method of manufacturing an electrical heating 
element for a radiant electric heater, the element 

comprising an elongate electrically conductive strip (1A, 
1B, 1C, 1D) adapted for edgewise mounting on a base (3) of 

thermal and electrical insulation material, the strip 
comprising an elongate continuous portion and a 

discontinuous portion integral with the continuous portion, 
the discontinuous portion comprising a plurality of 

mounting tabs (2) extending in a direction away from the 
continuous portion at spaced-apart locations, for 

securement to or in the base (3), characterised in that the 
tabs are uniformly spaced apart along the strip and are 

dimensioned such that gaps between the tabs form 
complementary profiles of the tabs, there being provided in 

each tab (2) at least one aperture (5A, 5B, 5C, 5D, 5E), in 
which at least two lengths of strip (1A, 1B, 1C, 1D) are 

produced simultaneously by separation from a single 
conductive band, by means of a cutting, punching or 

stamping operation, the at least two lengths being side by 
side on the band with the tabs of one element being 

effectively interdigitated with the tabs of the other 
element as the separating operation is effected. 
A method according to claim 22, characterised in that 
the discontinuous portion of the strip (1) is formed 

substantially coplanar with the continuous portion thereof.  
 
A method according to claim 22 or 23, characterised in 
that the at least one aperture is in the form of at least 

one slot (5B, 5E) or slit (5A, 5D) which extends into and 
along each tab (2) from the extremity thereof remote from 

the continuous portion. 
A method according to claim 24, characterised in that 
the or each slot or slit is straight (5A, 5B) or bent or 

curved (5D, 5E). 
A method according to claim 24 or 25, characterised in 
that the or each slot or slit is of uniform (5A, 5B) or 

non-uniform shape (5D, 5E). 
A method according to claim 24, 25 or 26, 
characterised in that the width of the discontinuous 

portion of the strip (1) is greater than the length of the 
tabs (2) and the or each slot or slit extends beyond its 

associated tab and into the remainder of the discontinuous 
portion of the strip. 
A method according to claim 22 or 23, characterised in 
that at least one aperture is in the form of at least one 

hole (5C) provided in the discontinuous portion. 
A method according to claim 28, characterised in that 
the at least one hole is in the form of a single hole (5C) 

provided in each tab (2).  
 
A method according to claim 29, characterised in that 
the width of the discontinuous portion of the strip (1) is 

greater than the length of the tabs (2) and the hole is 
dimensioned to extend beyond its associated tab and into 

the remainder of the discontinuous portion of the strip. 
A method according to any one of claims 22 to 30 and 
including the step of forming each strip (1A, 1B, 1C, 1D) 

into corrugated form along its length. 
A method according to any one of claims 22 to 31, 
characterised in that the strip (1) comprises a metal or a 

metal alloy. 
A method according to any one of claims 22 to 32, 
characterised in that one or more selected regions (13, 21, 

22, 23) of the heating element is or are formed with 
localised increase in effective cross-sectional area over 

a required length, or required lengths, of the conductive 
strip such that the one or more selected regions operate in 

a heater at a lower temperature and/or with lower visible 
radiance than the remainder of the element. 
A method according to claim 33, characterised in that 
at the one or more selected regions (21, 22, 23) localised 

increase in cross-sectional area is achieved by increased 
thickness of the strip and/or increased effective width of 

the strip.  
 
A method according to claim 34, characterised in that 
the at least one aperture is omitted from the tabs (2) in 

the or each selected region (21, 22). 
A method according to claim 34, characterised in that 
a plurality of spaced-apart tabs at the or each selected 

region are replaced by a single elongate tab (23) extending 
along the or each selected region without an aperture 

formed therein. 
A method according to claim 34, characterised in that 
an additional piece (13) of electrically conductive 

material is bonded to the strip (1) at the or each selected 
region to locally increase the thickness of the strip, and 

optionally the width of the strip, at the or each region. 
A method according to claim 37, characterised in that 
the additional piece (13) of conductive material is formed 

of the same material as the strip (1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
