<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653829</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Homopolar dynamoelectric machine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K3104	H02K3102	H02K3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K31	H02K31	H02K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine comprises a 
solenoid coil for generating a magnetic field, having a 

cavity formed around an axis thereof. A rotating shaft, 
which constitutes a rotor, is rotatably provided in the 

cavity about the axis. A circular plate, which also 
constitutes the rotor, is integrally fixed on the shaft. 

A rotating body is rotatably supported by the plate about 
an axis of the shaft. A first electric current path, 

through which an electric current can pass from a 
proximal portion to a distal portion of the rotor, is 

integrally provided in, for example, the plate. A second 
electric current path, through which an electric current 

can pass from a distal portion to a proximal portion of 
the rotor, is integrally provided in the rotating body. 

The first and second paths are electrically connected in 
series, and are adapted to be electrically connected to a 

power supply in order to supply a direct current to these 
paths. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMBE YOSHITAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINOZAWA TAMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMBE, YOSHITAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINOZAWA, TAMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a homopolar
dynamoelectric machine.In a known homopolar dynamoelectric machine,
the dynamoelectric machine is provided with a solenoid
coil for excitation, having a cylindrical cavity formed
around an axis thereof; and a rotor, located within the
cavity, rotatable about the axis of the coil. The
dynamoelectric machine is further provided with a first
electric current path extending from a proximal portion
to a distal portion of the rotor; and a second electric
current path extending from a distal portion to a
proximal portion of the rotor. The second path is
connected to the first path in series (see Japanese
Unexamined Patent Publication No. 49-129103 or US-A-3 916 235). In this
dynamoelectric machine, on a surface which defines the
cavity, that is, for example, an inner surface of the
coil holder for holding the solenoid coil, there is fixed
a stationary member extending radially inwardly from the
inner surface. The first path may be formed in the
rotor, and the second may be formed in the stationary
member.On the distal end of the stationary member, a
nozzle for injecting an electroconductive liquid toward
the distal end of the first path is provided, and an
electrical connection between the distal ends of the
first and second paths is thereby obtained. However,
when the distance between the rotor and the stationary
member becomes smaller than suitable, an undesirable
contact between the rotor and the stationary member may
occur. On the other hand, when the distance is larger
than suitable, it is difficult to ensure an electrical 
connection between the first and second paths at their distal
ends. Therefore, in the dynamoelectric machine described
above, an accurate location of the rotor and the stationary
member is required. The rotor and the stationary member,
however, are located in the cavity of the solenoid coil, which
cavity is relatively small, and thus it is difficult to locate
these elements in the inner space accurately so as to make the
distance between the rotor and the stationary member suitable.
As a result, an assembly of the homopolar dynamoelectric
machine is difficult, and it is difficult to ensure an
electrical good connection between the first and second paths.DE-B-1,116,810 discloses a homopolar dynamoelectric
machine having the features of the preamble of Claim 1.An object of the present invention is to provide a
homopolar dynamoelectric machine capable of converting
electrical energy to mechanical energy, or vice versa, and of
being easily
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine comprising:

a solenoid coil (4) for excitation, having a cylindrical
cavity (6) formed around an axis thereof;
a rotor (8), provided in the cavity (6), rotatable about the
axis of the coil, having a proximal portion and a distal portion;
a rotating body (10), rotatably supported by the rotor (8)
about an axis of the rotor, the rotatable body extending from the

proximal portion to the distal portion of the rotor;
a first electric current path extending from the proximal
portion to the distal portion of the rotor, through which an

electric current passes from the proximal portion to the distal
portion of the rotor; and
a second electric current path extending from the distal
portion to the proximal portion of the rotor, through which an

electric current passes from the distal portion to the proximal
portion of the rotor, the second path being electrically

connected in series with the first path, and the first and second
paths being adapted to be electrically connected to a power

supply in order to supply a direct current to these paths;
wherein the rotor (8) comprises one of the first and second
paths, and the rotating body (10) comprises the other of the

first and second paths,

   characterized by means integrally connected with the rotor
(8) for transmitting torque from or to the rotor.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
Claim 1, wherein the rotor comprises a rotating shaft (7)

positioned on the axis of the coil (4) rotatably about the axis;
and a generally circular plate (8) integrally provided on the

shaft.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
Claim 1, wherein the rotor further comprises two annular supports

(11,12) integrally fixed to the rotor (8) for supporting the
rotating body (10), one (11) of the supports being positioned at

the proximal portion of the rotor, and the other (12) being at
the distal portion of the rotor, and wherein the rotating 

body is positioned between the supports.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 3, wherein the rotating body comprises at least one

rotating member (10a), in the form of a plate, extending from
the proximal support to the distal support.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 3, wherein the rotating body comprises a first

group of rotating members (24) arranged along the proximal
support (11); a second group of rotating members (25) arranged

along the distal support (12); and a ring (26) arranged between the
first and second groups of the members, for supporting

the rotating members, the ring being rotatable, relative
to the rotating members, about the axis of the rotor.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 5, wherein each of the rotating members is in

the form of a ball (24, 25).
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 3, wherein the rotating body (10) is formed of an

electroconductive material so that the rotating body
itself forms one of the first and second paths, the

supports (11, 12) are also formed of an electroconductive
material, and the end of the path which is in the rotor

is electrically connected to one of the supports (12), and
wherein the rotating body contacts with the supports so

as to obtain an electrical connection between the path in
the rotor and the rotating body.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 7, wherein the electroconductive material is a

copper-beryllium alloy.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 1, wherein the rotating body comprises an

electroconductive liquid volume formed in the rotor.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 9, wherein the electroconductive liquid volume

comprises a sealed space (31) filled with an electroconductive
liquid, the sealed space extending from a proximal

portion to a distal portion of the rotor. 
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 10, wherein the electroconductive liquid is one of

a liquid metal and an ionic liquid.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 10, wherein the rotor comprises a cylindrical

casing (30) accommodating the rotor, which is within the
cylindrical cavity, therein, the sealed space being

formed between the casing and the rotor.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 12, wherein the casing (30) is integrally fixed on the

rotor so that a relative rotation between the rotor and
the casing is prevented.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 1, wherein the rotor (8) is formed of an insulating

material, and wherein one of the first and second paths,
which is provided in the rotor, is formed by a tape or a

strip (16) of an electroconductive material, and is integrally
attached to the rotor.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second

paths extends substantially perpendicular to the axis of
the coil.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 1, wherein the first and second paths are

electrically connected at the distal ends thereof.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to

claim 1, wherein the dynamoelectric machine further
comprises a pair of collecting brushes (22, 23), one of the

brushes being adapted to be electrically connected to the
positive terminal of the power supply (22a), and the other

being adapted to be electrically connected to the
negative terminal of the supply; and a pair of slip

rings (20, 21), the slip rings being provided on both ends of
the rotor (8), and one of the slip rings being electrically

connected to the end of the first path, and the other
being electrically connected to the end of the second

path, and wherein the brushes engage with the 
corresponding slip ring so as to obtain an electrical

connection between the supply and the first and second
paths.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 17, wherein the brushes (22, 23) and the slip rings (20, 21) are

positioned outside of the cavity (6).
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 1, wherein the dynamoelectric machine comprises at

least one additional first path extending from the
proximal portion to the distal portion of the rotor (8, 9); at

least one additional second path extending from the
distal portion to the proximal portion of the rotor (8, 9), and

electrically connected in series with the corresponding
first path; and at least one additional rotating body (13)

rotatably supported by the rotor about the axis of the
rotor, wherein the rotor (9) comprises one of the additional

first and additional second paths, and the additional
rotating body (13) comprises the other of the additional first

and additional second paths.
A homopolar dynamoelectric machine according to
claim 19, wherein the first and second paths and the

additional first and second paths are electrically
connected in series.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
