<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649499</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFLATABLE PUMP AND ARTICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41D300	A41D300	A41D304	A41D1300	A41D1300	A47C2708	A47C2708	A61M1600	A61M1600	A62B700	A62B700	A62B1800	A62B1800	E04H1520	E04H1520	F04B4300	F04B4308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41D	A41D	A41D	A41D	A41D	A47C	A47C	A61M	A61M	A62B	A62B	A62B	A62B	E04H	E04H	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41D3	A41D3	A41D3	A41D13	A41D13	A47C27	A47C27	A61M16	A61M16	A62B7	A62B7	A62B18	A62B18	E04H15	E04H15	F04B43	F04B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a collapsible flexible pump (10) which includes an inflatable spring framework (12). The inflatable spring framework is formed by attaching a layer of flexible material over selected exterior portions of the flexible material pumping chamber to form a passageway therebetween. Inflation of the inflatable spring framework via an inflation valve (28), results in the collapsed flexible pump distending into a three dimensional pumping chamber inscribed by the inflated spring framework. The pumping chamber includes appropriate inlet and discharge valves (32, 30). By applying a compressive force to the pumping chamber, the volume of fluid within the pumping chamber is forced out through the discharge valve. The restoring tendency of the distended inflatable spring framework returns the pump chamber to the extended position on the returning intake stroke. A plurality of exemplary inflatable articles is disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SURVIVAL RESOURCES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SURVIVAL RESOURCES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POMEROY PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POMEROY, PAUL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INFLATABLE PUMP AND ARTICLEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to light weight pumps for providing a source of air or other fluid. In particular, the invention relates to such a pump in which an inflatable spring framework establishes the pump configuration in its extended position and which permits compression to a compressed position for pumping air and which is restored to the extended position by the restoring tendency of the inflated spring framework.The present invention further relates to an inflatable pump device which can be used with many different articles that require inflation. More specifically, it relates to a pump device which, in its stored condition, is collapsible and requires a minimum of storage space. For example, one of its uses may be the incorporation of the inflatable pump into an inflatable poncho which, when properly inflated, will provide the user with protection from the elements such as wind, rain, sleet or snow or just plain cold weather with the inflated poncho serving as a thermal barrier.When the novel pump is so incorporated into an inflatable poncho, both in a deflated condition, the poncho is capable of being folded and stored into a size sufficiently small enough to be received by a "fanny pack" or apparel pocket. When the poncho is properly inflated with the novel pump, it assumes an extended size of approximately five feet by nine feet with a thickness of up to nine inches .SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 Another use of the novel pump would be the incorporation of the pump unit into an inflatable blanket . As we all are well aware, inflating an object the size of an inflatable blanket with exhaled breath can readily become a major project. However, when the subject novel pump is made an integral component of the blanket, the inflation process is a quick procedure without the aggravation which normally accompanies other known means of inflation, such as the necessity of carrying a separate bulky pumping device.These are just a few examples of the use to which the subject pump may be incorporated.The inflatable pump can be used as a stand-alone pump with adapters to inflate a multiplicity of extant articles without the necessity of incorporating the device into the article. There are many other applications in which the novel pump will find use. In particular, the novel pump can provide air for any purpose. Further, the pump can be adapted to pump fluids other than air, including liquids.SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe instant invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Having thus described my invention, I CLAIM :
Claim 1.
An inflatable pump comprising: a first layer of flexible material configured to form an elongated enclosed pumping chamber; an inlet valve sealingly attached to said elongated pumping chamber; an inflation valve sealingly attached to an inflatable spring framework; a discharge valve sealingly attached to said elongated pumping chamber; an inflatable spring framework sealingly attached to selected portions of the surface of said elongated pumping chamber whereby upon inflation and distention of said inflatable spring framework, said material is erected into a three dimensional pumping chamber which is simultaneously charged with fluid that has entered through said inlet valve and upon application of compressive force to said pumping chamber, said charge of fluid is forced from said pumping chamber out through said discharge valve, thence, release of said compressive force allows the restoring tendency of said inflatable spring framework to return said elongated pumping chamber in a suction stroke preparatory to the next pumping cycle.
Claim 2.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said elongated pumping chamber includes a pair of oppositely disposed end portions interconnected by an elongated central portion therebetween.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


Claim 3 .
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein all said sealed portions are formed by conventional joining practices of the abutting surfaces.
Claim 4.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said portion of said elongated pumping chamber is a side portion thereof.
Claim 5.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said inflatable spring framework comprises a second layer of flexible material which is superimposed over selected portions of said first layer of flexible material forming a passage and chamber therebetween.
Claim 6.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said second layer of flexible material is sealed by sealing means on each side thereof.
Claim 7.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 5 wherein said selected portions include an annular portion at each of said opposite ends and a plurality of spaced lengthwise portions about said elongated central portion interconnected in serial relationship with an upper and lower portion fluidly connected to said opposite ends.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


Claim 8 .
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 2 wherein said inlet valve is located at selected portions of said elongated pumping chamber.
Claim 9.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 7 wherein said discharge valve is located at a selected portion of said elongated pumping chamber.
Claim 10.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said inflatable spring framework includes an inflation nipple which is provided with a control valve for retaining pressurized fluid within said inflatable spring framework after inflation thereof.
Claim 11.
A collapsible inflatable pump comprising: an elongated pumping chamber formed from a first layer of flexible material; said elongated pumping chamber enclosed by a pair of opposing end portions; said end portions also formed of flexible material; inlet valve operably connected to selected portions of pumping chamber for providing suction fluid to said elongated pumping chamber; inflatable spring framework sealingly attached to selected portions of the outer surface of said elongated pumping chamber; inflation operably connected to the other of said upper and lower portions and fluidly connected to said inflatable spring framework whereby inflation of said
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


inflatable spring framework causes said inflatable pump to erect from said collapsed condition and assume a distended three dimensional position simultaneously inducing fluid to enter said elongated pumping chamber through said inlet valve in preparation for a pumping stroke and upon application of compressive force to said pumping chamber, fluid within said elongated pumping chamber is exhausted through said discharge valve and upon release of said compressive force, the restoring tendency of said inflatable spring framework returns said elongated pumping chamber on its suction stroke preparatory to the next pumping cycle.
Claim 12.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said inflatable spring framework comprises a second layer of flexible material which is superimposed over said selected portions of first layer of flexible material forming a passage and chamber therebetween.
Claim 13.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said selected portions include an annular portion at each end of said opposite ends and a plurality of spaced lengthwise portions about said elongated central portion in serial relationship with said upper and lower portion.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


Claim 14 .
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said associated inflatable article is an inflatable poncho.
Claim 15.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said associated inflatable article is an inflatable tent.
Claim 16.
An inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said associated inflatable article is an inflatable blanket.
Claim 17.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said inflatable spring framework includes an inflation nipple which is provided with a control valve for retaining pressurized fluid within said inflatable spring framework after inflation thereof.
Claim 18.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said associated inflatable article is an inflatable poncho.
Claim 19.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said associated inflatable article is an inflatable tent.
SUB
S
TITUTE S 


Claim 20 .
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said inflatable associated article is an inflatable blanket .
Claim 21.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said inflatable pump is a resuscitator.
Claim 22.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said inflatable pump is a resuscitator.
Claim 23.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 1 wherein said inflatable pump is a bilge pump.
Claim 24.
A collapsible inflatable pump as defined in claim 11 wherein said inflatable pump is a bilge pump.
Claim 25.
An inflatable pump apparatus comprising a flexible pump body having a wall forming a pump chamber being flexibly formable between an expanded position in which said pump chamber forms has an expanded volume and a collapsed position in which said pump chamber has a collapsed volume, and
SUBSTITUTE 


an inflatable passage integral with said pump body to form a framework which when inflated will distend into a self supporting position and will thereby establish said pump chamber into its expanded position, said framework being distortable upon application of collapsing force upon said pump body from said self supporting position to a distorted position in which said pump chamber is in its collapsed position, and in said distorted position said framework having a restoring tendency to return to its self supporting position and said pump chamber into its expanded positions, and
at least one pumping valve communicating between the interior of said pump chamber and the exterior thereof to allow air or other fluid to be drawn in and forced out upon cycling of said pump chamber between its expanded and collapsed positions.
Claim 26.
The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising a valve for inflating, maintaining inflation and allowing deflation of said inflatable passage.
Claim 27.
The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said inflatable passage comprises a skeletal passage around said pump chamber.
Claim 28.
The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said pump chamber is in the form of a cylinder having a cylindrical side portion, a top
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


portion and a bottom portion and said skeletal passage comprises a top annular portion proximate to the joinder of the cylindrical portion and the top portion, and a bottom annular portion proximate to the joinder of the cylindrical portion and the bottom portion and a plurality of intermediate portions arranged around the cylindrical portion, communicating between the top annular portion and the bottom annular portion.
Claim 29.
The apparatus of claim 28 wherein each of said intermediate portions extends at on off-axis angle between said top annular portion and said bottom annular portion, relative to the axis of said cylinder.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
