<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656608</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and apparatus for the placement of annotations on a display without overlap
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F314	G06T1100	G06F314	G06T1100	G06T1160	G06T1160	G06F3048	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06T	G06F	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06T11	G06F3	G06T11	G06T11	G06T11	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for placing annotations of various 
sizes on a display without overlapping the annotations is 

described. Each annotation is represented by its rectangular 
bounding box along with an identifying line or arrow that 

joins the rectangle with the display object that is to be 
annotated. These rectangles and lines are stored in a list. 

When a additional annotation is to be placed on the display, 
it is tested at various positions to determine if there is 

overlap with the annotations that are already on the display. 
The tested positions are chosen by varying the length of the 

identifying line and the angle it forms with the horizontal. 
When a position is found that yields no overlap, the 

annotation is placed on the display and added to the list of 
positioned annotations. This approach is very fast due to the 

simplicity of the overlap tests, which consist of simple 
geometric operations. The approach is also fast because it 

can do a quick search first followed by a more exhaustive 
search if no suitable position is found. It also can be 

modified easily to place the annotations without crowding them 
too closely together. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRITT MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRITT, MARK D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system and method for
the placement of annotations on a computer display.
More specifically, the present invention relates to the
automated placement of annotations of various sizes
without overlapping currently displayed annotations.Many computer systems are developed today to aid an
operator or user in performing or directing certain
tasks with respect to displayed objects. These computer
systems provide the user with information concerning
the displayed objects. Information concerning the displayed
objects is provided via text that describes the current
state or other attributes of the displayed object. The
displayed objects may be aircraft, helicopters, ships,
tanks, trucks, trains, buses, cars, machines, processes,
stars, celestial objects, planets, dinosaurs, animals,
insects, etc. Typically, these objects are represented
symbolically in a computer system and displayed on a computer
display. Many computer systems require the placement of
annotations, where the annotations consist of blocks of text
which may have various sizes, on a display without overlapping
or crowding the text . For example, air traffic
control displays show airplane icons with identifying text
beside each icon. These text blocks have various sizes
that depend on how much information is displayed for each
icon. Star map displays show maps of the sky with
identifying text beside certain stars and celestial objects.
Other examples include computer games, graphical 
status displays and graphics programs that allow a user to
identify graphical objects with a mouse or other
pointing device.Objects are typically represented on a computer display
using some type of symbol or icon. Information
concerning these objects is conveyed via the position of the
object on the display and possibly text associated
with the symbol. Since all information concerning a
particular object cannot be displayed on the display, most
systems typically provide the user with the ability to select
a particular object and view more detailed information. Since
such systems typically display a large number of objects at
one time, they usually require the user to perform additional
acts to obtain additional information. For example,
selecting the object with an input device or moving a cursor
on top of the object as displayed and selecting enter. Upon
selection of an object, additional information is presented
about the selected object. The user may also be required to
make another selection to remove the additional information
fr
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of seeking to display annotations in a computer system having a
plurality of display objects positioned on a display (28), and having a list of annotations

(80, currently displayed on the display (28) where each annotation is associated with a
respective one of the plurality of display objects the method comprising the steps of:


a) selecting a display position for an additional annotation to be associated
with a display object the display position being an initial distance and angle from the

display object to be annotated; and
b) testing whether the additional annotation at the selected display position
overlaps any annotation presently displayed, if there is no overlap then adding the

additional annotation to the list of annotations (80) and displaying the additional
annotation at the selected display position, if there is an overlap then selecting a new

display position by incrementing the angle by an angle increment until all angle
increments have been tested then incrementing the distance by a distance increment and

re-incrementing the angle until a non-overlapping display position is found or all
positions have been tested.
The method of claim 1, wherein all angle increments for the incremented
distance are tested and if more than one non-overlapping position exists, choosing the

display position farthest from the currently displayed annotations.
The method of claim 1 or 2, which provides an indication that a non-overlapping
display position could not be found for the additional annotation after all

display positions have been checked.
The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, which chooses the display position that has
the least overlap if a non-overlapping position is not found.
The method of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein each annotation is a text block. 
The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the annotations comprise
text blocks each with a line connecting the text block to the associated display object.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the annotations comprise
pixmaps each with a line connecting the pixmap to the associated display object.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the additional annotation
is displayed in response to a user selecting the associated display object.
The method of any one of claim 1 to 8, wherein the additional annotation
is displayed in response to a change in the display position of a display object.
The method of any one of claim 1 to 9 comprising the step of:

c) reducing the distance and angle increments and repeating steps a) and b) if
no non-overlapping position is found.
A computer system including: a processing means (20), a memory means
(38), a display means (28, 72), and an input means (26, 30, 34) interconnected by a

system bus (22); and a software system for the annotation of objects displayed on the
display means (28, 72) the software system comprising:


a plurality of display objects positioned on the display (28);
a list of annotations (80) currently displayed on the display (28) in the memory
means (38), each annotation in the list (80) associated with a respective one of the

plurality of display objects;
an additional annotation (85) in the memory means (38) associated with a
respectively one of the plurality of display objects;
a display position determining means (83) in the memory means (38) for
generating a display position of the additional annotation (85) based upon an initial

distance and angle from the display object to be annotated;
an overlap detection means (83) for determining whether the display position of
the additional annotation (85) overlaps any annotation presently displayed; and 
an annotation positioning means (83) where the display position generated for the

additional annotation (83) is tested by the overlap detection means (83), if there is no
overlap then the additional annotation is added to the list of annotations (80) and

displayed at the display position, if there is an overlap then generating a new display
position by varying the angle by an angle increment until all angle increments have been

tested then incrementing the distance by a distance increment and re-incrementing the
angle until a non-overlapping display position is found or all positions have been tested.
The computer system of claim 11, wherein the annotation positioning
means (83) generates all display positions for the distance and the overlap detection

means (83) tests the display positions, if more than one non-overlapping positions exists,
the annotation positioning means (83) chooses the display position farthest from the

currently displayed annotations.
The computer system of claim 11 or 12, wherein the annotation
positioning means (83) provides an indication that a non-overlapping display position

could not be found for the additional annotation (85) after all display positions have been
checked.
The computer system of any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the
annotation positioning means (83) chooses the display position that has the least overlap

if a non-overlapping position is not found.
The computer system of any one of claims 11 to 14, further comprising a
window management system (58) in the memory (38) wherein the annotation positioning

means (83) uses the window management system (58) to display the additional annotation
(85).
The computer system of any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein each
annotation (85) is comprised of a text block with a line (209) connecting the text block

and the associated display object or wherein each annotation is comprised of a pixmap
with a line (209) connecting the pixmap and the associated display object or wherein each 

annotation is comprised of a widget with a line (209) connecting the widget and the
associated display object.
The computer system of any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein the additional
annotation (85) is displayed in response to a user selecting the associated display object

using the input means (26, 30, 34).
The computer system of any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein the
annotation positioning means (83) reduces the distance and angle increments and

regenerates the display positions if no non-overlapping position is found.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
