<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649399</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR REMOVING HYDROFORMYLATION CATALYST.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J2375	B01J2375	B01J3104	B01J3104	C01G5100	C01G5100	C07B6100	C07B6100	C07C4500	C07C4550	C07C4578	C07C4702	C07C4702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	C01G	C01G	C07B	C07B	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J23	B01J23	B01J31	B01J31	C01G51	C01G51	C07B61	C07B61	C07C45	C07C45	C07C45	C07C47	C07C47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMMERLIN WILLIAM HOMER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMMERLIN, WILLIAM, HOMER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR REMOVING HYDROFORMYIATION CATAI-YSTThe present invention relates generally to a method of removing dissolved cobalt compounds from the products of a cobalt catalyzed hydroformylation reaction. This method is particularly useful in removing dissolved cobalt from crude products formed from olefinic feedstocks having a carbon number in the range from about C to C14, preferably from about C5 to C7.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONHydroformylation reactions involve the preparation of oxygenated organic compounds by the reaction of carbon monoxide and hydrogen (a.k.a., syn or synthesis gas) with carbon compounds containing olefinic unsaturation. The reaction is performed in the presence of a carbonylation catalyst and results in the formation of a compound, for example an aldehyde, which has one more carbon atom in its molecular structure than the starting olefinic feedstock. By way of example, higher alcohols may be produced in the so- called "oxo" process by hydroformylation of commercial Cg-C*L2 olefin fractions to an aldehyde-containing oxonation product, which on hydrogenation yields respective C7-C13 saturated alcohols. The crude product of the hydroformylation reaction will contain catalyst, aldehydes, alcohols, unreacted feed, syn gas and by-products.Before further processing of the crude product is possible, it is necessary to remove the catalyst therefrom. One conventional method of removing cobalt values from such a crude product is to treat the 

product with an alkali or acid wash technique. See U.S. Patent No. 3,725,534 (Reisch) , which issued on April 3, 1973. However, this approach uses expensive raw materials and incurs problems associated with finally removing essentially all traces of cobalt from the water wash streams before being discharged.Another conventional method involves the oxidation of the cobalt catalytic species followed by extraction as a cobalt salt in aqueous solution. See U.S. Patent No. 2,744,921 (Mertzweiller et al.), which issued on May 8, 1956.U.S. Patent No. 4,625,067 (Hanin) , which issued on November 25, 1986, discloses still another method which involves the contacting of the crude product with a stream of stripping gas to entrain volatile cobalt compounds, characterized in that the contacting is performed in the presence of water and aqueous acid to dissolve those cobalt values not entrained in the gas under the conditions of temperature and pressure employed for the contacting, and the aqueous phase is subsequently separated from the organic hydroformylation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
21
CLAIMS ;
1. A method for removing cobalt values from the crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction formed from an olefinic feedstock, said crude product containing cobalt compounds in addition to an organic hydroformylation reaction product, which comprises: a. contacting said crude product with a stream of oxygen-containing gas, an organic acid and water thereby producing a substantially cobalt-free organic hydroformylation reaction product and a water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product; b. separating said substantially cobalt- free crude product from said water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product; c. diverting said substantially cobalt-free organic hydro ormylation reaction product for further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation; d. concentrating said water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product thereby producing a concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt and a substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid, whereby said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is separated from said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid; e. recycling said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid to step (a); f. contacting said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt with an alcohol stream and synthesis gas, and passing this mixture to a preformer reactor where said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl; g. contacting said cobalt carbonyl with a stream of stripping gas to entrain volatile cobalt 


compounds in said stripping gas and to generate as bottoms alcohol products and dissolved cobaltous salts, whereby said entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and the alcohol products and dissolved cobaltous salts are taken out as bottoms; h. separating said alcohol products of step (g) from said dissolved cobaltous salts; i. recycling said alcohol products from step (h) to step (f); j . recycling said dissolved cobaltous salts from step (h) to step (a); and k. contacting said volatile cobalt compounds from step (g) with said olefinic feedstock, whereby said volatile cobalt compounds are absorbed into said olefinic feedstock.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said oxygen-containing gas is at least one gas selected from the group consisting of: air, air with nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and mixtures of inert gases with oxygen having an oxygen content in the range of about 2 to about 10 weight %.
3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said organic acid is selected from the group consisting of: formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, and other acids having a boiling point approximately the same as water such that appreciable values of acid can be recovered in step (d).
4. The method according to claim 3 wherein said organic acid is formic acid and the resultant cobaltous salt is cobalt formate. 


 PC17US93/05008
23
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein said concentrating step (d) occurs in either a flash unit or evaporator.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl in the presence of a noble metal catalyst disposed within said preformer reactor.
7. The method according to claim 6 wherein said noble metal catalyst is gold, platinum or palladium.
8. The method according to claim 1 wherein said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl by contacting of phases at a pressure in the range between about 103 bar to about 310 bar and a temperature in the range between about 100째C to about 150째C.
9. The method according to claim 1 wherein said substantially cobalt-free organic hydroformylation reaction product from step (a) is subjected to a water wash treatment to remove residual cobalt values remaining therein prior to further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation.
10. The method according to claim 9 wherein wash water from said water wash treatment is recycled to step (a) .
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein said organic acid is used in an amount between about 0.00109 to 0.0109 grams of organic acid per gram of said crude product. 


 24
12. The method according to claim 1 wherein said oxygen-containing gas is used in a oxygen-containing gas to crude product weight ratio of from about 0.0045:1 to about 0.45:1.
13. The method according to claim 1 wherein said water is used in a water to crude product weight ratio of from 0.05:1 to 0.5:1.
14. The method according to claim 1 wherein said crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction is prepared from olefins having carbon numbers in the range between about C
4
 to about C-^4.
15. The method according to claim 14 wherein said crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction is prepared from olefins having carbon numbers in the range between about C
5
 to about C
7
. 

25
16. A method for removing cobalt values from the crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction formed from an olefinic feedstock, said crude product containing cobalt compounds in addition to an organic hydroformylation reaction product, which comprises: a. contacting said crude product with water and an organic acid; b. contacting the product of step (a) with a stream of stripping gas to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping gas; whereby said entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and organic hydroformylation reaction products containing water soluble cobaltous salts dissolved therein are taken out as bottoms; c. separating said water soluble cobaltous salt of step (b) from said organic hydroformylation reaction products; d. diverting said organic hydroformylation reaction product of step (c) for further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation; e. contacting said water soluble cobaltous salt of step (c) with a stream of oxygen-containing gas, an organic acid and water thereby producing a water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product; f. concentrating the water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product from step (e) thereby producing a concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt and a substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid, whereby said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is separated from said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid; g. recycling said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid to step (b); 


 26
h. contacting said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt with an alcohol stream, an oxonation product and/or a hydrogenation product and synthesis gas, and passing this mixture to a preformer reactor where said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl; i. recycling the cobalt carbonyl produced in step (h) to step (a); and j . contacting said volatile cobalt compounds from step (b) with said olefinic feedstock, whereby said volatile cobalt compounds are absorbed into said olefinic feedstock.
17. The method according to claim 16 wherein said organic acid is selected from the group consisting of: formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, and other acids having a boiling point approximately the same as water such that appreciable values of acid can be recovered in step (f) .
18. The method according to claim 17 wherein said organic acid is formic acid and the resultant cobaltous salt is cobalt formate.
19. The method according to claim 16 wherein said concentrating step (f) occurs in either a flash unit or evaporator.
20. The method according to claim 16 wherein said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl in the presence of a noble metal catalyst disposed within said preformer reactor. 


 PCI7US93/05008
27
21. The method according to claim 20 wherein said noble metal catalyst is gold, platinum or palladium.
22. The method according to claim 21 wherein said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl by contacting of phases at a pressure in the range between about 103 bar to about 310 bar and a temperature in the range between about 100째C to about 150째C.
23. The method according to claims 16 wherein said organic hydroformylation reaction products from step (d) are subjected to a water wash treatment to remove residual cobalt values remaining therein prior to further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation.
24. The method according to claim 23 wherein wash water from said water wash treatment is recycled to step (a).
25. The method according to claim 16 wherein the crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction is prepared from olefins having carbon numbers in the range between about C7 to about C2o-
26. The method according to claim 25 wherein the crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction is prepared from olefins having carbon numbers in the range between about Cg to about C14. 


 28
27. A method for producing higher aldehydes and higher alcohols which comprises: hydroformylating an olefinic feedstock with synthesis gas in the presence of a cobalt-containing catalyst to form a crude product containing higher aldehyde, higher alcohol, secondary products and dissolved cobalt catalysts; removing said cobalt catalysts from said crude product by the following steps: (a) contacting said crude product with a stream of oxygen-containing gas, an organic acid and water thereby producing a substantially cobalt-free organic hydroformylation reaction product and a water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product; (b) separating said substantially cobalt-free crude product from said water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product; (c) diverting said substantially cobalt-free organic hydroformylation reaction product for further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation; (d) concentrating the water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product thereby producing a concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt and a substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid, whereby said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is separated from said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid; (e) recycling said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid to step (a); (f) contacting said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt with an alcohol stream and synthesis gas, and passing this mixture to a preformer reactor where said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl; (g) contacting said cobalt carbonyl with a stream of stripping gas to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping gas and to generate as bottoms alcohol products and 



 PC17US93/05008
29
dissolved cobaltous salts; whereby said entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and the alcohol products and dissolved cobaltous salts are taken out as bottoms; (h) separating said alcohol products produced in step (g) from said dissolved cobaltous salt; (i) recycling said alcohol from step (h) to step (f); (j) recycling said dissolved cobaltous salt from step (h) to step (a); and (k) contacting said volatile cobalt compounds from step (g) with said olefinic feedstock; whereby said volatile cobalt compounds are absorbed into said olefinic feedstock; and recycling said contacted liquid olefinic feedstock from step (k) to said hydroformylation step. 

30
28. A method for producing higher aldehydes and higher alcohols which comprises: hydroformylating an olefinic feedstock with synthesis gas in the presence of a cobalt-containing catalyst to form a crude product containing higher aldehyde, higher alcohol, secondary products and dissolved cobalt catalysts; removing said cobalt catalysts from said crude product by the following steps: (a) contacting said crude product with water and an organic acid; (b) contacting the product of step (a) with a stream of stripping gas to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping gas; whereby said entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and organic hydroformylation reaction products containing water soluble cobaltous salts dissolved therein are taken out as bottoms; (c) separating said water soluble cobaltous salt of step (b) from said organic hydroformylation reaction products; (d) diverting said organic hydroformylation reaction product of step (c) for further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation; (e) contacting said water soluble cobaltous salt of step (c) with a stream of oxygen- containing gas, an organic acid and water thereby producing a water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product; (f) concentrating the water soluble cobaltous salt aqueous product from step (e) thereby producing a concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt and a substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid, whereby said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is separated from said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid; (g) recycling said substantially cobalt-free water containing said organic acid to step (b); (h) contacting said concentrated aqueous solution of 


 31
cobaltous salt with an alcohol stream, an oxonation product and/or a hydrogenation product and synthesis gas, and passing this mixture to a preformer reactor where said concentrated aqueous solution of cobaltous salt is converted to a cobalt carbonyl; (i) recycling the cobalt carbonyl produced in step (h) to step (a); and (j) contacting said volatile cobalt compounds from step (b) with said olefinic feedstock, whereby said volatile cobalt compounds are absorbed into said olefinic feedstock; and recycling said contacted liquid olefinic feedstock from step (j ) to said hydroformylation step. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
