<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629348</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Novel leavening composition
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21D1300	A21D202	A21D802	A21D600	A21D1308	A21D1002	A21D200	A21D600	A21D802	A21D1004	A21D1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21D13	A21D2	A21D8	A21D6	A21D13	A21D10	A21D2	A21D6	A21D8	A21D10	A21D10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed a novel leavening 
composition comprising calcium acid pyrophosphate in 

combination with a carbonate factor, said composition 
exhibiting, in the dough rate of reaction (DRR) test, a 

maximum rate of release of carbon dioxide occurring 
between about 17 to about 40 minutes after initial 

mixing, said maximum rate being at least twice the rate 
observed at the termination of the mixing time of said 

test. The pyrophosphate is particularly useful in 
leavening systems for refrigerated dough in that an 

initial low rate of reaction with the carbonate factor 
is observed after which there is a large increase in 

the rate of reaction without change in temperature. The 
leavening composition is also useful in batters ,dry 

mixes, frozen and refrigerated doughs and refrigerated 
batters. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTARIS LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTARIS LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARD DAVID RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDOLPH BARBARA BUFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARD, DAVID RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDOLPH, BARBARA BUFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to novel leavening
compositions and to systems employing such compositions.
More particularly, the invention relates to calcium acid
pyrophosphate exhibiting unique leavening action as the
acid factor in baking preparations.Various salts of the acids of phosphoric acid,
usually orthophosphoric acid or pyrophosphoric acid are
commonly employed as the acid factor in combination with
a carbonate factor in leavening systems. Because the
calcium and sodium salts exhibit different reaction
profiles, both find use as leavening acids in different
applications. Both sodium and calcium salts have been
widely used as the acid factor in leavening systems.A baking preparation employing one form of
calcium acid pyrophosphate is described in U. S. Patent
990,699 to Brown et al. The calcium salt is obtained by
roasting calcium orthophosphate thereby removing about 2
moles of water from each mole of the orthophosphate.
Calcium acid pyrophosphate prepared in such manner has a
desirable reaction profile for some applications
indicating a rapid rate of reaction. The product is
usually impure having large amounts of other phosphates
including unreacted calcium monophosphate.The use of sodium acid pyrophosphate as an
acid factor in bakery leavening is known but an
undesirable flavor has been observed. Mixing a calcium
acid phosphate salt with sodium acid pyrophosphate has
been found to reduce or eliminate the taste and also
control the evolution of gas after mixing the baking
ingredients. In U. S. 1,834,747 to Stokes et al. there
is described baking powder formulas which contain the
usual sodium bicarbonate together with alkaline earth 
metal phosphates such as mono-calcium phosphate in
admixture with sodium acid pyrophosphate. It is reported
that the mixture results in a slowing of the evolution of
carbon dioxide as compared to sodium acid pyrophosphate
alone thereby allowing a more desirable reaction profile.
With variation in the amounts of the various salts it is
reported that the evolution of gas during leavening can
be controlled to provide varied reaction profiles
depending upon the requirements.The leavening properties of a certain calcium
acid pyrophosphate was recognized in U.S. Patent 1,847,
799 wherein a completely dehydrated, neutral calcium
pyrophosphate was employed as a filler in baking powder
compositions. It was observed therein that calcium
phosphate dried at only one hundred degrees losses its
water only slowly while at higher temperatures all of the
water is removed. Incorporation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A leavening composition comprising a carbonate
factor and calcium acid pyrophosphate which is obtainable by the

reaction of monocalcium phosphate, or monohydrate
thereof, with a molar excess of phosphoric acid,

expressed as H
3
PO
4
, over the calcium ion source, expressed as
calcium oxide, of at least 3 to 1 to 15 to 1 at a

temperature in the range from 180°C to 250°C, said
composition exhibiting, in the dough rate of reaction

(DDR) test at a temperature of 40°C, a maximum rate of
release of carbon dioxide occurring between 17 and 40

minutes after initial mixing, said maximum rate being at
least twice the rate observed at 3 minutes after initial

mixing.
The leavening composition of Claim 1 wherein the
carbonate factor is sodium bicarbonate.
The leavening composition of Claim 1 wherein the
carbonate factor is selected from the group consisting of

potassium bicarbonate, ammonium bicarbonate and
stabilized x-ray amorphous calcium carbonate.
A process for leavening a fresh, refrigerated or frozen
dough product which comprises mixing with flour, water

and shortening a leavening system comprising a carbonate
factor and calcium acid pyrophosphate which is obtainable by the

reaction of monocalcium phosphate, or monohydrate
thereof, with a molar excess of phosphoric acid,

expressed as H
3
PO
4
, over the calcium ion source, expressed as
calcium oxide, of at least 3 to 1 to 15 to 1 at a

temperature in the range from 180°C to 250°C, said system
exibiting, in the dough rate of reaction (DDR) test at a 

temperature of 40°C, a maximum rate of release of carbon
dioxide occurring between 17 and 40 minutes after initial

reaction, said maximum rate being at least twice the rate
observed at 3 minutes after initial mixing.
A process of Claim 4 wherein the carbonate factor is
selected from the group consisting of sodium bicarbonate,

stabilized x-ray amorphous calcium carbonate, ammonium
bicarbonate and potassium bicarbonate.
The process of Claim 4 wherein the carbonate factor
is sodium bicarbonate.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough product
comprising a mixture of flour, water, shortening, and

leavening system comprising a carbonate factor and a
crystalline calcium acid pyrophosphate which is obtainable by the

reaction of monocalcium phosphate, or monohydrate
thereof, with a molar excess of phosphoric acid,

expressed as H
3
PO
4
, over the calcium ion source, expressed as
calcium oxide, of at least 3 to 1 to 15 to 1 at a

temperature in the range from 180°C to 250°C. 
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough product of
Claim 7 wherein the carbonate factor is sodium

bicarbonate.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough product of
Claim 8 wherein the carbonate factor is selected from the

group consisting of potassium bicarbonate, ammonium
bicarbonate and stabilized, x-ray amorphous calcium

carbonate.
A refrigerated dough of Claim 9 selected from the
group consisting of cake dough, biscuit dough, and pizza

dough.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen batter product
comprising a mixture of flour, a suitable liquid,

shortening, and a leavening system comprising a
carbonate factor and a crystalline calcium acid

pyrophosphate which is obtainable by the reaction of monocalcium
phosphate, or monohydrate thereof, with a molar excess of

phosphoric acid, expressed as H
3
PO
4
, over the calcium ion
source, expressed as calcium oxide, of at least 3 to 1 to

15 to 1 at a temperature in the range from 180°C to
250°C.
A batter product of Claim 11 comprising a frozen
batter selected from the group consisting of pancake,

cake and biscuit batters. 
A fresh or refrigerated dry mix product comprising a
mixture of flour, shortening, and leavening system

comprising a carbonate factor and a crystalline calcium
acid pyrophosphate which is obtainable by the reaction of

monocalcium phosphate, or monohydrate thereof, with a
molar excess of phosphoric acid, expressed as H
3
PO
4
, over the
calcium ion source, expressed as calcium oxide, of at

least 3 to 1 to 15 to 1 at a temperature in the range
from 180°C to 250°C.
A leavened baked good wherein the leavening system

comprised a carbonate factor and calcium acid
pyrophosphate which is obtainable by the reaction of monocalcium

phosphate, or monohydrate thereof, with a molar excess of
phosphoric acid, expressed as H
3
PO
4
, over the calcium ion
source, expressed as calcium oxide, of at least 3 to 1 to

15 to 1 at a temperature in the range from 180°C to
250°C, said system exhibiting in the dough rate of

reaction (DDR) test at a temperature of 40°C, a maximum
rate of release of carbon dioxide occurring between 17 to

40 minutes after initial reaction, said maximum rate
being at least twice the rate observed at 3 minutes after

intial mixing.
A leavened baked good of Claim 14 selected from the
group consisting of cakes, pancakes, hush puppies,

cookies, waffles, pizza, muffins, crackers and biscuits.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
