<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646828</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROJECTION TYPE DISPLAY DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N931	G03B3300	G03B2120	G03B2120	H04N574	H04N931	H04N574	G03B3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G03B	G03B	G03B	H04N	H04N	H04N	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	G03B33	G03B21	G03B21	H04N5	H04N9	H04N5	G03B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A projection type display device (1) comprises an illumination optical system (2A), a color separation system 
(4) for separating white light (W) entering from the optical system (2A) into color beams (R, G, B); three liquid 

crystal panels (5R, 5G, 5B) for modulating the respective color beams; a waveguide system (9) disposed on the optical 
path of the beam (G), which is the longest of all the paths of the separated beams that enter the three light valves; 

a dichroic prism (6) for combining the beams modulated through the liquid crystal panels; and a projection lens (7) 
for projecting the combined light on a screen (8). The illumination optical system (2A) is quipped with a uniform 

illumination optical device (3) which converts white light to a uniform rectangular beam. The dichroic prism as an 
optical element having symmetry of rotation with respect to the axis of the projection optical system is used for 

the color synthesis system, and the uniform illumination optical device for suppressing the unevenness in color and 
illuminance is assembled in the illumination optical system. Accordingly, the display device has high illumination 

efficiency with less unevenness in color and illuminance. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a projection-type display apparatus which separates
a white beam from a light source into beams of three colors, red, blue and green, modulates
these beams through light valves according to image information, and re-synthesizes and
projects the modulated beams under magnification onto a screen through a projection lens.A projection-type display apparatus is comprised of a light source lamp, a color
separating means for separating a white beam from the light source lamp into beams of
three colors, three light valves for modulating the separated color beams, a color
synthesizing means for synthesizing the modulated beams again, and a projection lens for
magnifying and displaying a light image obtained by the synthesis onto a screen. As light
valves, liquid crystal panels are generally used.A conventional projection-type display apparatus having such structure in which a
uniform illumination optical device referred to as an optical integrator is incorporated in a
light source thereof is well known. For example, U. S. Patent No. 5,098,184 discloses a
projection-type display apparatus having such optical integrator incorporated therein. This
patent publication also discloses a color synthesizing means consisting of dichroic mirrors
arranged in the shape of X. An ordinary color synthesizing means is constituted by dichroic
mirrors each of which has a dielectric multilayer film on a glass plate.Such projection-type display apparatus provided with a mirror composite system in 
which a color synthesizing means is constituted by dichroic mirrors has the following
disadvantage. Each dichroic mirror is an optical element which is rotationally asymmetrical
about the center axis of a projection lens. Therefore, astigmatism arises in an image on the
screen, and Modulation Transfer Function (MTF) representing the transfer characteristic of
a projection optical system is lowered. As a result, the image is blurred and sharpness
thereof is reduced. In a case in which the size of a liquid crystal panel is large relative to
the number of pixels, in other words, when the pixel pitch is large, the lowering of the MTF
does not cause such a large problem. However, when the pixel pitch is small, for example,
as in a liquid crystal panel using a polysilicon TFT as a switching device, such lowering
cannot be ignored.Furthermore, a conventional projection-type display apparatus having a prism
composite system in which a color synthesizing means consists of a dichroic prism is well
known. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A projector (1) comprising a light source (2), color separating means (4) for
separating a light beam (W) emitted from said light source (2) into beams (R,G,B) of three

colors, three light valves (5R, 5G, 5B) for modulating said separated color beams (R, G,
B), a uniform illumination optical means (3) interposed on an optical path between said light

source (2) and said color separating means (4) so as to convert said light beam (W) from
said light source (2) into a plurality of rectangular beams and to output each of said

rectangular beams towards said color separating means, light guide means (9) located on an
optical path of one color beam (G) having the longest optical path length among said color

beams separated by said color separating means (4) and respectively incident on said three
light valves (5R, 5G, 5B), color synthesizing means (6) for synthesizing said color beams

(R, G, B) modulated through said light valves (5R, 5G, 5B), and a projection lens (7) for
projecting said synthesized and modulated beam onto a screen (8), 
characterised in that
,

   three condenser lenses (101, 102, 103) are located respectively in outputting portions
of said color separating means (4) for outputting said color light beams to convert said

beams output from said uniform illumination optical means (3) into almost collimated
beams,

   wherein each of said plurality of said rectangular beams converted by said uniform
illumination optical means (3) is superimposed to said light valves (5R, 5G, 5B) through

said three condenser lenses (101, 102, 103) and

   wherein said light guide means (9) is provided with an incident side triangular prism
(901) located on the incident side for folding an optical path at a right angle, an output side

triangular prism (902) located on the output side for folding the optical path at a right angle,
and a light guide member (903) located between said triangular prisms (901, 902).
A projector according to claim 1, wherein said light guide member (903) is a
quadratic prism. 
A projector according to claim 2, wherein interfaces of said triangular prisms (901,
902) and said quadratic prism (903) are covered with an anti-reflective coating.
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a total reflection surface
of each of said triangular prisms (901, 902) is coated with a metal film.
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a total reflection plane of
each of said triangular prisms (901, 902) is coated with a dielectric multilayer film.
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said light valves (5R,
5G, 5B) are liquid crystal panels, and a pixel pitch of each of said liquid crystal panels is

less than approximately 50µm.
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said uniform illumination
optical means (3) has at least one lens plate (31) consisting of a plurality of lenses (301)

arranged in a plane perpendicular to a chief axis (la) of said light (W) emitted from said
light source (2), and the split number of said lens plate in one direction is between

approximately 3 to approximately 7.
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein a color beam to be
passed through said light guide means (9) is either a green beam or a blue beam.
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said uniform illumination
optical means (3) is constituted by a first lens plate (31), a second lens plate (32) and a

reflecting mirror (33) interposed between said lens plates (31, 32). 
A projector according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein there is provided
polarized beam conversion means (11) located between said light source (2) and said

uniform illumination optical means (3), and said polarized beam conversion means (11) is
constituted by a polarized beam separating element (111) for separating a random polarized

beam (114) from said light source (2) into two direct polarized beams of P (115) and S
(116), and a polarization plane rotating element (113) for rotating a polarization plane of

one of said two separated and polarized beams (115, 116) at an angle of 90° so as to
coincide with that of the other direct polarized beam.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
