<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631468</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MILKING SYSTEM WITH VARIABLE PRESSURE SOURCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J5007	A01J516	A01J5007	A01J500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01J	A01J	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01J5	A01J5	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOU MATIC TECHNOLOGIES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOU-MATIC TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PULVERMACHER RONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON PAUL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PULVERMACHER, RONALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, PAUL, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and apparatus
for milking mammals, including cows.Milking systems withdraw milk from the milk
secreting glands of mammals by applying negative pressure
(pressure below atmospheric pressure), i.e. vacuum, to
the teat. A plurality of teat cups are provided, each
having a liner, or inflation, around a respective teat,
and defining a milk flow passage within the liner below
the teat, and a pulsation chamber outside the liner
between the liner and the teat cup. The milk flow passage
within the liner supplies milk to a milking claw
which also receives milk from the milk flow passages of
the other liners of the other teat cups.Simply supplying a constant vacuum to the
teat is not desirable because it causes the tissue of the
teat to become engorged with blood and lymph. When these
fluids are confined to their normal spaces within the
teat, the condition is called congestion. When the
fluids leave their normal spaces, it is called oedema.
These conditions may result in pain or discomfort to the
mammal being milked, and swelling of the tissue which may
constrict the duct through which milk is being withdrawn,
thereby slowing the flow of milk. The slowing of milk
flow due to the effects of congestion may be accompanied
by a reduced volume of milk available for removal because
the discomfort may interfere with the milk ejection
reflex by which the mammal presents her milk to the teat.Various attempts have been made to ameliorate
the undesirable effects of vacuum on the teat by carefully
shaping the teat cup and liner to support the teat as
well as possible, and by periodically relieving the
vacuum to the teat. The liner periodically collapses
around and below the teat, providing massage to the teat.
The massage compresses the end of the teat, thereby
actively forcing fluids out of the teat apex. The massaging 
action of the liner also provides stimulation to
the teat whereby the milk ejection reflex is strengthened.
In some cases, the milk ejection reflex may be
elicited solely by the action of the pulsating liner.
The pulsation cycle has an on portion and an off portion.
Milk is withdrawn from the teat through the liner to the
claw during the on portion. During the off portion, the
closed liner stops milk flow from the teat.In the prior art, a two-way valve, or pulsator,
alternates between a first condition connecting a
negative pressure source, i.e. vacuum, to the pulsation
chamber, and a second condition supplying atmospheric or
higher pressure to the pulsation chamber. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for milking a mammal, comprising:

providing a teat cup (12,14) having a liner (24,26) for location around a
teat of a mammal;
defining a milk flow passage within said liner and a pulsation chamber
(32,34) between said liner and said teat cup;
applying a negative pressure below atmospheric pressure to said milk
flow passage;
supplying a negative pressure to said pulsation chamber during an on
portion of a pulsation cycle;
supplying a higher pressure to said pulsation chamber during an off
portion of said pulsation cycle;

characterised by the use of a variable pressure source for controllably
varying the rate of pressure change in said pulsation chamber without using a

two-way valve pulsator.
A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising varying the rate of pressure
change in said pulsation chamber, during the transition from at least one of said

on and off portions of said pulsation cycle to the other of said on and off portions
of said pulsation cycle.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 comprising varying the
pressure supplied to said pulsation chamber (32,34) along a controllably variable

pressure curve of selectable waveshape.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a negative
pressure source (48) commonly supplies said negative pressure applied to said

milk flow passage (28,30) and said negative pressure applied to said pulsation
chamber (32,34). 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising controllably
varying the pressure applied to said pulsation chamber during said on portion of

said pulsation cycle.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising abruptly
changing the pressure at the beginning of said transition, and then varying the

pressure at a slower rate of change, all during said transition.
A method as claimed in claim 6 comprising abruptly changing the
pressure at the end of said transition following said slower rate of pressure

change, so as to provide a first abrupt pressure change followed by a slower rate
of pressure change followed by a second abrupt pressure change, all during said

transition.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising abruptly
changing the pressure applied to said pulsation chamber at a rate sufficiently fast

that the transition time between said on and off portions of said pulsation cycle is
limited only by the desired rate of movement of said liner between open and

closed conditions.
A method as claimed in claim 8 comprising changing the pressure

applied to said pulsation chamber at a rate generating the maximum desired rate
of movement of said liner.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising alternately,
repeatedly increasing and decreasing the pressure applied to said pulsation

chamber (32,34) during said off portion of said pulsation cycle.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim further comprising
alternately, repeatedly increasing and decreasing the pressure applied to said

pulsation chamber during said on portion of said pulsation cycle. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein a pulsation cycle
is provided by applying a first pressure level to said pulsation chamber (32,34) to

open said liner (24,26) below the teat during the on portion of said pulsation
cycle, and applying a second pressure level, higher than said first pressure level,

to said pulsation chamber to collapse and close said liner below the teat during
the off portion of said pulsation cycle.
A method as claimed in claim 12 comprising a plurality of pulsation
cycles which provide a milking interval, wherein the pressure change transition

time from said second pressure level to said first pressure level during pulsation
cycles at the end of said milking interval is lengthened to provide a decreasing-pressure

transition time during pulsation cycles at the end of said milking
interval which is longer than the decreasing-pressure transition time during

pulsation cycles in the middle of said milking interval, to provide a slower rate of
liner opening movement during pulsation cycles at the end of said milking

interval than the rate of liner opening movement during pulsation cycles in the
middle of said milking interval, to open said liner more slowly at the end of said

milking interval than during the middle of said milking interval, for limiting loss
of adhesion between a less than full teat and the interior of said liner at the end of

said milking interval.
A method as claimed in claim 12 comprising a plurality of pulsation
cycles which provide a milking interval wherein the pressure change transition

time from said second pressure level to said first pressure level during pulsation
cycles at the beginning of said milking interval is shortened to provide a

decreasing-pressure transition time during pulsation cycles at the beginning of
said milking interval which is shorter than the decreasing-pressure transition time

during pulsation cycles in the middle of said milking interval, to provide a faster
rate of liner opening movement during pulsation cycles at the beginning of said

milking interval than the rate of liner opening movement during pulsation cycles 
in the middle of said milking interval, for opening said liner more rapidly at the

beginning of said milking interval than during the middle of said milking interval
so as to provide deeper teat penetration into the liner, at the beginning of said

milking interval.
A method as claimed in claim 12 comprising a plurality of pulsation
cycles which provide a milking interval wherein the pressure change transition

time from said second level to said first level is varied to provide a first
decreasing-pressure transition time from said second level to said first level

during pulsation cycles at the beginning of said milking interval, a second
decreasing-pressure transition time from said second level to said first level

during pulsation cycles in the middle of said milking interval, and a third
decreasing-pressure transition time from said second level to said first level

during pulsation cycles at the end of said milking interval, wherein said first
transition time is less than said second transition time, and said third transition

time is greater than said second transition time.
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 11 comprising a plurality of
pulsation cycles which provide a milking interval wherein the pressure applied to

said pulsation chamber during on portions of pulsation cycles at the end of said
milking interval to open said liner is less at the end of said milking interval than

during the middle of said milking interval, for limiting loss of adhesion between
a less than full teat and the interior of said liner at the end of said milking

interval.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 comprising a plurality
of pulsation cycles which provide a milking interval wherein the pressure applied

to said pulsation chamber during on portions of pulsation cycles at the beginning
of said milking interval to open said liner is more at the beginning of said

milking interval than during the middle of said milking interval, for providing
deeper teat penetration into the liner, at the beginning of said milking interval. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 comprising a plurality
of pulsation cycles which provide a milking interval wherein the pressure applied

to said pulsation chamber during on portions of pulsation cycles during said
milking interval opens said liner to a first diameter at the beginning of said

milking interval, and to a second diameter during the middle of said milking
interval, and to a third diameter at the end of said milking interval, said first

diameter being greater than said second diameter, and said second diameter
being greater than said third diameter.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 comprising
terminating said on portion of said pulsation cycle and initiating said off portion

of said pulsation cycle in response to a decrease in milk flow rate.
A method as claimed in claim 3, comprising controllably varying the
repetition rate to provide a plurality of pulsation cycles of variable duration.
The method according to claim 19 comprising varying said waveshape
from cycle to cycle.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 15 comprising varying
the pressure supplied to said pulsation chamber in response to a given parameter.
The method according to claim 22, wherein said given parameter is
time.
The method according to claim 22, wherein said given parameter is
milk flow rate.
Milking apparatus for milking a mammal, comprising: 

a teat cup (12,14) having a liner (24,26) for location around a teat of a
mammal;
a milk flow passage within said liner, and a pulsation chamber
(32,34) located between said liner and said teat cup;
a negative pressure source (48) for applying a negative pressure below
atmospheric pressure to said milk flow passage; and
a variable pressure source (82) for supplying a negative pressure to said
pulsation chamber during an on portion of a pulsation cycle to open said liner

below the teat and a higher pressure to said pulsation chamber during an off
portion of said pulsation cycle to close said liner below the teat,

characterised in that the variable pressure source is arranged to
controllably vary the rate of pressure change applied to said pulsation chamber

without a two-way valve pulsator.
The apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said variable pressure
source is arranged to contrallably vary the rate of pressure change applied to said

pulsation chamber during the transition from at least one of said on and off
portions of said pulsation cycle to the other of said on and off portions of said

pulsation cycle.
The apparatus according to claim 25 or 26, wherein said variable
pressure source is arranged to vary the pressure supplied to said pulsation

chamber along a controllably variable pressure curve of selectable waveshape.
The apparatus according to any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein said
variable pressure source is arranged to provide an abrupt pressure change at the

beginning of said transition, followed by a slower rate of pressure change.
The apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said variable pressure
source is arranged to provide an abrupt pressure change at the end of said

transition following said slower rate of pressure change, such that said variable 
pressure source provides a first abrupt pressure change followed by a slower rate

of pressure change followed by a second abrupt pressure change, during said
transition.
The apparatus according to any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein said
variable pressure source is arranged to abruptly change the pressure applied to

said pulsation chamber at a rate sufficiently fast that the transition time between
said on and off portions of said pulsation cycle is limited primarily by the desired

rate of movement of said liner between open and closed conditions.
The apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said variable pressure
source is arranged to vary the pressure supplied to said pulsation chamber at a

controllably variable repetition rate, to provide a plurality of pulsation cycles of
variable duration.
The apparatus according to claim 31, wherein said variable pressure
source is arranged to vary said waveshape from cycle to cycle.
The apparatus according to any one of claims 25, 26, 27, 28 to 30,
wherein said variable pressure source is arranged to supply pressure to said

pulsation chamber in response to a given parameter.
The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein said given parameter is
time.
The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein said given parameter is
milk flow rate.
The apparatus according to any one of claims 25 to 35, wherein said
variable pressure source comprises a pressure transducer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
