<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616508</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAS FILLED LIPOSOMES AND THEIR USE AS ULTRASONIC CONTRAST AGENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4900	A61K9127	A61K4100	A61K4918	B01J1302	A61K4922	A61K4906	A61K4748	A61K4922	B01J1302	A61K4100	A61K4748	A61K9127	A61K4900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	B01J	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	B01J	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K49	A61K9	A61K41	A61K49	B01J13	A61K49	A61K49	A61K47	A61K49	B01J13	A61K41	A61K47	A61K9	A61K49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Contrast agents for ultrasonic imaging comprising gas filled liposomes prepared using vacuum drying gas instillation methods, and gas filled liposomes substantially devoid of liquid in the interior thereof, are described. Methods of and apparatus (1-19) for preparing such liposomes and methods for employing such liposomes in ultrasonic imaging applications are also disclosed. Also described are diagnostic kits for ultrasonic imaging which include the subject contrast agents.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMARX PHARMACEUTICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMARX PHARMACEUTICAL CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER EVAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU GUANLI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER, EVAN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU, GUANLI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of ultrasonic
imaging and, more specifically, to gas filled liposomes
prepared using vacuum drying gas instillation methods,
and to gas filled liposomes substantially devoid of liquid
in the interior thereof. The invention also relates to methods
of preparing such liposomes and to methods for employing
such liposomes in ultrasonic imaging applications.There are a variety of imaging techniques
which have been used to detect and diagnose disease
in animals and humans. One of the first techniques used
for diagnostic imaging was X-rays. The images obtained
through this technique reflect the electron density of the
object being imaged. Contrast agents such as barium
or iodine have been used over the years to attenuate or
block X-rays such that the contrast between various
structures is increased. For example, barium is used for
gastrointestinal studies to define the bowel lumen and
visualize the mucosal surfaces of the bowel. Iodinated
contrast media is used intravascularly to visualize the
arteries in an X-ray process called angiography. X-rays,
however, are known to be somewhat dangerous, since
the radiation employed in X-rays is ionizing, and the various
deleterious effects of ionizing radiation are cumulative.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is another
important imaging technique, however this technique
has various drawbacks such as expense and the fact
that it cannot be conducted as a portable examination.
In addition, MRI is not available at many medical centers.Radionuclides, employed in nuclear medicine,
provide a further imaging technique. In employing this
technique, radionuclides such as technetium labelled
compounds are injected into the patient, and images are
obtained from gamma cameras. Nuclear medicine techniques,
however, suffer from poor spatial resolution and
expose the animal or patient to the deleterious effects
of radiation. Furthermore, there is a problem with the
handling and disposal of radionuclides.Ultrasound, a still further diagnostic imaging
technique, is unlike nuclear medicine and X-rays in that
it does not expose the patient to the harmful effects of
ionizing radiation. Moreover, unlike magnetic resonance
imaging, ultrasound is relatively inexpensive and can be
conducted as a portable examination. In using the ultrasound
technique, sound is transmitted into a patient or
animal via a transducer. When the sound waves propagate
through the body, they encounter interfaces from
tissues and fluids. Depending on the acoustic properties
of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A contrast agent for ultrasonic imaging comprising
gas filled liposomes in an aqueous carrier that are

at least 90% devoid of liquid in the interior thereof.
A contrast agent according to claim 1, wherein the
gas filled liposomes are obtainable by a vacuum

drying gas instillation method.
A contrast agent of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said
liposomes are comprised of lipid materials selected

from the group consisting of fatty acids, lysolipids,
dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylcholine,

phosphatidic acid, cholesterol, cholesterol
hemisuccinate, tocopherol hemisuccinate, phosphatidylethanolamine,

phosphatidylinositol, lysolipids,
sphingomyelin, glycosphingolipids, glucolipids,

glycolipids, sulphatides, lipids with ether and ester-linked
fatty acids, and polymerized lipids.
A contrast agent of claim 3 wherein said liposomes
are comprised of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine.
A contrast agent of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said
liposomes are filled with a gas selected from the

group consisting of air, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, oxygen,
argon, xenon, helium and neon.
A contrast agent of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said
liposomes have a stability of greater than three

weeks.
A contrast agent of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said
liposomes have a reflectivity of greater than 2 dB.
A contrast agent of claim 7 wherein said liposomes
have a reflectivity of between 2 dB and 20 dB.
A method of preparing a composition comprising
gas filled liposomes in an aqueous carrier for use in

contrast agents for ultrasonic imaging, comprising
the following steps:


(i) placing liposomes under negative pressure;
(ii) incubating said liposomes under said negative
pressure for a time sufficient to remove at

least 90% of the liquid from the interior of said
liposomes; and
(iii) instilling gas into said liposomes until ambient
pressures are achieved

   wherein said liposomes are suspended in
aqueous carrier. 
A method of claim 9 further comprising allowing said
liposomes to cool prior to and during step (i) to a

temperature between -10°C and -20°C, allowing
said liposomes to warm during step (ii) to a temperature

between 10°C and 20°C, and allowing said
liposomes to warm during step (iii) to ambient temperatures.
A method of claim 9 or claim 10 wherein said negative
pressure is between 93 kPa (700 mmHg) and

101 kPa (760 mm Hg) and is applied for 24 to 72

hours.
A method of claim 9, 10 or 11 where said gas is instilled
into said liposomes over a period of 4 to 8

hours.
A method of claims 9 to 12 further comprising, after
step (iii), extruding said liposomes through at least

one filter of a selected pore size.
A method of claim 9 to 13 where said gas is selected
from the group consisting of air, nitrogen, carbon dioxide,

oxygen, argon, xenon, neon, and helium.
A kit for ultrasonic imaging comprising gas filled liposomes
which, when suspended in an aqueous

carrier, are at least 90% devoid of liquid in the interior
thereof.
A kit for ultrasonic imaging according to claim 15,
wherein said gas filled liposomes are obtainable by

a vacuum drying gas instillation method.
A kit according to claim 15 or claim 16 further comprising
conventional ultrasonic imaging components.
Use of a contrast agent according to any one of
claims 1 to 8 in the preparation of a composition for

use in ultrasonic imaging of an internal bodily region
of a patient by administration of the composition to

the patient and scanning of the patient in order to
obtain visible images of the region.
Use according to claim 18 for the diagnosis of the
presence of diseased tissue.
Use according to claim 18 or 19, wherein the patient
is scanned in the area of the patient's right heart.
Use according to claim 18 or 19, wherein the patient
is scanned in the area of the patient's left heart.
A composition comprising, in an aqueous carrier, a
gas filled liposome at least 90% devoid of liquid in

the interior thereof.
A composition according to claim 22 wherein said
gas filled liposome is obtainable by a vacuum drying

gas instillation method.
A composition according to claim 22 or 23, wherein
said liposome comprises polymerized lipids.
A composition according to claim 22 or 23, further
comprising polyethylene glycol. 
A composition according to claim 22 or 23, wherein said liposome
comprises a lipid-bearing carbohydrate material for 
in vivo
 targeting.
A composition according to claim 22 or 23, wherein said liposome is stable
in changes in pressure.
A composition according to claim 22 or 23, wherein said liposome
comprises a lipid selected from the group consisting of fatty acids, lysolipids,

dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidic acid,
sphingomyelin, cholesterol, cholesterol hemisuccinate, tocopherol hemisuccinate,

phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol, lysolipids, glycosphingolipids,
glucolipids, glycolipids, sulphatides, lipids with ether and ester-linked fatty acids,

polymerized lipids, diacetyl phosphate, stearylamine,
distearoylphosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine, cardiolipin, phospholipids with

short chain fatty acids of 6-8 carbons in length, synthetic phospholipids with
asymmetric acyl chains, 6-(5-cholesten-3β-yloxy)-1-thio-β-D-galactopyranoside,

digalactosyldiglyceride,6-(5-cholesten-3β-yloxy)hexyl-6-amino-6-deoxy-1-thio-β-D-galactopyranoside,6(5-cholesten-3β-yloxy)hexyl-6-amino-6-deoxyl-1-thio-α-D-mannopyranoside,
dibehenoylphosphatidylcholine. dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine,

dilauroylphosphatidylcholine, and dioleoylphosphatidylcholine, and combinations
thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
