<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647489</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for the removal of material adhering to the surfaces of foundry sand grains
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B02C1500	B02C1504	B02C1506	B22C500	B22C504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B02C	B02C	B02C	B22C	B22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B02C15	B02C15	B02C15	B22C5	B22C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for removing adhering material from sand surfaces is 
provided. The device includes a rotary box (5), driving means (20) for 

rotating the rotary box, and movable means (8) having a movable surface 
(15). The rotary box includes a circular bottom plate (5A), a 

circumferential, inclined wall (5B), and a ring portion (5C). The movable 
surface (15) is substantially parallel to and spaced apart from the inclined 

wall (5B) of the rotary box. As the sand is centrifuged by the rotary box, a 
sand layer S is formed along the inclined wall. The sand layer, the 

thickness of which is greater than distance between the movable surface 
(15) and the inclined wall (5B), moves around with the rotary box and 

come between the surface (15) and the wall (5B) to thereby impart to the 
sand compressive and shearing forces to effectively remove the adhering 

material. The processed sand then overflows the ring portion (5C) of the 
rotary box. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device for the removal of material
adhering to the surfaces of sand, such as foundry or
molding sand, etc.Conventionally, a device for cleaning adhering material off
of sand surfaces is used in some technical fields. For example,
in the field of producing molds by using molding sand, a
device that removes foreign material from the sand grain surfaces
to reuse the molding sand is disclosed in the publication
JP(Y)61-35,328. To reuse the sand after it is once used,
this device removes or separates the foreign material from
the sand surfaces by feeding the used sand to an impeller to
thereby throw it against a wall. However, since the impact
given to the sand is so strong in this method, the sand tends
to break and become fine or smaller. This causes a drawback
in that the amount of necessary binding material to be added
to the molding sand increases when it is reused. From EP 0 096 852 A1, a roller mill with a vertical axis of
rotation and having a frustoconical dish and a correspondingly
shaped frustoconical roller for the grinding of coal
particles is known. The dish's inclined outer side wall does
not have a ring portion which extends inwardly from the top
of the inclined sidewall. The use of such a roller mill for
the removal of material adhering to the surface of sand
grains would result in the grinding of the sand grains. The
same is the case with the above-mentioned device using an impeller
throwing the grains against a wall with sufficient momentum
as this breaks the grains to smaller sizes. The purpose of the invention as defined in the appended
claims is to provide a new device for removing foreign material
that adheres to sand surfaces while maintaining the
original grain size of the sand.When the sand in the rotary box
according to the invention
is centrifuged and circumferentially
deposited on the circumferential and inclined wall
of the rotary box, a sand layer is formed on the wall due to
the inwardly inclined ring portion. As the box continues to
rotate, the sand layer deposited on the inclined wall becomes
progressively thicker and then contacts the movable surface,
thereby causing the movable surface to rotate in the same direction
as that of the rotary box. The sand to be processed
is pressed between the movable surface and the inclined wall, 
and it is subjected to a shearing force as well as a compressive
force. By the shearing force the foreign material is removed
from the surfaces of the sand. The processed sand then
overflows, and drops from, the ring
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for the removal of material adhering to the
surfaces of foundry sand grains, comprising


a rotary box (5) rotatable about a vertical axis of
rotation thereof to centrifuge the sand to be processed in the

box, the rotary box including

a circular bottom plate (5A), and
a circumferential and inclined sidewall (5B)
extending from the circular end of the bottom plate

in an upward and outward direction,
driving means (20) for rotating the rotary box (5) about
said axis of rotation; and
a movable means (8) having a movable surface (15), the
movable surface being substantially parallel to and spaced

apart from the circumferential and inclined sidewall (5B) of
the rotary box, the movable surface being rotatable about an

axis (11) of rotation by a layer of the sand grains that has
accumulated on the inclined sidewall (5B),

wherein the rotary box (5) includes a ring portion (5C)
which extends inwardly from the top of the inclined sidewall

(5B).
The device of claim 1, the device having a housing (1),
wherein the rotary box (5) and the movable means (8) are mounted on the

housing, and wherein above the rotary box (5) a chute (3) for feeding sand
to be processed into the rotary box is mounted on the housing.
The device of claim 2, wherein a port (7) for
discharging the sand processed by the rotary box is disposed at a lower

part of the housing.
The device of claim 1, wherein the movable means (8)
include a plurality of rollers (9) rotatable about axes substantially parallel

to the inclined wall (5B) of the rotary box.
The device of claim 1, wherein the movable means (8)
include a plurality of rollers (9) rotatable about vertical axes each roller

having an inclined movable surface (15) substantially parallel to the
inclined wall (5B) of the rotary box. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the distance between
the inclined wall (5B) and the movable surface (15) is adjustable.
The device of claim 6, wherein the device further
comprises a position-adjusting means (30) for moving the movable means

(8) in a direction to and away from the inclined wall (5B), thereby
adjusting the distance.
The device of claim 6, wherein the driving means (20)
include a motor (21), the load ampere of the motor being monitorable, and

wherein the distance is adjusted according to the load ampere of the motor.
The device of claim 1, wherein the device further
comprises means (50) for pressing the movable surface (15) toward the

inclined wall (5B) of the rotary box at a predetermined pressure. 
The device of any of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that
the device further includes a chute means (3) for feeding sand

to be processed into said rotary box (5), and that said movable
means (8) is mounted on said chute means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
