<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dense oxide coatings by thermal spraying.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B716	B05B720	C23C410	C23C410	C23C412	C23C412	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B7	B05B7	C23C4	C23C4	C23C4	C23C4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal spray gun (10) includes a nozzle member with an axial 
conduit (34) that conveys a powder stream of heat fusible oxide 

ceramic in a carrier gas. The conduit (34) terminates at the nozzle 
face in a plurality of radially divergent orifices (65). A gas cap (14) 

extends from the nozzle member and defines a combustion chamber (82). 
An annular flow of a combustible mixture is injected from the 

nozzle member coaxially into the combustion chamber (82). Air is 
injected adjacently to the gas cap wall so that a spray stream 

containing the ceramic is propelled through the open end, 
preferably supersonic. An aluminum oxide coating sprayed thereby 

should comprise substantial alpha phase and have good dielectric 
breakdown strength. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERKIN ELMER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PERKIN-ELMER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANELLA EDWARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERCURIO JOSEPH P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANELLA, EDWARD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERCURIO, JOSEPH P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the thermal spraying of oxide ceramics, 
particularly to a method and an apparatus for producing dense and 
tenacious coatings of oxide ceramics, and more particularly to 
coatings of aluminum oxide useful for electrical insulation. Thermal spraying, also known as flame spraying, involves the 
melting or at least heat softening of a heat fusible material 
such as metal or ceramic, and propelling the softened material in 
particulate form against a surface which is to be coated. The 
heated particles strike the surface where they are quenched and 
bonded thereto. A thermal spray gun such as described in U.S. 
Patent No. 3,111,267 (Shepard et al) is used for the purpose of 
heating and propelling the particles. In this type of thermal 
spray gun, the heat fusible material such as a metal or oxide is 
supplied to the gun in powder form. Such powders are comprised 
typically of small particles, e.g., between 100 mesh U. S. 
Standard screen size (149 microns) and about 2 microns. Heat for 
powder spraying is generally from a combustion flame or an arc-generated 
plasma flame. The carrier gas, which entrains and 
transports the powder, may be one of the combustion gases or an 
inert gas such as nitrogen, or it simply may be compressed air. Quality coatings of many thermal spray materials have been 
produced by spraying at high velocity. Plasma spraying has been 
a successful high velocity process in many respects but it can 
suffer from non-uniform heating and/or poor particle entrainment 
which results from feeding powder laterally into the high 
velocity plasma stream. Rocket types of powder spray guns recently became practical, one 
example being described in U.S. Patent No. 4,416,421 (Browning).  This type of gun has an internal combustion chamber with a high 
pressure combustion effluent directed through a long nozzle or 
open channel. Powder is fed into the nozzle chamber to be heated 
and propelled by the combustion effluent. A short-nozzle spray device is disclosed for high velocity 
spraying in U.S. Patent No. 4,865,252 (Rotolico et al). Powder 
is fed axially into a combustion chamber within an annular flow 
of combustion gas. An annular air flow is injected coaxially 
outside of the combustion gas flow, along the wall of the 
chamber. The spray stream with the heated powder issues from the 
open end of the combustion chamber. In the device of the Rotolico Patent, an additional annular inner 
flow of pressurized air is injected from the nozzle into the 
combustion chamber
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal spray gun for useful spraying oxide ceramic powder 
to produce a dense and tenacious ceramic coating, comprising: 

a nozzle member with a nozzle face and an axial conduit adapted 
to convey a powder stream of heat fusible powder in a carrier 

gas, the axial conduit terminating at the nozzle face in a 
plurality of radially divergent orifices; 

a gas cap extending from the nozzle member and having an inwardly 
facing cylindrical wall defining a combustion chamber with an 

open end and an opposite end bounded by the nozzle face, the 
combustion chamber being receptive of the powder stream from the 

divergent orifices; 
combustible gas means for injecting an annular flow of a 

combustible mixture of a combustion gas and oxygen from the 
nozzle member coaxially into the combustion chamber proximate and 

radially outward of the powder stream issuing from the divergent 
orifices so that, with a combusting of the combustible mixture, 

the powder stream mixes directly into the combusting mixture; and 
outer gas means for injecting an annular outer flow of 

pressurized non-combustible gas adjacent to the cylindrical wall 
radially outward of the annular flow of the combustible mixture, 

 
whereby a spray stream containing the ceramic is propelled 

through the open end. 
The thermal spray gun of claim 1 wherein the divergent 
orifices diverge at an angle with the axis between 10째 and 30째. 
The thermal spray gun of claim 1 wherein the plurality of 
radial divergent orifices is in a range of 2 to 8 in number. 
The thermal spray gun of claim 1 wherein the combustible gas 
means is adapted to inject the annular flow of combustible 

mixture at a pressure in the combustion chamber of at least two 
bar above atmospheric pressure such that the spray stream is 

sonic or supersonic. 
The thermal spray gun of claim 1 wherein the combustion 
chamber converges forwardly. 
The thermal spray gun of claim 5 wherein the combustion gas 
means is disposed to inject the annular flow into the combustion 

chamber from a circular location on the nozzle face, the circular 
location having a diameter approximately equal to that of the 

open end. 
The thermal spray gun of claim 6 wherein the open end is 
spaced axially from the nozzle face by a shortest distance of 

between approximately one and two times the diameter of the 
 

circular location. 
A method for producing a dense and tenacious ceramic coating 
with a thermal spray gun including a nozzle member with a nozzle 

face and an axial conduit terminating at the nozzle face in a 
plurality of radially divergent orifices, and a gas cap extending 

from the nozzle member and having an inwardly facing cylindrical 
wall defining a combustion chamber with an open end and an 

opposite end bounded by the nozzle face, the method comprising 
firstly injecting an annular flow of a combustible mixture of a 

combustion gas and oxygen from the nozzle member coaxially into 
the combustion chamber,
 combusting the combustible mixture in the 
combustion chamber, conveying a powder stream of heat fusible 

oxide ceramic in a carrier gas through the axial conduit and the 
divergent orifices into the combustion chamber proximate and 

radially inward of the annular flow of combustible mixture so as 
to mix the powder stream directly into the combusting mixture, 

secondly injecting an annular outer flow of pressurized non-combustible 
gas adjacent to the cylindrical wall radially outward 

of the annular flow of the combustible mixture whereby a spray 
stream containing the oxide ceramic is propelled through the open 

end, and directing the spray stream toward a substrate so at to 
produce thereon a dense and tenacious coating of the oxide 

ceramic. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the divergent orifices diverge 
at an angle with the axis between 10째 and 30째. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the plurality of radial 
divergent orifices is in a range of 2 to 8 in number. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the step of firstly injecting 
comprises injecting the annular flow of combustible mixture into 

the combustion chamber from a circular location on the nozzle 
face, the circular location having a diameter approximately equal 

to that of the open end. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the open end is spaced 
axially from the nozzle face by a shortest distance of between 

approximately one and two times the diameter of the circular 
location. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the step of firstly injecting 
comprises injecting the annular flow of combustible mixture at a 

pressure in the combustion chamber of at least two bar above 
atmospheric pressure such that the spray stream is sonic or 

supersonic. 
The method of claim 13 wherein the oxide ceramic comprises 
predominently aluminum oxide. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the oxide ceramic consists of 
high purity aluminum oxide. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the aluminum oxide is in the 
form of powder particles having a size between about one and 30 

microns. 
An article comprising a metal substrate with an dense and 
tenacious oxide ceramic coating thereon, the coating being 

produced by the method of claim 8. 
The article of claim 17 wherein the coating is characterized 
by a cross sectional structure of laminated lenticular grains. 
The article of claim 18 wherein the oxide ceramic comprises 
predominently aluminum oxide. 
The article of claim 19 wherein the oxide ceramic consists 
of high purity aluminum oxide. 
The article of claim 20 wherein the aluminum oxide comprises 
at least 30% alpha phase. 
The article of claim 21 wherein the coating is characterized 
by a dielectric breakdown strength of at least 25 volts/micron. 
An article comprising a metal substrate with an dense and 
tenacious aluminum oxide coating thereon, the aluminum oxide 

comprising at least 25% alpha phase, and the coating being 
characterized by a cross sectional structure of laminated 

 
lenticular grains. 
The article of claim 23 wherein the coating is further 
characterized by a dielectric breakdown strength of at least 25 

volts/micron. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
