<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632778</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR STORING AND DISPENSING LIQUID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67D100	B67D104	B67D114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67D	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67D1	B67D1	B67D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOMBARDO SAMUEL N
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOMBARDO SAMUEL N
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOMBARDO SAMUEL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOMBARDO SAMUEL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Method and Apparatus for Storing and Dispensing LiquidBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONTechnical FieldThe present invention pertains to methods and apparatus for storing and dispensing liquids, particularly beverages. Specifically, the invention comprises improved methods and apparatus for pressurizing potable liquids in their containers and selectively dispensing the liquids from those containers. Although the invention has particular utility in storing and dispensing carbonated beverages such as sodas, sparkling wines, beer, etc. in a manner preventing loss of carbonation in the beverage as it is dispensed, the invention is also of value in storing and dispensing non-carbonated beverages such as juice, tea, and the like.Discussion of the Prior ArtMarket studies conducted on behalf of the beer and carbonated soft drink industries have indicated a consumer preference for large volume packaging for these products. For example, two liter, three liter or even larger bottles or cans have been found to be desirable to consumers. In addition, large container packaging results in lower cost per unit volume of liquid sold, thereby resulting in savings for the consumer and higher profits for the manufacturer. The problem with large containers, however, is the loss of carbonation each time the container is opened to permit a portion of its contents to be poured. This loss of carbonation in the remaining beverage. 

colloquially referred to as the beverage going "flat", is generally unacceptable to consumers. In this regard acceptable carbonation volume levels for wine coolers and beers are approximately 2.0 to 2.6 volumes of C02 gas; for soft drinks and sparkling wine the acceptable range is approximately 4.0 to 5.0 volumes of dissolved C02 gas. (Note, here, that pursuant to common industry practice, fluid pressure is determined by the volume of the fluid at a given temperature) . As containers sizes increase the number of times that the container is opened and closed for dispensing typically increases, resulting in a cumulative loss of carbonation pressure. Ultimately the carbonation pressure becomes negligible whereby the remaining beverage becomes "flat" and, accordingly, its taste is not acceptable. Having experienced this waste, consumers opt for smaller single serving containers in spite of their desire to have large containers. It is therefore desirable to provide a technique for maintaining the prescribed beverage carbonation pressure in a container until all of the beverage liquid has been dispensed.In U.S.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is;
1. A method for storing carbonated liquid in and dispensing the carbonated liquid from a container, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) filling the container with the carbonated liquid to a predetermined level to establish a headspace of predetermined volume above the liquid in the container;
(b) pressurizing said headspace with a one time charge of pressurizing gas that does not mix or interact with the carbonated liquid; and
(c) sealing the container to prevent escape of gas from the headspace while permitting insertion of a dispensing tube into the liquid in the container.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the pressurizing gas is less dense than the carbonation gas in the liquid, said method further comprising the step of:
(d) forcefully maintaining the carbonation gas in..:the carbonated liquid with said pressurizing gas in said headspace.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein step (b) includes pressurizing said headspace with said pressurizing gas at a predetermined pressure level sufficient to force all of the carbonated liquid out of the container through a dispensing tube inserted into the liquid through the sealed container.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the steps of:
(e) inserting a dispensing tube into the container through the headspace and into the liquid such that the bottom end of the tube is disposed proximate the bottom of the container and the top end of the tube extends above said headspace; and
(f) selectively blocking and unblocking flow of the carbonated liquid from the container through said dispensing tube to ambient pressure. 


 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising step (g) wherein, when flow is unblocked in step (f), the flowing liquid is throttled and diffused so as to have its pressure gradually reduced to atmospheric pressure from the pressure in the container to thereby substantially minimize fracturing of the carbonation gas out of the liquid and foaming of the carbonated liquid upon reaching atmospheric pressure.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein step (g) comprises the steps of:
(g.l) directing the flowing carbonated liquid from the dispensing tube into a valve chamber via an inlet port of the valve chamber;
(g.2) creating a pressure stagnation point at said inlet port; and
(g.3) flowing the carbonated liquid past said stagnation point downstream into said valve chamber through a flow path having a gradually increasing cross-sectional area presented transversely of the flow direction.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein step (g.3)- includes establishing said cross-sectional configuration as an annulus that increases in circumference as the flowing liquid proceeds downstream in the flow path.
8. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of manually adjusting the size of said cross-sectional area at all points throughout the length of the flow path to achieve a desired flow rate for the flowing carbonated liquid.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: (d) inserting a dispensing tube into the container through the headspace and into the liquid such that the bottom end of the tube is disposed proximate the bottom of the container and the top end of the tube extends above said headspace; and 


 (e) selectively blocking and unblocking flow of the carbonated liquid from the container through said dispensing tube to ambient pressure.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising step (f) wherein, when flow is unblocked in step (e), the flowing liquid is throttled and diffused so as to have its pressure gradually reduced to atmospheric pressure from the pressure in the container to thereby substantially minimize fracturing of the carbonation gas out of the liquid and foaming of the carbonated liquid upon reaching atmospheric pressure.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein step (f) comprises the steps of:
(f.l) directing the flowing carbonated liquid from the dispensing tube into a valve chamber via an inlet port of the valve chamber;
(f.2) creating a pressure stagnation point at said inlet port; and
(f.3) flowing the carbonated liquid past said stagnation point downstream into said valve chamber through a flow path having a gradually increasing cross-sectional area presented transversely of the flow direction.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein step (f.3) includes establishing said cross-sectional configuration as an annulus that increases in circumference as the flowing liquid proceeds downstream in the flow path.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of manually adjusting the size of said cross-sectional area at all points throughout the length of the flow path to achieve a desired flow rate for the flowing carbonated liquid. 


 14. A method for storing liquid in and dispensing the liquid from a container, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) filling the container with the liquid to a predetermined level to establish a headspace of predetermined volume above the liquid in the container;
(b) pressurizing said headspace with a one time charge of gas that does not substantially mix or interact with the liquid;
(c) sealing the container to prevent escape of gas from the headspace while permitting insertion of a dispensing tube into the liquid; wherein the pressure level established in the headspace in step (b) is sufficient to force all of the liquid out of the container through a dispensing tube inserted into the liquid in the sealed container;
(d) inserting a dispensing tube into the container through the headspace and into the liquid such that the bottom end of the tube is disposed proximate the bottom of the container and the top end of the tube extends above said headspace; and
(e) selectively blocking and unblocking flow of the liquid from the container through said dispensing tube to ambient pressure.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising step (f) wherein, when flow is unblocked in step (e), the flowing liquid is throttled and diffused to be gradually reduced to atmospheric pressure from the pressure in the container to thereby substantially minimize frothing of the liquid upon reaching atmospheric pressure.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein step (f) comprises the steps of:
(f.l) directing the flowing liquid from the dispensing tube into a valve chamber via an inlet port of the valve chamber;
(f.2) creating a pressure stagnation point at said inlet port; and 


 (f.3) flowing the liquid past said stagnation point in a downstream direction in said valve chamber through a flow path having a gradually increasing cross-sectional area presented transversely of the flow direction.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein step (f.3) includes establishing said flow path with an annular cross-sectional configuration that increases in circumference as the flowing liquid proceeds downstream in the flow path.
18. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of manually adjusting the size of said cross-sectional area at all points throughout the length of the flow path to achieve a desired flow rate for the flowing liquid.
19. A method for dispensing liquid from a container comprising the steps of:
(a) filing the container with the liquid to a predetermined level;
(b) pressurizing the liquid in the container;
(c) sealing the container to prevent loss of pressure therefrom;
(d) inserting a dispensing tube into the container without loss of pressure from the container such that the bottom end of the tube is disposed in the liquid proximate the bottom of the container and the top end of the tube extends above the container; and
(e) selectively blocking and unblocking flow of the liquid from the container through said dispensing tube to ambient pressure, wherein, when flow is unblocked the flowing liquid is throttled and diffused to be gradually reduced to atmospheric pressure from the pressure in the container to thereby substantially minimize foaming of the liquid upon reaching atmospheric pressure. 


 20. The method of claim 19 wherein step (e) further comprises the steps of:
(e.l) directing the flowing liquid from the dispensing tube into a valve chamber via an inlet port of the valve chamber;
(e.2) creating a pressure stagnation point at said inlet port; and
(e.3) flowing the liquid past the stagnation point downstream in the valve chamber through a flow path having a gradually increasing cross-sectional area presented transversely of the flow direction.
21. The method of the claim 20 wherein step (e.3) includes establishing said flow path with an annular cross-sectional configuration that increases in diameter as the flowing liquid proceeds downstream in the flow path.
22. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of manually adjusting the size of said cross-sectional area at all points throughout the length of the flow path to achieve a desired flow rate for the flowing liquid.
23. Apparatus for dispensing liquid from a container having a top end and a headspace above the contained liquid, said apparatus comprising: a cap valve closing said container and sealing the top end of the container against escape of pressurized fluid from the headspace; a charge of pressurized gas sealed in said headspace by said cap valve; a siphon tube having inlet and outlet ends; an elastomeric check valve mounted in said cap valve for permitting insertion of said siphon tube through the check valve and into the liquid while preventing escape of pressurized gas about the siphon tube exterior; dispenser assembly means for securing said siphon tube to said container with said inlet end of the siphon tube extending into said liquid proximate the bottom of said container and with 


the outlet of said siphon tube extending upwardly beyond said headspace; wherein said dispensing assembly includes a manually actuable throttling and diffusing valve connected to the outlet end of siphon tube for throttling and diffusing liquid flowing through the siphon tube to gradually reduce the pressure of the flowing liquid from the container interior pressure to ambient pressure; and wherein said pressurized gas is substantially inert relative to said liquid and is at a pressure sufficient to drive all of said liquid from said container through said siphon tube and said throttling and diffusing valve.
24. The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said throttling and diffusing valve comprises: a valve chamber having an inlet port; a valve member disposed in said chamber and movable over a range of positions from a closed position to an open position, said valve in said closed position blocking flow of liquid into said chamber; and wherein, in each position of said range of positions, said valve member and said chamber define a flow path having a cross- section presented transversely to the flowing liquid that gradually increases in area as the flow proceeds downstream.
25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said valve chamber has a generally conical configuration diverging in a downstream direction with said inlet port axially disposed at its upstream end, and wherein said valve member has a generally conical configuration and is disposed substantially coaxially in said chamber, wherein said flow path is defined by space between said valve member and a wall of said chamber and presents a substantially annular cross-section transverse to flow at all points along the flow path, said annular cross-section increasing in circumference at successive downstream locations in said flow path. 


 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said valve member includes a rounded forward end for establishing a pressure stagnation point in the liquid flowing into said valve chamber via said inlet port, and for guiding flowing liquid around said forward end and into said flow path, said rounded end being disposed to seal said inlet port in said closed position of said valve member.
27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said elastomeric check valve is resiliently biased closed to seal said container and is capable of being forced open to permit said siphon tube to be extended therethrough while providing a seal about the siphon tube periphery.
28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said pressurizing gas is nitrogen and wherein said beverage liquid is"carbonated with carbon dioxide.
29. The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said pressurizing-gas is nitrogen and wherein said beverage liquid is carbonated with carbon dioxide. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
