<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655899</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDICATION INJECTION DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F541	A61F541	A61M520	A61M520	A61M532	A61M532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to an automatic injection device (10) which, upon activation by the user, automatically extends a syringe (11) with needle (12), delivers medication through the needle (12), and retracts the needle (12) thus keeping the needle (12) hidden from view.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPLICATION FOR PATENTTITLE: MEDICATION INJECTION DEVICESPECIFICATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a medication injection device which, upon being activated by the user, delivers medication from a syringe with needle to the user with the needle being in a retracted, hidden position at all times except when actual injection occurs. More particularly, .this device permits treatment of appropriate cases of male erectile dysfunction by accurate placement and introduction of substances into the erectile bodies (corpora cavernosa) of the penis.2. Description of the Related ArtIt is well known that many persons are apprehensive of receiving an injection from a hypodermic needle. This situation is worsened for those who must administer their own injections, such as diabetic patients and others who regularly require medication or who require that medication be administered in private or in emergency situations, such as acute allergies to insect bites (anaphylaxis) , hypoglycemic reactions, etc. This apprehension is particularly acute in the treatment of male erectile dysfunction with direct injection of medication into the penis. 

 While the invention is intended to be used in conjunction with the administration of medicine of any physical form to various parts of the body and to various tissue depths, it is particularly applicable for use in the treatment of erectile dysfunction.Defined simply, erectile dysfunction occurs when a male is unable to maintain adequate penile rigidity necessary to initiate, sustain and successfully consummate the act of coitus. It denotes organic impotence.This condition can be a psychologically devastating therapeutic problem. It has been estimated to effect 50% of all diabetic men and up to 9% of younger men in apparent good health. Varying degrees of erectile dysfunction caused by age, drug use, arteriosclerosis, trauma, hormone disorders and surgical procedures have also been observed. Diminished male erectile response is the limiting factor in sexual relationships. The fear of erectile failure has been reported as one of the primary reasons for decreased libido in older males.The penile erection mechanism of the normal male is a complex interaction of hormones, neurotransmitters and blood vessels. An erection begins when paired penile arteries dilate in response to neurotransmitters relaxing the smooth muscle walls of the arteries. An increased incoming blood flow engorges the chambers of the penis (corpora cavernosa) where it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is: l. An apparatus for injecting a medicament, comprising: (a) a housing; (b) a syringe having a syringe barrel for holding a medicament, a plunger movable within the barrel for ejecting the medicament from the barrel, and a hollow needle communicating with the barrel for transporting the medicament from the barrel to a patient; (c) mounting means for mounting the syringe in the housing and enabling the syringe to move from a first retracted position to a second extended position for injecting the medicament; (d) movement and injection means for moving the syringe from the first to the second position and pushing the plunger for injecting the medicament after the syringe has moved at least toward the second position; (e) retracting means for moving the syringe back to the first retracted position after the medicament has been injected.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the housing has a first portion for holding the syringe and a second portion, perpendicular to the first portion, for holding the movement and injection means.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the syringe barrel has an upper surface and the plunger projects from the upper surface and wherein the movement and injection means comprises a cam with a first surface and a second surface for respectively engaging the upper surface and the plunger. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the movement and injection means further comprises a spring connected to the cam for moving the cam.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the upper surface has a rim projecting beyond the outer surface of the syringe barrel and the cam has a follower surface for engaging the rim for retracting the syringe into the housing.
6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the retracting means comprises a spring located in the first portion of the housing for retracting the syringe into the housing.
7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first portion of the housing has an opening sealed with material capable of being penetrated by the needle.
8. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the retracting means fully retracts the needle into the first portion of the housing.
9. An injection device for injection of fluid, comprising: a housing having an elongated section and a barrel section, said elongated section elongated in the direction of an axis, the barrel section integral with the elongated section and perpendicular to the axis, a spring attachment connection at an end of said housing along the axis, and a trigger mechanism at an opposite end of said housing along the axis; a sliding cam mechanism slidably mounted within said housing to slide in the direction of 


 the axis, having a first cam surface, a second cam surface, a third cam surface, a drive end, and a trigger end, said trigger end designed to detachably engage said trigger mechanism; and a spring having a first end and a second end, the first end fixedly attached to said spring attachment connection, the second end fixedly connected to the drive end of the sliding cam mechanism.
10. The injection device of claim 9, further comprising: a syringe with needle, slidably located within said barrel section, said syringe having a syringe barrel and a syringe plunger, said syringe barrel having a top surface, said top surface located adjacent to the first cam surface so as to follow the first cam surface and located so as to contact the third cam surface and follow the third cam surface, said syringe plunger located adjacent to the second cam surface so as to follow the second cam surface.
11. The injection device of claim 9, wherein the injection device is for injection of liquid into a penis.
12. The injection device of claim 11, wherein the barrel section has a curved end section for mating with a penis.
13. The injection device of claim 12, wherein the needle is designed for a predetermined depth of penetration into the penis. 


 14. The injection device of claim 13, wherein the needle is an approximately 25 to 30 gauge needle, designed for approximately 0.25 inch penetration into the penis.
15. The injection device of claim 10, wherein the injection device is for injection of liquid into a penis.
16. The injection device of claim 15, wherein the barrel section has a curved end section for mating with a penis.
17. The injection device of claim 16, wherein the needle is designed for a predetermined depth of penetration into the penis.
18. The injection device of claim 17, wherein the needle is an approximately 25 to 30 gauge needle, designed for approximately 0.25 inch penetration into the penis.
19. An injection device for injection of fluid, comprising: a housing having an elongated section and a barrel section, said elongated section elongated in the direction of an axis, the barrel section integral with the elongated section and perpendicular to the axis, a spring attachment connection at an end of said housing along the axis, and a trigger mechanism at an opposite end of said housing along the axis; a sliding cam mechanism slidably mounted within said housing to slide in the direction of the axis, having a first cam surface, a second cam 


 surface, a drive end, and a trigger end, said trigger end designed to detachably engage said trigger mechanism; and a spring having a first end and a second end, the first end fixedly attached to said spring attachment connection, the second end fixedly connected to the drive end of the sliding cam mechanism.
20. The injection device of claim 19, further comprising: a syringe with needle, εlidable located within said barrel section, said syringe having a syringe barrel and a syringe plunger, said syringe barrel having a top surface, said top surface located adjacent to the first cam surface so as to follow the first cam surface, said syringe plunger located adjacent to the second cam surface so as to follow the second cam surface; and a retraction spring located within the barrel section so as to push the syringe with needle to a retracted position.
21. The injection device of claim 19, wherein the injection device is for injection of liquid into a penis.
22. The injection device of claim 21, wherein the barrel section has a curved end section for mating with a penis.
23. The injection device of claim 22, wherein the needle is designed for a predetermined depth of penetration into the penis. 


 24. The injection device of claim 23, wherein the needle is an approximately 25 to 30 gauge needle, designed for approximately 0.25 inch penetration into the penis.
25. The injection device of claim 20, wherein the injection device is for injection of liquid into a penis.
26. The injection device of claim 25, wherein the barrel section has a curved end section for mating with a penis.
27. The injection device of claim 26, wherein the needle is designed for a predetermined depth of penetration into the penis.
28. The injection device of claim 27, wherein the needle is an approximately 25 to 30 gauge needle, designed for approximately 0.25 inch penetration into the penis. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
