<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656189</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Circular anastomosis device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1703	A61B1711	A61B17115	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical instrument 10 is disclosed which 
includes a housing 12 having proximal and distal end 

portions, a shaft extending from the housing distal end 
portion, the shaft having proximal and distal end portions, 

a fastener carrying cartridge 22 positioned at the shaft 
distal end portion, the cartridge having a plurality of 

fasteners 69 disposed therein, a fastener firing member 56 
operatively associated with the fastener carrying 

cartridge, at least one lever 20 extending from the 
housing, the lever being adapted to move the fastener 

firing member to expel the fasteners from the cartridge, an 
anvil member 24 disposed opposite the cartridge, an 

elongated member 30 operatively associated with the anvil 
member for moving the anvil member relative to the 

cartridge, and locking means 18, 70 disposed within the 
housing for locking the elongated member, and, therefore 

the anvil member, the locking means being movable between 
at least a first position and a second position such that 

when the locking means is in the first position the 
elongated member is movable and when the locking means is 

in the second position the elongated member is prevented 
from moving. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON JOHN CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIOLA FRANK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON, JOHN CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIOLA, FRANK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a surgical fastener
applying instrument. More particularly, this invention
relates to an arrangement for a circular anastomosis
surgical stapling instrument.Various types of surgical fastener applying
instruments have been known for the application of surgical
fasteners to tissue. For example, it has been known to use
various types of surgical staplers in gastric and
esophageal surgery in both classic or modified gastric
reconstructions performed end-to-end, end-to-side or side-to-side.
In many cases, instruments, such as described in
U.S. Patent No. 4,603,693, have been used where an anvil
assembly mounted on the end of a center rod can be
manipulated relative to a staple assembly on the end of a
tubular housing of the instrument. In instruments of this
nature, the center rod is connected with a mechanism, for
example, which employs a wing nut at the proximal end of
the instrument, so that the rod can be moved back and forth
independently of the staple assembly so as to adjust the
anvil assembly relative to the staple assembly. Likewise,
a pusher tube is mounted within the instrument for movement
via a handle mechanism so as to cause a firing of the
staples from the staple assembly towards the anvil
assembly.In some instruments, such as described in U.S.
Patent No. 4,351,466, these stapling instruments have been
provided with a pair of handles in order to actuate the 
pusher tube to cause a firing of the staples. In such
cases, each handle has been pivotally mounted so as to be
moved toward the other handle during manual squeezing by a
surgeon. Each handle also includes a lever arm within the
instrument which engages against the pusher tube so as to
move the tube in a proximal direction.Stapling instruments of this type and as
disclosed in US-A-5005749 have also been provided with
safety locks in order to prevent the squeezing together of
the handles prematurely. That is, the safety locks have
been provided in order to prevent the handles from moving
towards each other before a surgeon has manipulated the
anvil assembly into position for the firing of the staples.
While these instruments have been used safely and
effectively for years, it has not previously been proposed
to provide the feature of preventing the anvil member from
being able to be moved once a fastener firing safety lock
has been released. Also a continuing need exists to
develop these types of surgical stapling instruments which
require fewer parts and materials to manufacture, thereby
reducing costs of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument (10) for applying at least one

circular array of fasteners, comprising:

a housing (14) having proximal and distal end
portions;
a shaft (12) extending from said housing distal
end portion, said shaft having proximal and distal end

portions;
a fastener carrying cartridge (22) positioned at
said shaft distal end portion, said cartridge having a

plurality of fasteners (69) disposed therein;
a fastener firing member (56) operatively
associated with said fastener carrying cartridge;
at least one lever (20) extending from said
housing, said lever being adapted to move said

fastener firing member to expel said fasteners from
said cartridge;
an anvil (24) , including an anvil shaft (102),
disposed opposite said cartridge;
an elongate member (30) operatively associated
with said anvil for moving said anvil relative to said

cartridge; and characterised by:
locking means (70) disposed within said housing
for locking said elongate member, said locking means

being movable between at least a first position and a
second position such that when said locking means is

in said first position said elongate member is movable
and when said locking means is in said second position

(83) said elongate member is prevented from moving.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 1, further
comprising a safety mechanism (18) associated with

said housing for preventing movement of said at least
one lever, said safety mechanism being movable between

at least a first position and a second position.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 2, wherein
said safety mechanism (18) is operatively associated

with said locking means (70).
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3,
wherein said locking means (70) is operatively

associated with said fastener firing member (56).
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 4, wherein
when said locking means (70) is in said first

position, said fastener firing member (56) is
prevented from firing said fasteners.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 4 or 5
wherein when said locking means (70) is in said second

position, said fastener firing member (56) is
permitted to fire said fasteners.
A surgical instrument as recited in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said locking means (70) is

biased (67) to remain initially in said first
position.
A surgical instrument as recited in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein a portion of said elongate

member (30) is U-shaped, having at least two side wall
portions (78, 80) connected by a web portion (82). 
A surgical instrument as recited in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said elongate member

includes at least two finger portions (78a, 80a)
extending from a distal end thereof, said finger

portions adapted to retain said anvil assembly.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 9, wherein
said anvil member is removably attached to said at

least two finger portions.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 8, 9 or 10,
wherein the locking means (70) is operatively

associated with said U-shaped member and movable
between at least its first position and its second

position for locking said U-shaped member in a fixed
position.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 11, wherein
when said locking means is in said first position,

said U-shaped member is movable and said plurality of
fasteners is prevented from being expelled from said

fastener head portion and when said locking means is
in said second position, said U-shaped member is

locked and said plurality of fasteners are expellable
from said fastener head portion.
A surgical instrument as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, and arranged so as to have:


a fastener head portion connected to one end of
said shaft and including said fastener cartridge (22)
said shaft being connected at its other end to a
body portion;
said at least one lever being operatively
associated with said body portion to fire said

fasteners; 
an anvil assembly, including an anvil head
portion and said anvil shaft, said anvil head portion

including said anvil which is adapted to form said
plurality of fasteners; and said locking means

comprising
a lockout member movable between at least a first
position and a second position wherein when said

lockout member is disposed in said first position said
elongate member is permitted to move longitudinally

within said body portion and when said lockout member
is disposed in said second position said elongate

member is held in a fixed position and said anvil head
portion is held at a predetermined fixed longitudinal

distance from said fastener head portion.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 13, wherein
said lockout member is pivotably disposed within said

body portion.
A surgical instrument as clamimed in claim 13 or 14,
comprising:


an elongate U-shaped compression member
operatively connected at a proximal end to said at

least one movable lever (20) and operatively connected
at a distal end to said fastener head portion; and

an elongate U-shaped tension member, slidably disposed
adjacent said compression member, to pull the anvil 24

into position.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
