<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639299</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TUNABLE SOLID STATE LASER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S306	H01S306	H01S3081	H01S3082	H01S3094	H01S3094	H01S3105	H01S3105	H01S3106	H01S3106	H01S313	H01S3139	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIXON GEORGE J NORTH WICKHAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIXON, GEORGE, J. 7667 NORTH WICKHAM ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TUNABLE SOLID STATE LASERTechnical Field This invention relates to the general subject of solid state lasers and, in particular, to lasers which can be operated over a range of wavelengths.Background of the Invention Interest in the development of tunable solid-state lasers has increased significantly in recent years. The potential for storing energy in the population inversion and the long, maintenance-free operating lifetimes of solid-state lasers make the current generation of laser- and lamp-pumped, transition-metal-doped, insulating crystal lasers superior to dye lasers for many scientific and technical applications including laser spectroscopy and remote sensing. Unfortunately, widespread commercial use of these lasers will require significant reductions in complexity, size, and cost.These lasers are characterized by a broad gain spectrum (which, in some cases, is several hundred nanometers wide) and typically have an intra-cavity tuning element which can be used to tune the output wavelength over a portion of this curve. Earlier devices (e.g., ones using Co:MgF2 or Ti:Al2θ3) used a mechanical Lyot Filter which was inserted inside a laser cavity and rotated to shift the output wavelength of the laser. See Lovold et al., IEEE J.Q.E., QE-2K3) page 202 (March, 1985). Galvanometer controlled etalons or Lyot Filters incorporating electro-optic crystals have also 

been used for this purpose. See Otsuka et al.. Optics Communications, 63(1), p. 37 (July 1987).- One disadvantage of using a diffraction grating is that it cannot be tuned electronically. Tuning elements, like the mechanically-tuned Lyot Filter and galvano-driven etalon, in which an optical component is physically translated are comparatively slow and bulky. The electro-optic Lyot Filter is faster and smaller but requires a voltage of several hundred volts to tune it. For these reasons, the tuning techniques described in the prior art are not well suited to compact, diode- pumped tunable laser systems, such as CriliSAF.A liquid crystal Lyot Filter is described by Shin-Tson Wu, Applied Opticsr 28,48,(1989): J.R. Andrews, IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, 2, 334 (1990) and in U.S. Patent 4,394,069 to W.I. Kaye entitled "Liquid Crystal Tuned Birefringent Filter." As with any conventional b efringent tuner, light that is transmitted through the polarizer passes through the variable waveplate, is reflected by the mirror and again transmitted though the waveplate and polarizer. The return beam is attenuated if the retardation of the variable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
I claim:
1. A tunable laser, comprising: an optically pumpable lasant material; an input mirror; and resonant reflecting means for forming with said input mirror an optical cavity for said lasant material, said resonant reflecting means comprising: a) an output coupler component; b) a mirror component located between said output coupler component and said lasant material, for transmitting light from said lasant material to said output coupler component; c) a polarizer component located in the light path between said mirror and said output coupler; and d) an electronically tuned, voltage controlled, variable, liquid crystal waveplate component for receiving light passing through said polarizer, said components of said resonant reflecting means being selected to have a longitudinal mode that is anti-resonant with said optical cavity.
2. The tunable laser of claim 2, further including: e) a fixed waveplate component located between said polarizer component and said liquid crystal component.
3. The laser of Claim 1, further including: h) means for moving said output coupler component towards and away from said mirror component to stabilize the length of said anti-resonant cavity. 


 4. The laser of Claim 1, further including: h) temperature control means for stabilizing the length of said optical cavity.
5. The laser of Claim 1, wherein said lasant material is selected from the group CπLiSAF, CπLiCAF, Cr:LiSCAF, and Ti:Sapphire.
6. The laser of Claim 1, wherein said lasant material is doped with a material selected from the group cobalt, nickle, vanadium, chromium, thulium, erbium, holmium, titanium neodymium and praseodymium.
7. The laser of Claim 1, wherein said lasant material in the form of an optical fiber.
8. The laser of Claim 1, wherein said lasant material carries a dopant and is characterized by a broad intense absorption peak and low concentration quenching at relatively high concentrations of said dopant.
9. A coupled-cavity liquid crystal tuner for a solid-state laser having a resonant cavity formed between two opposite end mirrors and having a lasant material located therein, comprising: a) a polarizer for receiving light from one of said end mirrors; b) a voltage controlled liquid crystal waveplate for receiving light passing through said polarizer; 


/23898
c) a third mirror for receiving light passing through said liquid crystal waveplate and reflecting said light back to said one end mirror, said third mirror being coated to be reflective over a range of wavelengths that include the light from said laser; and d) means for stabilizing the length of the optical cavity formed between said third mirror and said one end mirror and maintaining said optical cavity anti-resonant relative to resonant cavity.
10. The tuner of Claim 9, further including a fixed waveplate for receiving light passing through said polarizer and towards said third mirror.
11. The tuner of Claim 9, wherein said laser comprises a low gain lasant material.
12. A laser, comprising: a) optical pumping means; b) a plane-parallel cube of lasant material having an input face and an opposite output face, said input face being coated for high reflectivity over at least a portion of the wavelengths that said lasant material lases in response to said optical pumping source and for high transmission over at least a portion of the wavelengths of operation of said optical pumping source, said output face having some transmission over at least part of said wavelengths that said lasant material lases; c) a polarizer; 


 d) optical means for directing light from said output face to said polarizer; e) a fixed birefringent waveplate for receiving light passing through said polarizer; f) an electronically tuned, voltage controlled, variable, liquid crystal waveplate for receiving light passing through said fixed waveplate, the axes of said waveplates being generally aligned and at an angle to the direction of maximum transmission through said polarizer; and g) an output mirror for receiving light passing through said liquid crystal waveplate and for forming with said output face of said lasant material an optical anti-resonant cavity, said output rnirror being reflective over a range of wavelengths including said portion that said lasant material lases.
13. An anti-resonant tuning element for a primary resonator of a solid-state, diode-pumped laser comprising: a) a polarizer for receiving light from said primary resonator; b) an electronically tuned, voltage controlled, variable, liquid crystal waveplate for receiving light passing through said polarizer; and c) an output mirror for receiving light passing through said liquid crystal waveplate, said rnirror being reflective over a range of wavelengths including at least one of the wavelengths that said solid-state diode-pumped laser operates, 

•
 said polarizer, said liquid crystal waveplate and said output mirror being selected to have a longitudinal mode that is anti-resonant relative to said primary resonator.
14. The tuning element of Claim 13, further including: d) a fixed waveplate for receiving light passing through said polarizer and towards said liquid crystal waveplate.
15. The tuning element of Claim 14, further including: e) means for moving said output mirror towards and away from said primary resonator to maintain anti-resonance.
16. The tuning element of Claim 15, further including: f) means for mamtaining the temperature of said tuning element.
17. The tuning element of Claim 13, wherein said laser comprises a thulium doped optical fiber.
18. A method for tuning the output of a solid-state laser having at least one cavity end mirror comprising the steps of: a) coupling an anti-resonant ςavity to the output of said laser by using said one cavity mirror; b) locating within said anti-resonant cavity a Lyot Filter having a liquid crystal birefringent element located therein; and 


 c) adjusting the voltage across said liquid crystal element to change the effective reflectance of said one cavity end mirror.
19. The method of Claim 18, further including the step of: d) stabilizing the length of said anti-resonant cavity.
20. The method of Claim 19, further including the step of: e) stabilizing the temperature of said anti-resonant optical cavity.
21. A tunable diode-pumped laser, comprising: a) a primary optical cavity, having a solid-state lasant material located therein, that produces laser light in response to pumping by a laser diode, said lasant material carrying a dopant and being characterized by a broad intense absorption peak and low concentration quenching at relatively high . concentrations of said dopant; and b) an anti-resonant, adjustably reflective optical cavity coupled to said primary optical cavity and having a liquid crystal Lyot Filter located therein.
23 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
