<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659259</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PORTABLE SELF-CONTAINED POWER AND COOLING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A62B1700	A62B1700	F01C100	F01C102	F01C1100	F01C1100	F01C2100	F01C2106	F01C2110	F01K2500	F01K2510	F02B6300	F02B6300	F04C1802	F04C1802	F25B2700	F25B2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A62B	A62B	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01K	F01K	F02B	F02B	F04C	F04C	F25B	F25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A62B17	A62B17	F01C1	F01C1	F01C11	F01C11	F01C21	F01C21	F01C21	F01K25	F01K25	F02B63	F02B63	F04C18	F04C18	F25B27	F25B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated, self-contained portable power and cooling system includes a combustion generator (137) and a scroll-type expander (221) driven by combustion gas discharged from the gas generator, wherein the expander is connected in driving relationship to a scroll air compressor (197) that provides compressed combustion air to the gas generator. Inlet air to the gas generator may be preheated by spent combustion gas discharged from the expander (221). A drive shaft (47) driven by the expander is connected to a fuel pump (44), an electrical generator (56), and a refrigerant compressor (8). The scroll refrigerant compressor (8) supplies refrigerant to a condenser evaporator cooling circuit (11, 14, 17, 20, 22) for cooling a zone directly or indirectly via an auxiliary cooling loop (29, 30) in heat exchange relationship with the evaporator. The system has application in a man-portable system capable of cooling an individual in a high temperature environment and supplying electrical power.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTLE INC A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTHUR D. LITTLE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCULLOUGH JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCULLOUGH, JOHN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PORTABLE SELF-CONTAINED POWER AND COOLING SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention pertains to an integrated, self-contained power and cooling system that is sized and configured so as to be readily portable by an individual. More specifically, the invention pertains to a cooling system which utilizes a scroll-type engine to drive a scroll type air conditioning refrigerant compressor in a conventional compressor- condenser-expander refrigeration circuit. The system is adapted to develop a supply of cooling fluid and a source of electrical power that can be used for various purposes. For instance, the integrated power and cooling system of the present invention can be used in combination with a personal vest through which a coolant cooled by the refrigerant can circulate to cool the user. Such a vest cooling arrangement can be used, for example, to cool a person subject to heat exhaustion, cool a soldier operating in a tropical environment or to maintain desired body temperature for individuals who suffer from a lack of sweat glands to the extent that their bodies cannot adequately provide the necessary cooling function on their own. The electrical power generated can be used to operate communication equipment. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention provides an integrated, self-contained, power and cooling system including a combustion gas generator, a scroll- type expander which uses the combustion gas to drive a scroll type air conditioning refrigerant compressor within a conventional refrigeration circuit to develop an output cooling flow, and wherein the entire system is contained within a compact housing such that the system may be readily portable by a human individual. The combustion gas generator includes a combustion chamber which is systematically supplied with a charge that is ignited. The products of combustion ("combustion gases") are discharged through a scroll expander including relatively orbiting meshed scroll elements to thereby drive the expander in orbital motion. The expander connected to a scroll type air compressor that, in turn, compresses the ambient air and supplies this compressed air to the gas generator for use as combustion air. The scroll-type expander drives a scroll-type refrigerant compressor in a conventional compressor -expander refrigeration loop, which includes a refrigerant compressor, a condenser and an evaporator connected in series. A supplemental or indirect fluid coolant loop is provided in heat exchange relationship with the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I Claim:
1. A portable power and cooling system comprising:
a drive unit including a combustion section, a scroll-type expander section, a scroll-type compressor section, and a power output drive shaft, said expander and air compressor sections connected together for synchronous movement via said power output drive shaft; said combustion section including a combustion air inlet and a combustion gas outlet, said scroll-type expander section including at least one pair of meshed axially extending involute spiral wrap members having involute centers and defining at least one expansion chamber between them that moves radially between an expander inlet zone, which is in fluid communication with the combustion gas outlet, and an outlet zone when one wrap member is orbited along a circular path about an orbit center relative to the other wrap member, said scroll type air compressor section including at least one pair of meshed axially extending involute spiral wrap members having involute centers and defining at least one compression chamber between them that moves radially between a compressor inlet zone and an outlet zone when one wrap member is orbited along a circular path relative to the other wrap member about an orbit radius, said drive connecting unit integrally connecting said one wrap member of each of said scroll-type expander and air compressor sections;
said air compressor inlet zone in fluid communication with the outlet zone of the expander section and said compressor outlet zone in fluid communication with the combustion air inlet of the combustion section;
means for causing combustion within said combustion chamber such that the products of combustion flow from said combustion chamber, through 


 said combustion gas outlet and into said expander inlet zone, into said at least one expansion chamber to cause said one wrap member of said scroll-type expander section to orbit along with said one wrap member of said scroll- type compressor section such that the products of combustion are expanded by said scroll-type expander section and exhausted out said expander outlet, air is drawn into said air compressor inlet zone, compressed within said at least one compression chamber, expelled through said air compressor outlet zone, and delivered to said combustion chamber and said power output shaft is rotated;
a refrigeration system including a refrigerant compressor connected in drive relationship with the output drive shaft, a refrigerant condenser, a refrigerant expansion valve and a refrigerant evaporator, and a conduit containing a refrigerant in fluid communication with the compressor, condenser, expansion valve, and evaporator.
*
 2. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, including a cooling conduit means in heat exchange communication with said evaporator and
a cooling zone spaced away from said evaporator, said conduit arranged to supply a coolant from the evaporator location to the cooling zone location.
3. A cooling system as claimed in claim 2, said cooling conduit means comprising a closed loop conduit containing a coolant and extending from the evaporator to the cooling zone and back to the evaporator in a closed loop.
4. A cooling system as claimed in claim 3, including means for circulating a coolant in said closed loop conduit. 


 5. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, including a drive connecting unit, wherein said drive connecting unit includes first and second spaced plates to which said one wrap member of each of said scroll-type expander and compressor sections are respectively attached.
6. A cooling system as claimed in claim 5, further including first and second truss structures for respectively attaching said one wrap member of each of said scroll-type expander and compressor sections to said first and second spaced plates.
7. A cooling system as claimed in claim 5, further including a counterweight located between said first and second spaced plates, said counterweight being drivingly connected to said power output drive shaft so as to orbit 180° out of phase with said scroll- type expander and compressor sections.
8. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, further including an axial positioner means adjustably and operatively interconnected between the involute spiral wrap members of said scroll-type expander section for adjusting the axial distance between the involute wrap members.
9. A cooling system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said axial positioner comprises a first threaded member operatively secured to one of said involute spiral wrap members of said scroll-type expander section and a second threaded member operatively secured to the other of said involute spiral wrap members of said scroll-type expander section, said first threaded member being threadably connected to said second threaded member to enable adjustment of the permissible axial distance between said involute spiral wrap members when rotated. 


 10. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, further including combustion air heat exchanger means for transferring a portion of the thermal energy from the spent products of combustion of said drive unit to the combustion air delivered to said combustion chamber.
11. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, further including a housing, a fuel tank, a fuel pump for delivering fuel from said fuel tank to said combustion chamber, a battery and a generator/starter unit for use in starting said drive unit with power supplied from said battery and for producing electricity during operation of said drive unit, said fuel tank, pump, battery, generator/starter unit all being connected to said housing.
12. A cooling system as claimed in claim 11, wherein said fuel pump, said generator/starter unit and said refrigerant compressor are driven by said drive unit via said power output drive shaft.
13. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, further including means for controlling the amount of cooling output from the cooling system, said controlling means including means for inputting temperature control command signals and for sensing the cooling output of the system, and for generating a cooling adjustment signal for adjusting the cooling output of the system.
14. A cooling system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said controlling means comprises means for regulating the supply of fuel to said drive unit.
15. A cooling system as claimed in claim 11, including means for controlling the amount of cooling output from the cooling system, said controlling means including means for inputting temperature control 


command signals and for sensing the cooling output of the system and for generating a cooling adjustment signal for adjusting the cooling output of the system.
16. A cooling system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said controlling means comprises means for adjusting the field current in said generator/starter unit.
17. A cooling system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said controlling means comprises means for altering the compressing capacity of said refrigerant compressor.
18. A cooling system as claimed in claim 17, wherein said refrigerant compressor comprises a pair of intermeshed, relatively orbiting, co-rotating scroll compressor elements rotatably mounted within a compressor housing about parallel but offset axes of rotation and wherein said means for altering the compressing capacity of said refrigerant compressor comprises means for adjusting the distance between said axes of rotation.
19. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pair of axially extending involute spiral wrap members of said scroll-type air compressor section are formed from aluminum.
20. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, further including a drive connecting unit, and a labyrinth-type seal operatively located between said scroll-type expander section and said drive connecting unit to contain the products of combustion of said engine unit within said scroll-type expander section. 


 21. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, further including thermal insulation means for thermally insulating at least said combustion section and said expander section.
22. A cooling system as claimed in claim 1, including a fixed system housing, and wherein said other wrap member of each of said scroll-type expander and air compressor sections are fixed with respect to said system housing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
