<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620859</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ONE STEP RNA AND COMBINED ONE STEP RNA AND DNA POLYMERASE CHAIN REACTION FOR DETECTION OF RARE RNA OR RNA AND DNA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q148	C12Q148	C12Q168	C12Q168	C12Q170	C12Q170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A one step PCR technique for the detection of rare RNA and a combined one step PCR technique for the simultaneous detection of DNA and RNA is provided which offers several important advantages over traditional PCR. The simplified procedure of the one step RNA PCR and the combined one step PCR technique for the simultaneous detection of DNA and RNA and elimination of the potential for contamination with repeated opening of the reaction tubes reduces both labor intensity and the risk of false-positive results. In addition, the RT-PCR incubation program can be substantially shortened in the one step method and the combined one step PCR technique for the simultaneous detection of DNA and RNA. The increased intensity of reaction products using specimens containing both plus and minus stranded HCV RNA also favors the one step method. Thus, the one step RNA PCR is an attractive alternative to traditional RNA PCR for the detection of HCV RNA. And the combined one step PCR technique for the simultaneous detection of DNA and RNA is an attractive alternative to the separate use of traditional RNA PCR and DNA PCR for the detection of HCV RNA and HBV DNA. The reduced risk of contamination and time required for each assay make these techniques particularly well suited for testing of multiple clinical specimens.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEDARS SINAI MEDICAL CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HU KE-QIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIERLING JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HU, KE-QIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIERLING, JOHN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONOne Step RNA and Combined One Step RNA and DNA Polymerase Chain Reaction forDetection of Rare RNA or RNA and DNARelated ApplicationThis application is a continuation-in-part ofVierling and Hu, entitled "One Step RNA Polymerase ChainReaction for Detection of Rare RNA", filed September 29, 1992, U.S. Serial No. 07/954,359, pending in the PatentOffice.BackgroundPCR is a well used technique for amplification of DNA. It is used in a variety of assays for the detection of particular DNA sequences, such as those associated with bacterial or DNA virus caused diseases. Additionally, in combination with reverse transcription of RNA to DNA, PCR can be. used for the detection of RNA. Because of the sensitivity of PCR, it is especially appropriate for the detection of rare RNA or DNA.The hepatitis C virus (HCV) , recognized as the principal agent of non-A, non-B hepatitis (Choo, Q.-L. et al. ; Alter, H.J. et al. ) , is a positive-stranded RNA virus related to human flaviviruses and animal pestiviruses (Choo, Q.-L. et al. ; Houghton, M. et al. ) . The HCV RNA genome is approximately 10,000 nucleotides (nt) in length and contains a single open reading frame capable of encoding a 3,100 amino acid polyprotein precursor of individual structural and nonstructural proteins. A 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of approximately 324-341 nt is highly conserved among different HCV strains and favored for both diagnostic HCV RNA PCR and HCV RNA hybridization(Houghton, . et al. ; Hu, K.-Q. et al. (1991); Bukh, J. et al.; Hu, K.-Q. et al. (1992)) . 

 Detection of circulating anti-HCV antibodies or PCR amplification of HCV RNA ("HCV RNA PCR") are the two major techniques currently used to diagnose HCV infection. Since detection of HCV RNA by reverse transcription PCR is more direct and sensitive than anti-HCV testing, it has become the diagnostic standard for both acute and chronic HCV infection (Hu, K.-Q. et al. (1991); Bukh, J. et al. ; Houghton, M. et al. ) . Although HCV RNA PCR is a sensitive and specific technique, extensive clinical application has been thwarted by its labor-intensity, reaction time, potential for contamination and disparate results among laboratories due to variation in techniques and primers. Separate steps for reverse transcription (RT) and the subsequent addition of PCR reagents contribute to both the labor intensity and potential for contamination. It would be advantageous, therefore, to have a technique in which both RT and PCR amplification could be accomplished in one step.One step PCR
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for the detection of rare RNA comprising a one step PCR assay wherein active reverse transcriptase and active heat stable DNA polymerase are present together in a reaction container.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the reverse transcription reaction and the DNA amplification reaction are run sequentially.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the reverse transcriptase is denatured before the DNA amplification reaction is initiated.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the ratio of reverse transcriptase to heat stable DNA polymerase is between 2:1 and 10:1.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction container further contains MgCl
2
 at a concentration between 1 mM and 8 mM.
6. A one step PCR method for the detection of rare RNA in a sample wherein reverse transcriptase and heat stable DNA polymerase are added to the sample before incubation begins.
7. A one step PCR method for the detection of rare RNA in a sample wherein active reverse transcriptase and active heat stable DNA polymerase are present with the sample at the same time.
8. A one step PCR method for the detection of rare RNA in a sample wherein the same reaction solution is used for both reverse transcription and DNA amplification. 


 9. A method for the detection of HCV RNA comprising a one step PCR assay wherein active reverse transcriptase and active heat stable DNA polymerase are present together in the reaction container.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the reverse transcription reaction and the PCR reaction are run sequentially.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the reverse transcriptase is denatured before the DNA amplification reaction is initiated.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the ratio of reverse transcriptase to heat stable DNA polymerase is between 2:1 and 10:1.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein the reaction container further contains MgCl
2
 at a concentration between
1.5 mM and 8 mM.
14. The method of claim 10 wherein the reverse transcription reaction and the PCR reaction are run in the same solution.
15. A kit for the detection of HCV RNA using one step PCR comprising a reaction vessel; separate containers containing reverse transcriptase and heat stable DNA polymerase to be added to the reaction vessel at a ratio of between 2:1 and 10:1; dATP, dGTP, dTTP and dCTP; antisense and sense primer specific for HCV; and standard buffer and salts for PCR.
16. A method for the simultaneours extraction of RNA and DNA in a sample comprising an aqueous and an organic phase comprising the steps of: a) deactivating the proteins in said sample; 


 b) performing an RNA extraction in said sample, by altering the pH of said sample so that said pH is made acidic; and c) performing a DNA extraction in said sample by altering the pH of said sample so that said pH is made basic.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said RNA is RNA virus RNA, and said DNA is DNA virus DNA.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein said RNA is HCV RNA, and said DNA is HBV DNA.
19. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of deactivating the proteins in said sample is performed using guanidinium isothiocyanate.
20. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of deactivating the proteins in said sample is performed using Proteinase K.
21. The method of claim 16 wherein said organic phase consists essentially of a phenol and chloroform mixture.
22. The method of claim 16 wherein said pH of said sample during said RNA extraction is in the range of 3 0 to 5.0 and said pH of said sample during said DNA extraction is 7.1 to 9.0.
23. The method of claim 16 wherein said pH of said organic phase during said RNA extraction is 4.0 and said pH of said organic phase during said DNA extraction is 8.0. 


 24. The method of claim 16 wherein said pH of said sample during said RNA extraction is made acidic by addition of a buffer solution of acidic pH.
25. The method of claim 16 wherein said pH of said sample during said DNA extraction is made basic by addition of a buffer solution of basic pH.
26. The method of claim 16 wherein said RNA extraction is performed before said DNA extraction.
27. The method of claim 16 wherein said DNA extraction is performed before said RNA extraction.
28. A method for the simultaneous amplification and detection of a quantity of RNA and DNA in a sample comprising the steps of: a) deactivating proteins in said sample; b) performing an RNA extraction in said sample, by altering the pH of said sample so that said pH is made acidic; and c) performing a DNA extraction in said sample by altering the pH of said sample so that said pH is made basic; d) pooling said resulting RNA and DNA extracts; e) adding active reverse transcriptase and active heat stable DNA polymerase to said sample containing said resulting RNA and DNA extracts; f) first performing a reverse transcription reaction in said sample to yield a cDNA product, then inactivating said active reverse transcriptase, and activating said active heat stable DNA polymerase; and g) detecting the presence of an amplified cDNA product and detecting the presence of an amplified resulting DNA extract. 


 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the reverse transcriptase is denatured before the DNA amplification reaction is initiated.
30. The method of claim 28 wherein the ratio of reverse transcriptase to heat stable DNA polymerase is between 2:1 and 10:1.
31. The method of claim 28 wherein the reaction container further contains MgCl
2
 at a concentration between 1 mM and 8 mM.
32. The method of claim 28 wherein the same reaction solution is used for both reverse transcription and DNA amplification.
33. The method of claim 28 wherein said RNA is RNA virus RNA, and said DNA is DNA virus DNA.
34. The method of claim 28 wherein said RNA is HCV RNA, and said DNA is HBV DNA.
35. The method of claim 28 wherein said step of deactivating the proteins in said sample is performed using guanidinium isothiocyanate.
36. The method of claim 28 wherein said step of deactivating the proteins in said sample is performed using Proteinase K.
37. The method of claim 28 wherein said organic phase consists essentially of a phenol and chloroform mixture.
38. The method of claim 28 wherein said pH of said sample during said RNA extraction is in the range of 3.0 


to 5.0 and said pH of said sample during said DNA extraction is 7.1 to 9.0.
39. The method of claim 28 wherein said pH of said sample during said RNA extraction is 4.0 and said pH of said sample during said DNA extraction is 8.0.
40. The method of claim 28 wherein said pH of said sample during said RNA extraction is made acidic by addition of a buffer solution of acidic pH.
42. The method of claim 28 wherein said pH of said sample during said DNA extraction is made basic by addition of a buffer solution of basic pH.
43. The method of claim 28 wherein said RNA extraction is performed before said DNA extraction.
44. The method of claim 28 wherein said DNA extraction is performed before said RNA extraction.
V
45. The method of claim 28 wherein following said step of pooling said resulting RNA and DNA extracts said extracts are co-precipitated.
46. The method of claim 28 wherein following said step of coprecipitating said resulting RNA and DNA extracts said extracts are suspended in a solvent containing RNase inhibitors.
47. A kit for the simultaneous amplification of RNA and DNA using one step PCR comprising; a container containing means for deactivating proteins, means for isolating DNA and RNA species from a sample, separate containers containing reverse transcriptase and heat stable DNA polymerase to be added to the reaction vessel at a ratio of between 2:1 and 10:1; dATP, dGTP, dTTP and 


dCTP; antisense and sense primer specific for HCV; antisense and sense primer specific for HBV; and standard buffer and salts for PCR; and instructions indicating that protein denaturation must be performed first, followed by RNA extraction at acidic pH, and then DNA extraction at basic - pH, followed by addition of the reverse transcriptase and the heat stable polymerase, followed by reverse transcription and PCR.
48. A kit for the simultaneous amplification of HCV RNA and HBV DNA using one step PCR comprising; a container containing means for deactivating proteins, means for isolating DNA and RNA species from a sample, separate containers containing reverse transcriptase and heat stable DNA polymerase to be added to the reaction vessel at a ratio of between 2:1 and 10:1; dATP, dGTP, dTTP and dCTP; antisense and sense primer specific for HCV; antisense and sense primer specific for HBV; and standard buffer and salts for PCR; and instructions indicating that protein denaturation must be performed first, followed by RNA extraction at acidic pH, and then DNA extraction at basic pH, followed by addition of the reverse transcriptase and the heat stable polymerase, followed by reverse transcription and PCR. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
