<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653119</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR MICROPHONE PREAMPLIFICATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F3183	H03F3187	H03F3181	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Preamplifying circuitry amplifies sound signals for input into a computer system. A first stage common-emitter amplifier (16) provides high-gain amplification of the input signal, while a second stage amplifier (18) comprising an operational amplifier is suitable for driving a cable with the amplified sound signal. A low-cost constant voltage source (14) comprising a diode (26) and an operational amplifier (21a) supplies a voltage reference to both amplifier stages (16, 18) with a very high rejection of system noise. The circuitry and methods provide a low-cost, easily manufactured preamplifier suitable for sound input in desktop computing devices.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLE COMPUTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARRAR DOUGLAS MANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEYL LAWRENCE FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARRAR, DOUGLAS, MANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEYL, LAWRENCE, FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electronic amplifier systems. In particular the
invention relaxes to preamplification of microphone signals in a computer system.With increasing sophistication, personal computers interact with users through a
variety of multi-media apparatus and techniques. In particular, desktop computers have
begun to include small, inexpensive microphones. These microphones allow a user to input
sound and voice into computer applications. For instance, sampling program applications
can capture, store and modify voice and music information. As another example, speech
recognition and synthesis programs can parse human speech and perform program commands
based upon the recognized human voice. New uses for sound inputs will continue to expand
computer performance.Unfortunately, several factors hamper the use of these microphones for sound input in
desktop computers. The desktop computer, designed for digital purposes, presents a rather
hostile environment for audio frequency electronic operation. Desktop computers
continuously generate digital signals having spurious electromagnetic frequency components
in the audio region. This audio-frequency noise can interfere with and degrade voice and
sound signals. Exposed to this interference, program applications can exhibit anomalous and
often erroneous behavior. Speech recognition applications, in particular, require fairly high
signal-to-noise ratios to extract recognizable words from a stream of sound data. Audio
frequency noise degradation can hamper and even prevent proper operation of these human
voice and sound applications, especially from microphones that produce very low level
signals. The most obvious solution to this problem would be to incorporate a very good
amplifier within each desktop computer to adequately separate the sound input from any
background audio-frequency noise, boosting sound signals to acceptable levels. However,
the desktop computer industry is also subject to severe competitive pressures, requiring any
solution for inputting sound data to be functional yet inexpensive. Conventional amplifiers 
that yield adequate signal-to-noise ratios with little added
distortion are often complex to manufacture and too expensive
to incorporate into desktop computer applications.Electro Electronics, vol. 11, No. 2, February 1985, Canterbury,
GB, pages 2.32 to 2.33, "Microphone Pre-Amplifier",
discloses a microphone pre-amplifier which compensates for
signal losses in microphone extension cables and has a good
signal-to-noise
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for pre-amplification of an electronic signal
from a microphone, comprising:


an electret microphone capsule for generating the
electronic signal;
a microphone input (22a, 22b) for the electronic signal;
a voltage reference source (14) comprising feedback circuitry
for providing substantial power supply noise rejection

and a substantially constant voltage reference,
said voltage reference source (14) comprising


a first operational amplifier (21a) having two inputs
and an output,
a diode (26) coupled to a first input of the first
operational amplifier (21a), and
a first capacitor (30a) coupled across an electrical
connection from the output and a second input of the

first operational amplifier (21a);

a common emitter amplifier (14) coupled to the microphone
input (22a, 22b) and the voltage reference source (14); whereby

a line driver amplifier (18) is provided, the input of which is coupled to the outputs of the common emitter
amplifier (16) and the voltage reference source (14),

the line driver amplifier (18) having an output (20) for
a pre-amplified electronic signal.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further
comprising:


a second capacitor (34) coupling the microphone input
(22a) and the common emitter amplifier (16).
The apparatus as claimed in one of claims 1 and 2
wherein the common emitter amplifier (16) comprises:


a bi-polar transistor (32), the collector of the bipolar
transistor being coupled to an input of the line

driver amplifier (18);
a capacitor (34) coupled to the microphone input (22a)
and the base of the bi-polar transistor (32); and
a first resistor (36a) coupled between the collector
and the base of the bi-polar transistor (32).
The apparatus as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3
wherein the line driver amplifier (18) further

comprises:

a second operational amplifier (21b);
a third capacitor (38) coupled between the common
emitter amplifier (16) and an input of the second

operational amplifier (21b); and
a second resistor (40b) coupled between the output of
the second operational amplifier (21b) and the emitter

of the common emitter amplifier (16).
The apparatus as claimed in one of the preceding
claims, wherein


the common emitter amplifier (16) provides a high-gain
amplification of the inputted electronic signal; and
the line driver amplifier (18) drives a signal line.
The apparatus as claimed in one of claims 1 to 5
wherein in the voltage reference source (14):


the first operational amplifier (21a) maintains
a feed-back amplification loop, and
the diode (26) provides a low-voltage reference.
A method for pre-amplification for an electronic signal
from a microphone, comprising:


generating the electronic signal via an electret microphone
capsule;
inputting (22a, 22b) the electronic signal;
providing a power supply noise rejection and substantially

constant voltage reference (14) using feedback circuitry;
high-gain amplifying the inputted electronic signal using
a common emitter amplifier means (16) coupled to the voltage

reference (14); and
driving a signal line using a line driver amplifier means
(18), the line driver amplifier means being coupled to the outputs of the common

emitter amplifier means and the voltage reference,
the line driver amplifier means having an output (20) for

a pre-amplified electronic signal, wherein the step of
providing a voltage reference further comprises:
maintaining a feed-back amplification loop using a
first operational amplifier means (21a), the first

operational amplifier means having two inputs and an
output;
providing a low-voltage reference using a diode means
(26) coupled to a first input of the first operational

amplifier means; and
providing a feed-back loop using a first capacitor
(30a) coupled across an electrical connection from the

output and a second input of the first operational
amplifier means.
The method as claimed in claim 7 further
comprising the step of:


coupling the microphone input and the common emitter
amplifier means using a second capacitor (34).
The method as claimed in one of claims 7 and 8 wherein
the common emitter amplifier means comprises:


a transistor means (32) for amplifying the inputted 
electronic signal, the collector of the transistor

means being coupled to an input of the line driver
amplifier means (18);
a capacitor (34) coupled to the microphone input (22a)
and the base of the transistor means (32; and
a first resistor (36a) coupled between the collector
and the base of the transistor means (32).
The method as claimed in one of claims 7 to 9 wherein
the line driver amplifier means further comprises:


a second operational amplifier means (21a) for
amplifying the amplified inputted electronic signal;
a third capacitor (38) coupled between the common
emitter amplifier means (16) and an input of the second

operational amplifier means (21b); and
a second resistor (40b) coupled between the output of
the second operational amplifier means (21a) and the

emitter of the common emitter amplifier means (16).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
