<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658779</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Microlens substrate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B300	G02F113	G02B300	B29D1100	G02F11333	G02F11335	G02F113	B29D1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02F	G02B	B29D	G02F	G02F	G02F	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B3	G02F1	G02B3	B29D11	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	B29D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention discloses an opposed substrate 
(9) for use in a liquid crystal display element, for 

example. The opposed substrate is constructed by a 
transparent substrate (1), microlenses (2) formed on the 

substrate, a bonding layer (3), and cover glass (4). An 
alignment film and transparent electrodes are formed on 

the cover glass. The microlenses (2) and the bonding 
layer (3) are formed by selected resins which have 

thermal resistance to high temperatures not lower than 
150°C, permit heating treatment for forming the alignment 

film, and have a difference in refractive indexes between 
the resins, Δn ≧ 0. 1, so as to enable the microlenses 

to have a numerical aperture not lower than 0. 1. It is 
thus possible to prevent the decomposition of resins and 

separation of the microlens in heat treatment and to 
provide a high-quality, highly reliable liquid crystal 

display element. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a microlens
substrate having microlenses, a high-definition liquid
crystal display element using the microlens substrate, and
a liquid crystal projector using the liquid crystal
display element.The word "microlens" used in this specification means
not only a minute lens whose size is not larger than
several millimeters, but also a microlens array formed by
one-dimensionally or two-dimensionally aligning a
plurality of such minute lenses and a lenticular lens. In
this specification, a liquid crystal projector not only 
means a device having a light source, a liquid crystal
display element, image coloring means, an optical system
for enlarging and projecting an image displayed by the
liquid crystal display element onto a screen and means for
driving the liquid crystal display element, but also
includes an apparatus in which the above device and the
screen are formed as a single piece.The demand for projection-type liquid crystal display
elements such as projection televisions as well as
direct-viewing liquid crystal display elements increase.
When a liquid crystal display element is used as a
projection-type display, if images are enlarged without
changing the number of pixels used in a conventional
display element, a less definite view will result. In
order to obtain highly definite images, it is necessary to
increase the number of pixels when enlarging images.However, if the number of pixels in a liquid crystal
display element, particularly, in an active-matrix liquid
crystal display element is increased, the area occupied by
the pixels becomes relatively small while the area of a
black matrix covering other than the pixels increases. If
the area of the black matrix increases, the area of the
apertures of pixels used for displaying images is
decreased and the aperture ratio of the display element is
lowered. When the aperture ratio is decreased, the 
screen becomes darker, resulting in lowered image quality.In order to prevent a lowering of the aperture ratio
due to an increase in the number of pixels, the formation
of microlenses on one of the surfaces of a liquid crystal
display element was proposed (see Japanese Publication for
Unexamined Patent Applications No. 165621-165624/1985 and
262131/1985). The formation of a plurality of microlenses
corresponding to the respective pixels enables light which
is blocked by the black matrix in a conventional display
element to be converged onto a pixel.In addition, it is possible to use a microlens as:
converging means in an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A microlens substrate (9) comprising:

a first substrate (1);
an array of converging members (2) for converging incident light, said
converging members (2) being arranged on said first substrate (1); and
a second transparent substrate (4) placed on said converging members (2);
characterised in that it further comprises a bonding member (3), made of a
material having thermal resistance to temperatures above 150°C, for bonding

said converging members (2) and said second substrate (4);
in that the converging members (2) have thermal resistance to temperatures
above 150°C;
and in that the first substrate (1) is transparent.
A microlens substrate according to claim 1, wherein said converging members
(2) comprise a microlens array or a lenticular lens.
A microlens substrate according to claim 2, wherein a numerical aperture of
said microlens array or lenticular lens is not smaller than 0.1.
A microlens substrate according to claim 2, wherein the difference An in
refractive indices between said microlens array or lenticular lens and said

bonding member is not smaller than 0.1.
A microlens substrate according to claim 1, wherein said converging members
(2) and said bonding member (3) are formed of ultraviolet sensitive resins. 
A liquid crystal display element (10) comprising an opposed substrate, the
opposed substrate being a microlens substrate (9) as defined in any preceding claim;

wherein transparent electrodes, an alignment film, and a black matrix are
formed on said opposed substrate;

said liquid crystal display element further comprising:

an active matrix substrate (7); and
a liquid crystal layer (6) formed between said opposed substrate and said active
matrix substrate.
A liquid crystal display element according to claim 6,

wherein said first transparent substrate (1), said second transparent substrate (4),
and said active matrix substrate (7) are formed of the same material.
A liquid crystal display element according to claim 6,

wherein said converging members (2) and said bonding member (3) are formed
of ultraviolet sensitive resins.
A liquid crystal display element according to claim 6,

wherein said converging members (12) comprise a microlens array or a
lenticular lens having a numerical aperture not smaller than 0.1.
A liquid crystal display element according to claim 6,

wherein said converging members (12) comprise a microlens array or a
lenticular lens, and
 
the difference Δn in refractive indices between said microlens array or lenticular

lens and said bonding member is not smaller than 0.1.
A liquid crystal projector having a liquid crystal display element (10), said
liquid crystal display element comprising:


a microlens substrate
(9) as defined in any of claims 1 to 5;
an active matrix substrate (7); and
a liquid crystal layer (6) formed between said microlens substrate (9) and
said active matrix substrate (7);
the liquid crystal projector further comprising a projection lens for projecting
light transmitted through said liquid crystal display element onto a screen;

wherein a numerical aperture of said projection lens is larger than a numerical
aperture of said converging members.
A liquid crystal projector according to claim 11,

wherein said converging members (2) and said bonding member (3) are formed
of ultraviolet sensitive resin.
A liquid crystal projector according to claim 11,

wherein said converging members are a microlens array or a lenticular lens
having a numerical aperture not smaller than 0.1.
A liquid crystal projector according to claim 11,

wherein said converging members are a microlens array or a lenticular lens, and
the difference Δn in refractive indices between said microlens array or lenticular

lens and said bonding member is not smaller than 0.1. 
A method of manufacturing a microlens substrate comprising the steps of:

preparing a first transparent substrate (1);
forming an array of converging means (2), made of a material having a thermal
resistance to high temperatures not lower than 150°C on said first transparent

substrate (1), for converging incident light;
preparing a second transparent substrate (4);
bonding said converging means (2) and said second transparent substrate (4)
with a bonding member (3) made of a material having thermal resistance to high

temperatures not lower than 150°C; and
forming transparent electrodes, and alignment film, and a black matrix on said
second transparent substrate under temperatures not lower than 150°C.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
