<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616749</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PORTABLE MESSAGING AND SCHEDULING DEVICE WITH HOMEBASE STATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M165	G04G1100	H04B140	H04M1656	G04G1900	G04G1100	H04M165	G04G1900	H04B140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	G04G	H04B	H04M	G04G	G04G	H04M	G04G	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	G04G11	H04B1	H04M1	G04G19	G04G11	H04M1	G04G19	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A portable device (10) for selective message recordation and playback and scheduling includes a portable unit (11) and an optional homebase station (12). Portable unit (11) includes a housing (15), unit controller (20), tactile input mechanism (40), audio processor (60) and video processor (80). Portable unit (11) allows textual, audible and visual message inputs and their selective playback based on time or other preselected textual, audible or visual stimulus. A selectively detachable stylus (51) may be removed to engage a touch panel (50) for making operational selections and entering information. Optional homebase station (12) may include a variety of features for supporting and supplementing those of handheld unit (11), such as a floppy drive (112) message memory, input keys (114), a battery charging circuit (115) and an external communication circuit (117).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KHYBER TECHNOLOGIES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KHYBER TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMAR RAJENDRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMAR, RAJENDRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to portable devices for receiving, and
storing and selectively recalling messages. More particularly, the present invention
pertains to devices for recording and playback of messages and reminders. More
specifically, the present invention relates to portable devices sometimes referred to as
message recorders and organizers.Over the years a wide variety of devices, sometimes loosely referred to as organizers,
have been used to assist the individual in retaining and sequentially recalling
thoughts or other messages, and retaining and furnishing timely reminders of
matters requiring future attention. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,228,470 to Rahamin
et al., and the "OA Secretary" made by Ky-Tek Industrial Co., Ltd. of Taipei
Taiwan Republic of China, present non-portable electronic reminder systems in
which microphone input audio messages are stored and subsequently played back at
preselected times entered through a keyboard. U.S. Patent No. 4,302,752 to Weitzler
discloses another electronic reminder device for receiving audio input, storing the
audio input on separate tracks of audio tape, and playing back the audio input at
preselected times associated with each separate track.Storage and selective retrieval of typewritten and manually entered notes and
messages have also been the subject of organizers. A handheld electronic device for
storing keyboard entered personal information such as telephone numbers, appointments
and one's agenda, and furnishing an audio alarm or display at the time of an
appointment or other preselected time has been shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,847,760
to Yagi. U.S. Patent No. 4,968,065 to O'Brien depicts a manual notetaking system
in which a note-card is lined on one side to facilitate writing and shaped to facilitate
carrying in a shirt-pocket. Two additional US Patents, Nos. 4, 785, 357 to Dreyfus et al. and
4, 471, 218 to Culp envision acquiring visual information for storage and
later retrieval. In the Dreyfus et al. patent a pocket photocopier capable
of scanning, storing and printing a portion of a document includes a CCD
array and an incremental wheel which furnishes a time base for the
reading interval as the wheel rolls without sliding. The scanned matter is
stored in a memory and printed out by a built in printer The Culp patent
provides a portable data entry terminal wand having a barcode scanner
that reads data into its memory and, when the wand is inserted, into an
optical-coupled interface module transfers the data in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A personal organiser and messaging device (10) comprising a homebase station (12) and a
housing (15) dimensioned for handheld grasping said housing (15) including:


an image scanner (86) for scanning a strip of printed material and
creating a scanning message signal;
a processor (60, 80) for controlling the receipt of the signal,
storing the signal, and non-sequentially selectively recalling the signal;

and
displaying means (81) for receiving information from the processor
and from the image scanner;

   
characterised in that
:

input means (48, 50, 62) are provided for receiving a written or auditory
message and generating a representative message signal: the message

signal may be displayed by the display means; and
the handheld housing (15) is dimensioned to fit into a shirt pocket.
A device as set forth in claim 1. in which the housing (15) also
includes:


audio input means (62) for receiving and digitally recording an
audio message and generating a representative audio message signal;
audio output means (65) for receiving and play back of the recalled
audio message signal;
in which the processor (60, 80) controls the receipt and digital
storage of both the scanning message signal and the audio message signal,

and non-sequentially recalls for play back both said signals.
A device, as set forth in Claim 1 or Claim 2. in which said
processor means (60. 80) digitally records said written message, and non-sequentially 

selectively recalls for playback said written message, and in
which said display means (81) displays said written message. 
A device, as set forth in Claim 3, further including clock
means (25) for furnishing to said processor means a clock signal

representative of the current date and time, said processor means
selectively recalling for playback at a preselected time the preselected said

audio message signal, said scanning message signal and said written
message signal.
A device, as set forth in Claim 1, wherein the handheld
housing (15) is dimensionally longer than wide to facilitate handheld

grasping and carrying substantially within a shirt-pocket.
A device, as set forth in Claim 5, in which the handheld unit has a
first end (18) and a second end (19), and the image scanner (49) is

positioned adjacent the first end.
A device, as set forth in Claim 6, in which the audio input
means (62) is positioned adjacent one of the first and second ends.
A device, as set forth in Claim 7, in which the display means (81)
is positioned intermediate the first and second ends.
A device, as set forth in any preceding claim, wherein said writing
means (48) is a touch panel and said handheld unit further includes stylus

means (51) selectively detachably mounted to said handheld unit for
operative engagement with said touch panel.
A device, as set forth in any preceding claim, wherein said
homebase station (12) includes means for transmitting messages to and receiving 

messages from said handheld housing (15), said handheld housing means
and said homebase station means being in selective operative engagement.
A device, as set forth in Claim 10, wherein said homebase
station (12) further includes communications means (127) for transmitting

messages to and receiving messages from external sources.
A device, as set forth in Claim 10, wherein homebase station
means (12) further includes keyboard means (114) for remote message

entry to said processor means.
A device, as set forth in any preceding claim, in which the
processor further comprises linking means for linking a first message

which has a future occurrence to a second message; monitoring means for
monitoring of the future occurrence of the first message; and playback

means for playing back the second message upon the future occurrence of
the first message.
A device, as set forth in Claim 13, in which the first message is
user inputted via one of the audio input means, the writing means and the

virtual image scanner; and in which the second message is user inputted to
the device via one of the audio input means, the writing means, and the

virtual image scanner, and in which the linking means links the first user
inputted message with the second user inputted message, and in which the

linking means is user created.
A device for message organization, as set forth in Claim 14,
wherein said input means receives said first message in visual, auditory

and tactile input formats and said output means furnishing said second
message in visual and auditory output formats. 
A portable device for message organization, as set forth in

Claim 15, wherein said input means includes written message means for
receiving at least one written message, audio message means for receiving

and recording at least one audio message, scanner means for receiving at
least one scanning message, and said output means includes audio message

player means for playing said audio messages and display means for
displaying said written messages and said scanning messages.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
