<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645008</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENDPOINT DETECTION TECHNIQUE USING SIGNAL SLOPE DETERMINATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1106	G01B1106	G01N2125	G01N2127	G01N2141	G01N2145	G06T100	G06T100	H01L2102	H01L21027	H01L21302	H01L213065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G06T	G06T	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01B11	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G06T1	G06T1	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A predetermined stage of a changing condition is detected by monitoring a change in a signal relating to the changing condition. For example, the existence of a breakthrough that results from photoresist development, material etching, and the like, is detected by optically monitoring a semiconductor wafer, printed circuit board, and the like, that is being processed. An optimum end of the processing can then be determined in response to a breakthrough being detected, either for the purpose of monitoring the process or in order to automatically terminate the processing at that determined time. As part of the processing that determines the existence of a breakthrough, the optical signal is digitized and individual slope values calculated from groups of consecutive digital signal values.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUXTRON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUXTRON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LITVAK HERBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LITVAK, HERBERT, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ENDPOINT DETECTION TECHNIQUE USING SIGNAL SLOPE DETERMINATIONSBackground of the InventionThis invention relates generally to techniques of signal processing that result in determining when a particular stage of a changing condition has been reached, either for the purpose of observation or for automatically controlling the events causing the condition to change, an example being the monitoring of an electrical signal in order to determine when an endpoint has been reached in a semiconductor processing operation such as photoresist development or etching operations.There are many situations where an electrical signal exists, or can be obtained, that varies in a manner related to a changing condition desired to be monitored. One class of such situations is during the processing of materials where its desired to determine when a particular processing operation has been completed; ie, to detect an endpoint of the processing operation. The endpoint determination is then used to monitor the progress of the process and/or to control the process, such as by terminating the specific processing operation being monitored. The semiconductor industry is one example of where such process monitoring occurs. At several stages in the manufacture of circuits on a semiconductor wafer, a mask is formed of photoresist material. The resulting mask is used to limit processing of a layer covered by the mask to a patterned area. The mask is formed by 

exposing the photoresist layer to light in the desired pattern, followed by developing the photoresist layer through application of a developer solution to it. With the usual photoresist material, the exposed regions are removed during the development process to expose the layer below. The time at which the underlying layer first becomes exposed by removal of photoresist material is termed the "breakthrough" or "endpoint." The development process is allowed to continue for a period of time after breakthrough is first detected, the end of that period of time being the end of the development process, termed its "process end."Because of various processing and environmental variations that exist from batch to batch of semiconductor wafers, the development process is monitored in order to determine when breakthrough occurs.- A beam of light of finite bandwidth is directed against the photoresist layer of one wafer of a batch and a reflected or transmitted light signal is then detected and the resulting electrical signal processed to determine when breakthrough occurs. In one form,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IT IS CLAIMED:
1. A method of detecting a particular stage of a changing condition, comprising the steps of: monitoring the changing condition, acquiring a succession of periodic digital samples representing an electrical signal that varies in a manner related to said changing condition, calculating individual values of signal change from successive groups of said digital samples, and determining when a predetermined number of consecutive ones of said values of signal change fall within a preset limit related to said particular stage, thereby to determine that said changing condition has reached said particular stage.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the calculating step includes the steps of: fitting a curve to a first group of a predetermined number of digital samples that are contiguous in time, calculating a single value of signal change from said curve, and repeating in time sequence the foregoing fitting and signal change value calculating steps on a plurality of different groups of said predetermined number of digital samples, the samples of individual groups including at least some of the samples but omitting at least an earliest acquired sample of the immediately preceding group.
3. The method according to claim 1 which comprises the additional step of terminating further change in said condition in response to determining that said condition has reached said particular stage. 


 4. The method according to claim 1 which comprises the additional step of processing material in a manner that a change in the material as a result of its processing is the changing condition being monitored.
5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the signal monitoring and generating step includes the step of positioning a detector in a path of an electromagnetic radiation signal having a variation related to the changing characteristic of the material being processed.
6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the signal monitoring and generating step includes the step of directing a beam of electromagnetic radiation onto th material and thence to the detector, whereby the detector receives the beam after modification by the changing condition of said material.
7. The method according to claim 5 wherein the detector positioning step includes the step of positioning the detector in the path of electromagnetic radiation being emitted as part of the material processing.
8. The method according to claim 1 which comprises the additional step of altering a thickness of at least a portion of a layer of material across an article surface, and wherein the changing condition being monitored by the monitoring and signal generating step is that of said material layer thickness.
9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the thickness altering step includes increasing the thickness of said material layer. 


 10. The method according to claim 8 wherein the thickness altering step includes decreasing the thickness of said material layer.
11. The method according to claim 10 wherein the step of decreasing the thickness of said material layer includes decreasing the thickness of said material layer across only a patterned portion thereof.
12. The method according to claim 8 wherein the article upon which the thickness of a material layer is being monitored includes a semiconductor substrate.
13. The method according to claim 8 wherein the signal monitoring and generating step includes the step of directing a beam of electromagnetic radiation onto the material layer and thence to the detector, whereby the detector receives the beam after modification by the changing thickness condition of said layer.
14. The method according to claim 8 wherein the detector positioning step includes the step of positioning the detector in the path of electromagnetic radiation being emitted as part of the material layer thickness changing process.
15. The method according to claim 8 wherein the layer whose thickness is being altered includes a layer of photoresist material.
16. The method according to claim 8 which comprises an additional step of terminating the layer thickness altering in response to determining that the 


changing thickness condition has reached said particular stage.
17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the particular stage of a changing condition is detected without comparison of the magnitude of the digital signal samples with an absolute reference signal level.
18. A method of detecting a particular stage of an article condition that is changing in response to processing of the article, comprising the steps of: directing onto a detector an electromagnetic radiation signal exhibiting a rate of change that is related to said changing article condition, generating from said detector an electrical signal in a form of a succession of periodic digital values that also exhibits a rate of change that is related to said changing article condition, during the article processing, calculating individual values of signal change from successive groups of said digital values, by the following steps: fitting a curve to a first group of a predetermined number of digital values that are contiguous in time, calculating a single value of signal change from said curve, and repeating in time sequence the foregoing fitting and signal change value calculating steps on a plurality of different groups of said predetermined number of digital values, the values of individual groups including at least some of the values but omitting at least an earliest acquired value of the immediately preceding group, determining from said signal change values that the article processing has begun, and 


 after determining that the article processing has begun, determining when a first predetermined number of consecutive values of signal change fall within a first preset limit related to said article condition stage, thereby to detect that said article condition has reached said stage.
19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the step of determining that the article processing has begun includes determining when a second predetermined number of consecutive values of signal change fall outside of a second preset limit related to said article processing.
20. The method according to claim 19 wherein the first preset limit is a signal change value that is less than a predetermined level and the second preset limit is a signal change value that is greater than said predetermined level.
21. The method according to claim 18 which comprises an additional step of terminating the processing of said article in response to detecting that the condition of the article has reached said stage.
22. The method according to claim 18 wherein the particular stage of the article condition is detected without comparison of the magnitude of the digital signal values with an absolute reference signal level.
23. A method of detecting a breakthrough in a process of removing material from a substantially transparent layer of a composite structure, comprising the steps of: 


 directing electromagnetic radiation against said layer during the material removal process, thereby to reflect said radiation from both an exposed surface of said layer and a surface beneath said layer, receiving the reflected radiation at a detector, thereby to generate an electrical signal proportional to an intensity of an interference between radiation reflected from the exposed surface of the layer and the surface beneath said layer, said signal changing while material is being removed from said layer, calculating from said electrical signal during the removal process a function representing a time varying slope of said signal, determining from said slope function that the material removal process has started, and after it is determined that the material removal process has started, detecting when the slope function falls in magnitude below a first preselected fixed value for a first preselected period of time, whereby the oscillations of said signal are detected to have ended and the breakthrough is confirmed to have occurred.
24. The method according to claim 23 wherein the step of determining that the process has been started includes detecting the existence of at least a portion of an oscillation of said electrical signal.
25. The method according to claim 23 wherein the step of determining that the process has been started includes detecting when said slope function exceeds a second preselected fixed value for a second preselected period of time. 


 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein the first and second preselected fixed values of slope are made to be a single value.
27. The method according to claim 23 wherein the slope function calculating step includes the following steps:
(a) acquiring at periodic intervals digital samples of the electrical signal generated by the photodetector,
(b) fitting a curve to a first group of a predetermined number of digital samples that are contiguous in time, (c) calculating at least one value of the slope function from said curve,
(d) repeating in time sequence the foregoing steps (b) and (c) on a plurality of different groups of said predetermined number of digital samples, the samples of individual groups including at least some of the samples but omitting at least an earliest acquired sample of the immediately preceding group.
28. The method according to claim 27 wherein the step of detecting when the slope function falls in magnitude below a first preselected fixed value for a first preselected period of time includes determining when a consecutive number of slope function values calculated from the groups of digital signal data remain below said first preselected fixed value for said first preselected period of time.
29. The method according to claim 23 wherein the material removal process includes developing a photoresist layer that has been made selectively dissolvable according to a pattern. 


 30. The method according to claim 29 wherein the photoresist layer development includes application of a developer solution to its said exposed surface.
31. The method according to claim 23 wherein the material removal process includes etching the layer of material through a mask.
32. The method according to claim 31 wherein the layer is being etched by contact of an etchant solution with the exposed surface of the layer through said mask.
33. The method according to claim 23 wherein the material removal process includes removing material from said layer carried by a semiconductor wafer.
34. The method according to claim 23 which comprises an additional step of terminating the process of removing material from said layer in response to confirming that breakthrough has occurred.
35. The method according to claim 23 wherein the breakthrough is confirmed to have occurred without comparison of the magnitude of the electrical signal with an absolute reference signal level.
36. A method of detecting a breakthrough in a plasma process of removing material from a layer of a composite structure, comprising the steps of: detecting an electromagnetic radiation component of said plasma, thereby to generate an electrical signal proportional to an intensity of said radiation component, 


 calculating from said electrical signal during the removal process a function representing a time varying slope of said signal, determining from said slope function if the material removal process has started, and after it is determined that the material removal process has started, detecting when the slope function falls in magnitude below a preselected fixed value for a preselected period of time, whereby the breakthrough is confirmed to have occurred.
37. The method according to claim 36 wherein the slope function calculating step includes the following steps:
(a) acquiring at periodic intervals digital samples of the electrical signal generated by the detector,
(b) fitting a curve to a first group of a predetermined number of digital samples that are contiguous in time, (c) calculating a single value of the slope function from said curve,
(d) repeating in time sequence the foregoing steps (b) and (c) on a plurality of different groups of said predetermined number of digital samples, the samples of individual groups including at least some of the samples but omitting at least an earliest acquired sample of the immediately preceding group.
38. The method according to claim 37 wherein the step of detecting when the slope function falls in magnitude below said preselected fixed value for said preselected period of time includes determining when a consecutive number of slope function values calculated from the groups of digital signal data remain below said 


preselected fixed value for said preselected period of time.
39. The method according to claim 36 wherein the material removal process includes removing material from said layer carried by a semiconductor wafer.
40. The method according to claim 36 which comprises an additional step of terminating the process of removing material from said layer in response to confirming that breakthrough has occurred.
41. The method according to claim 36 wherein the breakthrough is confirmed to have occurred without comparison of the magnitude of the electrical signal with an absolute reference signal level. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
