<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646278</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUID TREATMENT SYSTEM EMPLOYING ELECTRICALLY RECONFIGURABLE ELECTRODE ARRANGEMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F100	C02F100	C02F146	C02F146	C02F1461	C02F1461	C02F148	C02F148	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrolytic filter system (16) is disclosed for use in treating fluid provided by a fluid source (12) to a supplied environment (14). The system includes an electrolytic cell (18) controlled by control circuit (20). Various alternative constructions of the cell are described in which the effective separation of active electrodes, as well as the effective area of the active electrodes can be altered by a switching circuit (94) and controller (96) included in the control circuit (20). The controller responds to inputs from a current sensor (92) reflecting variations in the resistivity of the water. As a result, the controller is able to alter the effective separation and area of the active electrode, in response to resistivity variations to provide optimal operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATER REGENERATION SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATER REGENERATION SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERICKSON ROBERT K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINZ FRANCOIS X
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERICKSON, ROBERT, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINZ, FRANCOIS, X.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLUID TREATMENT SYSTEM EMPLOYING ELECTRICALLY RECONFIGURABLE ELECTRODE ARRANGEMENTField of the Invention This invention relates generally to electrolytic fluid treatment systems and, more particularly, to electrode arrangements used in such systems.Background of the Invention Electrolytic fluid treatment systems are widely used to, for example, remove impurities and contaminants from fluids. In such systems, the fluid to be treated is passed between one or more pairs of electrodes. An electric potential, applied to the electrodes, establishes an electric current between the electrodes. As a result, impurities in the fluid migrate and adhere to the electrodes, biological materials in the fluid are killed, and the fluid's chemical composition may be altered.One fluid that is commonly processed by electrolytic fluid treatment systems is water. The electrolytic treatment of water is, however, complicated by the widely varying water characteristics encountered from one water source to another. In that regard, the resistivity of water, which is inversely proportional to conductivity, commonly varies over a range extending from 30 to 1400 ohm-meter. Such resistivity variations may significantly alter the performance of an electrolytic filter system.More particularly, the interelectrode resistance is dependent upon the resistivity of the water flowing between the electrodes. With a fixed electric potential applied to the electrodes, current flow between the electrodes will vary in inverse proportion to the water's resistance. If water resistivity is relatively high, the current may be too low to achieve the desired treatment of the water. On the other hand, if 

water resistivity is relatively low, the current may be so high as to damage or otherwise decrease the life of system components.A variety of different systems have been developed that attempt to accommodate such variations in water resistivity. For example, electronic control circuits have been designed to allow water purification and ion generation systems to maintain constant current flows, substantially independent of variations in water resistivity.In that regard, U.S. Patent No. 4,119,520 (Paschakarnis et al.) discloses a water purification unit that includes such a current control circuit. The current to be controlled flows through a resistor, as well as between the electrodes. A differential amplifier and transistor cooperatively control the current by keeping the voltage drop across the resistor equal to the reference potential across a diode.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. An electrolytic fluid treatment system for treating a fluid, said filter system comprising: a plurality of electrodes; support means for physically supporting said plurality of electrodes; electrical reconfiguration means for providing electrically reconfigurable connections to said plurality of electrodes.
2. The system of Claim 1, further comprising sensing means for producing an output representative of a characteristic of the fluid, said electrical reconfiguration means being for providing said electrically reconfigurable connections to said plurality of electrodes in response to said output.
3. The system of Claim 2, wherein said sensing means is for producing an output representation of the resistivity of the fluid.
4. The system of Claim 3, further comprising energy source means for providing a source of electrical current, said electrical reconfiguration means being for controlling the flow of current between to said electrodes from said source means, said sensing means being for sensing the magnitude of said current to produce said output representative of the resistivity of the fluid.
5. The system of Claim 4, wherein said support means is for supporting said plurality of electrodes in a fixed physical arrangement and wherein said electrical reconfiguration means is for causing the separation of said electrodes said current flows between to vary in accordance with the resistivity of the fluid.
6. The system of Claim 5, wherein said electrical reconfiguration means is for causing the area of said electrodes through which said current flows to vary in accordance with the resistivity of the fluid.
7. The system of Claim 4, wherein said electrical reconfiguration means is for causing the area of said electrodes through which said current flow to vary in accordance with the resistivity of the fluid. 


 8. The system of Claim 3, wherein said electrical reconfiguration means is for electrically connecting alternative ones of said plurality of electrodes for use as anodes and cathodes when said output is representative of a fluid resistivity above some threshold level.
9. The system of Claim 8, wherein said reconfiguration means is further for electrically connecting alternative ones of said plurality of electrodes for use as charged and uncharged electrodes and for electrically connecting alternative ones of the charged electrodes for use as anodes and cathodes when said output is representative of a fluid resistivity below some threshold.
10. The system of Claim 9, wherein said reconfiguration means is further for electrically connecting eight adjacent electrodes for use as an anode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, cathode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, and neutral electrode, respectively, when said output is representative of a fluid resistivity below some threshold.
11. The system of Claim 10, wherein said plurality of electrodes comprise seventeen electrodes.
12. The system of Claim 4, wherein each one of said plurality of electrodes is divided into a plurality of individual elements, said electrical reconfiguration means being for controlling the number of individual elements said current flows between.
13. The system of Claim 1, wherein said plurality of electrodes comprise seventeen electrode plates, each said electrode plate including a connection edge and a connection tab projecting therefrom, said connection tab being roughly centered with respect to said connection edge on four of said electrode plates, said connection tab being adjacent one end of said connection edge on seven of said electrode plates, and said connection tab being roughly midway between the center and end of said connection edge on six of said electrode plates, said electrode plates being supported by said support means with said connection edges substantially aligned in a common plane.
14. The system of Claim 13, wherein said support means further comprises a shell having an internal cavity and a pair of external channels, said connection tabs of said electrodes projecting from said shell, said system further comprising a plurality 


of wires electrically connected to said connection tabs and positioned within alternative ones of said external channels.
15. The system of Claim 14, wherein said external channels each include an electrode end, said electrode ends of said external channels exhibiting a staggered alignment relative to said connection tabs of said electrodes projecting from said shell.
16. The system of Claim 1, wherein said electrical reconfiguration means comprises a switching circuit for providing a plurality of switchable electrical connections to said plurality of electrodes.
17. The system of Claim 16, wherein said electrical reconfiguration means further comprises a microprocessor for controlling the switching circuit to provide the desired electrically reconfigurable connections.
18. The system of Claim 1, wherein said support means is further for enclosing said electrodes and for defining a fluid flow path including said electrodes.
19. The system of Claim 18, wherein said support means includes a shell provided with a plurality of spaced apart, opposed grooves for cooperatively engaging said electrodes.
20. A method of controlling an electrolytic fluid treatment system, said method being responsive to variations in a characteristic of the fluid and comprising the steps of: evaluating the characteristic of the fluid to be filtered; and electrically connecting a plurality of electrodes together in a particular configuration responsive to the evaluated characteristic of the fluid.
21. The method of Claim 20, wherein said characteristic of the fluid is its resistivity.
22. The method of Claim 21, further comprising the step of applying a current between at least two of the electrodes.
23. The method of Claim 22, wherein said step of evaluating the resistivity of the fluid is performed by monitoring the current applied between the at least two electrodes, the current being representative of fluid resistivity. 


 24. The method of Claim 23, further comprising the step of passing fluid between the plurality of electrodes.
25. The method of Claim 22, wherein the plurality of electrodes are maintained in a fixed physical arrangement and wherein said step of electrically connecting the plurality of electrodes together further comprises the step of electrically connecting the electrodes so that the separation of the electrodes that current is applied between is dependent upon the resistivity of the fluid.
26. The method of Claim 22, wherein each one of the plurality of electrodes includes a plurality of electrode elements and wherein said step of electrically connecting the plurality of electrodes together further comprises the step of electrically connecting the electrodes so that the number of electrode elements that current is applied between is dependent upon the resistivity of the fluid.
27. The method of Claim 21, wherein said step of electrically connecting the plurality of electrodes includes the step of initially connecting alternative ones of the electrodes in parallel.
28. The method of Claim 27, wherein said step of electrically connecting the plurality of electrodes includes the step of maintaining alternative ones of the electrodes connected in parallel when the step of evaluating the resistivity of the fluid to be filtered indicates that the resistivity is above some level.
29. The method of Claim 28, wherein said step of electrically connecting the plurality of electrodes further includes the step of connecting adjacent ones of the electrodes to form a repeatable pattern of electrodes usable as an anode, neutral electrode, cathode, and neutral electrode when the step of evaluating the resistivity of the fluid to be filtered indicates that the resistivity is below some level.
30. The method of Claim 29, wherein said step of electrically connecting the plurality of electrodes further includes the step of connecting adjacent ones of the electrodes to form a repeatable pattern of electrodes usable as an anode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, cathode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, neutral electrode, and neutral electrode when the step of evaluating the resistivity of the fluid to be filtered indicates that the resistivity is below some level. 


 31. An electrolytic filter system for filtering a fluid, said system comprising: a plurality of electrodes physically supported relative to one another; and means for electrically connecting the electrodes to define one or more active electrodes whose effective separation is dependent upon the resistivity of the fluid.
32. An electrolytic filter system for filtering a fluid, said system comprising: a plurality of electrodes, each electrode including a plurality of individual elements; and means for electrically connecting the electrode elements to define one or more active electrodes whose active area is dependent upon the resistivity of the fluid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
