<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610938</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Three dimensional flow processor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1576	G06F1580	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In accordance with the present invention, a three dimensional flow processor (600) 
is disclosed, comprising a central processing unit (602-610), a first plurality of buses (A', 

B', C') coupled to the central processing unit, an input data port (634) coupled to at least one 
of the first plurality of buses and an output data port (628) coupled to at least one of the first 

plurality of buses, wherein data appearing on the input data port is routed to the output data 
port if the central processing unit is busy. Other systems, devices and methods are disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV RES ASS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITIES RESEARCH ASSOCIATION, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROSETTO DARIO BARTOLOMEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROSETTO, DARIO BARTOLOMEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention was made with Government support under contract No. 
DE-AC02-89ER40486 between Universities Research Association, Inc. and the Department 
of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention. The present invention relates to parallel processing architectures and more 
particularly to parallel processing architectures suitable for data sharing in an array, pattern 
recognition within a data array and sustaining a data input rate which is higher than the 
pattern recognition algorithm execution time. The background of the present invention is described in relation to high energy 
particle physics experimentation by way of illustration only. There is a need in many fields to identify objects in a one-, two-, or 
three-dimensional system which generates information at a rate which is higher than the rate 
at which state-of-the-art programmable devices (processors) can execute different pattern 
recognition algorithms. These processors implement such algorithms by using different 
sequences of instructions from a fixed instruction set (i.e. a program). For example, in the 
field of medical image processing, there is an emphasis on acquiring data at extremely high 
rates (e.g. to cope with the patient metabolism). Also, in the field of industrial quality 
control, there may be fast production streams in which a pattern recognition system must be 
able to detect imperfections, faulty objects, misplaced objects or misaligned objects. There 
is also a similar need in the military field, where it is sometimes critical to identify a target 
moving at a very high speed (e.g. distinguishing between an airplane and a missile). Similar 
problems may no doubt be identified in a multitude of other areas. One such important example is the field of high energy particle physics 
research. It is characteristic of high energy particle physics experimentation that very large 
amounts of data must be processed in very short spans of time. For example, experiments 
at the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) accelerator, now under construction in Ellis  
 
County, Texas, will have an average of 1.6 interactions during a proton beam crossing which 
occurs every 16 nanoseconds (ns.). Several types of subdetectors (calorimeter, shower 
maximum detector, central tracking and muon system, for example) will send information 
to the initial triggering mechanism (the Level 1 trigger) which must be able to distinguish 
between events of interest and background events occurring at a rate of 60 Mhz. For example,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A three dimensional flow processor, comprising: 
   a central processing unit; 

   a first plurality of buses coupled to said central processing unit; 
   an input data port coupled to at least one of said first plurality of buses; and 

   an output data port coupled to at least one of said first plurality of buses, wherein 
data appearing on said input data port is routed to said output data port if said 

central processing unit is busy. 
The three dimensional flow processor of Claim 1, further comprising a second 
plurality of bidirectional data ports, each of said bidirectional data ports coupled to 

at least one of said first plurality of buses. 
The three dimensional flow processor of Claim 1 wherein said input data port routes 
said input data directly to at least one of said first plurality of buses when a control 

signal has a first value and uses said input data as an input to a look-up table when 
said control signal has a second value. 
The three dimensional flow processor of Claim 2 wherein data may be input from 
more than one port and output to more than one port during a single clock cycle. 
A three dimensional flow processor, comprising: 
   a central processing unit; 

   a first plurality of ring buses coupled to said central processing unit; 
   a north data port coupled to at least one of said ring buses for bidirectional 

communication; 
   an east data port coupled to at least one of said ring buses for bidirectional 

communication; 
   a south data port coupled to at least one of said ring buses for bidirectional 

communication; 
   a west data port coupled to at least one of said ring buses for bidirectional 

communication; 
   a top data port coupled to at least one of said ring buses for receiving input data; and 

   a bottom data port coupled to at least one of said ring buses for outputting data, 
wherein said input data appearing at said top data port is routed to said bottom 

data port if said central processing unit is busy. 
A parallel processing architecture, comprising: 
   a first two-dimensional grid of first processing elements, each of said first processing 

elements having a first input and a first output; and 
   a second two-dimensional grid of second processing elements, each of said second 

processing elements having a second input and a second output, wherein each 
said second input is coupled to a corresponding said first output of a 

corresponding first processor element, so that an input signal on said first 
input is passed to said second input if said corresponding first processing 

element is busy. 
The parallel processing architecture of Claim 6, wherein: 
   said first processing elements are capable of bidirectional communication with said 

first processing elements which are orthogonally adjacent in said first two-dimensional 
grid; and 

   said second processing elements are capable of bidirectional communication with said 
second processing elements which are orthogonally adjacent in said second 

two-dimensional grid. 
A parallel processing architecture comprising: 
   a first plurality of array processor modules, arranged in a first two-dimensional grid, 

each of said first plurality of array processor modules coupled to a first, 
second, third and fourth adjoining ones of said first array processor modules 

for communication therebetween, except for first edge modules of said first 
plurality of array processor modules located on an edge of said first 

two-dimensional grid, said first edge modules being coupled only to said first, 
second and third adjoining ones of said first array processor modules for 

communication therebetween; 
   a second plurality of array processor modules, arranged in a second two-dimensional 

grid, each of said second plurality of array processor modules coupled to a 
fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth adjoining ones of said second array processor 

modules for communication therebetween, except for second edge modules of 
said second plurality of array processor modules located on an edge of said 

second two-dimensional grid, said second edge modules being coupled only 
to said fifth, sixth and seventh adjoining ones of said second array processor 

modules for communication therebetween; and 
   communication means for enabling communication from each of said second plurality 

of array processor modules to a corresponding one of said first plurality of 
array processor modules. 
The parallel processing architecture of Claim 8 wherein said communication means 
provides physical attachment of as well as communication capability. 
The parallel processing architecture of Claim 8 wherein each of said second plurality 
of array processor modules has an input terminal for receiving data, each of said 

second plurality of array processor modules passing said data to said corresponding 
one of said first plurality of array processor modules whenever each of said second 

plurality of array processor modules is busy. 
The parallel processing architecture of Claim 8 wherein each of said first and second 
pluralities of array processor modules comprises: 

   at least one processor mounted on a first side of a substrate; 
   at least one connector of a first sex coupled to said at least one processor and 

mounted on said first side; and 
   at least one connector of a second sex coupled to said at least one processor and 

mounted on a second side of said substrate wherein a first one of said array 
processor modules and a second one of said array processor modules may be 

interconnected by coupling said at least one connector of a second sex on said 
first one of said array processor modules to said at least one connector of a 

first sex on said second one of said array processor modules. 
The parallel processing architecture of Claim 11 wherein said at least one connector 
of a first sex is coupled to an input of said at least one processor and said at least one 

connector of a second sex is coupled to an output of said at least one processor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
