<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653809</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical connector and terminal therefor for mating with a blade contact
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1111	H01R424	H01R1111	H01R400	H01R1302	H01R1320	H01R424	H01R426	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R11	H01R4	H01R11	H01R4	H01R13	H01R13	H01R4	H01R4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical connector assembly (10) for making 
a tap connection between an insulated wire (12) and a blade 

contact (14). The connector assembly includes an 
integrally formed housing (20) which mounts a generally U-shaped 

terminal (22) therein. The terminal includes an IDT 
portion (24) and a blade-receiving portion (26), and the U-shape 

is defined by a pair of generally parallel leg 
portions (34, 36) joined by a bight portion (38). The leg 

portions define a longitudinal terminal axis (40) generally 
centrally therebetween. The bight portion (38) includes a 

blade-receiving slot (44) extending into the leg portions 
and defining a bifurcated contact formation for receiving 

a blade contact (14) with a locking recess (30) along a 
centerline thereof. The bight portion (38) is indented on 

one side of the terminal axis to define an offset portion 
(46) inwardly of one of the leg portions (36). The blade-receiving 

slot (44) and bifurcated contact formation extend 
into the offset portion. At least one locking projection 

(48) is formed on the terminal at a portion of the offset 
portion (46) along the longitudinal axis (40) thereof and 

extends into the blade-receiving slot (44) for lockingly 
engaging the locking recess (30) of the blade contact (14). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSHALL ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PANSARI JR FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSHALL, ROBERT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PANSARI JR., FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to the art of 
electrical connectors and, particularly, to a stamped and 
formed electrical connector and terminal therefor having a 
wire-receiving portion at one end and a blade-receiving 
portion at the other end. Many electrical contacts or terminals have been 
designed for receiving or mating with a male tab or blade 
contact. Such terminals often are used in tap connectors 
for making a T-connection to an insulated electrical wire. 
In such connectors, one end of the terminal includes an 
insulation displacement, wire-receiving portion, and the 
opposite end of the terminal includes a mating or blade-receiving 
portion. Design considerations for these 
terminals must take into account the differing requirements 
for both types of connections. Factors which affect the 
design of the insulation displacement end of the terminal 
include providing sufficient resistance to wire pull-out, 
and providing sufficient integrity in the material 
thickness to displace the insulation without cutting the 
conductors and without allowing the insulation displacing 
slots to open. Factors which affect the design of the 
blade-receiving end of the terminal include selecting a 
material thickness which does not take a set and which 
carries maximum current. General design considerations, 
such as minimizing material waste and simplifying the 
design and manufacture of the terminals, also are 
important. Because of the number of factors to be  
 
considered, most tap connectors often use relatively 
complex stamped and formed terminals that include formed 
blade-receiving slots which typically utilize a relatively 
large amount of material and are more complicated and 
difficult to maintain in terms of tolerances than stamped 
slots. One type of stamped and formed terminal for 
connecting an insulated wire to a blade contact and which 
utilizes a stamped blade-receiving slot is disclosed in 
U.S. Patent No. 4,527,852, assigned to the assignee of the 
subject invention. The terminal is generally U-shaped and 
includes a pair of leg portions joined by a bight portion. 
The leg portions define a longitudinal terminal axis 
generally centrally therebetween. Free ends of the leg 
portions are provided with insulation displacement slots 
for electrically connecting the terminal to the insulated 
wire without stripping or crimping the wire. The bight 
portion of the terminal includes a blade-receiving slot 
extending into the leg portions and defining a bifurcated 
contact formation for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector assembly (10) for connecting 
an insulated electrical wire (12) to a blade contact (14) 

having generally parallel opposite sides and generally 
centrally located locking recess (30), the connector 

assembly including a generally U-shaped, stamped and formed 
sheet metal terminal (22) including
 
   a pair of leg portions (34, 36) joined to a bight 

portion (38), the leg portions defining a longitudinal 
terminal axis (40) generally centrally therebetween and 

having free ends with insulation displacement slots (42) 
for electrically connecting the terminal to the insulated 

wire, the bight portion including a slot (44) extending 
into the leg portions and defining a bifurcated contact 

formation for receiving the blade contact,
 
   characterized by 


said bight portion (38) being indented on one 
side of the longitudinal terminal axis (40) to define an 

offset portion (46) inwardly of one of the leg portions 
(36), 
said slot and bifurcated contact formation 
extending into the offset portion, and 
a locking projection (48) inside the slot at the 
offset portion (46) for lockingly engaging the locking 

recess of the blade contact. 
The connector assembly of claim 1, 
including two locking projections (48) at the offset 

portion (46) of the terminal, one on each side of the slot 

for engagement in locking recesses (30) on both opposite 
sides of the blade contact (14).  

 
The connector assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said terminal locking projection (48) is located 

generally along the longitudinal terminal axis (40). 
The connector assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said bight portion of said terminal defines an apex 

(50) of the terminal on a side of the longitudinal terminal 
axis (40) opposite the offset portion (46). 
The connector assembly of claim 4, 
wherein an area of said slot in the bight portion (38) of 

the terminal proximate said apex (80) is enlarged to 
provide a lead-in mouth (52) for facilitating insertion of 

the blade contact thereinto. 
The connector assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said slot is tapered toward the bight portion so 

that the slot is generally uniform when a blade contact is 
inserted thereinto. 
A generally U-shaped terminal (22) for 
connecting an insulated wire (12) to a blade contact (14) 

with a recess (30) formed therein, said terminal including 
two generally parallel leg portions (34, 36) and a bight 

portion (38), the leg portions defining a longitudinal 
terminal axis (40) generally centrally therebetween, 


each leg portion including 
an insulation displacement end (24) defining an 
IDT slot (42) adapted to make an electrical connection to 

the insulated wire, and 
a blade-connecting end (26) spaced from the 
insulation displacement end, and defining a blade-receiving 

slot (44) generally perpendicular to the IDT slot, the  
 

blade-receiving slot extending along substantially the 
entire length of the blade-connecting end, and 
the bight portion (38) connecting the blade-connecting 
end (26) of the two leg portions and having a 

slot (44) extending into the two leg portions and being 
continuous with the blade-receiving slot of the blade-connecting 

ends, 
 
   characterized by 


the bight portion (38) being indented on one side 
of the longitudinal terminal axis to define an offset 

portion (46); and 
means for locking to the blade contact (48) 
located in the slot of the bight portion at the offset 

portion and generally along the longitudinal terminal axis. 
The terminal as set forth in claim 7, 
wherein said bight portion defines an apex (50) of the 

terminal on a side of the longitudinal terminal axis (40) 
opposite said offset portion (46). 
The terminal as set forth in claim 8 wherein 
the means for locking to the blade contact comprises a 

projection (48) formed on the offset portion and extending 
into the recess (30) of the blade contact (14) upon mating 

engagement of the blade contact to the terminal. 
The terminal as set forth in claim 9 
wherein the projection formed on the offset portion is 

spaced from the apex of the bight portion toward the 
insulation end (24) of the terminal.  

 
The terminal as set forth in claim 10 
wherein the offset portion of the bight portion of the 

terminal further comprises 

a longitudinal section (46a) located generally 
along the longitudinal terminal axis (40), and 
an oblique section (46b) joining the longitudinal 
section (46a) to one of the leg portions (36). 
The terminal as set forth in claim 11 
wherein the projection (48) is located within the 

longitudinal section (46a) of the offset portion (46) of 
the bight portion (38). 
The terminal of claim 9, 
wherein an area of said blade-receiving slot (44) proximate 

said apex (50) is enlarged to provide a lead-in mouth (52) 
for facilitating insertion of the blade contact 

thereinto. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
