<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654129</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO CONTINUOUSLY-VARIABLE-RATIO TRANSMISSIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H3706	F16H3708	F16H3702	F16H3702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H37	F16H37	F16H37	F16H37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A continuously-variable-ratio transmission ("CVT"), especially of the toroidal-race rolling-traction type, in which the prime mover is connected to the ratio-varying component ("variator") by a torque converter (1) or other starting device capable of slip. The CVT output (36) is connected both to the variator output (23) and also, by way of fixed ratio gearing (37, 38) and a one-way clutch (53), to the output of the starting device. At low speeds drive is transmitted from primer mover to the CVT output by way of the fixed ratio gearing in both forwards and reverse. In forward drive, as the speed of the variator output rises, operation of the one-way clutch (53) causes the drive transmission path to change from the fixed ratio gearing to the variator output once the speed of the latter exceeds the former. Where the variator is of the toroidal-race type, further one-way clutch means (54) may be included to ensure that the fixed ratio gearing components can rotate in one direction only, thus preventing them from imposing reverse rotation upon the essentially unidirectional variator components.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to CVT's, that is to say to 
continuously-variable-ratio transmissions, for transmitting power 
at variable speed ratio between the rotary output of a prime 
mover and a rotary point of use. While it relates to such 
transmissions generally, it relates in particular to automotive 
vehicles. The steplessly-variable ratio varying units (variators) of 
many known types of CVT are incapable of achieving zero ratio, 
that is to say zero output speed in response to finite input 
speed. This has led many designers to include within the CVT, in 
addition to the variator, a starting device typically in the form 
of a torque converter or other hydrokinetic coupling. When the 
prime mover is started from rest, it is connected to the driven 
wheels by way of the device and a gearing unit, and the variator 
is disconnected from the drive train. The characteristics of the 
coupling are such that when the impeller rotates at idling speed, 
insufficient torque is transmitted to the turbine to rotate the 
downstream gearing and the wheels or other driven members. In 
such transmissions it is then customary to maintain the variator 
disconnected when the throttle is first opened so that the prime 
mover accelerates the coupling impeller to apply enough torque to 
the turbine to move the wheels away from rest, either forwards or 
in reverse. As the throttle then continues to open, it is well 
known in the art that the speed of rotation of the turbine rises 
towards equality with that of the impeller. As that equality is 
approached, it has been customary in transmissions of this type 
to connect the variator, which is directly coupled to the prime 
mover, to the output and, by raising the variator ratio, to 
transfer power from the gearing unit to the variator. Patent specification GB-B-2025545 describes a transmission of 
this kind. However, because there are two concentric input 
shafts to the transmission - one directly from the prime mover to  
 
the variator and the other from a hydrokinetic coupling (or its 
equivalent) to the fixed ratio gearing - the location of the 
principal components is constrained. This can present a problem, 
particularly when a variator of the toroidal-race rolling-traction 
type is used in place of a belt because of its greater 
axial length. A key feature of a CVT according to the present invention is 
that the variator should work to a regime in which, whenever the 
control force applied to it falls to zero, it seeks a ratio equal 
to that of the fixed ratio
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A continuously-variable-ratio transmission (hereinafter referred to as "CVT") having a 
rotatable input (15) for connection to a prime mover (5) and a 

rotatable output (36) for connection to a driven member, in which 
the input is connected to a starting device (1) capable of slip, 

in which an output from the starting device is connectable both 
to a variable ratio component (hereinafter referred to as "variator") and to a fixed ratio 

component (37,38) and a first one-way clutch (53), in which the 
outputs of those two components are both connected to the CVT 

output, and in which the variator is controlled by 
an hydraulic pressure, characterised in that in 

the absence of said hydraulic pressure the variator seeks the same 
ratio as that of the fixed ratio component (37,38), and in that 

throughout forward drive a single hydraulic clutch (41) suffices, in 
combination with the first one
-way clutch (53), to transmit power 
to the CVT output. 
A CVT according to Claim 1 including an engageable clutch (33) 
operable to remove the facility of slip which the starting device 

is capable of providing. 
A CVT according to Claim 2 in which the starting device 
comprises a hydrokinetic coupling including an impeller input 

member (2) and a turbine output member (4), and the engageable 
clutch is operable to connect them so that they move as one. 
A CVT according to Claim 1 in which the variator is of the 
toroidal-race rolling-traction type. 
A CVT according to Claims 2, 3 and 4 in which control of the 
engageable clutch and the toroidal-race variator is combined 

whereby engagement of the clutch precedes or is synchronised with 
the application of operating pressure (via 30, 34) upon the 

variator. 
A CVT according to Claim 1 so arranged that the fixed ratio 
component is driven at all times but its connection to the 

transmission output can be over-ridden by the variator output, by 
way of the first one-way clutch (53).  

 
A CVT according to Claim 1 in which the fixed ratio component 
is engageable with the transmission output, for forward drive, by 

way of a forward-drive clutch (41). 
A CVT according to Claim 7 in which the fixed ratio component 
is engageable with the CVT output, for reverse drive, by way of a 

device of brake (51) or clutch type. 
A CVT according to Claim 8 in which the device of brake or 
clutch type includes epicyclic components (45-49) which engage to 

connect the fixed ratio component to the CVT output when the 
brake is engaged. 
A CVT according to Claim 4 including means (54) to confine 
the variator output to rotation in one direction only. 
A CVT according to Claim 10 in which the means to confine the 
variator ouptut to rotation in one direction only include a 

second one-way clutch acting upon the fixed ratio component so 
preventing the imposing of a reverse rotation upon the fixed 

ratio component which would in turn set the variator into reverse 
rotation. 
A CVT according to Claim 3 in which successive components are 
arranged in a "U"-shaped formation, with the starting device and 

variator located in one leg of that "U", in which the fixed ratio 
component lies substantially at the foot of the "U", in which the 

CVT output lies substantially up the head of the other leg of the 
"U", and in which the connection between the variator output and 

the CVT output bridges the two legs of the "U". 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
