<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649568</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR FORMING BATTERY PLATES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M420	H01M416	H01M464	H01M416	H01M473	H01M472	H01M482	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for cutting a moving strip to form a series of plates, such as battery plates, includes the initial step of transporting the strip past a rotary divider including a cutter having radial blades configured to cut the strip into the plates. The cutter further has a set of blades for cutting individual pieces from the strip, which pieces are not part of the plates. As the cutter blades cut the strip to form the plates and pieces, a vacuum system applies suction to draw the pieces cut from the strip inwardly into the cutter through holes in the cutter, and then out of the cutter. The holes are each located adjacent each one of the corresponding blades and are shaped and positioned to permit the cut-away piece to pass through. In a preferred embodiment, the vacuum system includes a pair of vacuum manifolds that apply suction at oposite ends of the cylindrical cutter. An apparatus for carrying out the foregoing process accordingly includes a rotary divider as described above provided with a vacuum system. Battery plates made according to the foregoing process are improved in that the two lower corners have a rounded shape lacking a sharp edge which tends to tear an adjacent separator. Such a plate may be inserted bottom end first into a separator envelope to form a plate element for use in a lead-acid battery.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBE UNION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBE-UNION INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BINDER RICHARD R W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANTILLON DANIEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER JEFFREY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BINDER, RICHARD R.W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANTILLON, DANIEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER, JEFFREY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the
manufacture of plates from a moving strip by cutting
the strip, particularly to the manufacture of battery
plates for use in lead-acid batteries.A plate for a lead-acid battery is
conventionally made by applying a battery paste to a
conductive support such as a lead alloy grid. The
paste is made from lead oxide, sulfuric acid and water.
The lead oxide reacts with the sulfuric acid to form
mono-, tri- or tetrabasic lead sulfate(s). Dry
additives such as fiber and expander may be added. The
mixture is then dried and water is re-added to form a
paste of the desired consistency. The paste is applied
to the lead grid, and the pasted plates are then flash-dried
and cured at an elevated temperature and humidity
to oxidize free lead and adjust the crystal structure
of the plate. After curing, the positive plates are
assembled into batteries and electrochemically formed
by passage of current to convert the lead sulfate or
basic lead sulfate(s) to lead dioxide, thereby forming
the active lead material.The lead alloy grid is made in a multistage
process in which molten lead alloy is cast to form a
strip. The strip is expanded to form mesh elements for
grids, and the paste is then applied. Liner papers are 
applied to the surfaces of freshly pasted plates during
the pasting operation to facilitate handling and
stacking. Individual plates are formed by passing the
pasted strip through a rotary divider that cuts the
outlines of the individual plates on the moving strip.
To ensure proper registration for cutting, the strip is
formed during expansion with a series of regularly
spaced central recesses that are engaged by lugs of a
drive roller associated with the divider. The cut
plates are then flattened, flash-dried, and stacked for
later use in lead-acid battery manufacture.The battery grids each take the form of a
generally rectangular frame supporting a mesh of grid
elements onto which the paste is applied. The frame
has a pair of upper corners and a pair of lower
corners, and an electrically conductive tab extending
from a location between the two upper corners. In one
common battery design, every other plate in the battery
stack is inserted into an envelope made of a separator
material such as submicro polyethylene. The sides of
the envelope act as separators between the plate in the
envelope and the two adjoining plates in the battery
stack.In assembling a battery of this kind, it is
necessary to insert the battery plate bottom-first into
the open end of the envelope so that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for cutting a moving strip to form a series of
plates having two rounded lower corners, including:


transporting the strip (41) past a divider (31) including a
rotary cutter (49) having a first set of blades (61A, 61B)

extending radially therefrom configured to cut the strip (41) into
the plates (41A) and a second set of radial blades (61C) for

cutting away pieces (67) from the strip (41), which pieces are not
part of the plates (41A);
cutting the strip with the first and second set of blades
(61A, 61B, 61C) to form the plates and pieces; and
applying suction to draw the pieces (67) cut from the strip
inwardly into the cutter through holes in the rotary cutter (49)

and then out of the cutter.
The process of claim 1, further comprising a step of brushing the outer surface of the
cutter (49) following cutting over the locations of the holes (66) in a manner effective to aid in

forcing the pieces (67) inwardly through the holes.
The process of claim 1, wherein the blades (61C) of the second set form one or more
rounded corners (51) on each plate (41A), and the pieces (67) comprise portions of the strip cut

away to form the rounded corners (51).
The process of claim 3, wherein the plates (41A) comprise a series of lead alloy grids
covered with a lead-acid battery paste and configured for use in making lead-acid plates.
The process of claim 4, wherein the cutter blades (61A, 61B, 61C) are disposed in a
repetitive patten, and the second set of blades (61C) comprises regularly spaced sets of rounded

blades for cutting the corner pieces, which sets of rounded blades are disposed in two series near
opposite ends of the cutter, the holes (66) being adjacent each rounded blade, the cutter further 

having a pair of recesses (65) that open at opposite ends thereof and which are in communication
with the holes (66), and a pair of vacuum manifolds (36) are disposed covering each recess (65) at

opposite ends of the cutter, so that suction applied at both ends of the cutter draws the cut pieces
through the holes (66) into the recesses (65), and then into the vacuum manifolds (36).
The process of claim 5, wherein said step of applying suction further comprises
drawing the pieces from the manifold through a conduit (37) into a cyclone (34) and collecting the

pieces from the cyclone (34).
An apparatus for cutting a moving strip to form a series of
plates having to lower rounded corners, comprising:


a rotary divider (31) including a cylindrical cutter (49)
having a first set of blades (61A, 61B) extending radially

therefrom configured to cut the strip (41) into the plates (41A)
and a second set of radial blades (61C) for cutting away pieces

(67) from the strip (41), which pieces are not part of the plates
(41A); and
a vacuum system (32) that applies suction to draw the pieces
(67) cut from the strip inwardly into the cutter through holes (66)

in the cutter (49), and then out of the cutter.
Tne apparatus of claim 7, further comprising brush (52) disposed to contact the outer
surface of the cutter (49) following cutting over the locations of the holes (66) in a manner effective

to aid in forcing the pieces (67) inwardly through the holes.
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first (61A, 61B) and second (61C) set of blades
form a repetitive pattern on the cutter, and the divider further comprises a drive roll (48) disposed 

adjacent and in parallel to the cylindrical cutter (49), which drive roll has a series of spaced radial lugs
(43) that engage spaced recesses (42) in the strip and corresponding spaced recesses (62) in the cutter

(49) when the strip (41) comes into tangential contact therewith to feed the strip into a nip (47)
between the drive roll (48) and the cylindrical cutter (49).
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the second set of blades (61C) comprises regularly
spaced pairs of rounded blades for cutting rounded corner pieces from each plate (41A), which

rounded blades are disposed in two series near opposite ends of the cutter (49), the holes (66) being
adjacent each rounded blade, and the cutter has a pair of recesses (65) that open at opposite ends

of the cutter in communication with the holes (66) into which recesses (65) the pieces (67) are drawn
by the vacuum system.
The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the vacuum system (32) comprises a source of
suction (33) and a pair of vacuum manifolds (36) connected thereto, which manifolds cover the

recesses (65) at opposite ends of the cutter so that suction applied at both ends of the cutter draws
the cut pieces through the holes (66) into the recesses (65) and then into the vacuum manifolds (36).
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the vacuum system (32) further comprises a
cyclone (34) interdisposed between the vacuum manifolds (36) and the source of suction (33), a pair

of hoses (37) which conduct the cut pieces to the cyclone from each manifold (36), and a receptacle
(38) for collecting the cut pieces from the cyclone (34).
A battery plate (71) for use in a lead-acid battery, said battery plate including a
conductive grid formed by expanding a strip of lead alloy and having an active lead material applied 

thereto, the grid having a generally rectangular shape including a top and a bottom, the top and
bottom being spanned by grid elements forming a mesh, the grid having a pair of substantially square

upper corners (72) formed in the top, and a conductive tab (73) extending from a location on the top
between the two upper corners, said battery plate further characterized by:

   the expanded lead alloy conductive grid having a pair of rounded lower corners (51) formed
in the bottom.
The battery plate of claim 13 wherein said expanded lead alloy conductive grid
includes a pair of open, cut mesh sides.
The battery plate of claim 13 further including a separator (76) substantially
completely enveloping the plate except for the tab (73) which extends from an open upper end of

the separator, the separator being sealed along a bottom and side portions (77) thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
