<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628408</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Security paper with color mark
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42D1510	B42D1510	D21H2736	D21H2144	D21H2140	B42D1500	D21H2140	B42D1500	B32B2700	G07D712	B32B2710	B32B2700	B32B2710	B41M314	B41M314	G07D700	D21H2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42D	B42D	D21H	D21H	D21H	B42D	D21H	B42D	B32B	G07D	B32B	B32B	B32B	B41M	B41M	G07D	D21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42D15	B42D15	D21H27	D21H21	D21H21	B42D15	D21H21	B42D15	B32B27	G07D7	B32B27	B32B27	B32B27	B41M3	B41M3	G07D7	D21H27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A security paper is provided for incorporation in a security 
document, or other document having intrinsic value. The security 

paper includes a resinous substrate sheet (14) on which indicia (18) are 
printed. Paper sheets (12,16) are laminated on either side of the 

resinous 
substrate sheet using a suitable adhesive (28,30). In the laminated 

security paper, the indicia printed on the substrate sheet are 
undetectable when viewed in reflected light, but become apparent 

when viewed transmitted light within the visible spectrum. The 
security paper may be incorporated in a security document in which 

a set of indicia (20,22) printed on at least one of the outer faces of 
the 

paper sheets, such that the indicia on the substrate and the 
indicia on the document form a total image when viewed in 

transmitted light. A method for manufacturing the security paper 
is also provided. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOMTAR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOMTAR INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDRIC DRAGISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOJANOVIC BORISLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDRIC, DRAGISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOJANOVIC, BORISLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to security
papers and, more particularly, to a laminated security
paper for use in making banknotes, passports, stock
certificates, checks and the like.A great number of printed documents require highly
reliable means of ensuring their authenticity due to some
intrinsic value associated with them. These documents
range from banknotes to property titles, and include such
things as negotiable instruments, stock certificates,
checks, and passports. To be truly of value to the user or
holder of the document, the means employed to indicate
authenticity must be readily and easily detectible.
Moreover, to serve the more general purpose of allowing the
public at large to rely on the authenticity of the
documents, these means should be permanent, durable, and
difficult to replicate. This latter quality is
particularly important to preclude, or at least to
dissuade, attempts at counterfeiting the documents in order
to ensure a maximum degree of confidence in the original
document. In the case of banknotes, passports, checks, and
other intrinsically valuable documents, confidence in the
authenticity of the document is especially important, as
any member of the public might become a holder or user of
the document at any time. Thus, creators of such
intrinsically valuable documents are most often concerned
with providing a means by which the public may verify the
authenticity of the documents because, ultimately, it is 
the unsuspecting public who is most at risk of being duped
by counterfeits.Historically, attempts at guaranteeing the
authenticity of intrinsically valuable documents have
concentrated on two aspects of the documents: (1) the
paper employed as the basis for the document, typically
referred to in the art as "security paper," and (2) some
security feature either incorporated in the paper or added
during the transformation of the paper into the final
document. Due to their important role in providing lasting
documents and a dependable basis for public confidence in
the authenticity of such documents, both the security paper
and the security feature must respond to numerous,
stringent criteria relating to their design and utility.
Criteria for security papers include both physical and
optical requirements. The requirements of security
features relate not only to their physical properties, but
also to the relative difficulty of their replication and to
their reliability in guaranteeing the authenticity of the
final document.The physical requirements imposed on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A security paper comprising:

a resinous substrate sheet having two faces;
transparent indicia disposed on one of said faces of said resinous
substrate sheet; and
a first and a second paper sheet, said first paper sheet being
permanently laminated on one of said faces of said resinous substrate

sheet, and said second paper sheet being permanently laminated
on the other of said faces of said resinous substrate sheet,

whereby said indicia are substantially undetectable when viewed in
reflected light and are apparent through said paper sheets when

viewed in transmitted light within the visible spectrum.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein said paper sheets
are permanently laminated on each of said faces of said substrate sheet

by means of an adhesive.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein said indicia include
at least one color region, the color of said region corresponding to a

wavelength of 380 to 720 nm.
The security paper as set forth in claim 3, further comprising a first
layer of substantially opaque ink disposed under said indicia and a

second layer of substantially opaque ink disposed over said indicia. 
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein at least a portion
of said resinous substrate sheet is metallized.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein at least a portion
of said resinous substrate sheet is perforated.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, further comprising microtext
disposed on said resinous substrate sheet.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein said indicia are
printed on said resinous substrate sheet with transparent ink.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein at least a portion
of said indicia is printed on said resinous substrate sheet with fluorescent

ink.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein at least a portion
of said indicia is printed on said resinous substrate sheet in ultraviolet

ink, said portion of said indicia being substantially undetectable under
light within the visible spectrum and visible when viewed under ultraviolet

light.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein at least a portion
of said indicia is printed on said resinous substrate sheet with phosphorescent

ink.
The security paper as set forth in claim 8, wherein at least a portion
of said indicia is printed in color. 
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein said resinous
substrate sheet comprises a resinous material selected from polyester,

polypropylene, and cellophane.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein said resinous
substrate sheet has a basis weight of 11.0 to 22.5 g/m
2
.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein each of said paper
sheets has a basis weight of 19 to 50 g/m
2
, a thickness of 0.038 to
0.050 mm, and an opacity of 75 to 85%.
The security paper as set forth in claim 1, wherein each of said paper
sheets comprises fibrous material selected from wood fibers, cotton

fibers, flax fibers, and hemp fibers.
A laminated security paper comprising:

a resinous substrate layer having a first face and a second face;
a layer of color indicia printed on said first face of said substrate
layer with transparent ink, said color indicia including at least one

region having a color corresponding to a wavelength of
380 to 720 nm;
a first layer of adhesive disposed on said first face of said substrate
layer, over said color indicia;
a second layer of adhesive disposed on said second face of said
substrate layer;
a fist layer of paper disposed over said first adhesive layer and
fixed permanently to said substrate layer and said color indicia by

said first adhesive layer; and 
a second layer of paper disposed over said second adhesive layer
and fixed permanently to said substrate layer by said second adhesive

layer.
The laminated security paper as set forth in claim 17, further comprising
a first white layer disposed under said color indicia, and a

second white layer over said color indicia.
The laminated security paper as set forth in claim 17, wherein said
resinous substrate layer has a basis weight of 11.0 to 22.5 g/m
2
, and
wherein each of said paper layers has a basis weight of 19.0 to 50.0

g/m
2
, a thickness of 0.038 to 0.050 mm, and an opacity of 75 to
85%.
The laminated security paper as set forth in claim 17, wherein at least
a portion of said color indicia is printed on said resinous substrate

layer with fluorescent ink.
The laminated security paper as set forth in claim 17, wherein at least
a portion of said color indicia is printed on said resinous substrate

layer with phosphorescent ink.
A security document comprising:

a resinous substrate sheet having two faces;
transparent indicia disposed on one of said faces of said resinous
substrate sheet;
a first and a second paper sheet, each of said paper sheets having
an inner face and an outer face, one of said paper sheets being

permanently laminated on a respective face of said resinous substrate 
sheet by means of an adhesive applied between said respective

face of said substrate sheet and said inner face of each of said
paper sheets; and
a set of indicia printed on at least one of said outer faces of said
paper sheets, whereby said transparent indicia on said substrate

sheets cooperate with said set of indicia to form a total image
when viewed in transmitted light. within the visible spectrum.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein
said indicia on said substrate sheet dominates said set of indicia on said outer face

of said paper sheet such that
at least a

portion of said indicia printed on said outer face of said paper sheet
becomes substantially invisible when viewed in transmitted light.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein each of said
paper sheets has an opacity of 75 to 85%.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein said resinous
substrate sheet has a basis weight of 11.0 to 22.5 g/m
2
, and wherein
each of said paper sheets has a basis weight of 19.0 to 50.0 g/m
2
,
and a thickness of 0.038 to 0.050 mm.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein said transparent
indicia include at least one color region, the color of said

region corresponding to a wavelength of 380 to 720 nm.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein a portion of
said resinous substrate sheet is metallized.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein a portion of
said resinous substrate sheet is perforated. 
The security document as set forth in claim 22, further comprising
microtext disposed on said resinous substrate sheet.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein said indicia
are printed on said resinous substrate sheet with transparent ink.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, wherein said set of
indicia on said outer face of said paper sheet is in register with said

indicia on said substrate sheet.
The security document as set forth in claim 22, further comprising a
first layer of substantially opaque ink disposed under said transparent

indicia, and a second layer of substantially opaque ink disposed over
said transparent indicia.
A method for manufacturing a security paper comprising the steps of:

defining a graphic design in color;
printing said graphic design on resinous substrate sheet as a substantially
transparent color image; and
permanently laminating said printed substrate sheet between two
paper sheets by means of an adhesive.
The method as set forth in claim 33, comprising the further step of
metallizing a portion of said resinous substrate sheet prior to said

laminating step.
The method as set forth in claim 33, comprising the further step of
perforating said resinous substrate sheet prior to said laminating step. 
The method as set forth in claim 33, comprising the further step of
printing a microtext on said resinous substrate sheet prior to said

laminating step.
The method as set forth in claim 33, wherein said graphic design is
printed on said substrate sheet with fluorescent ink.
The method as set forth in claim 33, wherein said graphic design is
printed on said substrate sheet with phosphorescent ink.
The method as set forth in claim 33, wherein said graphic design is
printed on said resinous substrate sheet by a rotogravure printing

process.
The method as set forth in claim 33, further comprising disposing a
first layer of substantially opaque ink under said graphic design and

disposing a second layer of substantially opaque ink over said graphic
design.
The method as set forth in claim 33, further comprising the step of:

printing a set of indicia on an outer surface of at least one of
said paper sheets, whereby said graphic design on said substrate

sheet cooperates with said set of indicia to form a total image
when viewed in transmitted light.
The method as set forth in claim 41, wherein said set of indicia is
printed on said outer surface of at least one of said paper sheets by

intaglio printing. 
The method as set forth in claim 41, wherein said graphic design is
printed on said resinous substrate sheet by a rotogravure printing

process.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
