<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650059</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sensing motor speed and rotation direction.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01P1302	G01P1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01P	G01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01P13	G01P13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention features a method and an 
apparatus for sensing the speed and the direction 

of rotation of a motor. The apparatus of the 
invention has a timing wheel disk that is attached 

to the rotational shaft of a motor and has a number 
of slots. Opposite the timing wheel are mounted 

two spaced-together proximity sensors that are a 
given or a fixed distance apart. The sensors are 

spaced to read within each slot of the disk at any 
given point during in the rotation of the timing 

wheel. When the sensors detect the edges of each 
slot of the rotating wheel, signals are generated. 

The sensors respectively define sensing channels A 
and B. A microcontroller contains a logic program 

that calculates the motor's speed and direction. 
Speed is determined by measuring the time that it 

takes for a point (the edge of a rotating disk's 
slot) to travel across both sensors. Direction is 

determined by storing the logic level of the first 
sensor (channel A) while a generated exclusive OR 

signal is high, and then analyzing the level of 
channel A when the exclusive OR is low. Channel A 

changes logic states over the exclusive OR period 
when the motor is rotating clockwise; it remains at 

the same logic state over the exclusive OR period 
when the motor is rotating counterclockwise. The  

 
invention requires no coupling or interface between 

the sensors. No moving parts are required by this 
invention, since the timing wheel is mounted 

directly upon the motor shaft, and the sensors are 
fixedly mounted adjacent the timing wheel on the 

brake drum, which requires no special bracketing. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYMOND CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYMOND CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PANKOW MATTHEW W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTER RANDY DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PANKOW, MATTHEW W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTER, RANDY DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to motor 
measurements, and, more particularly, to a method 
and apparatus for measuring the speed and detecting 
the direction of rotation of a motor shaft. The usual apparatus for measuring the speed and 
rotational direction of a motor shaft is a dual-channel 
encoder coupled to the motor shaft. A 
predetermined number of pulses is generated by each 
shaft revolution. The encoder counts the number of 
pulses that occur within a predetermined time 
period to measure the rotational speed. The 
direction of rotation is determined by observing 
which channel is leading or lagging in the 
respective pulse trains. The prior method of using the dual-channel 
encoder to sense a motor's shaft speed and 
rotational direction has several disadvantages. It 
has many moving parts, and is an expensive system. 
In addition, a coupling is usually required between 
the motor and the encoder. Alternately, the 
encoder components are designed into the motor at 
an additional expense.  The present invention seeks to provide speed and 
direction sensing for a motor with one moving part. As another of its objectives, the current 
invention provides the desired speed and direction 
of rotation for a motor shaft at a reduced cost. The present invention does not require coupling a 
sensor to the motor, thus reducing wear and 
friction, and improving reliability and service 
life. In United States Patent No. 3,944,923 (issued to 
Luteran on March 16, 1976, for a DEVICE FOR SENSING 
THE DIRECTION OF MOTION), a system having twin 
sensors mounted opposite a rotational member is 
illustrated. Spaced apart, the sensors are in the 
rotational path of a discontinuity or a single slot 
in the rotational member. As the member rotates, 
the discontinuity moves past the sensors; pulses 
are generated. A logic circuit containing a 
coincidence detector measures which of the pulses 
occurs first, before both sensors produce a 
coincident pulse. This unambiguously furnishes the 
rotational direction of the spinning member. A 
signal indicative of the sensed direction is 
generated by a gating circuit.  The apparatus of Luteran teaches only a means for 
sensing the direction of a rotating member; it does 
not show or suggest how the speed of the rotating 
member can be determined. In accordance with the present invention, there 
are provided a method and an apparatus for sensing 
the speed and the direction of rotation of a motor 
shaft. The apparatus of the invention comprises a 
timing wheel disk that is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for sensing both the speed and the 
direction of rotation of a motor, comprising: 

   a rotating timing wheel having means for 
attachment to a rotational shaft of a motor, 

said timing wheel having at least one slot 
having a leading edge and a trailing edge, 

each rotationally spaced apart at a given 
angle on said timing wheel;

 
   two spaced-apart sensors fixedly mounted 

adjacent said timing wheel, said sensors 
being mounted a given or a fixed distance 

apart and mounted opposite said timing wheel, 
so that at during the rotation of said 

rotating timing wheel, both sensors will read 
within a slot, each of said sensors 

generating a signal when it is opposite said 
leading edge or said trailing edge of said 

slot of the rotating timing wheel; and 
   measuring means electrically connected to 

said sensors and having logic programming for 
receiving signals from said sensors and for 

determining the rotational velocity and the 
rotational direction of the timing wheel and, 

hence, the motor. 
The apparatus for sensing both the speed and 
the direction of rotation of a motor in accordance 

with claim 1, wherein the programming of said 
measuring means includes logic for determining the 

rotational direction of the motor by means of a 
program that creates and interprets exclusive OR, a 

condition that is dependent upon one of the sensors 
being logically high and changing state, during a 

clockwise rotation. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said timing 
wheel comprises a disk having a plurality of slots 

disposed thereon. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensors 
each comprise an oscillator, each operating at a 

different frequency from one another. 
A method of measuring the speed of a motor, 
comprising the steps of: 


a) measuring a time interval as a function 
of distance between at least two sensors 

disposed adjacent a rotating timing 
wheel having a plurality of slots, said 

timing wheel being connected to a motor 
 

having a rotational speed to be 
measured; and 
b) calculating the rotational speed of the 
motor by dividing the distance between 

sensors by the time it takes an edge of 
a slot to traverse said distance. 
The method of measuring the speed of a motor in 
accordance with claim 5, wherein the measurement of 

the edge is sensed by a pair of spaced-apart 
sensors, and further wherein at some juncture 

during the rotation of said rotating timing wheel, 
both sensors will read within a slot that passes 

the two spaced-apart sensors that are fixedly 
disposed adjacent said timing wheel and provide 

signals for measurement of the speed. 
The method of measuring the speed of a motor in 
accordance with claim 6, further comprising the 

step of determining the direction of rotation by 
logically determining an exclusive OR condition 

that is dependent upon one of the sensors being 
logically high, said method further comprising the 

steps of: 
c) comparing a condition of exclusive OR, 
to determine whether one of said sensors 

has changed states from logically high 
to logically low; and 
d) determining a clockwise or 
counterclockwise rotational direction 

dependent upon the respective state's 
changing or remaining the same. 
An apparatus for sensing both the speed and the 
direction of rotation of a motor, comprising: 

   a rotating timing wheel having means for 
attachment to a rotational shaft of a motor, 

said timing wheel having at least one slot 
having a leading edge and a trailing edge, 

each rotationally spaced apart at a given 
angle on said timing wheel; 

   two spaced-apart proximity sensors fixedly 
mounted adjacent said timing wheel, said 

proximity sensors being mounted a given or a 
fixed distance apart and mounted opposite 

said timing wheel, so that during the 
rotation of said rotating timing wheel, both 

sensors will read within a slot, each of said 
 

sensors generating a signal when it is 
opposite said leading edge or said trailing 

edge of said slot of the rotating timing 
wheel, said proximity sensors further 

comprising an oscillator, and wherein the 
oscillator of each proximity sensor operates 

at a different frequency from one another; 
and 

   measuring means electrically connected to 
said proximity sensors and having logic 

programming for receiving signals from said 
sensors and for determining the rotational 

velocity and the rotational direction of the 
timing wheel and, hence, the motor. 
The apparatus for sensing both the speed and 
the direction of rotation of a motor in accordance 

with claim 8, wherein the programming of said 
measuring means includes logic for determining the 

rotational direction of the motor by means of a 
program that creates and interprets exclusive OR, a 

condition that is dependent upon one of the sensors 
being logically high. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said timing 
wheel comprises a disk having a plurality of slots 

disposed thereon. 
An apparatus for sensing both the speed and 
the direction of rotation of a motor, comprising: 

   a rotating timing wheel having means for 
attachment to a rotational shaft of a motor, 

said timing wheel having at least one slot 
having a leading edge and a trailing edge, 

each rotationally spaced apart at a given 
angle on said timing wheel; 

   means for measuring distance as a function of 
time including at least two spaced-apart 

sensors fixedly mounted adjacent said timing 
wheel, said sensors being mounted a given or 

a fixed distance apart and mounted opposite 
said timing wheel, each of said sensors 

generating a signal when it is opposite said 
leading edge or said trailing edge of said 

slot of the rotating timing wheel, and 
   determining means electrically connected to 

said sensors and having logic programming for 
receiving signals from said sensors and for 

 
determining the rotational velocity and the 

rotational direction of the timing wheel and, 
hence, the motor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
