<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637978</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRAINING GOLF CLUBS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B5900	A63B6936	A63B6936	A63B5900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B59	A63B69	A63B69	A63B59	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
It is known to provide a training golf club with a spring-loaded hinge in the shaft which "breaks" if the club swing is skewed or jerky. First and second main hinge components (51, 50) lie side by side with a pivot shaft (24') passing through them and with offset shanks (14, 13) for attachment to the club half-shafts. Springs (32A) and balls (36') are located in bores in the first main component, the balls engaging in depressions (66) in a circular track on the second main component when the two shanks are aligned. The other ends of the springs (32A) bear, via balls (67), against an adjustment ring (62). On rotation of this ring, the balls (67) engage in one of a plurality of sets of depressions (68) of different depths in the ring, so adjusting the "break" force of the hinge. Figs. 2-4, 6 and 7 show three further embodiments.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POTTER GEORGE ARTHUR JAMES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POTTER, GEORGE ARTHUR JAMES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POTTER GEORGE ARTHUR JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POTTER, GEORGE ARTHUR JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to golf clubs, and more specifically to training 
clubs designed to assist in the training and practising of golfers. Achieving a good "swing" with a golf club, and in particular a driver, 
requires great skill, and perfecting a swing requires much practice. One major 
requirement is that the action should be smooth and free of jerks. To assist 
golfers in achieving this, training clubs have been proposed in which the shaft 
is not rigid, so that the shaft bends during a swing which is jerky. More particularly, training clubs have been proposed in which the shaft 
incorporates a spring-loaded joint or hinge, so that for a swing within acceptable 
limits of smoothness the shaft remains straight, but for a swing which 
exceeds those limits, the shaft "breaks" at the joint. The club is generally 
constructed as a pair of half-shafts attached to a self-contained hinge structure. 
(The term "half-shaft" is used for convenience, but the location of the hinge is 
preferably closer to the head than the handle of the shaft.) At least two specific designs for such clubs have been proposed, in US 
patents 2 497 237 (Reineking) and 4 854 585 (Koch and Koch). In both these 
designs, the hinge is of a fork type, with one half-shaft having a pair of arms 
forming a fork and the other half-shaft having a single arm which is received 
within the fork, and a pivot shaft passing transversely through all three arms. 
The single arm terminates in a generally circular arc with a depression in it, 
and the other half-shaft has an axial bore containing a spring-loaded detent 
element which bears against the circular arc and engages in the depression in 
that arc. In this type of design, the hinge provides a single degree of freedom for 
the breaking of the shaft. The hinge pivot line is oriented so that the shaft 
will not break under the acceleration of a properly executed swing, but if the 
club is jerked transversely or is twisted during the swing, then the shaft will 
break. This arrangement is well adapted to the prevention of a number of 
common swing faults.  
 We have found that although this type of design is broadly satisfactory 
functionally, it has various structural deficiencies. The effects of wear over a 
long period of use can produce substantial changes in the characteristics of the 
club, and can even result in total failure. The sensitivity of these known clubs can be adjusted by changing the tension 
of the spring loading the detent element. For this purpose, the end of 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spring-loaded hinge (12) for a training golf club, having first and 
second main hinge components (21,20; 51,50) located side by side, pivoted together 

for relative rotation, and having respective shank means (14,13) for attachment to 
respective half-shafts (10,11) of the club, each shank means being oriented 

perpendicular to the pivot axis, the first main component including spring-loaded 
means (32,36,41; 32A,36',67) movable parallel to the pivot axis and the second main 

component having depression means (45; 66) in which the spring-loaded means 
engage when the two shank means are aligned in parallel, 
and wherein
 the 
spring-loaded means (32,36,41; 32A,36',67) comprise a plurality of elements spaced 

equally around the pivot axis, and the second main component includes circular 
track means against which the spring-loaded means bear and in which the depression 

means (45; 66) are formed. 
A hinge according to claim 1 
characterized in that
 each shank means is offset 
towards the other main component such that the two shank means are alignable 

along a common axis. 
A hinge according to either previous 
characterized in that
 each spring-loaded 
element comprises a spring (32A) bearing upon a ball (36') which engages 

with the depression means (66). 
A hinge according to any previous claim 
characterized in that
 each spring-loaded 
element is located in a respective bore (65) in the second main component. 
A hinge according to any previous claim 
characterized by
 an adjustment 
ring (62) against which the ends of the spring-loaded elements remote from the 

circular track means bear, the adjustment ring being rotatable to vary the axial 
position of the said remote ends. 
A hinge according to claim 5 
characterized in that
 the adjustment ring (62) 
is mounted on a screw (33') the axis of which is coincident with the pivot axis. 
A hinge according to either of claims 5 and 
6 characterized in that
 the 
adjustment ring (62) has, for each spring-loaded element, a plurality of depressions 

(68) of different depth into any of which the said remote end can engage.  
 
A hinge according to either of claims 5 and 
6 characterized in that
 the 
adjustment ring (62) has, for each said remote end, a respective ramp on its face. 
A hinge according to either of claims 1 and 2 
characterized in that
 the 
spring-loaded means comprise a ring (40) spring-urgedly movable relative thereto 

along the axis of the pivot axis but constrained for rotation with the body of 
the first main component (21), and ball means (36) held between the ring (40) and 

the circular track (at 38) of the second main component. 
A hinge according to claim 9 
characterized in that
 the ring (40) has 

depression means (45) in which the balls means are normally located. 
A hinge according to either of claims 9 and 10 
characterized in that
 the 
circular track (at 38) has depression means in which the balls means (36) are 

normally located. 
A hinge according to any one of claims 9 to 11 
characterized by
 a pivot 
shaft (24) forming part of the first main component (21), having longitudinal slot 

means (43) therein, and having a central bore containing a spring (32), and said 
ring (40) has inward projection means (44), passing through the slot means (43) 

in the pivot shaft (24), against which the spring (32) bears. 
A hinge according to claim 12 
characterized in that
 the spring (32) in the 
pivot shaft bears, at the end opposite the projection means (44), against an 

adjustment screw (33) mounted in the pivot shaft (24). 
A hinge according to any previous claim 
characterized by
 a pivot shaft 
(24') forming part of the first main component (51). 
A hinge according to any of claims 1 to 14 
characterized in that
 one of the 
main components has its rim extended to form an inward-facing groove (75, 76') 

and the other has its rim cut back to form an outward facing groove (76, 75'), 
the two grooves together forming a ball race containing balls (77) which hold the 

two main components together and allow them to rotate relative to each other. 
A training golf club comprising a handle half-shaft (10) and a head half-shaft 
(11) joined by a hinge (12) according to any previous claim. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
