<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651719</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CARRIER STRAP FOR BOTTLES OR JUGS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D7150	B65D7150	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D71	B65D71	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrally formed bottle or jug carrier strap (10) for securely and comfortably carrying a pair of bottles or jugs (12) by their neck (14). An elongate grip (16) has rings (18) at each end and a neck-retaining collar (20) attached to the inner circumference of each ring. Scores (36) on the underside (42) of each ring cause the ring (18) to break at the score (36) when the rings (18) are deformed, permitting the bottle or jug (12) to easily be removed from the carrier strap (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OREGON PRECISION IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OREGON PRECISION INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORG JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORG, JAMES, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CARRIER STRAP FOR BOTTLES OR JUGSTechnical FieldThis invention relates to an inexpensive, integrally formed bottle or jug carrier strap for securely and comfortably carrying a pair of bottles or jugs by their neck.Background Art Bottles and other liquid containers, in particular gallon containers, weigh a substantial amount. For example, a filled one gallon milk jug weighs approxi¬ mately 8.3 pounds. Shoppers wishing to purchase multiple one gallon containers generally must use each hand to carry each container.Bottle carriers which enable bottles to be carried by their neck are well known in the art, as shown by the following:Erickson U.S. patent 4,235,468 discloses an integrally formed bottle carrier wherein the bottle necks are engaged in and supported by a substantially keyhole shaped opening. The bodies of the bottles themselves are clustered and secured by a plurality of integrally formed depending supports. Erickson U.S. patent 4,471,987 describes and claims a bottle carrier capable of carrying a plurality of bottles in a close cluster using a connecting band which is separated and apart from a bottle-engaging means mounted around the necks of the bottle. Erickson U.S. patent 4,249,766 describes a two- element strapping mechanism, comprising a connecting band which is separated and apart from a bottle-engaging means around the bottle necks for carrying the bottles.Erickson U.S. patent 4,093,295 describes an integrally-formed bottle carrier for carrying a row of bottles side by side by their necks. The bottles are locked into and removed from a plurality of uniformly 

based split collars which are mounted within individual frames interconnected in a single row by one or more longitudinally extending rigid bridging bars. The split collar is substantially keyhole shaped having splits in a longitudinal direction. Oppositely disposed handles are also provided for.Erickson U.S. patent 4,090,729 describes a strap for carrying a single bottle by the neck within a split ring opening within a frame member. The above-mentioned prior art devices each rely upon a substantially keyhole-shaped split collar. Inser¬ tion and removal of a bottle is made by forcing open the angular portion of the collar. The bottle carriers are lifted by various means, including finger openings in the top of the device or handles which are pivotable upwardly.Disclosure of the InventionThe present invention relates to an inexpensive integrally formed bottle or jug carrying strap that enables the user to securely and comfortably
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is;
1. An integral one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of jugs, narrow-necked bottles or the like by their neck portions, said strap comprising:
(a) an elongate grip; and characterized by
(b) a ring fixedly attached to each end of said grip, each ring having at least one score therein; and (c) a neck-retaining collar having a proximal and a distal portion attached to an inner circumference of each said ring, said collar portions being separated by at least one gap radially aligned with said score whereby applying bending pressure to said ring will cause it to break at said score, thereby permitting an article retained by its neck in said strap to be removed therefrom.
2. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein said neck-retaining collar is conical.
3. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein each said ring includes a tab portion fixably attached to the exterior circumference thereof.
4. The carrier strip of claim 1 wherein said distal portions of said neck-retaining collars are attached to said inner circumference of said rings by a plurality of bridging connections.
5. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein said grip further includes longitudinal ribs.
6. An integral injection-molded one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of jugs, narrow-necked 


bottles or the like by their neck portions, said strap comprising:
(a) an elongate grip having structural ribs;
(b) a ring fixedly attached to said elongate grip at each end thereof;
(c) said ring having an inner circumference and an outer circumference;
(d) a conical two-part neck-retaining collar within said inner circumference of said ring; and characterized by
(e) said collar having gaps forming a proximate portion substantially contiguous with said inner circumference of said ring and forming a distal portion attached to said ring by a plurality of bridging connections radiating inwardly from said inner circumference of said ring;
(f) said rings each having a score on the bottom side thereof radially aligned with said gaps whereby applying bending pressure to said ring will cause said ring to break at said score, thereby permitting an article retained by its neck in said strap to be removed therefrom; and (g) a tab portion fixably attached to the outer circumference of said ring.
7. An integral one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of jugs, narrow-necked bottles or the like by their neck portions, said strap comprising:
(a) an elongate grip having a plurality of longitudinally-extending strengthening ribs;
(b) a pair of rings with a respective ring being attached to each end of said grip;
(c) an annular-shaped neck-retaining collar positioned within each said respective 


 ring, said collar being formed of a plurality of arcuate segments separated by spacing gaps; and characterized by (d) a spaced plurality of rib-like connections extending radially between each said respective collar and its associated ring.
8. The carrier strap of claim 7 wherein said grip has a width less than the diameter of said rings.
9. The carrier strap of claim 7 wherein the thickness of said collars is thin relatively to that of said rings.
10. The carrier strap of claim 7 wherein said grip has a thickness greater than the thickness of said rings. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the Internatinal Bureau on 7 October 1993 (07.10.93
)
 ; original claims 1-10 replaced by amended claims 1-13 (6 pages 
)
 ]
1. A one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of containers, such as jugs, narrow-necked bottles or the like, that are of a type having an enlarged neck portion, said strap comprising: (a) an elongate grip having a pair of opposite ends ;
(b) a pair of rings, each ring being fixedly attached to a respective one of said ends of said grip, each ring having a pair of scores formed therein; and
(c) a respective neck-retaining collar within each ring, each collar having at least a pair of resiliently yieldable portions that progressively approach each other toward an upper side of said strap for yieldably receiving and springably retaining the enlarged neck portion of a respective container of said type that is inserted through said collar toward said upper side, said yieldable portions of each collar being, apart from the corresponding ring, completely separated from each other by at least a pair of gaps such that if either ring is stressed and thereby broken along said scores, then at least a pair of the corresponding yieldable portions are fully disconnected from each other.
2. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein each neck-retaining collar is generally of frustoconical shape.
3. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein each ring includes a tab portion infrangibly attached to the exterior circumference of said ring. 


 4. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein said grip further includes longitudinal ribs so formed as to provide substantial rigidity to said grip, said ribs being formed at least in part, along said upper side of said strap.
5. The carrier strap of claim 1 wherein said at least a pair of the corresponding yieldable portions are fully disconnected from each other in such a manner that the corresponding said collar is subsequently incapable of springably retaining the enlarged neck portion of a container of said type.
6. A one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of containers, such as jugs, narrow-necked bottles or the like, that are of a type having an enlarged neck portion, said strap comprising:
(a) an elongate grip having a pair of opposite ends; (b) a pair of rings, each ring being fixedly attached to a respective one of said ends, each ring including a pair of divisible portions delineated from each other by a pair of scores formed in said ring; (c) a respective neck-retaining collar within each ring, each collar having at least a pair of resiliently yieldable portions that progressively approach each other toward an upper side of said strap for yieldably receiving and springably retaining the enlarged neck portion of a respective container of said type that is inserted through said collar toward said upper side; and (d) at least a pair of said yieldable portions within each ring being independently connected to said ring such that if either 


 ring is sufficiently stressed along said scores as to cause the corresponding said divisible portions to completely disconnect from each other, then the corresponding said at least a pair of said yieldable portions similarly are fully disconnected from each other.
7. The carrier strap of claim 6 wherein said at least a pair of said yieldable portions are fully disconnected from each other in such a manner that the corresponding said collar is subsequently incapable of springably retaining the enlarged neck portion of a container of said type.
8. The carrier strap of claim 6 further including a respective tab portion infrangibly attached to the exterior circumference of each ring.
9. The carrier strap of claim 8 wherein each tab portion is located in circumferentially spaced position from the corresponding said pair of scores whereby, due to levering action, there is an increase in the maximum amount of stress imposed on each ring along each score when a predetermined amount of lifting force is applied to the corresponding said tab portion.
10. A one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of containers, such as jugs, narrow-necked bottles or the like, that are of a type having an enlarged neck portion, said strap comprising:
(a) an elongate grip having a pair of opposite ends;
(b) a pair of rings, each ring being fixedly attached to a respective one of said ends, each ring including a pair of divisible 


 portions delineated from each other by a pair of scores formed in said ring;
(c) a respective neck-retaining collar within each ring, each collar having at least a pair of resiliently yieldable portions that progressively approach each other toward an upper side of said strap for yieldably receiving and springably retaining the enlarged neck portion of a respective container of said type that is inserted through said collar toward said upper side; and
(d) said yieldable portions being so arranged within each ring that if either ring is sufficiently stressed along said scores as to cause permanent dislocation of the corresponding said divisible portions, then the corresponding said yieldable portions are subsequently incapable of springably retaining the enlarged neck portion of a container of said type.
11. The carrier strap of claim 10 further including a respective tab portion infrangibly attached to the exterior circumference of each ring.
12. The carrier strap of claim 11 wherein each tab portion is located in circumferentially spaced position from the corresponding said pair of scores whereby, due to levering action, there is an increase in the maximum amount of stress imposed on each ring along each score when a predetermined amount of lifting force is applied to the corresponding said tab portion. 


 13. A one-piece carrier strap for carrying a pair of containers, such as jugs, narrow-necked bottles or the like, that are of a type having an enlarged neck 5 portion, said strap comprising:
(a) an elongate grip having a pair of opposite ends;
(b) a pair of outer supporting members, each member being fixedly attached to a
? rei active one of said ends and including an arcuately extending inner edge;
(c) a pair of neck-retaining collars each of generally annular shape and having an exterior circumference, each collar being
15 supported from the inner edge of a corresponding one of said supporting members by a plurality of bridging connections that extend radially outwardly from said exterior circumference, each
20 collar including at least a pair of resiliently yieldable arcuate-shaped portions that progressively approach each other toward an upper side of said strap for yieldably receiving and springably 5 retaining the enlarged neck portion of a respective container of said type that is inserted through said collar toward said upper side, each arcuate-shaped portion including a curved outside edge bordering 0 said exterior circumference of the corresponding said collar; and
(d) an arcuately extending rib being formed along at least a major extent of said outside edge of at least one of said 5 arcuate-shaped portions on each collar for resisting overstressing of each respective at least one arcuate-shaped portion by 


 U
distributing any force applied to a minor portion of each respective at least one arcuate-shaped portion over a major portion thereof as when said minor portion 5 is acted upon by the enlarged neck portion of a respective container of said type while said enlarged neck portion is tilted relative to the corresponding collar during insertion through said 10 corresponding collar. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
