<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for producing textured articles and apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3338	B29C3338	B29C3340	B29C3340	B29C3342	B29C3342	B29C3356	B29C3356	B29C4500	B29C4500	B29C4526	B29C4526	B29C4573	B29C4573	B29K10112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C45	B29C45	B29C45	B29C45	B29C45	B29C45	B29K101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multilayered insulated mold structure (10) for 
forming textured articles is disclosed. An insulation 

layer (16) is deposited on the mold core (12) and a multilayered 
skin layer is deposited on the insulation layer. The 

skin is formed of a plurality of sublayers, including 
a corrosion-resistant phosphorous-rich nickel region (22) on 

the insulation layer (16) acting as an etchant stop, and an 

non-corrosion resistant, or etchable, phosphorous-poor 
nickel region (24) on the corrosion-resistant layer (22). The 

upper layer (24) is uniformly textured by selective etching 
down to a depth terminating at the interface between 

the layers, but the insulation layer (16) is protected. A 
method of molding uniformly textured articles is also 

disclosed, as is a method of making a mold suitable for 
producing uniformly textured articles and a method for 

making such a mold surface having bulk imperfections. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUMGARTNER CHARLES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMLY KATHERINE DANA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUMGARTNER, CHARLES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMLY, KATHERINE DANA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to molds 
for producing textured articles and more particularly 
to insulated molds with a selectively etchable 
multilayered top layer for uniformly texturing molded 
articles. Molding of thermoplastic resins is a promising 
technique for producing relatively thin, wide and 
strong plastic parts such as panels for use in 
automobiles or appliances. Depending on specific 
requirements, such plastic parts can be made by any of 
a number of molding processes such as blow molding, 
injection molding with cold or hot runners and with gas 
assist, and compression molding. Blow molding involves the extrusion of a molten 
tube of resin called a parison into a mold. The mold 
closes around the parison, pinching the bottom of the 
parison closed. A gas such as air is then introduced 
causing the tube to expand against the cool surfaces of 
the mold. When the parison comes into contact with the 
cool mold surface, the plastic at the surface quickly 
freezes. This results in surface imperfections such as 
die lines, fold lines, pores and voids. Injection molding involves injecting molten 
thermoplastic resin into a mold apparatus. Molds for 
injection molding of thermoplastic resin are usually 
made from metal material such as iron, steel, stainless 
steel, aluminum alloy or brass. Such materials are 
advantageous in that they have high thermal 
conductivity and thus allow the melt of thermoplastic 
resin to cool rapidly and shorten the molding cycle 
time. However, because of the rapid cooling, the 
injected resin freezes instantaneously at the mold  
 
surface, resulting in a thin solid layer. Quick 
quenching of the melt at the mold surface creates 
several problems, particularly when molding resins 
which contain large amounts of fillers in the form of 
fibers and powders. The freezing of these materials at 
the mold surfaces creates rough surfaces such as 
exposed fillers, voids and porosity. Processing 
difficulties arise when producing thin, large parts. 
The quick solidification of the melt combined with 
limited flowability of the materials makes it difficult 
to achieve melt flow over a large area. The use of 
multiple gates for large and/or complex mold cavities 
produces weld lines, which are unsightly and weak. 
Another important issue in injection molding of high 
quality parts is the residual stresses in the molded 
parts. Residual stress inside a part can result in 
dimensional instability over the lifetime of the part. 
Non-uniform residual stresses also
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multilayer mold for molding thermoplastic 
into finished parts with uniform texturing comprising: 

   a core; 
   an insulating layer bonded to said core for 

slowing initial cooling of the thermoplastic during 
molding; and 

   a skin layer bonded to the core, said skin layer 
being formed from a plurality of layers, including a 

corrosion-resistant layer deposited on the core and an 
etchable non-corrosion resistant layer deposited on the 

corrosion-resistant layer, said non-corrosion resistant 
layer having been selectively etched to a uniform depth 

for imparting a finished textured surface to the 
plastic. 
The mold of claim 1, wherein the corrosion-resistant 
layer is a phosphorous-rich region. 
The mold of claim 2, wherein the phosphorous-rich 
region has at least 8% phosphorous. 
The method of the mold of claim 1, wherein the 
non-corrosion resistant layer is a phosphorous-poor 

region. 
The mold of claim 4, wherein the phosphorous-poor 
region contains up to about 5% phosphorous. 
The mold of claim 1, further comprising a 
abrasion-resistant overcoat deposited over the 

uniformly textured mold surface. 
The mold of claim 1 wherein the overcoat 
comprises a high phosphorous electroless nickel 

coating. 
The mold of claim 1 wherein the insulating 
layer comprises a porous matrix filled with a material 

having an affinity for the skin layer. 
The mold of claim 8 wherein the material 
having an affinity to the skin layer comprises 

filamentary nickel particles. 
The mold of claim 1, wherein the plastic is 
a material selected from the group consisting of 

polyamides, polyester, polyethylene terepthalate (PET), 
polybutadiene terepthalate (PBT) with soft linkages 

formed of polycarbonate and metheylene, polyether 
ketones, polyetherimides, polylactams, polypropylenes, 

polyethylenes, polystyrene, styrene acrylonitrile, 
acrylonitrile butadiene terpolymers, polypropylene 

oxide (PPO)/polystyrenes, PPO/nylons and high impact 
polystyrene filled or unfilled and blends thereof. 
The mold of claim 1, wherein the plastic is 
a material selected from the group consisting of filled 

or unfilled polycarbonates, polyesters, polyphenylene 
oxide, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), styrene 

acrylonitrile, polyimide, blends and polymeric 
combinations thereof. 
A method for molding a thermoplastic material 
comprising the steps of:

 
   charging a plastic into a mold having a structure 

including: a core; an insulating layer bonded to said 
core for slowing initial cooling of the thermoplastic 

during molding; and a skin layer bonded to the core, 
said skin layer being formed of a plurality of layers, 

including a corrosion-resistant layer deposited on the 
core and an etchable non-corrosion resistant material 

deposited on the corrosion-resistant layer, said non-corrosion 
resistant layer having been selectively 

etched to a uniform depth for imparting texture to the 
plastic; 

   holding the thermoplastic material in the mold for 
a time sufficient for the material to cool below its 

glass transition temperature; and 
   ejecting a finished article from the mold. 
The method of claim 12, wherein the 
corrosion-resistant layer is a phosphorous-rich region 

and the non-corrosion resistant layer is a phosphorous-poor 
nickel region. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the 
phosphorous-rich region has at least about 8% 

phosphorous and the phosphorous-poor region has up to 
about 5% phosphorous. 
The method of claim 12 wherein the insulating 
layer comprises a porous matrix filled with a material 

having an affinity for the skin layer. 
The method according to claim 12, wherein the 
plastic is a material selected from the group 

consisting of polyamides, polyester, polyethylene 
 

terepthalate (PET), polybutadiene terepthalate (PBT) 
with soft linkages formed of polycarbonate and 

metheylene, polyether ketones, polyetherimides, 
polylactams, polypropylenes, polyethylenes, 

polystyrene, styrene acrylonitrile, acrylonitrile 
butadiene terpolymers, polypropylene oxide 

(PPO)/polystyrenes, PPO/nylons and high impact 
polystyrene filled or unfilled and blends thereof. 
The method according to claim 12, wherein the 
plastic is a material selected from the group 

consisting of filled or unfilled polycarbonates, 
polyesters, polyphenylene oxide, acrylonitrile 

butadiene styrene (ABS), styrene acrylonitrile, 
polyimide, blends and polymeric combinations thereof. 
A mold particularly suitable for making 
uniformly textured surfaces in thermoplastic articles 

comprising a multilayer skin layer deposited on a 
substrate having bulk imperfections resulting from 

repairs made thereto, said skin layer, including a 
corrosion-resistant sublayer adjacent the substrate 

which is resistant to an etchant and a non-corrosion 
resistant layer deposited on the sublayer, said 

corrosion-resistant sublayer being unaffected by the 
etchant such that the non-corrosion resistant layer is 

etched to a uniform depth terminating at said 
corrosion-resistant sublayer. 
An article manufactured utilizing the mold of 
claim 18. 
A method for making a multilayer mold surface 
for molding a thermoplastic into a finished textured 

article with uniform texturing comprising the steps of: 
   depositing an insulating layer onto a core; 

   depositing a first corrosion-resistant layer on 
the insulating layer; 

   depositing a second non-corrosion resistant layer 
atop the corrosion-resistant layer; 

   masking a portion of the non-corrosion resistant 
layer to form a texturing pattern; 

   subjecting the masked mold surface to an etchant 
solution for a time sufficient to allow the etchant to 

reach the corrosion-resistant layer; and 
   terminating the etching step thereat. 
An article manufactured according to the 
method of claim 20. 
The method of claim 20, further comprising 
the step of overcoating the textured layer with a 

corrosion resistant layer. 
The method according to claim 20, wherein the 
plastic is a material selected from the group 

consisting of polyamides, polyester, polyethylene 
terepthalate (PET), polybutadiene terepthalate (PBT) 

with soft linkages formed of polycarbonate and 
metheylene, polyether ketones, polyetherimides, 

polylactams, polypropylenes, polyethylenes, 
polystyrene, styrene acrylonitrile, acrylonitrile 

butadiene terpolymers, polypropylene oxide 
(PPO)/polystyrenes, PPO/nylons and high impact 

polystyrene filled or unfilled and blends thereof. 
The method according to claim 20, wherein the 
plastic is a material selected from the group 

consisting of filled or unfilled polycarbonates, 
polyesters, polyphenylene oxide, acrylonitrile 

butadiene styrene (ABS), styrene acrylonitrile, 
polyimide, blends and polymeric combinations thereof. 
A multilayer mold for molding thermoplastic 
into finished parts with uniform texturing comprising: 

   a core having bulk imperfections resulting from 
repairs thereto; 

   a skin layer bonded to the core, said skin layer 
being formed from plurality of layers, including a 

corrosion-resistant layer deposited on the core and an 
etchable non-corrosion resistant layer deposited on the 

corrosion-resistant layer, said non-corrosion resistant 
layer having been selectively etched to a uniform depth 

for imparting a finished texture surface to the 
plastic. 
A method for molding a thermoplastic material 
comprising the steps of: 

   charging a plastic into a mold having a structure 
including: a core having bulk imperfections resulting 

from repairs thereto; a skin layer bonded to the core, 
said skin layer being formed of a plurality of layers, 

including a corrosion-resistant layer deposited on the 
core and an etchable non-corrosion resistant layer 

deposited on the corrosion-resistant layer, said non-corrosion 
resistant layer having been selectively 

etched to a uniform depth for imparting texture to the 
plastic;

 
   retaining the thermoplastic material in the mold 

for a time sufficient for the material to cool below 
its glass transition temperature; 

   and thereafter ejecting the article therefrom. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
