<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641719</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BOTTLE OF SYNTHETIC RESIN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1100	B29B1702	B29B1702	B65D102	B05B1100	B65D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B29B	B29B	B65D	B05B	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B11	B29B17	B29B17	B65D1	B05B11	B65D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a bottle of synthetic 
resin adapted to store various liquids, and aims at 

providing a bottle which is easy to break for easy 
of disposal and recycling. The bottle comprises a 

plurality of breakable wall portions in the form of 
longitudinal bands extending along the central axis 

of the bottle and body wall portions. A synthetic 

resin which constitutes the breakable wall portions 
is composed of a first material consisting of a 

synthetic resin constituting the body wall portions 
and/or a synthetic resin well compatible with the 

synthetic resin, and a second material consisting 
of a synthetic resin which is not compatible with 

the body wall portion constituting synthetic resin. 
Accordingly, bond strength between the breakable 

wall portions and the body wall portions is adjusted 
for ease of breakability. Provided inside the bottle 

is an interior body, as desired. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a bottle made of
synthetic resin, particularly, to a bottle capable of
easily crushing in case of waste disposal.A bottle made of synthetic resin has many advantages,
such as facility for molding, moldability into
comparatively free shapes, facility for handling because
of its light weight, high safety because of its difficulty
in fracturing, excellent decorative function and the like.
Therefore, the bottle is used as a container for
containing soft drinks, cosmetics, powders, medicines, or
the like.However, the bottle made of synthetic resin must be
disposed of still in a hollow state due to the difficulty
in fracturing. Therefore, since the bottle made of
synthetic resin as a waste has a large volume as compared
with its weight, it makes the cost of transportation to a
waste disposal plant high and makes also the disposable
volume itself per one time in the waste disposal plant
small. Thus, it was very troublesome to handle the
bottle.For the above reasons, the following containers each 
whole of which can be crushed when disposing it to thereby
reduce the volume of the waste sufficiently for easy
handling have been conventionally manufactured.A first container is a container made of synthetic
resin having a portion for containing liquid, said portion
being formed remarkably thin, and the thin portion for
liquid-containing is assembled into an outer container
made of cardboard or the like. The first container is
known as a so-called composite container.A second container is a envelop-shaped container
(pouch, standing pouch) formed by a sheet. However, the
first container losses the various advantages, as a bottle
made of synthetic resin , such as, for example, facility
for molding and manufacturing, moldability into products
rich in various shapes and appearances, facility for
handling and the like. Since the first container is apt
to be easily damaged by water, it is necessary to pay
sufficient attention when handling it. Therefore,
applicable fields as a container are restricted
drastically.Thus, the first container has a shortcoming of
lossing the advantages inherent in a bottle made of
synthetic resin.Further, since the second container is molded from a
sheet, the standing posture of the second container was
quite unstable when using, particularly when the contents 
of the container became little. Additionally, as the
second container was gripped for using the contents, the
main body of the container was easily deformed by the
gripping force so that the contents
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bottle made of synthetic resin comprising;

a bottom portion (1a) and a cylindrical body portion
(1b) extending circumferentially upwards therefrom about a

central axis, characterised in that said cylindrical body
portion (1b) has a plurality of fracturing walls (3) each

formed in longitudinal band shape and extending substantially
in a direction of the central axis of said cylindrical body

portion (1b) and a plurality of main walls (2), each of said
main walls (2) being disposed between and frangibly connected

to adjacent fracturing walls (3) at boundaries therebetween
said main walls (2) being formed of a synthetic resin and
said fracturing walls being made of a first material and a

second material, said first material being a synthetic resin
having good compatibility with the synthetic resin of said

main walls (2), said second material being a synthetic resin
having poor compatibility with the synthetic resin forming

said main walls (2).
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 1,
comprising a cylindrical opening (1c) at the upper part of

said cylindrical body portion (1b), said main walls (2) and
said fracturing walls (3) being provided extending over the

whole bottle from said cylindrical opening (1c), through the
cylindrical body portion (1b), to said bottom portion (1a).
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 1,
wherein said main walls (2) are made of olefin resin, and 

said fracturing walls (3) are made of olefin resin and
styrene resin.
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 3,
wherein the mixing ratio of said olefin resin and said

styrene resin, which form said fracturing walls (3), is 10:3-10:0.5
by weight.
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 3,
wherein said main walls (2) are made of high density

polyethylene and said fracturing walls (3) are made of high
density polyethylene and polystyrene.
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 5,
wherein the mixing ratio of said high density polyethylene

and said polystyrene, which form said fracturing walls (3),
is 10:3-10:0.5 by weight.
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 3,
wherein said main walls (2) are made of polypropylene and

said fracturing walls (3) are made of polypropylene and
polystyrene.
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 7,
wherein the mixing ratio of said polypropylene and said

polystyrene, which form said fracturing walls (3), is 10:3-10:0.5
by weight.
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in any one
of claims 1-8, comprising an inner covering member (5)

assembled into a bottle main body (1), said inner covering 
member (5) being formed thin with a material having

sufficient flexibility and being provided therein so as to
substantially completely cover the whole inner surface of

said bottle main body (1),

   the material of said inner covering member (5) being a
synthetic resin which has poor compatibility with the

synthetic resin forming said main walls (2) and with the
materials forming said fracturing walls (3).
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in claim 9,
wherein said inner covering member (5) is bonded by at least

one bonding layer formed in a longidutinal band shape
disposed on said bottle main body (1).
A bottle made of synthetic resin as claimed in any one
of claims 3-5, comprising an inner covering member (5) made

of nylon assembled into a bottle main body (1), said inner
covering member (5) being formed thin with a material having

sufficient flexibility and being provided therein so as to
substantially completely cover the inner surface of said

bottle main body (1).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
