<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621398</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radial nozzle for a radial turbine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01D902	F01D902	F01D904	F01D904	F02C300	F02C308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01D	F01D	F01D	F01D	F02C	F02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01D9	F01D9	F01D9	F01D9	F02C3	F02C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radial inflow turbine (10) having a radial nozzle 
assembly (18) comprising a plurality of vanes (20), wherein 

downstream of the throat, the vane suction surfaces (54), 
relative to a radius of the circle on which the vane 

trailing edges (42) lie, have a specified range of angles, or 
decreasing radii of curvature. 

The nozzle passage losses diminish, and efficiency over prior known 
radial inflow turbines is increased. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WULF JAMES BRAGDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WULF, JAMES BRAGDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
After World War II radial inflow turbines began to 
gain increasingly wide use in a wide range of 
applications due to their ease of manufacture, low 
cost, and high efficiency. Examples of these 
applications are gas turbines in aircraft auxiliary 
power units, turboexpanders for turbocharging in 
automotive vehicles, and turboexpanders in cryogenic 
air separation plants and gas liquefiers. In cryogenic 
plants, the turboexpanders usually operate 
continuously, and process large volumes of fluid. 
Energy input into a cryogenic plant is a principal 
cost, so that even small increases in efficiency in a 
cryogenic plant's turboexpanders are economically very 
beneficial. The major losses in radial turbines are divisible 
into nozzle passage loss, rotor incidence loss, rotor 
passage loss, rotor discharge loss, and wheel disk 
friction loss. Radial turbine component losses can be 
measured by placing static pressure taps in the turbine 
gas path between the three major components: the inlet 
nozzle, the impeller and the exit diffuser. Analysis 
of field test data has shown that nozzle losses 
comprise a large part of the total turbine loss. Thus 
the aerodynamic configuration of the vanes comprising a  
 
radial inflow turbine nozzle present an opportunity for 
improvement. Kirschner, Robertson, and Carter describe an 
approach to the definition of radial nozzle vanes in 
their July, 1971 NASA Lewis Research Center report 
CR-7288 entitled "The Design of an Advanced Turbine for 
Brayton Rotating Unit Application." In this work a 
vane camber line was generated from a prescribed 
distribution of loading on the vane. The thickness 
distribution of a 6-percent-thick NACA-63 airfoil was 
superimposed on the camber line. Surface velocities on 
this vane geometry were calculated, and minor 
adjustments in geometry were made until acceptable 
distributions were obtained. Report No. 1390-5 dated February 28, 1983, 
prepared by Northern Research and Engineering 
Corporation for the Department of Energy, designated 
DOE/ET/15426)T25 and entitled "R & D For Improved 
Efficiency Small Steam Turbines" describes another 
approach to the design of radial nozzle vanes. From 
process requirements, inlet flow conditions of 
temperature, pressure and flow angle to the radial 
nozzle, and downstream flow conditions of exit flow 
angle and velocity were selected. An aerodynamically 
ideal surface velocity distribution was selected, and 
the axial vane geometry to produce the selected  
 
velocity distribution was calculated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radial turbine having an impeller mounted for 
rotation about an axis and encircled by a radial nozzle 

comprising a plurality of nozzle vanes having trailing 
edges arranged with a circumferential spacing around a 

circle and a nozzle throat defined by a minimum width 
between adjacent vanes wherein at least one vane for 

approximately one throat width downstream of the throat 
has a suction surface, which relative to a radius of the 

circle, has an angle of about 2° to about 7° less than an 
angle whose cosine is equal to the throat width divided 

by the spacing; and downstream of the throat to the 
trailing edge has an angle of not greater than about 

1.5° greater than the angle whose cosine is equal to the 
throat width divided by the spacing. 
The radial turbine as in claim 1 wherein said vane 
suction surface relative to a radius through said circle 

has an angle for approximately one throat width 
downstream of said throat of about 5° to about 6° less 

than an angle whose cosine is equal to said throat width 
divided by said spacing. 
The radial turbine as in claim 1 wherein the 
suction surface downstream of the throat is a smooth 

 
curve in planes normal to the axis of rotation. 
The radial turbine as in claim 1 wherein said vanes 
have a chord and the ratio of said chord to said 

circumferential spacing is from about 1.2 to about 3.2. 
The radial turbine as in claim 1 wherein said vanes 
have a chord and the ratio of said chord to said 

circumferential spacing is from about 1.4 to about 2.4. 
A radial turbine having an impeller mounted for 
rotation about an axis and encircled by a radial nozzle 

comprising a plurality of nozzle vanes having trailing 
edges arranged to provide a nozzle throat between 

adjacent vanes wherein at least one vane, in a plane 
normal to the axis of rotation, has a suction surface 

which is a smooth curve having radii of curvature which 
decrease by a factor of from about 4 to about 12 from 

the throat to the trailing edge of the vane. 
The radial turbine as in claim 6 wherein at least 
one vane, in a plane normal to the axis of rotation, has 

a suction surface which is a smooth curve having radii 
of curvature which decrease by a factor of from about 5 

to about 6 from the throat to the trailing edge of the 
vane. 
The radial turbine as in claim 6 wherein at least 
one vane has a suction surface, which in a plane normal 

to the axis of rotation, is a smooth curve having radii 
of curvature which decrease by a factor of from about 

1.5 to about 4 over about the first 20% of the distance 
downstream from the throat to the trailing edge, and 

then by a factor of less than about 1.5 over the 
remaining distance to the trailing edge. 
A method of fabricating a radial turbine comprising 
a rotor mounted for rotation about an axis and encircled 

by a radial nozzle having a plurality of vanes each 
having a trailing edge and a suction surface, said 

method comprising: 

(a) arranging said vanes with their trailing edges 
on a circle at a circumferential spacing and a minimum 

width between adjacent vanes to form a throat; and 
(b) forming each vane suction surface for 
approximately one throat width downstream of said throat 

with an angle relative to a radius of said circle of 
about 2° to about 7° less than the angle whose cosine is 

equal to said throat width divided by said spacing; and 
downstream of the throat to the trailing edge with an 

angle not greater than approximately 1.5° greater than 
the angle whose cosine is equal to said throat width 

divided by said spacing. 
The method as in claim 9 further comprising 

(c) forming each vane suction surface downstream 
of the throat with a smooth curve in planes normal to 

the axis of rotation. 
A method of fabricating a radial turbine comprising 
a rotor mounted for rotation about an axis and encircled 

by a radial nozzle having a plurality of vanes each 
having a trailing edge and a suction surface, said 

method comprising: 

(a) arranging said vanes with their trailing edges 
on a circle at a circumferential spacing and a minimum 

width between adjacent vanes to form a throat; and 
(b) forming at least one vane suction surface 
which, in a plane normal to the axis of rotation, is a 

smooth curve having radii of curvature which decrease by 
a factor of from about 4 to about 12 from the throat to 

the trailing edge of the vane. 
The method as in claim 11 wherein said at least one 
vane suction surface, in a plane normal to the axis of 

rotation, is a smooth curve having radii of curvature 
which decrease by a factor of from about 5 to about 6 

from the throat to the trailing edge of the vane. 
The radial turbine as in claim 11 wherein at least 
 

one vane, in a plane normal to the axis of rotation, has 
a suction surface which is a smooth curve having radii 

of curvature which decrease by a factor of from about 
1.5 to about 4 over about the first 20% of the distance 

downstream from the throat to the trailing edge, and 
then by a factor of less than about 1.5 over the 

remaining distance to the trailing edge. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
