<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612008</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multiple level parallel magnitude comparator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F702	G06F702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F7	G06F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnitude comparator is modified to compare the magnitudes of two large binary 
values more quickly and with minimum gate delays. Bit comparators are divided into 

groups which generate compare output signals in parallel to one another, thereby 
reducing magnitude comparator delay. These compare output signals are fed into a 

control element which determines which compare output signal is allowed to pass through 
as the final compare output signal. This circuitry, along with logic circuitry which indicates 

whether corresponding bit values within associated groups exactly match, defines a 
magnitude comparator block. 
Multiple magnitude blocks are used to facilitate the comparison of larger binary 
values. Each magnitude comparator block generates a compare output signal which, in 

turn, is an input to a corresponding gating element. Each gating element possesses a 
logic input signal, derived in part from its magnitude comparator block's match logic 

circuitry. The gating element logic input signals ensure that only the compare output 
signal of the magnitude comparator block having the highest order bits with magnitude 

difference will be allowed to propagate through as the final compare output signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ST MICROELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STMICROELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE, DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to integrated
circuits, and more specifically to a multiple level magnitude
comparator circuit.This application is related to EP-A-0568573, EP-A-0564376
and EP-A-0568374.Magnitude comparator circuits are used when it is necessary to determine the
relationship between the magnitude of two numbers - whether a number is equal to, less
than, or greater than another number in magnitude. Such circuits find a wide variety of
uses in the electronics industry. For example, magnitude comparators are used in
conjunction with subtractors to generate high speed flag logic for FIFO (First In First Out)
memories. Magnitude comparator circuits are also used in arithmetic logic units (ALU's)
found in personal computers (PCs) and other computers and by microprocessors for the
execution of certain instructions.Serial magnitude comparators are a common form of comparator circuits in the
prior art. They have a number of individual bit comparators that together serially
determine the magnitude of a number relative to another number. First, the least
significant bits (LSBs) of the two numbers are compared before comparing the next bits,
the LSB+1. This process continues serially until the most significant bits (MSBs) have
been compared. The serial process can be quite consuming; at least 16 gate delays will
be incurred for comparing two 16 bit words. The individual bit comparators which comprise a serial magnitude comparator have
four inputs: two inputs determined by the two bits to be compared, an input from the
compare output of the previous magnitude comparator, and an input equal to the first bit
of the two bits being compared. The compare output of a bit comparator is input to the
subsequent bit comparator and reflects whether the magnitude of one bit is equal to, less
than, or greater than the magnitude of the second bit. If the two bits being compared are
equal, then the compare input is passed through the bit comparator as the compare
output. If, however, the two bits are unequal in magnitude, then the input equal to the
first bit of the two bits being compared is passed through as the compare output. This
comparison process starts with the least significant bit (LSB) comparator and continues
until the most significant bit (MSB) comparator finishes its comparison operation. The bit
comparator with the highest order bit of difference determines the state of the final
compare output.The gate delays associated with serial magnitude comparators can have an
adverse effect on overall
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiple level magnitude comparator, comprising:

a plurality of comparator blocks (201,220,240,260), each
comparator block comprising: plural comparator groups, each

comparator group comprising plural serially-connected bit
comparators comparing respective first and second bits, each

group generating a group output signal; and a control element
receiving said group output signals and selecting one of said

group output signals as a block output signal, wherein each
comparator block performs a magnitude comparison operation

between consecutive bits which define a portion of a first binary
value and a corresponding portion of a second binary value, and

wherein each comparator block further generates a no match output
signal (208,228,248,288) indicative of whether the portion of the

first binary value and the corresponding portion of the second
binary value exactly match; and
a plurality of gating elements (210,230,259,270), wherein
each gating element corresponds to a comparator block and has a

first signal input equal to the block output signal
(206,226,246,266) of the corresponding comparator block and a

second signal (212,232,252,272) input determined by whether the
bits compared in the corresponding comparator block or higher

order comparator blocks match.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of claim 1, wherein the no match
output signal for a particular comparator block is obtained by

performing logic on the consecutive bits which define a
portion of the first binary value and the corresponding

portion of the second binary value, and wherein the no match
output signal of each comparator block is capable of

controlling the gating elements. 
The multiple level magnitude comparator of claims 1 or 2, wherein the
comparator blocks and the gating elements perform their

respective functions simultaneously.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of any preceding claim, having at least a
first level magnitude comparator and a second level magnitude

comparator wherein the first level magnitude comparator has a
plurality of comparator blocks and gating elements which are

contained and duplicated within the comparator blocks of the
second level magnitude comparator, which also has a plurality

of comparator blocks and gating elements, such that the second
level magnitude comparator is capable of comparing the

magnitude of larger binary values than is the first level
magnitude comparator.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of any preceding claim, wherein the gating
elements determine which comparator block contains the highest

order bits which do not match.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of any preceding claim, wherein each gating
element receives a first and a second value input which

determines whether the gating element will allow the first
value input to be an output signal from the gating element,

the gating element being capable of not allowing the first
value input of the gating element to be output from the gating

element.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of claim 6, wherein only one of
the plurality of gating elements may allow the first value

input of the gating element to be an output signal from the
gating element.
The multiple level magnitdue comparator of any preceding claim, wherein the
plurality of gating elements are one of either a plurality of

transmission gates or a plurality of tri-stateable gates. 
The multiple level magnitude comparator of any preceding claim, wherein each
comparator group is independent from every other comparator

group, the comparator groups compare a plurality of bits
simultaneously, and the comparator groups and the control

element perform their respective functions simultaneously.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of any preceding claim, wherein each bit
comparator generates a compare output which is input to the

subsequent bit comparator.
The multiple level magnitude comparator of claim 10, wherein the initial
bit comparator of the comparator group has as its compare

input a signal set to a predetermined level.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
