<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612209</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PLANT FOR FARMING FISH AND THE LIKE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K6100	A01K6100	A01K6300	A01K6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K61	A01K61	A01K63	A01K63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plant for farming and storage of fish and the like in the sea of the kind comprising a net cage which is anchored to the sea bottom and provided with floats, buoyant bodies etc., so that the net cage can be supported in an expanded fashion in the sea. The plant consists of two main parts, namely an anchoring section (2) with a submerged supporting section (4) with positive buoyancy and which is anchored to the sea bottom with a plurality of preferably parallel stays (12) which lead down to sea bottom anchors (14), and a second section (10) which consists of one on the supporting section (4) releasably attached net cage whose upper edge is provided with circumferentially distributed floating members (18). The net cage includes one above the floating members (18) arranged top part (16) which preferably is upwardly conically tapered and in the top center section is provided with a buoyant body (20) adapted to float in the sea surface when the plant is in normal operative condition in the sea.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SINVENT AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SINVENT A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEN EGIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEN, EGIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a plant for breeding, 
farming and storage of fish and other marine species of the 
kind comprising a net cage which is installed in a submerged 
position in the sea. The invention is particularly adapted 
for installation in open or offshore environments as distinct 
from sheltered and shallow environments. Fish farming plants of this kind consist basically of a 
plurality of anchored floating bodies which are supporting a 
net cage downwardly suspended in the sea. In order to 
stabilize the net cage in a substantially vertically expanded 
configuration in the sea, weights and/or bottom anchorings are 
arranged along the bottom edge of the net cage. In connection 
with fish farming plants to be installed in sheltered waters, 
there are further arranged suitable plattforms with gangways, 
suspended feeding means etc. Known plants for farming and storing or caging fish in 
the sea have, on account of their shape and equipment, a 
limited field of utilization due to the prevailing environmental 
forces, water depths etc. The installation site of the 
plants creates problems such as a risk for local contamination 
and traffic impediments. On this background, both fish 
farmers and authorities want to develop plants which can be 
positioned in more open, deep water areas. A more freely 
exposed location of the plants will also render possibilities 
for installation of larger plants. In recent years, several types of fish farming plants 
have been developed, designed for use in offshore 
environments. As illustrative for the prior art in this field 
is referred to US Patent No. 4957064, Swedish Patent No. 
450866 and Norwegian Patent No. 153991. The US patent shows a fish cage structure consisting of a 
cagelike enclosure which at the top is provided with 
circumferentially arranged float means, designed to float in 
the sea surface. The net cage is upwardly open and must  
 
accordingly not be pulled down below the sea surface, otherwise 
the fish would escape. Along the bottom edge of the fish 
cage, weights are provided in order to tension the cage 
downwards. Instead of weights, the bottom edge of the cage 
may be provided with anchor lines to the sea bottom. On 
account of the interconnected, complicated floating system 
shown, the plant will be severely exposed to lateral forces 
from wind and waves. Swedish patent no. 450866 shows a fish farming plant 
where the net cage consists of a lattice framework assembled 
from rods which are linked together in the nodes. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Plant for farming and storage of fish and the like in the sea comprising a net cage 
which is anchored to the sea bottom and provided with floats, buoyant bodies etc., so 

that the net cage can be maintained in a sufficiently expanded position in the sea, said 
plant consisting of two main parts, namely an anchoring section (2) with a submerged 

supporting section (4) with positive buoyancy and which is anchored to the sea bottom 
with an anchor line means (12) which leads down to a sea bottom anchor (14), and a 

second section (10) which consists of a net cage attached on the supporting section which 
cage is provided at an upper edge with circumferentially distributed floating members 

(18), said net cage including an tipper part or top part (16) arranged on the top side of 
the floating members (18) which preferably is upwardly conically tapered, characterised 

in that said anchor line means is comprised of a plurality of substantially parallel anchor 
lines, further characterised in that said net cage is releasably attached to the supporting 

section and still further characterised in that the top centre of the upper part is provided 
with a buoyant body (20) adapted to float on the sea surface when the plant is in normal 

operative condition in the sea. 
Plant according to claim 1, characterised in that the anchoring section (2) and the 
net cage (10) are given such dimensions that the upper part (16) of the net cage above the 

floating members (18) normally is suspended as a skirt with a slack up to the sea surface 
and is supported by the buoyant body (20), in order thereby to absorb tide water 

variations and smaller waves without imposing a substantial load on the buoyant body 
(20) and creating a risk of pulling the buoyant body (20) below the sea surface. 
Plant according to claim 1, characterised in that the buoyant body (20) is 
configurated as a ring-shaped element covered with a screen formed cage-like dome (21).  

 
Plant according to any preceding claim characterised in that said net cage (10) 
includes a lower, substantially cylindrically shaped part. 
Plant according to claim 4, characterised in that the upper part (16) of the net 
cage is releasably attached to the cylindrical part of the net cage (10). 
Plant according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the net cage 
(10) is releasably and hoistably mounted on the supporting section (4). 
Plant according to claim 6, characterised in that the net cage (10) is releasably 
attached to the support section (4) by means of lines running through circumferentially 

distributed blocks mounted on the support section (4), which lines thereafter extend up to 
the sea surface and suitably are attached to the buoyant body (20). 
Plant according to claim 7, characterised in that the net cage (10) is releasably 
attached to the support section (4) by means of interconnected quick couplings (24) 

operable from the sea surface. 
Plant according to claim 7 or 8, characterised in that the net cage (10) is 
releasably attached by means of a quick coupling (24) which is operable from the sea 

surface and is further attached by means of a plurality of lines (30) passing through 
sheaves or blocks (32) mounted on the support section, such that the net cage, possibly a 

new net cage in case of replacement, may be pulled down to the support section and be 
attached thereto utilising the quick couplings (24). 
Plant according to any of the claims 7 to 9, characterised in that each of the quick 
couplings (24) consists of a locking pin (28) adapted to be put into a complementary 

locking bushing (26) provided with locking means, and in that a hoisting line (30) is  
 

attached to the end of the locking pin (28) and is passing through said locking bushing to 
the bottom of same and from there via a block (32) up to the sea surface. 
Plant in accordance with any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the net 
cage is provided with one or more supplementary substantially horizontal extending 

floors (50) with one or more openings (52), which floor or floors function as substrate 
for bottom seeking fishes, such as flounder. 
Plant in accordance with claim 10, characterised in that the net cage is provided 
with a plurality of elevationally spaced floors (50), each of which is provided with a 

central opening (52), thereby presenting a vertically open shaft through the 
supplementary floors. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
