<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648379</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF MAKING A HIGH TC SUPERCONDUCTOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01G1500	H01L3924	B28B100	C01G1500	H01L3924	C01G100	H01B1300	H01B1300	C01G100	B28B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01G	H01L	B28B	C01G	H01L	C01G	H01B	H01B	C01G	B28B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01G15	H01L39	B28B1	C01G15	H01L39	C01G1	H01B13	H01B13	C01G1	B28B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modified powder-in-tube process produces a superconductor wire having a significantly greater current density than will a superconductor wire of the same nominal superconductor composition produced using conventional draw-swage-extrude-roll deformation. In the process disclosed, a superconductor precursor is placed within a ductile tube, the tube with the powder therein is then deformed into a cross section substantially corresponding to that of the end product, and the deformed tube is then subject to a plurality of heat treatments to convert the precursor into the desired superconducting ceramic oxide phase. Before the last of the heat treatments, the tube is isostatically pressed to densify and texture the superconductor precursor oxide in the tube.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to superconductors and, more
particularly, to a process for improving the superconducting
characteristics of oxide superconductors.The discovery, in 1986, of superconductivity in
lanthanum barium copper oxide stimulated worldwide activity
directed towards oxide superconductors having a high
critical temperature (Tc). Since then, a significant number
of other ceramic oxide superconductive materials have been
discovered, including ceramic oxide compositions based on
the Y-Ba-Cu-O, Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O and Tl-Ca-Ba-Cu systems. A
number of now-issued U.S. Patents have proposed making
superconducting wires from such materials using a process
which includes the steps of filling a ductile metal tube
with a powder of superconductor material or precursor,
drawing or extruding the filled tube to reduce the tube
diameter and provide a wire of predetermined diameter having
a core of superconducting material or precursor and a
surrounding metal sheath, and heat treating the wire to
provide the desired superconducting properties in the core.
The general process, commonly known as Powder-In-Tube or
"PIT", is described in, for example, U. S. Patents 4,952,554
to Jin et al., 4,980,964 to Boeke, and 5,043,320 to Meyer et
al. According to the PIT processes taught in the aforementioned
patents, the superconducting powder in the tube
may be either a mixture of powders of the oxide components
of the superconducting composition, or a powder having the
nominal composition of the superconductor. U.S. Patent No.
4,826,808 to Yurek et al., teaches forming a ceramic
superconducting oxide by oxidation of a metal alloy
precursor that has the same metal content as the desired
superconducting oxide. In the manufacture of superconducting wires using the
general PIT procedure described above, and regardless of the
nature of the particular powder initially placed in the
ductile metal tube, the superconducting wire core of the
final product should be textured uniformly, that is, the
grains of the oxide superconductor, which are typically
anisotropic and plate-like in shape, should be oriented in
generally parallel, closely-stacked planes rather than at
random angular orientations. A high degree of uniform
texture effectively insures that the superconducting core is
of high density and low porosity along its entire length.In practice, this has proved difficult to achieve. In
the course of manufacture, the wire typically undergoes a
number of deformations (e.g, it is extruded, swaged, drawn
or rolled), each of which may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for making a superconducting
conductor of the type including a longitudinally-extending

ceramic superconducting oxide core within a
ductile metal sheath, the process including the steps

of:

placing a superconductor precursor powder having
the nominal composition of the superconducting oxide

in a said sheath,
mechanically deforming said sheath with said
precursor powder therein to reduce the cross-section

thereof to substantially the cross-section of said
conductor, and
thereafter subjecting said sheath and said
precursor powder to a plurality of heat treatments to

convert said precursor into said superconducting core,
wherein the first of said plurality of heat treatments

reacts and sinters said precursor powder,
and wherein, after said sheath has been
mechanically deformed to reduce the cross section

thereof to substantially said cross-section of said
conductor,
as the final step of said plurality of heat
treatments, said sheath and the resulting core are hot

isostatically pressed at a pressure in the range of
from 207 MPa (30,000 psi) to 2068 MPa (300,000 psi) to

texture and densify said core.
A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said precursor comprises a ceramic oxide powder.
A process as claimed in claim 1, including
the steps of oxidizing metal-containing powders to

form said superconductor and thereafter placing said
superconductor precursor powder within said tube. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said cross-section of said core before said hot

isostatic pressing is non-circular and has an aspect
ratio of greater than 1:1.
A process as claimed in claim 4, wherein
said aspect ratio of said core before said isostatic

pressing is greater than 5:1.
A process as claimed in claim 1, which
includes the steps of rolling said sheath with said

powder therein to form said core into a non-circular
cross-section having an aspect ratio of greater than

1:1 before said hot isostatic pressing.
A process as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said conductor is

multifilamentary, and wherein, before said plurality
of heat treatments, each of the filaments of said

conductor is non-circular in cross-section and has an
aspect ratio of greater than 1:1.
A process as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, including the steps of bundling a

plurality of wires each of which comprises a
superconducting precursor core within a sheath of

ductile metal to form a multi-filamentary structure,
and mechanically deforming said multi-filamentary

structure, wherein said multi-filamentary structure is
subjected to said plurality of heat-treatments.
A process as claimed in claim 8 including
the steps of rolling said multi-filamentary structure

to form a tape before said plurality of heat
treatments.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
