<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632519</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mobile communications antenna assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q112	H01Q112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A window mounted antenna system having a foot 
or exterior support member attached to an antenna 

radiator or whip and typically mounted on the outside of 
a window or dielectric member comprised of a plastic 

decorative housing, a conductive foot portion which acts 
as the coupling capacitor and is inserted into the cover 

and conductively connected to the radiating member or 
whip, and a fastener for attaching the whip to the foot 

or base portion. The conductive foot includes attachment 
fingers insertable into the housing and retained in 

place upon insertion therein, and one or more flanges 
for receiving a fastener passed through the end of the 

antenna. A coupling assembly disposed on the other side 
of the window includes a formed or stamped conductive 

element which incorporates the various conductive 
components which make up the coupling assembly. The 

conductive components are overmolded with a 
nonconductive support material to produce an integrated 

structure incorporating the various components of the 
coupling assembly. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN TELECOM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN TELECOM, INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACNIK JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HADZOGLOU JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACNIK, JAMES A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HADZOGLOU, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to communication 
antennas and more particularly to mobile communication 
antennas of the type adapted to be mounted on a 
nonconductive surface such as, for example, glass in the 
form of a vehicle window, particularly those antennas 
intended for use in the UHF frequency bands typically at 
frequencies in excess of 800 Mhz. The growth and popularity of cellular 
telephone communications and other related personal 
mobile communications has been accompanied by a similar 
growth of antennas mountable on vehicles without 
damaging the vehicle. Window mounted antennas are 
typical of such antennas, particularly for 
communications devices in private vehicles. Such antenna assemblies include a radiating 
member, typically an elongated whip, an external support 
base or foot connected to the radiating member and 
attached or mounted on the outside surface of a non-conductive 
dielectric member, such as a window, and 
internal coupling circuitry attached or mounted to the 
inside surface of the nonconductive dielectric member 
juxtaposed with the outer foot or antenna support base. 
The communications signal is coupled between the 
radiating member and antenna foot on one side of the 
window, e.g., outside a vehicle, and the coupler system 
connected to a transceiver located on the other side of 
the window, e.g., inside a vehicle. UHF antennas of the type disclosed and claimed 
in Hadzoglou U.S. patent No. 4,839,660, have been sold  
 
worldwide. It would be desirable to simplify the construction 
and configuration of such antennas without adversely affecting 
their performance. The goals of reducing costs of antennas 
while maintaining their performance and the quality of 
their construction and avoiding other performance pitfalls 
requires continuing simplification and alternative construction 
techniques. The desirability of such modifications and 
the cost savings to the manufacturer and ultimately to the 
consumer are evident. It is important to guard against deterioration 
of performance characteristics of the antennas when 
attempting to reduce costs. From the US-A-5 032 846, it is known an antenna 
mounting system comprising a radiating member, a support member 
for said radiating member, a coupling system mountable on 
a dielectric member, and clamping means for mechanically engaging 
and securing said radiating member to said support 
member in a desired angular position. From the GB-A-2 218 852, it is known an antenna for a 
cellular mobile telephone which includes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An antenna system usable to radiate and receive radio 
frequency energy generated by and received by a transceiver 

at frequencies in the UHF frequency range and adapted for use 
with and attachment to a dielectric member (22), comprising: 


a radiating member (24) ; 
a support member (28) attached to one end of said 
elongated radiating member (24) and mountable on one surface 

of the dielectric member (22) ; and 
a coupling system (60) mountable on a second surface 
of the dielectric member (22) in juxtaposition with said support 

member (28) and connectable to the transceiver for coupling 
said radio frequency energy through the dielectric member 

(22) between the transceiver and said radiating member 
(24); 
said coupling system (60) including a conductive member 
(62) defining a central portion (64) forming a coupling 

plate, a generally planar loop portion (66) surrounding said 
central portion (64) and defining a counterpoise for said 

antenna system; and an intermediate portion (68) interconnecting 
said central portion (64) and said loop portion (66), 

said central portion (64) and at least part of said loop portion 
(66) lying in a common plane, said conductive member 

(62) further including a connection stub (79) oriented transverse 
to the plane of said central portion (64) for connection 

to an external conductor; 
a conductive connector (82) having a first annular 
body portion (84) electrically connected to said peripheral 

portion of said loop portion (66) and a second center conductor 
(80) disposed within said annular body portion (84) and 

connected to said connection stub (79); and  
 
an insulated body (65) associated with and substantially 
covering said connection stub (79) and a major portion 

of the inner surfaces of said center conductor (80), said 
annular connector body portion (84), and a substantial portion 

of the inner surface of said conductive member (62) ; 
the antenna system being 
characterized
 in that 
said conductive member (62) is a single conductive 
member including said central portion (64) forming said coupling 

plate, said loop portion (66) and said intermediate 
portion (68), and is made from a stamped conductive plate; 

that further 
said loop portion is a closed loop portion (66); 
said intermediate portion (68) lies in said common 
plane; and that 
the peripheral portion (72, 74, 76, 78) of at least 
part of said closed loop portion (66) is oriented transverse 

to said common plane. 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
central portion (64) includes angled extensions (64a, 64b). 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
insulated body (65) is molded to said single conductive member 

(62). 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said 
insulated body (65) is molded from natural polyphenylene oxide. 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 1, wherein a 
portion of said insulated body (65) is disposed between said 

central coupling plate portion (64) and said counterpoise 
portion (66) of said conductive member (62) with the lower 

surface of said insulated body (65) lying in said common 
plane.  

 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
generally planar closed loop portion (66) and said central 

portion (64) are generally rectangular in shape. 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 6, wherein said 
rectangular closed loop portion (66) is formed by four interconnected 

legs, with each of said legs having a first portion 
(70) lying in said common plane and a second outer portion 

(72, 74, 76, 78) extending transverse to said common plane 
from the outer peripheral edge of said first portion. 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 7, including a 
plurality of apertures (86) formed in said second transverse 

outer portions (72, 74, 76, 78) of said rectangular closed 
loop portion (66), and wherein said insulated body (65) is 

formed with projections passing through said apertures (86) 

for maintaining the relative positions of said insulated body 
(65) and said single conductive member (62). 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 1, including a 
cover (88) for said coupling system (60). 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said 
cover (88) includes an expansive top surface (90) and a plurality 

of depending walls (92a, 92b, 92c, 92d), and wherein 
one of said walls (92a) includes an opening (94) therein, 

said connector body portion (84) passing through said opening 
(94) when said cover (88) is attached to said coupling system 

(60). 
An antenna system as claimed in claim 10, wherein at 
least one of said depending walls (92b) of said cover (88) is 

formed with a projection (96) thereon, and said single conductive 
member (62) includes an opening (87) therein positioned 

to engage said projection (96) when said cover (88) is 
attached to said coupling system (60) for retaining said 

cover in place. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
