<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626088</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERSONAL SECURITY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2510	B60R2510	G08B2501	G08B2501	G08G1123	G08G1123	G08G1127	G08G113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	G08B	G08B	G08G	G08G	G08G	G08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R25	B60R25	G08B25	G08B25	G08G1	G08G1	G08G1	G08G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fully automatic personal security system which combines the advantages of worldwide LORAN-C or GPS navigation with the substantially worldwide communication capabilities of a cellular telephone or communication satellite. The security system comprises a mobile unit (30) which communicates emergency data including position coordinates, to a central dispatch station (40) which receives the emergency data and accurately displays all necessary emergency information superposed on a digitized map at a position corresponding to the location of the mobile unit (30).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMS IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMS INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE DANIEL D JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMS CHARLES G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMS JAMES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE, DANIEL, D., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMS, CHARLES, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMS, JAMES, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PERSONAL SECURITY SYSTEMTechnical Field The present invention relates generally to a security system for protecting vehicles and, more importantly, the people travelling therein. In particular, the present invention is a device for expediting a response by the appropriate authorities whenever and wherever the personal security of a mobile person is compromised. The device includes a mobile communication unit and a central station. The mobile communication unit is transported with the mobile person and is triggered by the occurrence of a variety of personal security conditions to establish cellular telephone contact with the central station. The mobile communication unit then communicates longitude and latitude coordinate data, emergency, and personal information to the central station. All pertinent information is conveniently displayed to an operator at the central station in a manner which permits the most efficient dispatching possible of the proper responding agents to administer the proper security measures.Background ArtA number of prior art devices have been proposed for automating the dispatch of the proper authorities to a vehicle in an emergency situation. For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,568,161 issued to Knickel discloses a vehicle locator system comprising a network of sensors tied to a central command station. A vehicle travelling amidst the sensors emits a code to the sensors which is indicative of the identity of the vehicle. The code is received at the nearest sensor station, which in turn signals the central command station that it has received the code. The location of the vehicle is then displayed at the central station. The central command station includes a display panel with a number of lights placed on a map at locations corresponding to each sensor.U.S. Patent No. 4,596,988 issued to Wanka likewise discloses a remote-control tracking transmitter and tracking support network of remote stations. As a vehicle passes 

through the network, the vehicle communicates with a remote station. The remote station in turn transmits location data to a base station which plots the location on a map plotter. U.S. Patent No. 4,904,983 issued to Mitchell discloses a theft alarm system for vehicles including an alarm sensor, an auto-dialing mechanism, and a cellular telephone. The alarm sensor activates the auto-dialing mechanism to seize the cellular telephone and dial a central station. A recorder then broadcasts a two-part message over the cellular telephone. The message includes fixed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for safeguarding the personal security of a vehicle operator comprising the steps of: equipping a vehicle with a mobile security assembly comprising a communication device, a position locator for determining a current position, and a mobile unit connected between said communication device and position locator; storing vehicle identification information in said mobile unit; capturing personal identification information from said vehicle operator in said mobile unit; triggering said mobile unit upon an occurrence of a personal security condition to determine a current position of said mobile entity, to establish a communication link with a central dispatch station via said communication device, and to transmit a personal security message indicating said personal security condition, said personal and vehicle identification information, and said current position; receiving said personal security message at said central station and decoding said personal security condition, personal identification information, and current position therefrom; displaying a digitized map at said central station; correlating said current position of said vehicle to a corresponding point on said digitized map at said central station and indicating said point on said digitized map; and superposing said personal security condition and said personal and vehicle identification information on said digitized map.
2. The method for safeguarding the personal security of a vehicle operator according to claim 1 wherein said step of triggering said mobile unit further comprises determining a longitude and latitude of said mobile unit using a LORAN-C positioning signal. 


 3. The method for safeguarding the personal security of a vehicle operator according to claim 1 wherein said step of triggering said mobile unit further comprises determining a longitude and latitude of said mobile unit using a GPS positioning signal.
4. The method for safeguarding the personal security of a vehicle operator according to claim 1 wherein said step of capturing personal identification information from said vehicle operator further comprises reading said personal identification information from a data storage device inserted in said mobile unit by said vehicle operator.
5. The method for safeguarding the personal security of a vehicle operator according to claim 4 wherein said data storage device comprises a data entry key.
6. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 1 wherein said step of storing vehicle identification information in said mobile unit further comprises storing a vehicle account number, a vehicle make, model, and license tag number.
7. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 4 wherein said step of reading said personal identification information from a data storage device further comprises reading a personal account number of said vehicle operator.
8. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 7 further comprising the steps of: storing supplemental information at said central dispatch station; and correlating said supplemental information to said personal and vehicle identification information, 


 wherein said step of superposing said personal and vehicle identification information further comprises superposing said supplemental information therewith.
9. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 8 wherein said supplemental information further comprises any one from among the following: medical information relating to said vehicle operator, physical characteristics of said vehicle operator, and people to contact in an emergency.
10. A method for safeguarding the personal security of a vehicle operator comprising the steps of: storing vehicle identification information in a mobile security assembly which is to be conveyed in a vehicle; storing personal identification information relating to a particular vehicle operator in a data entry device; activating said mobile security assembly upon insertion of said data entry device into said mobile security assembly to capture said personal identification information therefrom; determining a coordinate location of said vehicle; combining said vehicle identification information, personal identification information, and coordinate location of said mobile unit in a formatted personal security message; triggering said mobile unit upon an occurrence of a personal security condition to establish a communication link with a central dispatch station, and to transmit said personal security message; receiving said personal security message at said central station and decoding the type of personal security condition, personal and vehicle identification information, and coordinate location therefrom; displaying a digitized map at said central station; correlating said coordinate location of said vehicle to a corresponding point on said digitized map at said central station and indicating said point on said digitized map; and 


 superposing the type of personal security condition and said personal and vehicle identification information on said digitized map.
11. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 10 wherein said vehicle identification information comprises an account number of said vehicle.
12. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 10 wherein said personal identification information comprises a personal account number.
13. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 10 wherein said data entry device comprises a data entry key.
14. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 10 further comprising the step of initiating a voice mode from said central station to allow two-way real-time voice communication between an operator of said central station and said vehicle operator.
15. The method for safeguarding a mobile entity according to claim 10 further comprising the steps of: maintaining a set of "accurate" coordinate values for a location of said vehicle by periodically reading current latitude and longitude coordinate data and a reliability rating from a continuously operating position locator in said mobile security assembly, and comparing each reliability rating with a predetermined threshold rating and updating said set of "accurate" coordinate values with said current latitude and longitude coordinate data when said reliability rating surpasses said predetermined threshold rating; combining said vehicle identification information, personal identification information, and "accurate" coordinate location of said mobile unit in a formatted personal security message. 



 16. An apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity comprising: a mobile security assembly conveyed jointly with said mobile entity, said mobile security assembly further comprising; a mobile unit having a programmable memory containing identification information characteristic of said mobile entity, a keypad for allowing manual indication of an alarm condition, a position locator for providing position coordinates indicating a location of said mobile entity, and a microcontroller connected to said programmable memory, keypad and position locator receiver, said microcontroller being triggered when an alarm condition is indicated to input said position coordinates from said position locator and to format a digital security message indicating said alarm condition, identification information and said position coordinates; a portable communication device connected to said mobile unit and conveyed therewith for transmitting said security message to a central dispatch station; and a central dispatch station, said central dispatch station further comprising, a central communication console for receiving said security message from said mobile security assembly and decoding said identification information, position coordinates, and alarm condition from said security message; a display console connected to said central communication console for correlating said position coordinates to a digital map, and for displaying said digital map to a central operator with said identification information, position coordinates, and alarm condition indicated thereon.
17. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 16 wherein said mobile security assembly is mounted in a vehicle. 


 18. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 16 wherein said mobile security assembly further comprises a plurality of remote sensors for automatically sensing an alarm condition and indicating said alarm condition to said mobile unit.
19. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 18 wherein said plurality of remote sensors includes any one from among the group of collision sensor, theft sensor, medical condition sensor, and vehicle malfunction sensor.
20. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 18 wherein said mobile entity is a vehicle having an on-board electrical system, and said mobile unit further comprises a plurality of actuators connected between the vehicle electrical system and said microcontroller, said actuators being actuable from said central dispatch station for allowing remote control of selected vehicle functions.
21. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 20 wherein said plurality of actuators includes an actuator for flashing vehicle headlights and an actuator for sounding a vehicle horn, said actuators being actuable from said central dispatch station to assist in directing an emergency response to said vehicle.
22. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 16 wherein said keypad further comprises a plurality of push buttons for signalling a personal security situation, a push button for confirming an indication of a personal security situation, and a push button for initiating a self-test of said personal security assembly.
23. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 16 wherein said mobile unit further comprises means for initiating a voice mode from said central 


dispatch station to allow said central dispatch operator to communicate verbally with said mobile entity.
24. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 16 wherein said portable communication device is a conventional cellular telephone comprising a handset and transceiver, and said mobile unit further comprises an adapter module connected between said handset and transceiver for adapting said conventional cellular telephone for use as said portable communication device.
25. The apparatus for monitoring a mobile entity according to claim 24 wherein said mobile unit further comprises a Dual Tone Multifrequency device connected between said adapter module and said plurality of actuators for allowing said central dispatch operator to control said vehicle functions by transmitting tones to said mobile unit.
26. An apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a mobile vehicle comprising: a mobile security assembly installed in said vehicle, said mobile security assembly further comprising, a mobile unit having a programmable memory containing vehicle-specific information, a keypad for allowing manual indication of an alarm condition, a position locator for providing position coordinates indicating a location of said mobile entity, a scanning device for reading data, and a microcontroller connected to said programmable memory, keypad, position locator and scanning device, and a plurality of remote sensors for automatically sensing an alarm condition and indicating said alarm condition to said mobile unit, and data entry means provided with personal information relating to a particular vehicle operator stored thereon, said data entry means being insertable in said scanning device; whereby insertion of said data entry means into said scanning device prompts said scanning device to read said personal information therefrom; 


 said microcontroller being triggered by a personal security situation indicated at one of said keypad and remote sensors to input said position coordinates from said position locator and to format a security message comprising said alarm condition, vehicle-specific information, personal information and said position coordinates, and a portable communication device connected to said mobile unit and conveyed therewith for transmitting said security message to a central dispatch station; and a central dispatch station, said central dispatch station further comprising, a central communication console for receiving said security message from said mobile security assembly and decoding said personal information and vehicle-specific information, position coordinates, and alarm condition from said security message; a display console connected to said central communication console for correlating said position coordinates to a digital map, and for displaying said digital map to a central operator with said identification information, position coordinates, and alarm condition indicated thereon.
27. The apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a vehicle according to claim 26 wherein said plurality of remote sensors includes any one from among the group of collision sensor, theft sensor, medical condition sensor, and vehicle malfunction sensor.
28. The apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a vehicle according to claim 26 wherein said mobile unit further comprises a plurality of actuators connected between the vehicle wiring and said microcontroller, said actuators being actuable from said central dispatch station for allowing remote control of selected vehicle functions. 


 29. The apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a vehicle according to claim 28 wherein said plurality of actuators includes an actuator for initiating an electromagnetic beacon, said actuator being actuable from said central dispatch station to assist in directing an emergency response to said vehicle.
30. The apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a vehicle according to claim 26 wherein said mobile unit further comprises means for initiating a voice mode from said central dispatch station to allow said central dispatch operator to communicate verbally with said mobile entity.
31. The apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a vehicle according to claim 26 wherein said portable communication device is a conventional cellular telephone comprising a handset and transceiver, and said mobile unit further comprises an adapter module connected between said handset and transceiver for adapting said conventional cellular telephone for use as said portable communication device.
32. The apparatus for monitoring a vehicle operator in a vehicle according to claim 31 wherein said mobile unit further comprises a Dual Tone Multifrequency device connected between said adapter module and said plurality of actuators for allowing said central dispatch operator to control said vehicle functions by transmitting tones to said mobile unit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
