<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623888</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Beam steering device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K710	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A beam steering device (1) for use in a bar code reader, 
comprising a reflector (2) movably mounted in a frame assembly (3) 

by means of support members (4), and drive means for providing an 
oscillatory movement of the reflector (2) relative to the frame 

assembly (3) about a first axis (A) and a second axis (B), wherein 
the frame assembly (3), the reflector (2) and the support members 

(4) are constituted by separate connected parts, and wherein the 
drive means at least comprises a first pair of magnetic drive units 

(5a, 5a'; 72a, 72b) and a second pair of magnetic drive units (5b, 
5b'; 71a, 71b), both of said pairs being attached to the reflector 

(2), the first pair of drive units (5a, 5a'; 72a, 72b) being substantially 
aligned with the first axis (A) and the second pair of 

drive units (5b, 5b'; 71a, 71b) being substantially aligned with 
the second axis (B). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICON SENSORS EUROP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICON SENSORS EUROPE B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENG KE-OU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENG, KE-OU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a beam steering device, in 
particular an optical beam steering device for use in bar code 
readers, comprising a reflector movably mounted in a frame assembly 
by means of support members, and drive means for providing a oscillatory 
movement of the reflector relative to the frame assembly 
about a first axis and a second axis. The present invention further 
relates to a bar code reader comprising a beam steering device. In bar code readers or scanners, a beam steering or image 
moving device is used to scan and read the bar code without the 
necessity to move the reader relative to the code. To this end, in 
active readers a (laser) beam is moved across the bars of the code 
by the beam steering device, while in passive scanners the beam 
steering device directs the image of the code towards a detector in 
a scanning movement. Preferably bar codes are situated at an arbitrary orientation 
and an arbitrary position relative to a bar code reader. A 
multiple-directional scanning is required such that a laser scanning 
point of a laser beam can pass over a bar code, at least one 
time. A laser beam is used in most existing multiple-directional 
bar code readers. The laser beam originating from a rotating mirror 
or polygon is scanning a mirror array. The beam reflected from this 
mirror array forms a multi-directional pattern in a bar code reading 
plane. The scanner in such a bar code reader design is relatively 
large because of the mirror array. Furthermore, in general, 
the chance to correctly detect a bar code in the central part of 
the reading plane, where the bar code reader is mostly used automatically, 
will change if the reading distance is varied. In other 
words, the scanning pattern is space-variant. To solve this problem, two rotating mirror or optical wedges 
may be used to generate two-dimensional space-invariant patterns. 
However, two motors or additional mechanical components will have 
to be used to rotate these mirrors or optical wedges with different 
speed. A beam steering device as defined in the preamble is disclosed 
in GB-A-2.175.705. This known device comprises a reflector,  
 
an inner frame, an outer frame, and support members connecting the 
reflector and the frames, all formed integrally in single crystal 
material, such as silicon, by e.g. selective etching. In order to 
allow a movement of the reflector relative to the frames and of the 
inner frame relative to the outer frame, the support members are 
configured as relatively thin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bar code reader beam steering device (1) comprising 

a reflector (2) for reflection of a bar code reader beam, 
a frame assembly (3) arranged to carry said reflector and 
provided with a first pivotal support (41) supporting pivotal 

movement of the reflector about a first axis (A) and a second 
pivotal support (42) supporting pivotal movement of the 

reflector about a second axis (B), 
and driving means (5) for providing oscillatory movement of 
the reflector about each said axis, 
 
characterised by: 


the pivotal supports being constituted by separate 
connected parts, 
and the drive means comprising first and second magnetic 
drive units (71a,71b,72a,72b) attached to the reflector, the first of the 

magnetic drive units being located on the said first axis 
and the second of the magnetic drive units being located 

on the said second axis, 
and in that a control device (9) is arranged to provide 
a scanning pattern having movement in two directions to 

include a non-orthogonal direction of movement, whereby  
 

a bar code located in an arbitrary position can be 
scanned by the beam. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, in which each magnetic drive unit (5a,5a',5b,5b') is part of an 

electromagnetic driving pair comprising a coil (51) and a 
magnet (52). 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, wherein said first and second magnetic drive 

units (71a,71b, 72a,72b), respectively, each consists of a first and a 
second pair of magnets, respectively, at a back side of 

said reflector (2), the first pair of magnets (72a,72b) being able to 
cooperate with a first set of magnets (91...94) attached to a 

rotatable disc (73) and the second pair of magnets (71a,71b) being 
arranged to cooperate with a second set of magnets (81...86) 

attached to said rotatable disc (73). 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, wherein said first axis (A) and said second axis (B) are 

perpendicular to each other. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, wherein said frame assembly (3) is constituted by 

an inner frame (31) and an outer frame (32), the inner frame being 
movably connected to the reflector (2) by first support 

members (41) and to the outer frame (32) by second support members (42)  
 

so as to allow the inner frame (31) to move relative to the 
outer frame (32) and the reflector (2) the first support members (41) 

being on the first axis (A) and the second support members (42) 
being on the second axis (B). 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, wherein the frame assembly (3) is constituted by a 

single frame. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, wherein the pivotal supports (4,41,42) are constituted by 

elastic elements allowing at least a rotational movement 
about the longitudinal direction of each element. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 5, wherein the pivotal supports (4,41,42) are constituted by 

rotary bearing elements, allowing at least a rotational 
movement about the longitudinal axis of each element. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according to 
claim 1, wherein the reflector (2) is substantially 

rectangular, a said pivotal support (4,41,42) being connected to 
each side of the reflector approximately in the middle 

thereof. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according 
to claim 1, wherein the reflector (2) is substantially  

 
rectangular, a said pivotal support (4,41,42) being connected to 

two opposite corners of the said reflector. 
A bar code reader beam steering device according 
to claim 2, further comprising a control device (9) for 

producing excitation currents for excitation of the drive 
units (5a,5a',5b,5b'). 
A bar code reader beam steering device according 
to claim 11, wherein the control device (9) is arranged to 

produce such excitation currents that the driving 
movement of one (5a or 5a'; 5b or 5b') of each pair of drive units is opposite 

to that of the other drive unit of that pair (5a or 5a'; 5b or 5b'). 
Bar code reader comprising a beam steering device according 
to claim 1, and including a detector (13) and a deflector (14) 

further comprising a laser source (11) for producing a laser 
beam (L), and a focusing means (12) for focusing the laser beam, 

the beam steering device being arranged for steering said 
laser beam towards a bar code (c) and for reflecting the 

laser beam backscattered by the bar code towards the said 
detector (13) via the said detector (14). 
Bar code reader comprising a beam steering device according to claim 1, 
further comprising 

a detector (22), a light source (25) and focusing means (21) for focusing 
light backscattered by a bar code (c), the beam steering  

 
device (1) being arranged for steering said backscattered light 

towards said detector (22). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
