<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634369</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and installation for water purification with physico-chemical denitrificating sludges
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F152	C02F310	C02F330	B01D2101	C02F306	C02F154	C02F152	C02F310	C02F330	C02F334	C02F306	C02F312	B01D2101	C02F312	C02F156	C02F334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	B01D	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	B01D	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F3	C02F3	B01D21	C02F3	C02F1	C02F1	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	B01D21	C02F3	C02F1	C02F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To purify a raw water to be treated, for example sewage, containing organic pollution, suspended matter and nitrogenous pollution,   - reactants are added in specific conditions to coagulate all suspended matter, including colloidal matter, in the form of physicochemical flocs and granules and, after the reactants, diluting water is preferably added in a flow rate ratio of at least 2/1, - the diluted flocculated water is circulated in a bed of sludge (8) consisting of such dense flocs and granules and of denitrifying bacteria, by subjecting this bed to a turbulent but intermittent stirring, and a denitrified effluent is recovered, - this denitrified effluent is circulated in a biological filter or preferably in a fluidised bed (26) containing nitrifying bacteria and into which oxygen or air is injected, and - a clarified effluent is collected, part of which is recycled to constitute the said diluting water.   
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OMNIUM TRAITEMENT VALORISA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OMNIUM DE TRAITEMENTS ET DE VALORISATION (OTV)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DESBOS GILBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REY PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGALLA FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DESBOS, GILBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REY, PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGALLA, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for purifying untreated water
containing organic pollution, materials in suspension and

nitrogen-containing pollution, in which process:

said untreated water (A), subject to given
agitation conditions, has added to it

coagulation/flocculation reagents in a given proportion and
diluting water containing nitrates injected at a flowrate

ratio of at least 2/1, to produce a dilute flocculated
mixture,
said dilute flocculated mixture is passed
through a denitrification reactor (B) via a bed of sludge

(8) containing denitrifying bacteria, subjected to
agitation and maintained under anoxic conditions, to flow

upwards therein at an upflow velocity sufficient to
maintain expansion of said bed of sludge, clarified

denitrified effluent overflowing from this reactor,
said clarified denitrified effluent is caused
to flow upwards in a nitrification reactor (C) maintained

under aerobic conditions and containing nitrifying bacteria
(26) fixed to a granular material, clarified nitrified

effluent overflowing from this reactor, and
said water containing nitrates with which the
mixture is diluted is removed from said clarified nitrified

effluent (24), characterized in that:
the given agitation conditions and the given
proportion of reagents are chosen such as to coagulate all

the materials in suspension, including colloidal materials,
contained in the untreated water, as dense and

granular flocs constituting, with said denitrifying
bacteria, said bed of sludge,


the agitation to which the bed of sludge is
subjected in the denitrification reactor is turbulent but

intermittent, with intervals substantially longer than the
agitation periods, adapted to shear and degas the bed of 

sludge.
Process according to claim 1 characterized in
that the nitrification reactor (21) is a three-phase

fluidized bed comprising water, fixed nitrifying bacteria
and injected oxygen.
Process according to claim 1 or claim 2
characterized in that the granular material carrying the

nitrifying bacteria is sand.
Process according to claim 2 characterized in
that the nitrifying bacteria are fixed to sand having a

mean grain size between 100 micrometers and
1 000 micrometers.
Process according to claim 4 characterized in
that the mean grain size of the sand is between

200 micrometers and 500 micrometers.
Process according to claim 5 characterized in
that the mean grain size of the sand is approximately

300 micrometers.
Process according to claim 1 characterized in
that the nitrification reactor is a biological filter.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to 7
characterized in that the turbulent but intermittent

agitation is made up of intervals of between 0.5 minute and
6 minutes duration between turbulent agitation phases of

between 1 second and 10 seconds duration.
Process according to claim 8 characterized in
that each agitation phase is obtained by rotating an

agitator with sharp edges (10, 105-115) having peripheral
speeds of at least 0.3 meters per second at 1 meter from

the rotation axis.
Process according to claim 8 characterized
in that the agitation is obtained by intermittent pumping

(51) within the layer of sludge.
Process according to claim 10 characterized
in that said pumping is adapted to force internal 

circulation of the layer of sludge through mechanical
obstacles (52) fixed relative to the pumping members.
Process according to claim 11 characterized
in that said mechanical obstacles (52) are grids or bars.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
12 characterized in that sludge is extracted from the

denitrification reactor so as to maintain a constant
biologically active height of the bed of sludge in service.
Process according to claim 13 characterized
in that said height of the bed of sludge in service is such

that the upper surface of the bed of sludge remains on
average at least 0.03 meter below the overflow level.
Process according to claim 13 or claim 14
characterized in that sludge is extracted from the bottom

part of the denitrification reactor (7).
Process according to claim 12 or claim 14
characterized in that sludge is extracted from the top part

(60) of the active area of expanded sludge of the
denitrification reactor.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
16 characterized in that the denitrification reactor

includes a separator (9) in its upper part.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
17 characterized in that the dilute mixture is forced

through the layer of sludge over a height of at least
1 meter.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
18 characterized in that a separator member (71) is

disposed in the bed of sludge so as to separate said layer
of sludge into a top sub-layer which is subjected to

turbulent but intermittent agitation and a bottom sub-layer
which is not agitated, the mixture entering the

denitrification reactor between these sub-layers.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
19 characterized in that the given agitation conditions 

chosen by the coagulation induces homogeneous turbulence in
contact areas.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
20 characterized in that said given proportion of reagents

is between 30 milligrams per liter and 100 milligrams per
liter.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
21 characterized in that the reagents are included in a

group containing iron and aluminum salts and synthetic
polymers.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
22 characterized in that the diluting water is added after

the reagents are added and allowed to act.
Process according to any one of claims 1 to
23 characterized in that the ratio of the flowrates of the

diluting water and the untreated water is between 2/1 and
8/1.
Installation for purification of an
untreated water containing organic pollution, materials in

suspension and nitrogen-containing pollution, comprising:

a first area (A) having an inlet for untreated
water, a reagent inlet, agitator means (4A, 4B, 4C), a

diluting water inlet (24) and an outlet connected to a
first pipe,
a first reactor (B, 7) containing in its bottom
part a bed of sludge containing denitrifying bacteria and

having an inlet in the bottom part connected to the first

pipe, sludge agitator means (10), a sludge extraction
outlet (12) and containing in its upper part a clarified

effluent outlet,
a second reactor (C, 21) containing an immersed
and aerated granular material laden with nitrifying

bacteria and having an inlet connected by a second pipe to
the clarified effluent outlet, an oxygen inlet (22) for

injecting oxygen, and an outlet in the upper part connected 
to a treated water removal line, and
a recycling line (24) connected between said
removal line and the diluting water inlet of the first

area,

   characterized in that:

the bed of sludge of the first reactor is in
the form of dense and granular physical/chemical floc and

free denitrifying bacteria,
the sludge agitator means (10, 51) of the first
reactor are operated intermittently with intervals between

agitation phases substantially longer than the agitation
phases.
Installation according to claim 25
characterized in that the second reactor is a three-phase

fluidized bed comprising water, fixed nitrifying bacteria
and injected oxygen.
Installation according to claim 25 or claim
26 characterized in that the granular material carrying the

nitrifying bacteria is sand.
Installation according to claim 26
characterized in that the nitrifying bacteria is fixed to

sand with a mean grain size between 110 micrometers and
1 000 micrometers.
Installation according to claim 28
characterized in that the mean grain size of the sand is

between 200 micrometers and 500 micrometers.
Installation according to claim 29
characterized in that the mean grain size of the sand is

approximately 300 micrometers.
Installation according to any one of claims
25 to 30 characterized in that the bed of sludge of the

first reactor has a concentration between 3 grams per liter
and 20 grams per liter.
Installation according to claim 25
characterized in that the second reactor is a biological 

filter.
Installation according to any one of claims
25 to 31 characterized in that level controlling means are

provided to maintain the top surface of the bed of sludge
of the first reactor substantially constant in service.
Installation according to claim 33
characterized in that the level in service of the top

surface of the bed of sludge of the first reactor is
maintained at least 0.3 m below the clarified water outlet.
Installation according to claim 33 or claim
34 characterized in that the inlet of the first reactor is

at least 1 meter below the level in service of the top
surface of the bed of sludge.
Installation according to any one of claims
25 to 35 characterized in that the first reactor contains,

inside the bed of sludge, a separator member (71) below the
agitator means and the inlet connected to the first pipe.
Installation according to any one of claims
25 to 36 characterized in that the intermittent operation

of the agitator means of the first reactor comprises
activation of the agitator means for between 1 second and

10 seconds and deactivation thereof for between 0.5 minute
and 6 minutes.
Installation according to claim 37
characterized in that the agitator means of the first

reactor include a rotary shaft (10, 10') having mobile
parts with sharp edges (105-112) immersed in service in the

bed of sludge.
Installation according to claim 38
characterized in that the mobile parts include bars with

sharp edges and spaced by a distance between 2 centimeters
and 20 centimeters, this spacing being either constant or

increasing from the rotation axis towards the periphery.
Installation according to claim 38 or claim
39 characterized in that the mobile parts have a peripheral 

speed of at least 0.3 meter per second at 1 meter from the
axis.
Installation according to any one of claims
29 to 37 characterized in that the agitator means includes

a pumping member (51) immersed in service in the layer of
sludge.
Installation according to claim 41
characterized in that the agitator means include obstacles

(52) which are stationary relative to the pumping means and
are disposed in the bed of sludge in such a way as to

intercept the agitated sludge.
Installation according to claim 42
characterized in that the mechanical obstacles are grids or

bars.
Installation according to any one of claims
29 to 43 characterized in that the diluting water inlet is

downstream of the first area.
Installation according to any one of claims
29 to 44 characterized in that the first area includes a

plurality of successive contact chambers each having a
water inlet, a water outlet, an agitator and a reagent

inlet, each mechanical agitator including thin paddles
provided with combs whose teeth have identical REYNOLDS

numbers.
Installation according to any one of claims
25 to 45 characterized in that the first reactor has a

separator (9) in its top part.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
