<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619539</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF AND VALVE FOR CONTROLLING FLOW IN A HYDRONIC SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D2301	G05D2302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Liquid flow through a conduit in a branch of a hydronic 
system provided with a balancing valve and, in series therewith, 

a metering valve to obtain a desired rate of flow in the branch 
is regulated by positioning immediately adjacent an accelerated-flow 

zone in the metering valve in the conduit a pitot having an 
upstream side directed upstream against a direction of flow 

through the conduit and a downstream side directed downstream in 
the flow direction. The metering valve is settable in a plurality 

of predetermined positions each corresponding to a respective 
flow cross section through the conduit. A differential pressure 

meter is connected to both sides of the pitot, the one of the 
predetermined valve positions is selected that gives a near full-range 

reading on the meter, and the metering valve is set in this 
selected one position. The pressure-differential reading on the 

meter is monitored and the balancing valve is adjusted to regulate 
flow therethrough until the read pressure corresponds to a 

level itself corresponding to the desired rate of flow in the 
branch. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAZZANIGA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAZZANIGA S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSON BENGT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSON, BENGT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a hydronic system 
where a liquid is circulated through a plurality of parallel 
branches normally for exploitation of the thermal energy of the 
liquid. More particularly this invention concerns a method of 
and equipment for adjusting and measuring flow in the branches of 
such a system. In a complex hydronic system, for instance a building 
heating system, hot water is pumped from a central boiler up a 
common riser from which it flows through a multiplicity of branch 
lines each including one or more terminals. Then the multiple 
streams are reunited in a common downpipe that leads back to the 
boiler. In such a system it is necessary to balance the flow in  
 
the individual branches. Thus each branch is provided with a 
balancing valve, which is nothing more than a lockable flow-control 
valve, that is adjusted until a predetermined flow, normally 
measured in gallons per minute, is obtained in the branch. In 
this manner a branch with particularly low resistance to flow 
does not get too much flow while another with relatively high 
resistance gets too little. The standard method for adjusting flow in a branch, 
typically at a radiator or coil, is fairly laborious. A typical 
balancing valve (the Bell & Gossett ITT "Circuit Setter Plus," or 
the "CBV" system of Armstrong Pumps) has a graduated spindle that 
indicates the valve's flow cross section and its resistance to 
flow. Immediately upstream and downstream of the valve element 
of such a valve, the valve housing is provided with closable 
nipples that open internally into the valve. A differential 
pressure meter is first connected to these nipples. Then the 
balancing valve is adjusted to one of a multiplicity of graduated 
settings and the difference in pressure between the measuring 
locations upstream and downstream of the valve and the valve 
setting is noted. These readings are checked on a chart for the 
particular valve size to ascertain the flow rate in volume per 
units of time. The chart plots flow against differential pressure 
and has a large number of lines corresponding to the different 
settings so that the user checks the line for the setting 
being used, and determines for the pressure reading the flow. If 
the ascertained flow rate is not correct the valve is readjusted,  
 
a reading is taken again, and the appropriate line on the chart 
is consulted to get the new flow rate. Thus the balancing valve 
serves both for balancing and measuring flow. This process is 
repeated until the desired
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydronic balancing valve comprising: 
   a valve body defining a longitudinally extending flow 

passage; 
   a valve element in the passage movable through a plurality 

of positions each corresponding to a different flow cross 
section of the passage, whereby flow is in each position of the 

valve flow accelerated in zones upstream and downstream of the 
element in the passage; 

   a sensor element mounted on the body and extending into 
one of the zones of the flow passage. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 1 
wherein the sensor element is a pitot element having in the one 

zone an upstream port directed longitudinally in one direction 
and a downstream port directed longitudinally in an opposite 

direction, the element being formed with pilot flow passages 
opening at the ports and having opposite outlet ends opening at a 

face of the pitot element; and 
   valve means associated with the pilot flow passages for 

selectively blocking flow from the respective outlet ends, the 
face being adapted for releasable connection to a differential 

pressure meter. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 2 
wherein the element is formed as a pair of side-by-side tubes 

each having one end forming the respective port and an opposite 
end forming the respective outlet end. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 3 
wherein the tubes are bonded together. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 3 
wherein the ports are formed by lateral cutouts adjacent the 

respective tube ends which are blocked. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 1 
wherein the sensor element is a semiconductor flow detector. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 1, 
further comprising 

   a self-sealing valve plug on the housing; and 
   an elongated probe carrying the sensor element and 

insertable through the valve plug into the one zone. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 7, 
further comprising: 

   mounts on the valve; 
   a housing carrying the probe; and 

   means including a hand-operable spring locking engageable 
with the mounts to hold the housing on the valve in a well 

defined use position with the probe in the one zone and releasable 
for removal of the probe from the one zone. 
The hydronic balancing valve defined in claim 1 
wherein the valve element has a longitudinal groove which concentrates 

the flow through the one zone when the valve is nearly 
closed. 
A quick-connect coupling for connection of a conduit 
end with an orifice having an outlet end opening on a face 

of a fitting, the coupling comprising: 
   a valve disk formed with a throughgoing hole and displaceable 

between a closed position covering and blocking flow 
from the outlet end and an open position with the hole aligned 

with the outer ends; 
   a head carried on the conduit end and having a tube end 

fittable with the hole of the valve disk; and
 

   means including formations for permitting the head to 
be fitted over and removed from the face with the tube end engaged 

in the hole only in the closed position of the valve disk 
and for retaining the head on the face against movement away from 

the disk in the open position of the disk. 
The coupling defined in claim 10 further comprising 
   locking means for arresting the valve disk in a position 

with its hole offset from the outlet end and the valve disk 
blocking flow from the outlet end; and 

   means on the head for releasing the locking means and 
permitting the disk to be rotated to a position with its hole 

aligned with the outlet end. 
The coupling defined in claim 11 wherein the 
locking means includes a spring-loaded pin seated in the head and 

normally projecting into the hole of the valve disk, the release 
means on the head including a tubular pin engageable into the 

hole of the disk with the spring-loaded pin to depress same out 
of the hole and facilitate rotation of the disk. 
A hydronic balancing valve comprising:
 

   a valve body defining a longitudinally extending flow 
passage; 

   a valve element in the body pivotal through a plurality 
of positions each corresponding to a different flow cross section 

of the passage; 
   stop means on the body engageable with the element for 

locking same in any of the positions, the stop means including 
   a disk formed with a plurality of throughgoing 

holes each associated with a 
respective unique indicia, 

   means for releasably coupling the disk to the 
valve element for joint pivoting therewith,; 

and 
   a stop screw engageable through any of the 

holes with the valve body for arresting 
the disk and, when the valve element is 

coupled to the disk, for also arresting 
the valve element. 
The valve defined in claim 13, further comprising: 
   a handle fixed on and angularly displaceable with the 

valve element and angularly engageable with the stop. 
A method of regulating liquid flow through a conduit 
in a branch of a hydronic system provided with a balancing 

valve and, in series therewith, a metering valve to obtain a 
desired rate of flow in the branch, the method comprising the 

step of: 
   positioning immediately adjacent the metering valve in 

the conduit a pitot having an upstream side directed upstream 
against a direction of flow through the conduit and a downstream 

side directed downstream in the flow direction, the metering 
valve being settable in a plurality of predetermined positions 

each corresponding to a respective flow cross section through the 
conduit; 

   connecting a differential pressure meter to both sides 
of the pitot; 

   selecting a one of the predetermined valve positions 
that gives a reading on the meter lying in a region of maximum 

sensitivity of the range of the meter and setting the metering 
valve in this selected one position; 

   monitoring the pressure-differential reading on the 
meter; and 

   adjusting the balancing valve to regulate flow therethrough 
until the read pressure corresponds to a level itself 

corresponding to the desired rate of flow in the branch. 
The hydronic flow-regulating method of claim 15, 
further comprising the step of: 

   consulting a chart having for each predetermined position 
of the balancing valve a line plotting flow rate against 

differential pressure to determine the flow rate in the branch 
for the current pressure-differential reading. 
A method of regulating liquid flow through a conduit 
in a branch of a hydronic system, the method comprising the 

step of: 
   providing a flow-restricting valve continuously settable 

any position between a closed position and an open position 
and each corresponding to a respective flow cross section through 

the conduit; 
   providing a pitot in the valve; 

   connecting a differential pressure meter to both sides 
of the pitot; 

   monitoring the pressure-differential reading on the 
meter; and 

   adjusting the valve to regulate flow therethrough until 
the read pressure corresponds to a level itself corresponding to 

the desired rate of flow in the branch. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
