<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Axially-engaged split sprocket assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H5546	F16H5536	B65G2300	B65G2306	F16H5512	F16H5502	F16H5530	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	B65G	B65G	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H55	F16H55	B65G23	B65G23	F16H55	F16H55	F16H55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Split sprocket wheels having interlocking tabs for forming a 
sprocket wheel assembly 

that is easy to install on and remove from a drive or idler shaft of a 
belt or chain conveyor. 

The invention provides thin, durable sprocket wheels (20) split into at 
least two sectorial sections 

along seams (32) extending from a central bore to an outer 
engagement surface (30). Mating tabs (24,26) and 

receptacles at the edges of adjacent sectorial sections interlock the 
adjacent sections radially 

and circumferentially. Holes (23) in the vicinity of the mating tabs and 
receptacles of adjacent 

interlocked sections admit locking means for holding the sectorial 
sections together in axial 

compression. The sprocket wheels can be ganged together at selected 
positions along a shaft 

with their bores in coaxial alignment by means of spacers 
interconnecting consecutive sprocket 

wheels along the shaft. Sprocket wheels can be disengaged for removal 
from the shaft by 

loosening the locking means and sliding one section axially with 
respect to the other section by 

a distance as little as the thickness of the thin sprocket wheel. Then 
each section can be 

removed from the shaft without the need for dismounting the shaft from 
the conveyor system. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAITRAM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LAITRAM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARBONE JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUNDLACH JAMES O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARBONE, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUNDLACH, JAMES O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to sprockets for linked conveyor belts or chains and, more 
particularly, to split sprocket wheels made of abrasion-resistant material and axially 
engageable into a sprocket assembly easy to install on and remove from a shaft for driving a 
modular plastic conveyor belt. When a sprocket used to drive or support a linked conveyor belt wears, it must be 
removed from the shaft on which it is mounted and replaced. In abrasive environments, 
sprocket wear is especially exacerbated. The task of replacing the worn sprocket can be 
time-consuming, especially if the shaft has to be separated from the conveyor frame so that the 
worn sprocket can be pulled off the shaft and a new one slid into position. Split sprockets 
having multiple sections were developed to alleviate the problems encountered in changing 
sprockets. The multiple sections can be disengaged and removed from the shaft without 
dismounting the shaft. B.G. Mills, in U.S. Pat. No. 184,540, shows a sprocket wheel with a removable 
portion for easy replacement on a shaft. The removable portion dovetails with the rest of the 
sprocket wheel in a tight fit. The thickness and mass of the wheel section with respect to the 
removable portion, along with the closely machined dovetail joint, are crucial to retaining the 
removable portion in place. Because removal requires that the removable portion be driven 
from its tight fit, such a sprocket wheel is not feasible in situations requiring a number of 
closely spaced sprocket wheels on a shaft.  
 A sectional gear wheel, invented by W.B. Conyngham and shown in U.S. Pat. No. 
1,391,719, comprises two half-wheels with circumferential flange extensions about the shaft. 
The two halves are bolted radially together through the flange extensions at a hub extending 
axially away from the wheel. The bolts also lock the wheel in place on the shaft, preventing 
the wheel from floating along the shaft as is often desirable in modular plastic conveyor belt 
systems. The preamble of present claim 1 reflects the teaching of 
this document as far as the radial and circumferential mating of the 
half-wheels is concerned. U.S. Pat. No. 5,037,356 to Gladczak et al. shows molded plastic split sprocket halves 
held together by bolts through aligned, diagonal fastener sleeves. The fastening mechanism of 
the Gladczak split sprocket is not designed for use with thin sprocket wheel disks useful in 
abrasive environments. A split sprocket capable of being installed on and removed from a shaft in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sprocket wheel assembly for engaging a 
conveyor belt and mountable on a shaft comprising: 


a sprocket wheel (20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80) having 
first and second sides terminating at their 

periphery in an outer engagement surface (30) for 
engaging a conveyor belt and forming a central axial 

opening (62) therethrough from the first side to the 
second side to accommodate a shaft; 
said sprocket wheel being split into at least 
two sectorial sections (21; 51, 52; 61; 85) along 

seams (32; 64; 72) extending from the central 
opening to the outer engagement surface and straight 

through the thickness of the sprocket wheel, 
adjacent sectorial sections being interlocked 

radially and circumferentially by mating structure 
(24, 26; 58, 59; 74, 76) at edges of the sectorial 

sections defined by the seams between adjacent 
sectorial sections; and 
locking means for locking adjacent sectorial 
sections together and retaining them in axial 

alignment characterised in that said locking means 
comprises first and second axial compression means 

arranged one on each side of the wheel for locking the 
sections together in axial compression, each axial 

compression means comprising a plurality of separate 
compression elements, at least one of said elements  

 
spanning a portion of a respective seam on each side 

of the wheel. 
The sprocket wheel assembly according to 
claim 1, wherein the locking means for locking 

adjacent sectorial sections (21; 51; 52; 61; 85) 
together spans each entire seam (32; 64; 72) and 

retains the sectorial sections in axial alignment. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said compression elements of said first 

compression means comprise first shoulder portions 
(42) held in compression against a first side of 

said sprocket wheel (20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80) and 
said compression elements of said second compression 

means comprise second shoulder portions (42) held 
in compression against a second side of said 

sprocket wheel. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said sprocket wheel (20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80) 

comprises a flat disk-like wheel of constant 
thickness. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said sprocket wheel (20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80) 

comprises two identical half-sprocket wheel 
sections. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said sprocket wheel (20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80) 

comprises a multiple-sided inner surface forming the 
central axial opening and wherein said sprocket 

wheel is split along a seam (32; 64; 72) extending 
from an interior point on at least two of the  

 
multiple inner surface sides. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein the compression elements of said first and 

second compression means comprise, respectively, 
first and second split side plates (81, 82) attached 

to first and second sides of said sprocket wheel and 
wherein the locking means further comprises 

fastening means for fastening the side plates 
together sandwiching said sprocket wheel 

therebetween. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein the compression elements of said first and 

second compression means comprise, respectively, 
first and second split side plates (81; 82) attached 

to first and second sides of said sprocket wheel 
(20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80) sandwiching said sprocket 

wheel therebetween with the outer engagement surface 
(30) extending radially beyond said side plates, 

each of said first and second side plates having 
axial bore walls (83, 84) forming a central axial 

bore coaxially aligned with the central axial bore 
of the other side plate and with the central axial 

opening of said sprocket wheel, the bore walls being 
in driving engagement with the shaft (12), said 

first and second side plates extending radially from 
the bore walls to a peripheral edge and including 

backing structure abutting said mating structure, 
said first and second side plates being split along  

 
seams extending from the bore walls to the 

peripheral edge, the seams being arranged such that 
any imaginary line in the axial direction intersects 

at most one of the seams of said sprocket wheel, 
said first side plate, and said second side plate.  

 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 8, 
wherein the bore walls (83, 84) of said first and 

second split side plates (81, 82) form the axial 
bore having radial dimensions no greater than those 

of the central axial opening (30) of said sprocket 
wheel (20; 40; 41; 60; 70; 80). 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein said locking means comprises a flange (81) 

attached to at least one of the sides of the 
sprocket wheel and abutting the mating structure. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 10, 
further comprising a hub portion (83,84) attached to 

and extending axially outwardly from at least one of 
the sides of the sprocket wheel, said hub portion 

having inner axial bore walls (83, 84) for engaging 
the drive shaft. 
The sprocket wheel assembly of claim 1, 
wherein the mating structure at a first edge of the 

sprocket wheel sectorial section (21; 51, 52; 61; 
85) comprises a tab portion (74) protruding 

circumferentially outward at the first edge and 
wherein the mating structure at a second edge of the 

sprocket wheel sectorial section comprises a tab  
 

receptacle (76) for mating with a tab portion of an 
adjacent interfitted sprocket wheel sectorial 

section. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
