<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631218</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
District heating system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24D1000	F16T100	F24D1000	F16T100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24D	F16T	F24D	F16T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24D10	F16T1	F24D10	F16T1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a district heating system (1), which operates with steam as a carrier of heat, steam heat consumers (6) are provided, from which the condensate arising is to be led away. The steam traps (11) used for this purpose are provided with a sensor arrangement (15), which is provided on a monitoring circuit for monitoring the serviceability of the steam traps (11). In the case of a corresponding design of the sensor arrangement (11), the monitoring device (17) determines whether steam or condensate is present in the steam trap (11). If necessary, provision is additionally made of a control device connected to the monitoring device (17), which controls a solenoid valve for letting off the condensate accumulated in the steam trap (11). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAELZ GMBH HELMUT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HELMUT BAELZ GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for monitoring a distant heating system (1)
with a steam generator (2),


with at least one steam pipe (3) leading away from the
steam generator (2),
with at least one steam heat consumer (6) connected to the
steam pipe (3), which condenses the steam and the outlet

(7) of which is connected to the condensate collection pipe
(5),
with at least one steam trap (11), which lies in a
connection pipe, via which the outlet (7) of the steam heat

consumer (6) is connected to the condensate collection pipe
(5), and said steam trap has at least two operating modes,

whereby it is blocked in one operating mode and is at least
partially open in the other operating mode,
whereby on the at least one steam trap (11), a sensor
arrangement (15) is provided for monitoring the operating

mode of the steam trap (11) and/or the phase state of the
water in the steam trap, said sensor arrangement emitting

signals at its output, and
with a monitoring arrangement (17), to which the signals
from the sensor arrangement (15) of the at least one steam

trap (11) are supplied via a signal line (16),

characterised in that

the monitoring arrangement (17) emits a fault signal when
on the basis of the signals delivered by the sensor

arrangement it establishes that the relation of the time in

which the steam trap is at least partially open or should
be open to the time in which the steam trap is closed or

should be closed exceeds a maximum value.
Process according to Claim 1, characterised in that the
maximum value is determined by the maximum steam

consumption of the steam heat consumer (6) connected
upstream. 
Process according to Claim 1, characterised in that from
the signals given by the sensor arrangement (15), under

pressure and identifying the temperature, the monitoring
arrangement (17) determines on the basis of the phase stage

diagram (41) for water whether water is present in the
steam trap in liquid or in vapour form.
Process according to Claim 1, characterised in that the
monitoring arrangement (17) emits a fault signal if it

results on the basis of emitted signals that the
conductivity measured in the steam trap (11) substantially

exceeds a limit value for a long period.
Process according to Claim 4, characterised in that a limit
value in the form of a mean value results from the

conductivity values measured at all the steam traps (11).
Distant heating system (1)

with a steam generator (2),
with at least one steam pipe (3) leading away from the
steam generator (2),
with at least one steam heat consumer (6) connected to the
steam pipe (3), which condenses the steam and the outlet

(7) of which is connected to the condensate collection pipe
(5),
with at least one steam trap (11), which lies in a
connection pipe, via which the outlet (7) of the steam heat

consumer (6) is connected to the condensate collection pipe
(5), and said steam trap has at least two operating modes,

whereby it is blocked in one operating mode and is at least
partially open in the other operating mode,

characterised in that

on the at least one steam trap (11), an electronic sensor
arrangement (15) is provided for monitoring the operating 

mode of the steam trap (11) and/or the phase state of the
water in the steam trap, said sensor arrangement emitting

signals at its output, and
with a monitoring arrangement (17), to which the electrical
signals from the sensor arrangement (15) of the at least

one steam trap (11) are supplied via a signal line (16).
Distant heating system according to Claim 6, characterised
in that the monitoring arrangement (17) is formed by a

central process control and monitoring arrangement.
Distant heating system according to Claim 7, characterised
in that the sensor arrangement (15) is equipped for

measuring the pressure and/or the temperature and/or the
electrical conductivity and/or the height of the condensate

level in the interior of the steam trap (11).
Distant heating system according to Claim 8, characterised
in that all steam traps (11) are connected to the

monitoring arrangement (17).
Steam trap for a distant heating system according to Claim
6,


with a condensate collection vessel (21) having an inlet
(9) and an outlet (12),
with a controllable valve (13) located in the flow path of
the outlet (12), and
with at least one sensor arrangement (31, 37, 38) detecting
at least one physical magnitude of the water located in the

condensate collection vessel (21),

characterised in that the sensor arrangement has a sensor
(31, 37, 38) which converts the respective physical

magnitude into an electrical magnitude. 
Steam trap according to Claim 10, characterised in that the
sensor arrangement has a sensor (38) for detecting the

temperature prevailing in the condensate collection vessel
(21).
Steam trap according to Claim 10, characterised in that the
sensor arrangement has a sensor (38) for detecting the

pressure prevailing in the condensate collection vessel
(21).
Steam trap according to Claim 11 and 12, characterised in
that the temperature sensor (38) and the pressure sensor

(37) are arranged spatially close to one another.
Steam trap according to Claim 10, characterised in that the
sensor is a sensor (31) for detecting the electric

conductance of the contents of the condensate collection
vessel (21).
Steam trap according to Claim 10, characterised in that the
sensor is a sensor (20, 23) for detecting the condensate

level in the condensate collection vessel (21).
Steam trap according to Claim 15, characterised in that an
ultrasonic sensor is provided for determining the

condensate level in the condensate collection vessel (21).
Steam trap according to Claim 10, characterised in that the
valve (13) is an electrically controlled valve (34).
Steam trap according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the sensors (31, 37, 38) exclusively

comprise immovable parts. 
Steam trap according to Claim 15, characterised in that the
sensor for determining the condensate level in the

condensate collection vessel (21) comprises a float (23)
movably mounted inside the condensate collection vessel

(21).
Steam trap according to Claim 19, characterised in that the
sensor for determining the condensate level has an electric

switch (20) controlled by the float (23), said switch being
connected via the signal line (16) to a monitoring

arrangement (17).
Steam trap according to Claim 20, characterised in that the
float (23) is actively connected mechanically and/or

electrically to the valve (13).
Steam trap according to Claim 21, characterised in that the
float (23) and the valve (13) are constructed so that the

valve (13) is open when the condensate present in the
condensate collection vessel (21) exceeds a maximum level,

and that the valve (13) is closed when the condensate falls
below a minimum level.
Steam trap according to Claim 20, characterised in that the
electric switch (20) is a reed switch (20), which is

controlled by a permanent magnet (26) connected to the
float (23).
Steam trap according to Claim 17 and 21, characterised in
that the electrically operated solenoid valve (34) is

controlled by the electric switch.
Steam trap according to Claim 10, characterised in that a
control arrangement (36) is allocated to it which is 

connected to the sensor or sensors (31, 37, 38), which
determines from the detected values transmitted to the

control arrangement whether steam or water is present at
the sensor or sensors (31, 37, 38) or at a fixed distance

from the sensor, and which opens or closes the solenoid
valve (34) in dependence upon the result.
Steam trap according to Claim 25, characterised in that the
control arrangement (36) has a storage means, in which a

phase state diagram for water is contained in table form.
Steam trap according to Claim 26, characterised in that
switching limits for the temperature and the pressure, at

which the control arrangement (36) opens or closes the
solenoid valv
e (34), are respectively fixed by the control
arrangement (36) at a distance causing a switching

hysteresis from the phase limit line (41) of the state
diagram for water also referred to as a steam pressure

curve (41).
Steam trap according to Claim 27, characterised in that the
switching limit (44) relating to temperature and pressure

located in the range of the steam phase lies close to the
phase limit line (41), while the distance of the switching

limit (42) located in the liquid phase from the phase limit
line (41) is greater.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
