<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622988</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A FEEDING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K502	A01K500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K5	A01K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A feeding device for feeding animals, such as pigs or hogs, comprises a tubular feed reservoir (16) having a feed discharge opening at its lower end (17). The feeding device also comprises a base member (10) defining a feed support surface (12), which is closely spaced from the lower end (17) of a discharge tube (27) communicating with the reservoir (16). Troughs (11) may be arranged adjacent to the feed support (12), and the bottom surfaces (13) of the troughs are located on a lower level than the feed support surface (12). The reservoir (16) is suspended at its upper part in a pendulum-like manner and transverse movement of the reservoir is restricted by an encircling ring member (18). Animals being fed may push the lower end of the feed discharge tube (27) so that the lower end thereof is moved transversely. The lower length (31) of the feed discharge tube (27) is elastically flexible such that it may be flexed by larger pigs or animals, whereby the lower end of the feed discharge tube (27) may be moved further relative to the base member (10). Thus, the discharge rate of feed adapts itself to the size of the animals being fed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RASMUSSEN HANS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RASMUSSEN, HANS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASMUSSEN HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASMUSSEN, HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a feeding device for 
feeding animals, such as pigs or hogs, and comprising a 
feed reservoir from which feed is supplied to a base member 
defining a feed support surface or trough surface substantially 
exclusively under the influence of gravity. US-A-2,644,425 discloses a feeding device or feeding apparatus 
of this type for feeding ground mixture to swine 
or hogs. In this known ground mixture feeder the feed 
reservoir is rotatably mounted in relation to the circular 
pan defining an annular trough therein. Radial projections 
fastened to the lower end of the reservoir are located 
within the annular trough so that the hogs when feeding 
will snout the projections back and forth and thereby turn 
the reservoir back and forth. Thereby stopping and clogging 
of the feed will be prevented and the flow of feed from the 
reservoir into the trough may be accelerated. DE-C2-26 52 788 discloses a more simple and steady feeding 
device in which feed under the influence of gravity may 
flow from a feed reservoir and a feed discharge tube depending 
therefrom to a feed support surface of a trough. The 
feed discharge tube, which is stiff, is connected to the 
lower part of the funnel shaped feed reservoir, which is 
made from an easily deformable material so that the depending 
feed discharge tube may be moved in transverse directions. 
The open lower end of the feed discharge tube is 
closely spaced from the feed support surface of the trough, 
and an intermediate part of the feed discharge opening is 
surrounded by an annular member having an inner diameter 
exceeding the outer diameter of the feed discharge tube 
whereby the clearance between the annular member and the 
outer surface of the feed discharge tube allow for a certain 
transverse movement of the feed discharge tube. The 
animals being fed by means of the feeding device may push  
 
and easily displace the lower end of the feed discharge tube 
and thereby accelerate the delivery rate of feed to the feed 
support surface. The vertical position of the movement 
restricting annular member may be adjusted to adjust the 
apparatus to the size of the animals being fed. However, as 
the lower part of the feed reservoir is made from an easily 
deformable material so that the feed discharge tube may to 
some extent be displaced axially upwardly, the known feeding 
device is in practice suited for feeding piglets only. The present invention provides feeding device of the type 
just described which may be used for feeding
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A feeding device for feeding animals, such as pigs or hogs 
(30, 32), said device comprising
 
   a base member (10) defining a feed support surface (12),
 
   a feed reservoir (16, 26),
 
   a feed discharge tube (27) communicating with th
e reservoir 
and extending downwardly therefrom, the lower end of the 

feed discharge tube (27), which is positioned above and 
closely spaced from the feed support surface (12), defining a 

feed discharge opening located opposite to the feed support 
surface (12), the feed discharge tube (27) being moveable 

relative to the base member (10) and transversely to the 
longitudinal axis of the discharge tube by the animals (30, 

32) being fed, and
 
   restriction means (18) for cooperating with the feed 

discharge tube (27) at a position above the feed support 
surface so as to restrict transverse movement of the feed 

discharge tube to a predetermined value at said position from 
which a lower length (31) of the feed discharge tube (27) 

depends, so as to allow an initial transverse movement of the 
lower end of the discharge tube in relation to the base member,
characterized
 in that the lower length (31) of 
the feed discharge tube (27) is elastically flexible such 

that it may be flexed by at least some of the animals (32) 
which may be fed by means of the feeding device, whereby due 

to a force being applied in a transverse direction the lower 
end of the feed discharge tube (27) may be moved further 

relative to the base member (10). 
A feeding device according to claim 1, wherein the flexibility 
or the lower length (31) of the feed discharge tube 

(27) is such that a force of P kg applied to the lower free 
end of the feed discharge tube (27) at right angles to the 

longitudinal axis thereof causes a further movement of the 
free tube end in the range or 0.3 P - 3 P mm in relation to 

the base member (10).  
 
A feeding device according to claim 2, wherein the 
flexibility of the lower length (31) of the feed discharge 

tube (27) is such that a force of P kg applied to the lower 
free end of the feed discharge tube (27) at right angles to 

the longitudinal axis thereof causes a further movement of 
the free tube end in the range of 0.5 P - 1.5 P mm, preferably 

approximately 1 P mm in relation to the base member. 
A feeding device according to any of the claims 1-3, 
wherein the feed discharge tube (27) is made from a flexible 

plastic material. 
A feeding device according to claim 4, wherein the feed 
discharge tube (27) is made from polyvinyl chloride. 
A feeding device according to any of the claims 1-5, 
wherein the feed discharge tube (27) is made from a transparent 

material. 
A feeding device according to any of the claims 1-6, 
wherein the feed reservoir (16) as well as the feed discharge 

tube (27) communicating therewith is in the form of 
an integral length of a cylindrical tube. 
A feeding device according to claim 7, wherein the upper 
end of said integral length of a cylindrical tube (16) is 

rigidly mounted. 
A feeding device according to any of the claims 1-8, 
further comprising means (25) for adjusting the spacing of 

the lower end (17) of the feed discharge tube (27) from the 
feed support surface (12). 
A feeding device according to any of the claims 1-9 
further comprising at least one trough surface (13) positioned 

immediately adjacent to and below the feed support 
surface (12).  

 
A feeding device according to claim 10, wherein a pair 
of trough surfaces (13) are arranged on either side of the 

feed support surface (12), the feed discharge tube (27) 
being arranged in a fence (15) extending substantially 

along a vertical plane dividing the trough surfaces (13) 
and the feed support surface (12) into halves. 
A feeding device according to claim 10 or 11, further 
comprising means (23, 24) for feeding water or liquid feed 

to each trough surface (13). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
