<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646298</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EPLD CHIP WITH HYBRID ARCHITECTURE OPTIMIZED FOR BOTH SPEED AND FLEXIBILITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K190175	H03K190175	H03K190185	H03K190185	H03K19094	H03K19094	H03K19177	H03K19177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hybrid EPLD architecture has multiple first blocks (FB2-FB11) each including a first type programmable AND array and multiple first type macrocells which are complex in structure and highly configurable; and multiple second blocks (FFB0-FFB1) each including a second type programmable AND array having fewer input lines and product term output lines than does the first type AND array, and multiple second type macrocells which have fewer logic gates than do the first type macrocells. The EPLD has a programmable interconnect matrix (UIM) for interconnecting all the blocks.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIANG DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIANG, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EPLD CHIP WITH HYBRID ARCHITECTURE OPTIMIZED FOR BOTH SPEED AND FLEXIBILITYFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to programmable logic devices, and more particularly to a hybrid architecture including both high-speed blocks and high-flexibility blocks for the logical functions in Programmable Array Logic-based EPLDS.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Basic PLDs (programmable logic devices) are based on a programmable logic array, normally composed of a specific number of input lines connected through a fixed or programmable array to the input terminals of a set of AND logic gates, the output terminals of which are in turn connected to the input terminals of a fixed or programmable array of OR gates. Devices are called PAL®-based when the Programmable Array Logic has a fixed OR array. The size (number of gates) of the programmable array and the size (complexity) of the highly configurable associated I/O (input/output) macrocells has been increased recently over that of the basic PLD architecture to meet the requirements of complex logic functions and high configurability. Recently, new kinds of PAL-based devices (chips) have appeared, such as the Altera Max family, AMD Mach family and XILINX EPLD devices that feature on each chip functional blocks which are structurally and functionally identical and have a programmable interconnect resource which interconnects the functional blocks. Such an interconnect is designated the programmable interconnect array (PIA) in the Altera Max family, the Switch Matrix in the AMD Mach family, and the Universal Interconnect matrix (UIM) in the XILINX XC7236 device. Each functional block on the chips mentioned includes a programmable AND array and several 

macrocells so that it is like a stand alone PAL, and upon appropriate configuration can be used logically separate from the rest of the chip or can communicate with the rest of the chip. Figure 1 illustrates in simplified form the architecture of the XILINX XC7236 chip, a PAL-baεed EPLD. Four configurable functional blocks FBI, FB2, FB3, FB4 are interconnected by a central universal interconnect matrix (UIM) . Each of the four blocks FBI - FB4 receives 21 input lines from the UIM, and connects by nine output lines to chip I/O pads labelled "I/O" and/or back into the UIM. Blocks FB2, FB3, FB4 receive 3 input lines coming from the I/O pads as well. Each block FB-1 - FB-4 has carry-in and carry-out lines as well as shift-in and shift-out lines, with the in lines of each block being connected to the out lines of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS I claim:
1. A programmable integrated circuit logic device comprising: a plurality of fast logic function blocks having input terminals at least some of which are connected to a pad of the device, and having at least one output terminal connected to a pad of the device; a plurality of flexible logic function blocks each having input terminals and at least one output terminal and designed such that more functions of signals on a given number of input terminals may be selectively provided at said output terminal of that flexible logic function block than can be provided by said fast logic function blocks; said fast logic function blocks being designed such that an output signal may be generated from input signals to that function block wherein the shortest sum-of-products path from input to output propagates through fewer gates than in said flexible logic function blocks; and an interconnect matrix for interconnecting at least some of said input and output terminals of said fast logic function blocks and said flexible logic function blocks to each other.
2. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 1 in which said fast and flexible logic function blocks each include a programmable AND array.
3. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 2 in which said fast logic function blocks each include an AND array less complex than an AND array in each of said flexible logic function blocks. 


 4. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 2 in which said fast logic function blocks each further include a plurality of OR arrays each for generating a sum term from outputs of said AND array; and means for selectively providing an output of one of said OR arrays as input to another of said OR arrays, thereby expanding the number of inputs for which a sum can be generated.
5. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 1 in which at least some of said input terminals of said fast logic function blocks can be connected directly to external pads of said device without passing through said interconnect matrix.
6. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 1 in which at least some of said output terminals of said fast logic function blocks can be connected directly to external pads of said device without passing through said interconnect matrix.
7. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 1 in which at least some of said output terminals of one of said fast logic function blocks can be connected directly to at least some of said input terminals of said one of said fast logic function blocks without passing through said interconnect matrix.
8. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 1 in which said interconnect matrix is a universal interconnect matrix which can be connected to each of said flexible function blocks and said fast function blocks.
9. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 1, wherein each flexible functional block comprises multiple first type macrocells of high logical function 


flexibility and a first type programmable AND array, and the fast functional block comprises multiple second type macrocells of high speed and a second type programmable AND array different from the first type AND array.
10. A programmable logic device including a plurality of blocks and programmable interconnects for interconnecting the blocks, comprising: first type functional blocks each having a first type programmable AND array and a plurality of first type macrocells each having a first number of logic gates; and second type functional blocks each having a second type programmable AND array and a plurality of second type macrocells each having a second number of logic gates less than the first number, wherein each of the second type functional blocks is programmably connected to a signal terminal of the device.
11. A device as in Claim 10, wherein the second type functional block programmably receives input signals directly from dedicated device input terminals.
12. A device as in Claim 10, wherein an output signal from the second type functional block is selectively fed back into said second type functional block.
13. A device as in Claim 10, wherein the second type programmable AND array has a smaller number of logic gates than does the first type programmable AND array.
14. A programmable integrated circuit logic device comprising: a plurality of logic function blocks each having at least one input terminal and at least one output terminal; a plurality of external pads; 


 a plurality of output buffers of a first type each having a particular number of logic gates in its signal propagation path; a plurality of output buffers of a second type each having less than the particular number of logic gates in its signal propagation path; and an interconnect for connecting the output terminals of selected logic function blocks to said external pads by an output buffer, each said output buffer being one of the first and second type.
15. A programmable integrated circuit logic device as in Claim 14, wherein said output buffers of the first and second types each include an output inverter having two transistors, and wherein the two transistors in said second type of output buffer are each larger than the two transistors in said first type of output buffer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
