<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650358</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
17-ACYL-4-AZA-STEROID-3-ONE AS 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE INHIBITORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31505	A61K31505	A61K3158	A61K3158	C07J7300	C07J7300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07J	C07J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	C07J73	C07J73	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Invented are 17 alpha  and 17 beta -alkylketone-4-aza analogues of steroidal synthetic compounds, pharmaceutical compositions containing these compounds, and methods for using these compounds to inhibit steroid 5- alpha -reductase isozyme 1 and steroid 5- alpha -reductase isozyme 2. Also invented are proceses used in preparing these compounds.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITHKLINE BEECHAM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLT, DENNIS ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY, MARK ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OH, HYE-JA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 17-Acyl-4-aza-steroid-3-one as 5-alpha- reductase inhibitorsFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to certain novel 17α and 17β- alkylketone 4-aza steroidal compounds, pharmaceutical compositions containing these compounds, and methods for using these compounds to inhibit steroid 5-α-reductase isozyme 1 and steroid 5-α-reductase isozyme 2. Also invented are novel intermediates and processes useful in preparing these compounds.DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART The class of steroidal hormones known as androgens is responsible for the physical characteristics that differentiate males from females. Of the several organs that produce androgens, the testes produce these hormones in the greatest amounts. Centers in the brain exert primary control over the level of androgen production. Numerous physical manifestations and disease states result when ineffective control results in excessive androgen hormone production. For example, acne vulgaris, seborrhea, female hirsutism, male pattern baldness and prostate diseases such as benign prostatic hypertropy are correlated with elevated androgen levels. Additionally, the reduction of androgen levels has been shown to have a therapeutic effect on prostate cancer.Testosterone is the principal androgen secreted by the testes and is the primary androgenic steroid in the plasma of males. It now is known that 5-α-reduced androgens are the active hormones in some tissues such as the prostate and sebaceous gland. Circulating testosterone thus serves as a prohormone for dihydrotestosterone (DHT), its 5-α-reduced analogue, in these tissues but not in others such as muscle and testes. Steroid 5-α-reductase is a Nicotinamide Adenine dinucleotide Phosphate(NADPH)dependent enzyme that converts testosterone to DHT. The importance of this enzyme in male development was dramatically underscored by discovery of a genetic steroid 5-α-reductase deficiency in male pseudohermaphrodites. Imperator-McGinley, J., etgl., (1979), J. Steroid Biochem. 11:637-648.A number of steroidal 4-aza 5-α-reductase inhibitors are known in the art. For example, 

 1. United States Patent No. 4.888.336. to Holt et al. describes Steroidal 4-aza derivatives as useful 5-α-reductase inhibitors;2. United States Patent No. 4.377.584. to Rasmusson et al. describes steroidal 4-aza derivatives as useful 5-α-reductase inhibitors; 3. TIPS (December 1989) Vol. 10, pp. 491-495, by B.W.Metcalf, et al., describes the effect of inhibitors of steroid 5α reductase in benign prostatic hyperplasia, male pattern baldness
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
A compound represented by the formula:

 in which either the B ring has a double bond where indicated by the broken line or the C ring has a double bond where indicated by the broken line; and
Z is α or β
0
-OR in which R is Cι_20 linear or branched, saturated or unsaturated alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, solvates and esters thereof.
2. A compound of claim 1 having the following formula

 in which
R is Cι_20 linear or branched, saturated or unsaturated alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates and solvates thereof.
3. A compound of claim 2 having the following formula: 


 in which
R2 is Cχ-8 linear or branched alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates and solvates thereof.
4. A compound of Claim 3 wherein R^ is methyl, ethyl, propyl, 3-methylbutyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, 1-methylpropyl, t-butyl, pentyl, 1,1-dimethylpropyl, 2,2-dimethylpropyl, octyl or 3,3- dimethylbutyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates and solvates thereof.
5. A compound of claim 4 wherein ^ is 1-methylpropyl, n- butyl, isopropyl, n-pentyl, 3-methylbutyl, 2,2-dimethylpropyl, 1,1- dimethylpropyl, t-butyl, isobutyl, n-octyl, tert-pentyl, n-propyl, methyl or 3,3-dimethylbutyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates and solvates thereof.
17β-(isobutylcarbonyl)-4-aza-5-α-androst-8(14)ene-3-one.
7. A compound of claim 1 of the formula

 in which either the B ring has a double bond where indicated by the broken line or the C ring has a double bond where indicated by the broken line; and R is Cι_20 linear or branched, saturated or 


unsaturated alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, solvates and esters thereof.
8. A compound of the formula

 in which either the B ring has a double bond where indicated by the broken line or the C ring has a double bond where indicated by the broken line; and
Z is α or β
O
II -OR in which R is Cι_20 linear or branched, saturated or unsaturated alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, solvates and esters thereof.
9. A compound according to claim 1 substantially as hereinbefore defined with reference to anyone of the examples.
10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
11. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8 for use in therapy.
12. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8 in the manufacture of a medicament for use in the inhibition of steroid 5-α- reductase. 


 13. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8 m the manufacture of a medicament for use in treatment to reduce prostate size.
14. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8 in the manufacture of a medicament for use in treatment of prostatic adenocarcinoma.
15. A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula II
in which R is Cι_20 linear or branched alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates and solvates thereof which comprises reacting a compound of formula

 with 2,2'-dipyridyl disulfide and triphenylphosphine, in a solvent, preferably dichloromethane to form a compound of the formula

 and subsequently reacting said compound with a Grignard reagent in a solvent preferably tetrahydrofuran or diethylether to form a compound 


of Formula II, and thereafter optionally forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, hydrate or solvate thereof.
16. Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8 in the manufacture of a medicament for use in inhibiting steroid 5-α- reductase.
17. A method of inhibiting steroid 5-α-reductase in mammals which comprises the administration to a mammal in need such inhibition, an effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8.
18. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an alpha-receptor antagonist compound as an active therapeutic substance which use consist of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an alpha-receptor antagonist compound.
19. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an alpha-receptor antagonist compound in the manufacture of medicament for use in the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy which use consist of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an alpha-receptor antagonist compound.
20. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound as an active therapeutic substance which use consists of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound.
21. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound in the manufacture of a medicament for use in the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy which use consist of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound. 


 22. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and minoxidil as an active therapeutic substance which use consist of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and minoxidil.
23. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and minoxidil in the manufacture of a medicament for use in the treatment of male pattern baldness which use consist of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and minoxidil.
24. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound and an alpha-receptor antagonist compound as an active therapeutic substance which use consists of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound and an alpha-receptor antagonist compound.
25. The use of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound and an alpha receptor antagonist compound in the manufacture of a medicament for use in the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy which use consist of separate sequential or simultaneous administration of a compound according to anyone of claims 1 to 8 and an aromatase inhibiting compound and an alpha- receptor antagonist compound. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
