<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638759</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dual chamber composite pressure vessel and method of fabrication thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C5300	B29C5360	B29C5382	B29C7004	B29C7044	B60T1700	B60T1706	F17C100	F17C116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B60T	B60T	F17C	F17C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C53	B29C53	B29C53	B29C70	B29C70	B60T17	B60T17	F17C1	F17C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dual-chamber composite pressure vessel includes 
a first enclosure formed of a fiber reinforced resin 

matrix, having a hollow cylindrical central section, and 
first and second oblate end sections formed integrally 

over respective ends of the central section to define a 
first chamber. Also included is a second enclosure 

formed of a fiber-reinforced resin matrix, integrally 
with the first enclosure, and having a second hollow 

cylindrical section which is joined at one end to and 
extends from the second end section co-cylindrically 

with the central section of the first enclosure. The 
second enclosure also includes a third oblate end 

section formed integrally over the other end of the 
second cylindrical section to define a second chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDO CORP FIBER SCIENCE DIV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDO CORPORATION/FIBER SCIENCE DIVISION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON TERENCE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, TERENCE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fiber wound composite 
pressure vessels with integrally formed dual chambers, 
and a method of fabricating same. Composite (fiber reinforced resin matrix) 
containers or vessels have come into common use for 
storage of a variety of fluids under pressure, including 
storage of oxygen, natural gas, nitrogen, rocket fuel, 
propane, etc. Such composite construction provides 
numerous advantages such as lightness in weight and 
resistance to corrosion, fatigue and catastrophic 
failure. This combination of lightness in weight and 
resistance to failure is possible due to the high 
specific strength of the reinforcing fibers or filaments 
(carbon, glass, aramide, etc.) which, in the 
construction of pressure vessels, is typically oriented 
in the direction of the principal forces. One prospective use of composite vessels is as air 
break reservoirs for railroad freight cars. Such 
freight cars currently use cast iron or steel two-chamber 
pressure containers, but these containers are 
quite heavy, and difficult to install and maintain. 
Also, iron and steel corrode so that currently used 
containers must be coated on the inside to prevent 
corrosion (caused by condensation in the air pressure 
system) and this, of course, further increases the cost.  
 
Of course, if a way could be found to utilize composite 
vessels for such air break reservoirs, then the problems 
of the heavy weight and corrosiveness would be solved. Because railroad freight car air break reservoirs 
must contain two chambers, and must also be able to 
withstand high internal pressures, the most obvious 
approach to utilizing composite vessels for the air 
break reservoirs would simply be to utilize a pair of 
cylindrical composite tanks having domed end sections, 
with the tanks being joined end to end. However, this 
arrangement would result in unused dead space between 
the two tanks which would simply take up space if 
installed for use in a railroad freight car. It is an object of the invention to provide a dual-chamber 
composite vessel which is compact and exhibits 
high structural integrity. It is also an object of the invention to provide 
such a dual-chamber vessel which is especially suitable 
for use as a railroad freight car air break reservoir. It is a further object of the invention to provide 
such a vessel which is lightweight and requires no anti-corrosive 
coatings when used in an otherwise corrosive 
environment. The above and other objects of the invention are 
realized in a specific
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fiber-wound composite pressure vessel 
comprising 

   a first chamber-defining enclosure having a first 
oblate end section, a first cylindrical sidewall formed 

integrally at one end with the end section, and a second 
oblate end section formed integrally with the sidewall 

at the other end thereof to enclose and define the first 
chamber, and 

   a second chamber-defining enclosure having a second 
cylindrical sidewall which is formed integrally with the 

first sidewall to extend forwardly of the second end 
section to a termination, and a third oblate end section 

formed integrally with the second sidewall over the 
termination thereof to enclose and define the second 

chamber. 
A vessel as in Claim 1 wherein said second end 
section is reinforced with additional fiber. 
A vessel as in Claim 2 wherein the first 
enclosure, including first and second end sections and 

first sidewall, is comprised of a first layer of 
helically wound fiber, wherein the second end section is 

comprised of additional wound fibers, and wherein the 
first and second cylindrical sidewalls, and first and 

third end sections are comprised of a layer of hoop and 
helically wound fiber. 
A vessel as in Claim 3 wherein said additional 
fibers of the second end section are hand laid-up mat 

fibers. 
A vessel as in Claim 3 wherein the first and 
second enclosures include respective first and second 

fluid impervious liners. 
A vessel as in Claim 3 wherein the oblate end 
sections are formed to be generally hemispherical in 

shape. 
A vessel as in Claim 3 wherein the first and 
third end sections include respective openings to allow 

access to the first and second chambers respectively. 
A method of fabricating a dual-chamber pressure 
vessel comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming a first layer of filament-wound 
composite material over an inflated plastic 

liner/mandrel to define a first chamber, said layer 
having a central cylindrical section, and opposing, 

convex first and second end sections, 
(b) reinforcing the second end section with an 
additional composite layer, 
(c) bonding a second plastic liner/mandrel to the 
second end section to define a second chamber, 

   said second liner/mandrel having 
   a hollow cylindrical section, one end of which 

is bonded to the second end section to be co-cylindrical 
with the central cylindrical section of 

the first layer, and 
   a convex third end section formed integrally 

with the hollow cylindrical section over the other 
end thereof, and 
(d) forming a second layer of filament-wound 
composite material over the central cylindrical section 

and first end section of the first layer, and over the 
second liner/mandrel. 
The method of Claim 8 wherein step (a) 
comprises winding the first layer with helical 

filaments. 
The method of Claim 9 wherein step (d) 
comprises winding the second layer with helical and hoop 

filaments. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein the first, 
second and third end sections are generally dome-shaped. 
A dual-chamber composite pressure vessel 
comprising 

   a first enclosure formed of a fiber-reinforced 
resin matrix and having a hollow cylindrical central 

section, and first and second oblate end sections formed 
integrally over respective ends of the central section 

to define a first chamber, and 
   a second enclosure formed of a fiber-reinforced 

resin matrix, integrally with the first enclosure, and 
having a second hollow cylindrical section which is 

joined at one end to and extends from the second end 
section co-cylindrically with the central section of the 

first enclosure, and a third oblate end section formed 
integrally over the other end of the second cylindrical 

section to define a second chamber. 
A method of fabricating a dual-chamber 
pressure vessel comprising the steps of: 


(a) inflating a first plastic liner/mandrel to 
define a first chamber, said liner having a central 

cylindrical section, and opposing, generally convex 
hemispherical first and second end sections; 
(b) inflating a second plastic liner/mandrel to 
define a second chamber, said liner having a cylindrical 

section, and a third generally convex hemispherical end 
section and a fourth generally concave hemispherical end 

section; 
(c) laminating a composite material to the second 
end section and to the fourth end section; 
(d) joining the first and second liners/mandrels 
together so that the second end section is placed in 

contact with the fourth end section; 
(e) pressurizing said liners; and 
(f) overwrapping said liners with a composite 
material to form a generally contiguous outer layer. 
The method of Claim 13 wherein step (e) 
comprises pressurizing of said first and second liners 

sufficient to drive out air and excess composite 
material from between the second end section and the 

fourth end section. 
The method of Claim 14 wherein said first and 
second liners are pressurized to about 5 psi. 
The method of Claim 13 wherein step (f) 

comprises overwrapping the first and second liners with 
hoop and helical fibers. 
A fiber-wound composite pressure vessel 
comprising: 

   a first chamber-defining enclosure having a first 
oblate end section, a first cylindrical sidewall formed 

integrally at one end with the end section, and a second 
oblate end section formed integrally with the sidewall 

at the other end thereof to enclose and define the first 
chamber, 

   a second chamber-defining enclosure having a third 
concave end section which is complementary in shape to 

the second end section of the first enclosure, a second 
cylindrical sidewall formed integrally at one end with 

the third end section, and a fourth oblate end section 
formed integrally with the second sidewall at the other 

end thereof to enclose and define the second chamber, 
and

 
   a layer of composite material laminated to the 

second end section and to the third end section to join 
the third end section to the second end section to 

thereby join the first and second enclosures end to end. 
A vessel as in Claim 17 further including an 
outer layer of composite material overwrapping the first 

and second sidewalls, and the first and fourth end 
sections. 
A vessel as in Claim 18 further including 
composite material filler overwrapping the junction 

between the first and second enclosures. 
A vessel as in Claim 19 wherein the outer 
layer is comprised of hoop and helically wound fiber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
