<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647768</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods of using acidizing fluids in wells, and compositions used therein.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K860	C09K874	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K8	C09K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method, 
comprising the steps of:

 
   introducing into a well borehole a 

composition, comprising water, an acid, and (A) at least 
one reaction product of (A-1) at least one hydrocarbyl-substituted 

carboxylic acylating agent selected from the 
group consisting of a dicarboxylic acylating agent, a 

succinic acylating agent, a Diels-Alder diacid, a dimer 
acid acylating agent, a tricarboxylic acylating agent, a 

polycarboxylic acylating agent, or mixtures thereof, and 
(A-2) at least one amine-terminated polyoxyalkylene or 

(A-3) at least one hydroxy-terminated polyoxyalkylene 
having a number average molecular weight from about 600 to 

about 30,000, or a mixture of said (A-2) amine-terminated 
polyoxyalkylenes and (A-3) hydroxy-terminated 

polyoxyalkylenes. The reaction product (A) may be used 
alone, or in combination with one or more surfactants. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUBRIZOL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORSBERG JOHN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAHNKE RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORSBERG, JOHN W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAHNKE, RICHARD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of using water 
based acidizing fluids in wells. The fluids contain the 
reaction products of a polycarboxylic acylating agent and 
an amine-terminated polyoxyalkylenes, or hydroxy-terminated 
polyoxyalkylenes or mixtures of such amine or hydroxy-terminated 
polyoxyalkylenes. The primary functions of an acidizing fluid is to 
etch rock formations in oil and gas wells and thereby 
increase the productivity of the well. As set forth below, 
an acidizing fluid contains several components in addition 
to the acid. Often the fluids are in the form of a gel and 
may include sand or other agents to maintain the channels 
etched by the acid. The present invention relates to a 
method of using an acidizing fluid containing the reaction 
product of a carboxylic acylating agent and an amine-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene. Re. 30,885, which is a reissue of U.S. Patent 
4,239,635 relates to diamides and lubricants containing the 
same. The carboxylic acid-terminated diamides and alkali 
metal, ammonium or amine salts thereof have lubricating 
properties and are especially useful in aqueous metal-working 
fluids. Re. 31,522, which is a reissue of U.S. Patent 
4,374,741, relates to polyamides and functional fluids 
containing the same. The polyamides are polyoxyalkylene 
polyamides having a terminal carboxylic acid group and 
terminal amine group in the same molecule. The polyamides 
and salts thereof are useful in preparing stable aqueous 
based metal-working and hydraulic fluids.  U.S. Patent 4,107,061 relates to amino-amide 
lubricants derived from polymeric fatty acids and poly(oxyethylene) 
diamines. These materials are readily compatible 
with water in all proportions and form clear, aqueous 
solutions which have lubricating properties. U.S. Patent 4,659,492 relates to alkenyl-substituted 
carboxylic agent/hydroxy-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene reaction products. These reaction products 
are useful as thickeners for water-based functional fluids, 
and are relatively stable for high shear applications. U.S. Patents 4,661,275 and 4,664,834 relate to 
hydrocarbyl-substituted succinic acid and/or anhydride/amine-terminated 
poly(oxyalkylene) reaction products 
and aqueous systems containing the same. These 
reaction products are useful as shear-stable thickeners for 
functional fluids. U.S. Patent 4,795,581 relates to aqueous fluids 
thickened with fatty acid modified polyoxyalkylene diamines. 
These materials are useful for water/glycol based 
hydraulic fluids, cosmetics and surfactants.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for treating wells, in particular oil 
and gas wells, comprising the step of: 

introducing into a well borehole a composition, comprising 
water, an acid, and (A) at least one reaction product of (A-1) 

at least one hydrocarbyl-substituted carboxylic acylating 
agent selected from the group consisting of a dicarboxylic 

acylating agent, a succinic acylating agent, a Diels-Alder 
diacid, a dimer acid acylating agent, a tricarboxylic 

acylating agent, a polycarboxylic acylating agent, or mixtures 
thereof, and (A-2) at least one amine-terminated 

polyoxyalkylene or (A-3) at least one hydroxy-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene having a number average molecular weight from 

about 600 to about 30,000, or a mixture of said (A-2) amine-terminated 
polyoxyalkylenes and (A-3) hydroxy-terminated 

polyoxyalkylenes. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the hydrocarbyl 
group of (A-1) contains an average of about 8 to about 40 

carbon atoms. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the carboxylic 
acylating agent (A-1) is an alkenylsuccinic acid or anhydride 

having an average of about 12 to about 28 carbon atoms in the 
alkenyl group. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the carboxylic 
acylating agent (A-1) is a dimer acid having an average of 

about 18 to about 44 carbon atoms. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the carboxylic 
acylating agent (A-1) is a tricarboxylic acylating agent 

containing an average of about 18 to about 66 carbon atoms. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the amine-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene (A-2) has a number average 

molecular weight from about 3,000 to about 7,000. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the amine-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene (A-2) is represented by the 

formulae: 
 

   or 
 

   orH₂N-CH₂-CH₂-(OCH₂-CH₂)d-NH₂   (III)
 

   or 
 

wherein R is an alkyl group having from 1 to about 8 carbon 
atoms, a is an average number in the range from 0 to about 

200, b is an average number in the range from about 10 to 
about 650, c is an average number in the range from 0 to about 

200, d is an average number in the range from 1 to about 150, 
and e is a number sufficient to provide the compound with a 

number average molecular weight of at least about 600. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the composition 
further comprises (B) at least one surfactant. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the surfactant 
(B) is at least one amine-terminated polyoxyalkylene, 

hydroxyl-terminated polyoxyalkylene, alkyl-terminated 
polyoxyalkylenepolyol, polyoxyalkylene ester, polyoxyalkylene 

 
phenol, polyoxyalkylene ether, hydroxyamine, fatty alkyl 

diamines, or fatty acid or salt thereof. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the surfactant 
(B) is a hydroxyl-terminated polyoxyalkylene. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the surfactant 
(B) is a hydroxyamine. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the surfactant 
(B) is a reaction product of a succinic acylating agent and at 

least one N-(hydroxy-hydrocarbyl)amine. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction 
product (A) is present in an amount from about 0.5% to about 

15% by weight of the compositions. 
A water-based acidizing fluid comprising an 
acid and (A) at least one reaction product of (A-1) at least 

one hydrocarbyl-substituted carboxylic acylating agent 
selected from the group consisting of a succinic acylating 

agent, a Diels-Alder diacid, a dicarboxylic acylating agent, 
a tricarboxylic acylating agent, or mixtures thereof, and (A-2) 

at least one amine-terminated polyoxyalkylene or (A-3) at 
least one hydroxy-terminated polyoxyalkylene having a number 

average molecular weight from about 600 to about 30,000, or a 
mixture of said (A-2) amine-terminated polyoxyalkylenes and 

(A-3) hydroxy-terminated polyoxyalkylenes. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the 
carboxylic acylating agent (A-1) contains an average of about 

8 to about 40 carbon atoms. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the 
carboxylic acylating agent (A-1) is an alkenyl succinic acid 

or anhydride having an average of about 12 to about 28 carbon 
atoms in the alkenyl group. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the 
carboxylic acylating agent (A-1) is a tricarboxylic acylating 

agent containing an average of about 18 to about 66 carbon 
atoms. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the amine-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene (A-2) has a number average 

molecular weight from about 3000 to about 7000. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the 
composition further comprises (B) at least one surfactant. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the 
surfactant (B) is at least amine-terminated polyoxyalkylene, 

hydroxyl-terminated polyoxyalkylene, alkyl-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene polyol, polyoxyalkylene ester, polyoxyalkylene 

phenol, polyoxyalkylene ether, hydroxyamine, fatty alkyl 
diamines, or fatty acid or salt thereof. 
The method according to claim 1 wherein the 
carboxylic acylating agent (A-1) further comprises up to 10% 

of a monocarboxylic acid. 
An acidizing fluid according to claim 20 
wherein the carboxylic acylating agent (A-1) further comprises 

up to 10% of a monocarboxylic acid. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the hydroxy-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene (A-3) has a number average 

molecular weight from about 3,000 to about 20,000. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the hydroxy-terminated 
polyoxyalkylene (A-3) is represented by the 

formulae: 
 

wherein i, j, and k are integers greater than 1 such that the 
-CH₂CH₂O-groups comprise from about 10% to about 15% by weight 

of the total number average molecular weight of the glycol and 
the number average molecular weight of said polyols being from 

about 2500 to about 4500, and  
wherein n and o are integers such that the collective 

molecular weight of the C₃H₆O chains is between about 900 to 
about 25,000 and the collective molecular weight of the C₂H₄O 

chains is between about 20% to about 90% of the weight of the 
compound. 
The use of a composition as disclosed in claims 
1 to 24 for treating wells, in particular oil and gas wells. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
