<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650589</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAMPLE TUBE ENTRY PORT FOR A CHEMICAL ANALYZER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N100	G01N100	G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3502	G01N3502	G01N3504	G01N3504	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sample tube entry port (20) for an automatic chemical analyzer supports individual draw tubes (27) that are manually delivered to the analyzer at a sample access station (B). The entry port (20) facilitates removal of samples by a pipette (18) without exposing operating personnel to accidental contact with liquid materials in the draw tube (27). To accommodate draw tubes (27) of differing heights, the apparatus includes a stripper (167) that is selectively locked onto an elevationally movable ram (140) carrying a receptacle (141) for receiving a draw tube (27). A spring-biased tube clamp (146) urges each draw tube (27) against guides (142) within the receptacle (141) to center draw tubes of differing diameters. During operation of the apparatus, the receptacle (141) is first lowered to a predetermined elevation, then raised to an intermediate elevation at which a draw tube closure (162) is properly positioned for placement of the stripper (167) immediately adjacent to its upper surface. The stripper (167) is locked relative to the ram (140) in this elevational relationship, which is maintained as the closure (162) is impaled on the puncture tube (161) and/or the pipette (18) that accesses the contents of the draw tube (27).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHIAPPARELLI BIOSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHIAPPARELLI BIOSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLN NORMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOUGHLIN KELSEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEYRAUCH BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLN, NORMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOUGHLIN, KELSEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEYRAUCH, BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION Sample Tube Entry Port for a Chemical Analyzer Technical FieldThis disclosure relates to automatic chemical analyzers. A sample tube entry port delivers liquid from a draw tube to the clinical analyzer.Background ArtAutomated analyzers have been developed for biochemical analysis of patient samples, such as whole blood, serum, urine, plasma and cerebral spinal fluid. Most such equipment available today is large, complicated to operate, and high in cost.Operating such equipment is technically complicated. It typically requires specialized operators to be always available. It is usually designed for use by large laboratories serving a wide geographic area or by a large medical facility. Existing analyzers normally carry out tests in a defined sequence designed for efficient, high volume usage. Such large scale capacity is not always required. This is particularly true in smaller medical clinic settings where large volumes of blood sample tests are not required on a daily basis.The present chemical analyzer meets the practical needs of smaller medical settings. It is a desk-top unit that can be operated without specialized laboratory training. Its capacity is adequate for meeting typical clinical applications.The compact nature of the analyzer can be partially attributed to a single probe arm and pipette servicing all of the functional liquid-handling components included within it. The pipette is used for transferring both samples and reagents, as well as for diluting liquids as needed by particular test requirements. To obtain large volumes of tests, conventional laboratory analyzers are programmed to conduct test procedures in a Fixed sequence of events. While predetermined test sequences are practical in high volume chemical analyzer applications, there is a need for more flexible operation when scaling such test procedures to meet the needs of smaller medical facilities. Most automated analyzers that accommodate samples provided in conventional draw tubes require that such tubes be delivered into the machine in carrousels or on a dedicated conveyor. The draw tubes are then processed as a group over a significant dwell time within the equipment. One feature desirable in many clinical settings is the ability to aliquot samples from a conventional draw tube without requiring the continued presence of the draw tube during the subsequent test sequences. This permits the sample material in the tube to 

be used simultaneously in other test procedures. For this reason, the present sample tube
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A sample tube entry port for accessing the contents of a draw tube after it has been manually delivered to a sample access station of a chemistry instrument including a probe arm supporting a downwardly-extending open pipette movable about an arcuate path centered about a fixed reference axis, comprising: tubular puncturing means for temporarily forming an opening through a closure on a manually-delivered draw tube placed in the sample tube entry port means to make the interior of the draw accessible by subsequently inserting the pipette of the probe arm means coaxially through the puncturing means; ram means including an upwardly open receptacle positioned on the chemistry instrument at an elevation below that of the puncturing means for receiving and transversely centering a manually placed draw tube relative to the puncturing means and for elevationally moving the draw tube in directions parallel to the reference axis between a lowered position wherein the draw tube and receptacle are clear of the puncturing means and a raised position wherein the puncturing means forms a temporary opening through a closure at the top of a draw tube within the receptacle in preparation for subsequent coaxial insertion of the pipette; and a bifurcated stripper including an extension that can be releasably engaged with the ram means to selectively lock the extension to the ram means when the stripper is in its extended position, the extension being pivotally mounted on the chemistry instrument for movement of the stripper between a retracted position clear of the ram means and an extended position overlying the ram means and straddling the axial location of the puncturing means.
2. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, wherein the ram means includes a vertical rack having transverse teeth in meshing engagement with a powered gear; the extension having a section of gear teeth complementary to the teeth along the rack and adapted to interfit with the teeth so as to selectively lock the extension to the rack means during operation of the sample tube entry port.
3. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, wherein the extension is pivotally mounted by a stationary shaft received within a longitudinal slot formed through the extension, the slot accommodating upward motion of the ram means and stripper when the extension is locked to the ram means. 


 4. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, further comprising: control means for selectively lowering the ram means relative to the puncturing means to a first predetermined elevation and subsequently raising the ram means to an elevated position with the upper surface of a closure in a draw tube in the receptacle being at an elevation immediately below that of the bifurcated stripper when in its extended position.
5. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, wherein the upwardly-open receptacle includes upright surfaces adapted to engage draw tubes of differing diameters located within the receptacle; and tube clamp means mounted on the receptacle for selectively urging a draw tube into engagement with the upright surfaces.
6. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, wherein the upwardly-open receptacle includes a transverse aperture and upright interior ribs facing the aperture and adapted to engage one side of draw tubes of differing diameters located within the receptacle; and a tube clamp mounted on the receptacle selectively projecting through the aperture; and biasing means operably connected between the receptacle and the tube clamp for moving the tube clamp through the aperture and urging a draw tube into engagement with the upright ribs.
7. The sample tube entry port of claim 1 , further comprising: a cover movably mounted on the chemistry instrument at the sample access station, the cover being movable between an open position clear of the ram means and a closed position overlying it; the puncturing means being fixed to and extending downwardly from the underside of the cover.
8. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, further comprising: a cover movably mounted on the chemistry instrument at the sample access station, the cover being movable between an open position clear of the ram means and a closed position overlying it; the puncturing means being fixed to and extending downwardly from the underside of the cover; and 


 pivot means interconnecting the cover and the bifurcated stripper for shifting the stripper between its retracted and extended positions in response to movement of the cover between its open and closed positions, respectively.
9. A method for accessing the contents of a draw tube after it has been manually delivered to a sample access station of a chemistry instrument including a probe arm supporting a downwardly-extending open pipette, comprising the following steps: receiving a manually placed draw tube within an elevationally movable receptacle; selectively lowering the receptacle and draw tube to a first predetermined elevation; subsequently raising the receptacle and draw tube to an intermediate elevated position at which an upper surface of a closure in the draw tube is positioned at an second predetermined elevation; positioning a hollow puncture tube above the closure; locking a bifurcated stripper relative to the receptacle with the stripper immediately adjacent to the elevation of the upper surface of the closure to match the elevational position of the stripper to the overall height of the draw tube and closure; raising the receptacle and draw tube to a third predetermined elevation at which the closure is punctured by the puncture tube; and inserting a pipette through the puncture tube and into the interior of the draw tube to access its contents.
10. The method for accessing the contents of a draw tube as set out in claim 9, comprising the following additional step prior to the step of selectively lowering the receptacle and draw tube: selectively urging the draw tube into engagement against upright surfaces at the inside of the receptacle to thereby accommodate draw tubes of differing diameters.
11. The method for accessing the contents of a draw tube as set out in claim 9, comprising the following additional sequential steps: first moving the receptacle and locked stripper downwardly until the closure is elevationally clear of the puncture tube; and then raising the pipette upwardly to elevationally retract it from the closure and puncture tube and free it for subsequent movement. 


 12. The method for accessing the contents of a draw tube as set out in claim 9, comprising the following additional sequential steps: first moving the receptacle and locked stripper downwardly until the closure is elevationally clear of the puncture tube; then raising the pipette upwardly to elevationally retract it from the closure and puncture tube and free it for subsequent movement; releasing the bifurcated stripper from the receptacle and moving it to a location clear of the receptacle; and raising the receptacle and draw tube to an elevation at which the draw tube can be manually removed from within the receptacle. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 16 July 1993 (16.07.93); original claims 1-12 replaced by amended claims 1-12 (4 pages)]
1. A sample tube entry port (20) for accessing the contents of a draw tube (27) after it has been manually delivered to a sample access station (B) of a chemistry instrument including a probe arm (17) supporting a downwardly-extending open pipette (18) movable about an arcuate path centered about a fixed reference axis and tubular puncturing means (161) for temporarily forming an opening through a closure (162) on a manually-delivered draw tube (27) placed in the sample tube entry port means to make the interior of the draw tube (27) accessible by subsequently inserting the pipette (18) of the probe arm means (17) coaxially through the puncturing means (161); the sample tube entry port (20) being characterized by: ram means (140) including an upwardly open receptacle (141) positioned on the chemistry instrument at an elevation below that of the puncturing means (161) for receiving and transversely centering a manually placed draw tube (27) relative to the puncturing means (161) and for elevationally moving the draw tube (27) in directions parallel to the reference axis between a lowered position wherein the draw tube (27) and receptacle (141) are clear of the puncturing means (161) and a raised position wherein the puncturing means (161) forms a temporary opening through a closure (162) at the top of a draw tube (27) within the receptacle (141) in preparation for subsequent coaxial insertion of the pipette (18); and a bifurcated stripper (167) including an extension (168) that can be releasably engaged with the ram means (140) to selectively lock the extension (168) to the ram means (140) when the stripper (167) is in its extended position, the extension (168) being pivotally mounted on the chemistry instrument for movement of the stripper (167) between a retracted position clear of the ram means (140) and an extended position overlying the ram means (140) and straddling the axial location of the puncturing means (161).
2. The sample tube entry port of claim 1, further characterized by: the ram means (140) including a vertical rack (148) having transverse teeth in meshing engagement with a powered gear (151); and the extension (168) having a section of gear teeth (176) complementary to the teeth along the rack (148) and adapted to interfit with the teeth along the rack (148) so as to selectively lock the extension (168) to the rack (148) during operation of the sample tube entry port (20).
3. The sample tube entry port (20) of claim 1, further characterized by the extension (168) being pivotally mounted by a stationary shaft (170) received within a 


longitudinal slot (171) formed through the extension (168), the slot (171) accommodating upward motion of the ram means (140) and stripper (167) when the extension (168) is locked to the ram means (140).
4. The sample tube entry port (20) of claim 1, further characterized by: control means (163, 181, 182, 184) for selectively lowering the ram means (140) relative to the puncturing means (161) to a first predetermined elevation and subsequently raising the ram means (140) to an elevated position with the upper surface of a closure (162) in a draw tube (27) in the receptacle (141) being at an elevation immediately below that of the bifurcated stripper (167) when in its extended position.
5. The sample tube entry port (20) of claim 1, further characterized by the upwardly-open receptacle (141) including upright surfaces (142) adapted to engage draw tubes (27) of differing diameters located within the receptacle (141); and tube clamp means (146) mounted on the receptacle (141) for selectively urging a draw tube (27) into engagement with the upright surfaces (142).
6. The sample tube entry port (20) of claim 1, further characterized by the upwardly-open receptacle (141) including a transverse aperture (145) and upright interior ribs (142) facing the aperture (145) and adapted to engage one side of draw tubes (27) of differing diameters located within the receptacle (141); a tube (27) clamp mounted on the receptacle (141) selectively projecting through the aperture (145); and biasing means operably connected between the receptacle (141) and the tube (27) clamp for moving the tube (27) clamp through the aperture and urging a draw tube (27) into engagement with the upright ribs (142).
7. The sample tube entry port (20) of any one of claims 1-6, further characterized by: a cover (160) movably mounted on the chemistry instrument at the sample access station (B), the cover (160) being movable between an open position clear of the ram means (140) and a closed position overlying it; the puncturing means (161) being fixed to and extending downwardly from the underside of the cover (160). 


 8. The sample tube entry port (20) of claim 7, further characterized by: pivot means (173, 175) interconnecting the cover (160) and the bifurcated stripper
(167) for shifting the stripper (167) between its retracted and extended positions in response to movement of the cover (160) between its open and closed positions, respectively.
9. A method for accessing the contents of a draw tube (27) after it has been manually delivered to a sample access station (B) of a chemistry instrument including a probe arm (17) supporting a downwardly-extending open pipette (18), that includes the steps of receiving a manually placed draw tube (27) within an elevationally movable receptacle (141) and inserting a pipette (18) through the puncture tube (27) and into the interior of the draw tube (27) to access its contents.; the method being characterized by the following steps: selectively lowering the receptacle (141) and draw tube (27) to a first predetermined elevation; subsequently raising the receptacle (141) and draw tube (27) to an intermediate elevated position at which an upper surface of a closure (162) in the draw tube (27) is positioned at a second predetermined elevation; positioning a hollow puncture tube (27) above the closure (162); locking a bifurcated stripper (167) relative to the receptacle (141) with the stripper (167) immediately adjacent to the elevation of the upper surface of the closure (162) at the second predetermined elevation to thereby match the elevational position of the stripper (167) to the overall height of the draw tube (27) and closure (162); and raising the receptacle (141), draw tube (27) and locked stripper (167) to a third predetermined elevation at which the closure (162) is punctured by the puncture tube (27).
10. The method for accessing the contents of a draw tube (27) as set out in claim 9, further characterized by the following additional step prior to the step of selectively lowering the receptacle (141) and draw tube (27): selectively urging the draw tube (27) into engagement against upright surfaces (142) at the inside of the receptacle (141) to thereby accommodate draw tube (27)s of differing diameters.
11. The method for accessing the contents of a draw tube (27) as set out in claim 9, further characterized by the following additional sequential steps: 


 first moving the receptacle (141) and locked stripper (167) downwardly until the closure (162) is elevationally clear of the puncture tube (27); and then raising the pipette (18) upwardly to elevationally retract it from the closure (162) and puncture tube (27) and free it for subsequent movement.
12. The method for accessing the contents of a draw tube (27) as set out in claim 11, further characterized by the following additional sequential steps: releasing the bifurcated stripper (167) from the receptacle (141) and moving it to a location clear of the receptacle (141); and raising the receptacle (141) and draw tube (27) to an elevation at which the draw tube (27) can be manually removed from within the receptacle (141). 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
New claims 1-12 are amended to reorganize the claims in the form described in
Rule 6.3(b) and to include reference signs relating to the features of the drawings, as provided in Rule 6.2(b). Claim 7 is now a multiple dependent claim under Rule 6.4(a). Claims 8 and 12 have been amended to delete duplicative statements presented in claims 7 and 11, respectively.
Claim 9 has been amended to add a recitation emphasizing that locking of the stripper with respect to the receptacle occurs "at the second predetermined elevation." The "raising" step now pertains to the "receptacle, draw tube and locked stripper." These changes distinguish the claimed method from the disclosure of the cited published PCT application WO 89/12829, which neither locks the stripper with respect to the draw tube support nor raises the stripper in conjunction with the support and draw tube.
The amendments to the claims are not believed to have any impact on the description and drawings of the application as filed. They are fully supported by the description and drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
