<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coupon information system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1502	G06F1502	G06Q3000	G06Q3000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	G06Q30	G06Q30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hand-held data processing device (20) for storing data 
in a compressed form is disclosed. The device includes a 

keyboard (24) for entering input data and a data compressor 
for compressing the input data. The stored compressed 

data is searched and retrieved as a function of the 
compressed input data. The retrieved data is expanded 

and displayed in an operator readable form. The device 
includes a hand-held housing for supporting its 

components. The stored compressed data may include 
service data identifying services and coupon data 

identifying discounts available for the services. The 
device relates the coupon data to the service data and 

includes a keyboard for inputting data identifying a 
desired service. The device retrieves and displays 

coupon data representing a discount available for the 
desired service. The device may be used in a system 

wherein a corresponding device is located at each of the 
services. The corresponding devices interface with the 

hand-held devices to discard coupon data when the coupon 
data is presented to receive the available discount. A 

data processing device for storing and retrieving coupon 
data as a function of service data without the use of 

data compression is also disclosed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LASER DATA TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LASER DATA TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISSLER LEONARD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSS MONTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISSLER LEONARD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSS MONTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Copyright c ○ 1989 Laser Data Technology, Inc. A 
portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains 
material which is subject to copyright protection. The 
copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction 
by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as 
it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or 
records, but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever. The subject matter of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 
07/676,818, filed March 28, 1991 and US Patent Application 
Serial No. 08/019/139, filed 18 February 1993, a copy of which 
is filed herewith, is hereby incorporated by reference. The present invention relates to a data processing 
device and, in one form, to a data processing device for 
providing data related to the types of services and applicable 
discounts available at selected locations in response to 
operator input. The device is preferably hand-held and may be 
used within a system wherein a corresponding device is located 
at each service for interfacing with a hand-held device to 
monitor and control usage of discounts at the services. For 
applications involving large volumes of data, the data is 
stored and retrieved in a compressed form in the hand-held 
device and then expanded for display in a user readable form. To determine what types of services and discounts are 
available in a location along a highway, for example, one has 
to either depend upon billboards along the highway or leave 
the highway in order to locate a specific type of service. It 
is not unusual that a motorist may leave the highway in an 
attempt to locate a particular gas station or food store only 
to find out  
 
later that a similar station or store was only a few 
miles down the highway. Additionally, maps are used to 
locate various types of services. However, the maps may 
be out of date or at best contain only limited 
information concerning the types of services available 
along the highway. Various devices have been developed which provide 
information relating to services available along a 
highway. However, these devices require different 
interchangeable ROM (read only memory) packs or modules 
be used for either different highways or different states 
and most do not provide discount information. Further, 
since these devices are organized by highways or states, 
it is difficult to determine the nearest service to a 
border area or major intersection without frequently 
changing modules. This is because such devices are 
unable to identify
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hand-held data processing device comprising 
means for storing compressed data, a memory, means for 

entering input data in the memory, and means for 
compressing the input data, the improvement comprising: 

   means for retrieving compressed data from the 
storing means as a function of the compressed input data; 

   means for expanding the retrieved compressed data 
into a user readable form; and 

   means for displaying the expanded data. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the retrieved 
compressed data includes a coded number and wherein the 

expanding means comprises means for converting the coded 
number into a user readable form. 
A data processing device for providing data 
related to the availability of discounted services within 

a given location, the device comprising means for storing 
service data identifying the services available in 

various locations and coupon data identifying discounts 
available for various services, means for relating the 

coupon data to the service data, a memory, and means for 
entering input data in the memory identifying a desired 

category of service and an origin position, the 
improvement comprising: 

   means for retrieving from the storing means service 
data representing one or more services having a location 

corresponding to the origin position and for retrieving 
from the storing means coupon data representing discounts 

applicable to the retrieved services; and 
   means for displaying the retrieved service data and 

the retrieved coupon data. 
The device of claim 3 further comprising a clock 
 

providing time of day information, wherein the storing 
means comprises means for storing the coupon data in the 

form of a discount as a function of time of day 
information, and wherein the retrieving means comprises 

means for retrieving the coupon data as a function of the 
time of day information. 
The device of claims 3 or 4 wherein the 
displaying means further comprises means for displaying 

the coupon data as a discount and wherein the device 
further comprises means for associating a number with 

each discount representing the permitted number of uses 
of the discount, means for incrementing or decrementing 

the number for each discount when the discount is 
displayed to receive the related service, and means, 

responsive to the associating means, for preventing a 
discount from being displayed when the number associated 

with the discount is a predetermined number. 
The device of claim 5 wherein the associating 
means further comprises means for inputting into the 

storing means a password as a function of a service, and 
wherein the incrementing or decrementing means is 

responsive to the entered password for incrementing or 
decrementing the number associated with the discount for 

the service. 
The device of claims 3, 4, 5 or 6 wherein the 
displaying means further comprises means for displaying 

the coupon data as a discount and wherein the device 
further comprises means for discarding a particular 

coupon data from the storing means in response to the 
particular coupon data being retrieved from the storing 

means for the user to receive the discount. 
The device of claim 4 wherein the displaying 
 

means comprises a printer for printing a coupon including 
the retrieved coupon data and means for discarding a 

particular coupon data from the storing means in response 
to the printer printing the particular coupon data. 
The device of claim 3, 4, 5 or 6 further 
comprising: 

   means for compressing the input data identifying the 
desired category of services and the origin position, 

wherein the service data and the coupon data in the 
storing means are stored in a compressed form, and 

wherein the retrieving means retrieves compressed service 
data and compressed coupon data as a function of the 

compressed input data; and 
   means for expanding the retrieved compressed service 

data and retrieved compressed coupon data into a user 
readable form, wherein the displaying means displays the 

expanded data. 
The device of claim 3 for use with a book of 
coupons corresponding to the discounts applicable to the 

services, wherein the storing means comprises means for 
storing coupon data in the form of a coupon number 

identifying each of the coupons in the book, and wherein 
the retrieving means comprises means for retrieving the 

coupon number for the coupon in the book applicable to 
the desired service. 
A data processing system for providing coupons 
for discounted services, the system including a plurality 

of hand-held devices, each comprising means for storing 
service data identifying services, and coupon data 

identifying discounts available for the services, means 
for relating the coupon data to the service data, a 

memory, and means for entering input data in the memory 
identifying a desired service, the improvement comprising:

 
   means for retrieving from the storing means coupon 

data representing a discount available for the 
desired service; and 

   a plurality of corresponding devices, one located at 
each of the services, the corresponding devices 

comprising: 
   means for interfacing with the hand-held devices; 

and 
   means for discarding from the storing means of a 

hand-held device connected to the interface means a 
coupon data related to the service. 
The system of claim 11 wherein the displaying 
means further comprises means for displaying the 

retrieved coupon data as a discount and wherein the 
hand-held devices further comprise means for associating 

a number with each discount representing the permitted 
number of uses of the discount, means for incrementing or 

decrementing the number for each discount when the 
discount is displayed to receive the desired service, and 

means, responsive to the associating means, for 
preventing a discount from being displayed when the 

number associated with the discount is a predetermined 
number. 
The system of claims 11 or 12 wherein the 
displaying means further comprises means for displaying 

the retrieved coupon data as a discount and wherein the 
hand-held devices further comprise means for discarding a 

particular coupon data from the storing means in response 
to the particular coupon data being retrieved for the 

user to receive the discount. 
The system of claims 11, 12 or 13 wherein the 
displaying means comprises a printer for printing a 

coupon including the retrieved coupon data. 
The system of claim 11, 12, 13 or 14 wherein 
the hand-held devices further comprise: 

   means for compressing the input data identifying the 
desired service, wherein the service data and the coupon 

data in the storing means are stored in a compressed 
form, and wherein the retrieving means retrieves 

compressed coupon data as a function of the compressed 
input data; and 

   means for expanding the retrieved compressed coupon 
data into a user readable form, wherein the displaying 

means displays the expanded data. 
The system of claims 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 for 
use with a book of coupons corresponding to the discounts 

applicable to the services, wherein the storing means 
comprises means for storing coupon data in the form of a 

coupon number identifying each of the coupons in the 
book, and wherein the retrieving means comprises means 

for retrieving the coupon number for the coupon in the 
book applicable to the desired service. 
The system of claims 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 
wherein the corresponding devices further comprise means 

for providing updated data and wherein the hand-held 
devices further comprise means for receiving the provided 

updated data to update the data stored in the storing 
means. 
The system of claims 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or 
17 wherein the corresponding devices further comprise: 

   a cash register for summing the amount due on 
products purchased by a purchaser; 

   means for monitoring the coupon data stored in the 
storing means of the hand-held devices which data relates 

to the service where the particular corresponding device 
is located;

 
   means responsive to the monitoring means for 

matching all available discounts identified by the coupon 
data which are applicable to the purchased products; and 

   means responsive to the matching means for deducting 
the value of the available discounts from the amount due. 
A data processing device for providing data 
related to the availability of discounts for selected 

services, the device comprising means for storing service 
data identifying services and coupon data identifying 

discounts available for the services, means for relating 
the coupon data to the service data, a memory, and 

means for entering input data in the memory identifying a 
desired service, the improvement comprising: 

   means for retrieving from the storing means coupon 
data representing a discount available for the desired 

service; and 
   means for displaying the retrieved coupon data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
