<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659798</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polyurethane foam-supported double metal cyanide catalysts for polyol synthesis
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G1800	B01J3500	B01J2726	B01J3106	C08G5968	C08G1848	B01J3140	C08G6510	C08G6500	C08G10100	B01J3140	B01J2724	B01J3106	C08G1808	B01J3504	C08G5900	C08G6526	C08G5918	C08G1800	B01J2376	B01J2380	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	B01J	B01J	B01J	C08G	C08G	B01J	C08G	C08G	C08G	B01J	B01J	B01J	C08G	B01J	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G18	B01J35	B01J27	B01J31	C08G59	C08G18	B01J31	C08G65	C08G65	C08G101	B01J31	B01J27	B01J31	C08G18	B01J35	C08G59	C08G65	C08G59	C08G18	B01J23	B01J23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Polyurethane foam-supported double metal cyanide (DMC) catalysts 
are disclosed as useful catalysts for epoxide polymerization. The foam-supported 

catalysts are easy to prepare, and are more active and show 
reduced induction periods compared with conventional powdered DMC 

catalysts. The catalysts of the invention can be recovered from the 
epoxide polymer products and can be reused to catalyze additional epoxide
 
polymerizations. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARCO CHEM TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARCO CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY, L.P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE-KHAC BI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE-KHAC, BI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to catalysts useful for epoxide polymerization.
In particular, the invention relates to double metal cyanide (DMC) catalysts
that are supported on a polyurethane foam. The foam-supported catalysts
are especially useful for preparing polyether polyols having low unsaturation.Double metal cyanide (DMC) compounds are well known catalysts for
epoxide polymerization. The catalysts are highly active, and give polyether
polyols that have low unsaturation compared with similar polyols made using
conventional base catalysis. Conventional DMC catalysts are prepared by
reacting aqueous solutions of metal salts and metal cyanide salts to form a
precipitate of the DMC compound. The catalysts can be used to make a
variety of polymer products including polyether, polyester, and polyetherester
polyols. Many of the polyols are useful in various polyurethane coatings,
elastomers, sealants, foams, and adhesives. Conventional double metal cyanide catalysts are usually prepared in the
presence of a low molecular weight organic complexing agent such as glyme.
The ether complexes with the DMC compound, and favorably impacts the
activity of the catalyst for epoxide polymerization. In one conventional
preparation, aqueous solutions of zinc chloride (excess) and potassium
hexacyanocobaltate are combined. The resulting precipitate of zinc
hexacyanocobaltate is combined with aqueous glyme (dimethoxyethane). An
active catalyst is obtained that has the formula:
Zn3[Co(CN)6]2 · xZnCl2 · yH2O · zGlymeOne drawback of conventional DMC catalysts is that they become finely
dispersed or practically soluble in polyether polyol mixtures during epoxide
polymerizations. Removal of the catalyst from the polyol following
polymerization is desirable because the catalyst residues promote an
undesirable accumulation of volatile materials (such as propionaldehyde) in the
polyol during storage. Unfortunately, DMC catalyst residues are often difficult to
remove completely from the polyols, and common catalyst removal techniques
usually deactivate DMC catalysts.Double metal cyanide catalysts usually have good activity for epoxide
polymerizations. However, because the catalysts are rather expensive,
catalysts with improved activity are desirable because reduced catalyst levels
could be used. Finally, DMC catalysts normally require an "induction" period. In
contrast to basic catalysts, DMC catalysts ordinarily will not begin
polymerizing epoxides immediately following exposure of epoxide and starter
polyol to the catalyst. Instead,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A foam-supported catalyst which comprises from 1 to 20 weight
percent of a double metal cyanide (DMC) catalytic compound supported on a

foamed solid, the weight percentage being based on the weight of the total
foam supported catalyst.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 1 wherein the
foam is one which can be synthesised in the presence of the catalyst.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2
wherein the foam is a plastics foam.
A foam-supported catalyst according to any one of the
preceding claims wherein the foamed solid comprises a polyurethane.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 4 prepared by
combining a polyol, a polyisocyanate, water, a surfactant, a foaming catalyst,

and a DMC catalyst under conditions effective to produce a polyurethane
foam-supported DMC catalyst.
A polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst as claimed in
claim 4 or claim 5 which comprises:


(a) a DMC catalyst; and
(b) a polyurethane foam support; and

   wherein the DMC catalyst comprises a DMC compound, an organic
complexing agent, and from about 5 to about 80 wt.%, based on the amount

of DMC catalyst, of a polyether.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 6 characterised
in that the polyether is not miscible with water and has a number average

molecular weight greater than about 500. 
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7
characterised in that the polyether is a polyether polyol having a number

average molecular weight within the range of about 1000 to about
10,000.
A polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst as claimed in
any one of claims 4 to 8 which comprises:


(a) a DMC catalyst; and
(b) a polyurethane foam support; and

   wherein the DMC catalyst contains a slight excess of a metal halide
salt and is substantially crystalline by powder X-ray diffraction analysis.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 9 characterised
in that the DMC catalyst is a zinc hexacyanocobaltate, and has a Zn/Co

molar ratio within the range of about 1.5 to about 1.8.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in any one of claims 1
to 9 characterised in that the DMC catalyst is a zinc hexacyanocobaltate.
A reticulated polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst as
claimed in any preceding claim.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in any preceding claim
characterised in that the DMC catalyst comprises at least about 70 wt.%

of a substantially amorphous DMC complex. 
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 13 characterised
in that the DMC catalyst comprises at least about 90 wt.% of a substantially

amorphous DMC complex.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in claim 13 characterised
in that the DMC catalyst comprises at least about 99 wt.%of a substantially

amorphous DMC complex.
A foam-supported catalyst as claimed in any preceding claim
characterised in that the DMC is prepared using tert-butyl alcohol as an

organic complexing agent.
A process for making a foam-supported catalyst according to
claim 1, said process comprising forming the foam in the presence of the

catalyst.
A process as claimed in claim 17 for making a polyurethane
foam-supported DMC catalyst, said process comprising reacting a polyol, a

polyisocyanate, and water in the presence of a surfactant, a foaming catalyst,
and a DMC catalyst to produce a polyurethane foam-supported DMC

catalyst.
A process as claimed in claim 18 for making an activated,
polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst, said process comprising:


(a) preparing an activated DMC compound/starter mixture by
exposing a DMC compound to an epoxide and a hydroxyl

group-containing starter under conditions effective to activate at
least a portion of the DMC compound;
(b) isolating the activated DMC compound from the mixture; and 
(c) reacting a polyol, a polyisocyanate, and water, in the
presence of a surfactant, a foaming catalyst, and the

activated DMC compound to produce an activated,
polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst.
A process as claimed in claim 18 for making a polyurethane
foam-supported DMC catalyst, said process comprising:


(a) intimately combining and reacting aqueous solutions of a
water-soluble metal salt and a water-soluble metal cyanide

salt in the presence of an organic complexing agent to
produce an aqueous mixture that contains a precipitated DMC

catalyst;
(b) isolating the DMC catalyst, which comprises at least about 70
wt.% of a substantially amorphous DMC complex; and
(c) reacting a polyol, a polyisocyanate, and water in the presence
of a surfactant, a foaming catalyst, and the DMC catalyst, to

produce a polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst.
A process as claimed in claim 20 characterised in that the
DMC catalyst comprises at least about 90 wt.% of the substantially

amorphous DMC complex.
A process as claimed in claim 20 characterised in that the
DMC catalyst comprises at least about 99 wt.% of the substantially

amorphous DMC complex.
A process as claimed in claim 18 for making a polyurethane
foam-supported catalyst, said process comprising: 


(a) preparing a solid DMC catalyst comprising a DMC compound,
an organic complexing agent, and from about 5 to about 80

wt.%, based on the amount of solid DMC catalyst, of a

polyether having a number average molecular weight greater
than about 500; and
(b) reacting a polyol, a polyisocyanate, and water in the presence
of a surfactant, a foaming catalyst, and the solid DMC

catalyst, to produce a polyurethane foam-supported DMC
catalyst.
A process as claimed in claim 18 for making a polyurethane
foam-supported DMC catalyst, said process comprising:


(a) intimately combining and reacting aqueous solutions of a
water-soluble metal salt and a water-soluble metal cyanide

salt in the presence of an organic complexing agent to
produce an aqueous mixture that contains a precipitated DMC

catalyst, said water-soluble metal salt being used in an
amount sufficient to produce a DMC catalyst containing a

slight excess of the water-soluble metal salt;
(b) isolating the DMC catalyst, which comprises a crystalline
DMC complex; and
(c) reacting a polyol, a polyisocyanate, and water in the presence
of a surfactant, a foaming catalyst, and the DMC catalyst, to

produce a polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 20 to 24
characterised in that the organic complexing agent is tert-butyl alcohol.
A modification of a process as claimed in claim 18 for making
an activated, polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst, said process

comprising:

(a) preparing an activated DMC compound/starter mixture by
exposing a DMC compound to an epoxide and a hydroxyl

group-containing starter under conditions effective to activate
at least a portion of the DMC compound; and
(b) reacting a polyisocyanate, water, and optionally, a polyol, in
the presence of a surfactant, a foaming catalyst, and the

activated DMC compound/starter mixture to produce an
activated, polyurethane foam-supported DMC catalyst.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 26
characterised in that the DMC catalyst is a zinc hexacyanocobaltate.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 27
characterised in that the DMC catalyst is used in an amount within the

range of about 1 to about 20 weight percent based on the amount of
foam-supported catalyst.
A process for making an epoxide polymer, said process
comprising polymerizing an epoxide in the presence of a polyurethane

foam-supported DMC catalyst as claimed in any one claims 1 to 17 or
when prepared by the process claimed in any one of claims 18 to 28. 
A process as claimed in claim 29 characterised in that the
epoxide is selected from ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, butylene oxides,

and mixtures thereof.
A process as claimed in claim 29 or claim 30 characterised in
that the foam-supported DMC catalyst is recovered from the epoxide

polymer and is reused as an epoxide polymerization catalyst.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
