<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624898</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Quadrupole mass spectrometer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2322	G01N23225	H01J4910	H01J4910	H01J4914	H01J4934	H01J4942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N23	G01N23	H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A quadrupole mass spectrometer includes means for 
measuring total ion current having an electron repeller 

cage disposed about an electron source filament. The 
electron repeller cage repels electrons emitted by the 

electron source filament, urging them away from both the 
repeller and the filament, while also attracting positive 

ions. When the positive ions contact the electron repeller 
cage, a current is induced that is measured at the electron 

repeller cage. The measured current represents total ion 
current transmitted through the spectrometer. Thus, the 

need to include a total pressure measurement plate to 
measure total ion current is eliminated, and since the ion-exposed 

surface area of the electron repeller cage is 
greater than the ion-exposed surface area of the total 

pressure measurement plate, the invention provides improved 
total pressure measurement sensitivity. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MKS INSTR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MKS INSTR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOLEY PAUL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOLEY PAUL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to mass 
spectrometers, and more particularly to quadrupole mass 
spectrometers. Quadrupole mass spectrometers are known. A portion of 
a prior art quadrupole mass spectrometer is shown in Fig. 1 
of the drawings. A ground plate 10 supports an electron 
source filament 12 via two conductive posts 14. The 
electron source filament 12 carries a current of sufficient 
magnitude so that electrons having a negative charge are 
emitted by the electron source filament 12, i.e., the 
electron source filament 12 serves as a cathode. The 
electrons are accelerated electrostatically towards an ion 
source cage 16 by an electric field in the region between 
an electron repeller cage 18 and the ion source cage 16. 
Positive ions are produced inside the ion source cage 16 
when the accelerated electrons strike neutral gas 
particles, in the form of atoms and molecules or a mixture 
thereof, within the cage along the path of the electrons. 
The positive ions within the ion source cage 16 are 
accelerated towards a quadrupole mass filter 20 by a focus 
plate 30. The quadrupole mass filter 20 includes a 
quadrilaterally symmetric parallel array of four rods 22. 
Prior to entering the interior of the quadrupole mass 
filter 20, the positive ions pass through an aperture 24 of 
a total pressure measurement plate 26 described in greater 
detail below. To obtain an indication of the mass spectrum of the 
ions in the space defined by the ion source cage 16, a  
 
constant (DC) and superimposed sinusoidally modulated (RF) 
voltage is applied to the rods 22 of the quadrupole mass 
filter 20, and are scanned in tandem such that their ratio 
remains constant. More specifically, each diametrically 
opposite pair of rods are connected together. A signal 
(U + Vcosωt), which includes a positive DC component (U) 
and a radio frequency (RF) component (Vcosωt), is applied 
to one pair of rods, while a signal (-U - Vcosωt), which 
includes a negative DC component (-U) and a radio frequency 
(RF) component (-Vcosωt) opposite in phase (180°) to the RF 
component of the first mentioned signal, is applied to 
other pair of rods. The DC and RF component signals are 
scanned such that their ratio of amplitudes, U/V, is kept 
constant. The fraction of the total ion current that exits 
the quadrupole mass filter 20 is partitioned according to 
the mass-to-charge ratio of each ion of the ion current. 
By scanning the RF voltage component from a low to a high 
value, a plurality of ions, each having a particular
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A quadrupole mass spectrometer for measuring the 
relative amounts of the respective constituents of a gas 

present in said spectrometer, said spectrometer being of 
the type comprising a quadrupole mass filter, the 

quadrupole mass spectrometer comprising: 
   means for defining a space for containing a 

representative sample of said gas; 
   biased electron repeller means for repelling electrons 

and attracting positive ions contained within said space; 
   electron source means, disposed generally within said 

space, for emitting a plurality of electrons, the plurality 
of electrons being accelerated into said space so as to 

produce a plurality of positive ions, a fraction of the 
plurality of positive ions being attracted to the electron 

repeller means; and 
   current measurement means, coupled to the electron 

repeller means, for measuring a current that results from 
the fraction of the plurality of positive ions that are 

attracted to the electron repeller means, and for providing 
a signal representative of the total ion current entering 

the quadrupole mass filter. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
1, further including ion source means, disposed in said 

space, for providing a second fraction of the plurality of 
positive ions of said constituents of said gas and for 

generating the ion current entering said quadrupole mass 
filter. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
2, wherein said ion source means comprises an ion source cage. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
1, wherein said electron source means includes a filament. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer for measuring the 
relative amounts of mass of one or more constituents, 

respectively of different molecular weights, of a gas, said 
spectrometer comprising: 


(a) means for defining a space for containing a 
representative sample of said gas; 
(b) electron source means for producing electrons; 
(c) ion source means, disposed in said space, for 
producing ions of each of said constituents of said gas 

when particles of each constituent present in said ion 
source means are struck by electrons; 
(d) means for propelling said electrons produced by 
said electron source means through said space into said ion 

source means so that positive ions of each said constituent 
are produced in said space, both inside and outside said 

ion source means, said means for propelling said electrons 
including electron repeller means for repelling said 

electrons toward said ion source means and for collecting 
ions received from said space; and 
(e) means for generating an ion current from the ions 
produced inside said ion source means so that said ion 

current represents the relative amounts of said 
constituents; and 
(f) means for generating a signal as a function of the 
ions collected by said electron repeller means and 

representative of the total ion current produced inside 
said ion source means. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
1, wherein electron source means for producing electrons 

comprises a filament disposed in said space. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
1, wherein said ion source means comprises an ion source 

cage. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
1, wherein said means for generating an ion current from 

the ions produced inside said ion source means so that said 
ion current represents the relative amounts of said 

constituents comprises a quadrupole mass filter. 
A quadrupole mass spectrometer according to claim 
1, wherein said means for propelling said electrons 

produced by said electron source means through said space 
into said ion source means so that positive ions of each 

said constituent are produced in said space includes means 
for biasing said electron repeller means relative to said 

electron source means and said ion source means. 
In a quadrupole mass spectrometer comprising an 
electron source filament, the electron source 

filament carrying a current of sufficient magnitude such 
that electrons having a negative charge are emitted by the 

electron source filament, the electrons being accelerated 
towards an ion source cage by an electric field in the 

region between an electron repeller cage and the ion source 
cage, positive ions being produced both inside and outside 

the ion source cage when the accelerated electrons strike 
neutral gas particles along the path of the electrons, the 

positive ions within the ion source cage being accelerated 
 

towards a quadrupole mass filter by a focus plate, the 
quadrupole mass filter including a quadrilaterally 

symmetric parallel array of four charge-balanced rods, the 
improvement 
comprising: 
   current measurement means, coupled to the electron 

repeller cage, for providing a signal representative of the 
total ion current entering the quadrupole mass filter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
