<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647369</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VIBRATORY COMPRESSOR-ACTUATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04F700	F04F700	F25B914	F25B914	H02K3300	H02K3316	H02K3318	H02K3318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04F	F04F	F25B	F25B	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04F7	F04F7	F25B9	F25B9	H02K33	H02K33	H02K33	H02K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vibratory compressor-actuator is disclosed for generating a high pressure acoustic waveform within a chamber (14) containing a working medium (15). The compressor-actuator comprises an actuator body (H1) solidly mounted to the chamber (14) with a vibrating armature (C2) spring-mounted within. The chamber (14) and actuator body (H1) are resiliently mounted so as to be vibratable. Owing to reaction forces, vibration of the armature (C2) causes vibration of the chamber (14) which generates an acoustic waveform in the medium (15). By matching the resonant frequency of the armature (C2) to the acoustic resonant frequency of the chamber (14) and driving the armature (C2) at that frequency, extremely high pressure within the chamber (14) may be obtained.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARMAN INT IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN NAMEN FREDERICK TJADO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN NAMEN, FREDERICK, TJADO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION VIBRATORY COMPRESSOR - ACTUATORTECHNICAL FIELDThis application is a continuation-in-part of prior application Serial No. 816,658, filed on January 3, 1992 entitled "Actuator for Active Vibration Control".BACKGROUND ARTRecently, there has developed great interest in compressors which lack traditional moving parts. Such compressors are particularly suitable for application in refrigeration systems which use non-ozone depleting refrigerants as the working medium, by vibrating at least a portion of the chamber. One type of such compressor is the so-called acoustic compressor whereby a standing acoustic wave is generated in a chamber containing the working medium, by vibrating at least a portion of the chamber. The pressure variations caused by the acoustic wave are then utilized to pump and, therefore, compress the medium. Acoustic compressors are described in detail in U.S. Patent No. 5,020,977 issued to Lucas, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.In the acoustic compressors described in the aforementioned '977 patent, the acoustic waveform is generated by a flexible diaphragm mounted at one end of the chamber containing the working medium and driven by an electromagnetic actuator. The arrangement is thus similar to a conventional loudspeaker. The frequency at which the diaphragm is driven is chosen in accordance 

with the physical properties of the working medium and the geometry of the chamber so that a standing wave (i.e., one having stationary nodes and antinodes) is produced within the chamber. That is, the diaphragm is driven at a frequency corresponding to one of the normal modes of the system so that a condition of resonance is achieved within the chamber.Obviously, it is advantageous in a refrigeration system for the acoustic compressor to generate pressures as high as possible in order to compress the refrigerant. At a given driving frequency, the only way to increase the pressure amplitude of the acoustic waveform is to increase the amplitude of the diaphragm's back and forth excursion. Such an increase is severely constrained, however, by the physical characteristics of both the flexible diaphragm and the electromagnetic actuator which permit only a limited range of motion at a given frequency. Furthermore, a flexible diaphragm can only withstand a limited amount of pressure before it physically fails.DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTIONIt is a primary object of the present invention to provide an acoustic compressor capable of generating acoustic waveforms at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A vibratory compressor-actuator for pumping and compressing a working fluid medium in a unidirectional flow path including a rigid enclosed chamber having inlet and outlet means and having an axis of vibration along which the fluid medium contained therein may be vibrated at a selected frequency to produce a pressure standing wave, the compressor- actuator comprising: a main actuator body solidly connected to the chamber in a manner to form and constitute therewith an actuator-chamber unit which behaves dynamically as a single mass, the actuator-chamber unit being supported in a resilient manner to render the unit vibratable along the axis; and an armature, spring-mounted within the main actuator body and cooperating therewith in a manner to be vibratable relative thereto along the axis in response to an alternating electrical drive current applied to said compressor-actuator and to thus produce a vibration of the actuator-chamber in reactive opposition to vibration of said armature; and the drive current to said compressor actuator being made to have a selected frequency to produce the standing wave in the fluid medium within the chamber thus causing recurrent fluid pressure variations to pump and compress the fluid medium. 


2. The compressor-actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said armature is mounted on a shaft with each of the shaft mounted to a leaf spring at each end of said main actuator body.
3. The compressor-actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein: said armature comprises a permanent magnet structure magnetized in an axial direction, disposed within said main actuator body and mounted so as to have freedom of axial movement; said main actuator body comprises a cylindrical outer casing, constructed of material having high magnetic permeability, open at both ends along the axis of the shaft, said body further comprising a plurality of like adjacent field coils wound around a non¬ magnetic bobbin mounted coaxially within the casing, the magnetic structure being situated within the bobbin and having a plurality of axially separated magnetic poles each in close proximity to a corresponding one of the field coils; and the field coils are electrically connected so that adjacent coils produce opposing magnetic fields, and are energized by the drive current so as to cause reciprocating axial motion of said armature in accordance with the polarity of the current. 


4. The compressor-actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein: said armature comprises a cylinder disposed coaxially within the main actuator body and mounted so as to have freedom of axial movement, and a plurality of like adjacent coils wound around the cylinder; said main actuator body comprises a cylindrical outer casing constructed of material having high magnetic permeability, and a plurality of like annular permanent magnets mounted coaxially on the inner periphery of the casing and magnetized in a radial direction with each permanent magnet positioned in close proximity to a corresponding one of the coils; and the coils are electrically connected so that adjacent coils produce opposing magnetic fields, and are energized by the drive current so as to cause reciprocating motion of said armature in accordance with the polarity of the current.
5. The compressor-actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein the armature is mounted within the actuator body by spring mounting means and further wherein the mass of the armature Ml and spring constant of the mounting means Kl are such that the resonant frequency at which the armature vibrates is equal to the selected frequency for producing the standing wave in the fluid medium in the chamber. 


6. The compressor-actuator as set forth in claim 5 wherein the drive current is made to have a frequency substantially equal to the square root of Kl/Ml.
7. The compressor-actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said armature is mounted within said actuator body by spring mounting means and further wherein, with said armature having a mass Ml and the armature mounting means having a spring constant Kl, the frequency of the drive current is made to substantially equal the square root of Kl/Ml and wherein, the mass of the actuator-chamber unit being M2, and the fluid in the chamber having a dynamic mass M3 and spring constant K2, the standing wave amplitude in the fluid is maximized by making Kl/Ml substantially equal to (K2/M3)/(1+M1/M2) .
8. A method of pumping and compressing a working fluid medium in a unidirectional flow path including a rigid enclosed chamber having inlet and outlet means and having an axis along which the fluid medium contained therein may be vibrated at a selected frequency to produce a pressure standing wave, comprising the steps of: connecting a main actuator body of a compressor-actuator solidly to the chamber in a manner to form and constitute therewith an actuator-chamber unit which behaves dynamically as a single mass; 


 supporting the actuator-chamber unit in a resilient manner to make the unit vibratable along the axis; spring-mounting an armature within the 5 main actuator body in a manner to allow the armature to vibrate relative to the body along the axis, the body being made to cooperate electromagnetically with the armature in a manner to cause the armature and the body to
10 vibrate in reactive opposition along the axis in response to an alternating electrical drive current applied to said compressor-actuator, and to thus produce vibration of the actuator- chamber unit along the axis; and
15 applying the alternating electrical drive current to said compressor-actuator at a selected frequency such that the vibration of the actuator-chamber unit produces the standing wave in the fluid medium within the
20 chamber and thus causes recurrent fluid pressure variations to pump and compress the fluid medium. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
