<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657708</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lighting system for commercial refrigerator doors.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47F1100	A47F1110	F21V500	F21V502	F21V1300	F21V1304	F25D2700	F25D2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47F	A47F	F21V	F21V	F21V	F21V	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47F11	A47F11	F21V5	F21V5	F21V13	F21V13	F25D27	F25D27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A commercial refrigerator cabinet is illuminated 
by fluorescent lamps (35, 36) which are located closely 

behind insulated glass doors (11A, 11B) for closing the 
cabinet. Each lamp is located behind a reflector (50) 

and is at least partially enclosed by a clear plastic 
lens (55) having multiple facets on its inner side. 

The reflector and the lens cause the light emitted from 
the lamp to reflect and refract in such a manner as to 

distribute the light substantially uniformly on 
products located at various distances from the lamp and 

to reduce glare in the immediate vicinity of the lamp. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARDCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN SCIENT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARDCO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KVAMME DAMON F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAMELSON RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KVAMME, DAMON F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAMELSON, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
commercial refrigerator units of the type which have 
glass doors for viewing merchandise from the front side 
thereof, and more particularly, to lighting systems for 
illuminating products contained within the refrigerator. Commercial refrigeration units of the type employed 
in supermarkets and other commercial establishments 
typically comprise a plurality of swingable insulated 
glass doors which are adapted to permit viewing of 
merchandise within the refrigerator by passing customers. 
It is necessary that the products be displayed in a 
pleasing and visible manner while the doors are in their 
closed positions. For this purpose, it is customary to 
employ a vertically disposed fluorescent light on at 
least one side of each door in order to illuminate the 
merchandise contained within the refrigerator. 
Heretofore, this has presented various problems. Since the light intensity dramatically reduces at 
farther distances from the light source, items closely 
adjacent the light source typically are brightly lit 
while the items spaced horizontally from the source by 
substantial distances often are not sufficiently 
illuminated. Such inconsistency in the lighting effect 
on the goods can be very distractive. This problem is 
particularly troublesome in refrigerator units because 
the colder the fluorescent bulb becomes, the lower is the 
light output, which further reduces the illumination of 
products which are located further away from the bulb. 
Moreover, it is desirable that the light not be directed 
outwardly of the display case in the direction of the 
customer to create a glare. Indeed, in long refrigerator 
units which have a multiplicity of pairs of swinging 
doors, and hence a multiplicity of vertical lights, the  
 
outward shining of the lights creates what is referred to 
as a zebra effect, which again is distractive to 
displayed merchandise. Various approaches have been taken for overcoming 
the foregoing problems, but none have been entirely 
satisfactory. Utilizing a translucent cover over the 
fluorescent lamp serves to soften the light output, but 
does not correct the uneven distribution of light on the 
displayed goods. Attempts to focus the light output 
through lenses have not been successful. Focusing lenses 
have limitations which heretofore have prevented the 
light from being diffused uniformly on the goods, or 
which have prevented the elimination of the zebra effect. The general aim of the present invention is to 
provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A refrigerator comprising a refrigerator cabinet, a door 
assembly mounted within an opening in said cabinet, said door 

assembly including a door mounting frame having an outer 
peripheral portion about the cabinet opening, a pair of insulated 

glass doors mounted for pivotal movement on said frame between 
open and closed positions, display shelves horizontally mounted 

within said cabinet behind said doors upon which items may be 
supported and viewed through said doors while said doors are 

closed, a light fixture supported within said cabinet adjacent a 
side of said shelves, said light fixture including an elongated 

upright lamp bulb, a lens mounted inside said cabinet about said 
lamp bulb, characterized by said lens being formed with multiple 

V-shaped facets which direct light emitted from said lamp bulb 
substantially uniformly and horizontally across a front of said 

shelves. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 1 in which said light 
fixture includes a reflector made of reflective material for 

redirecting light emitted from said bulb without permitting 
passage of light through said reflector, said lens being mounted 

about said bulb and reflector for directing light reflected by 
said reflector substantially uniformly and horizontally across a 

front of said shelves. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 2 in which said 
reflector comprises a substantially V-shaped member having an 

apex pointing towards a center of said bulb. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 1 in which said lens 
includes a first portion and a second portion disposed at an 

angle to said first portion, said first and second portions each 
being formed with V-shaped facets which direct light emitted from 

said bulb substantially uniformly and horizontally across a front 
of said shelves. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 4 in which said lens 
includes a third portion inclined at an angle to said second 

portion and formed with substantially V-shaped facets which 
direct light emitted from said bulb substantially uniformly and 

horizontally across a front of said shelves. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 1 in which said light 
fixture includes an elongated base mounted within said 

refrigerator cabinet, said bulb having an axis extending 
substantially parallel to said base, and said lens facets being 

formed to direct light emitted from said bulb substantially 
uniformly across a predetermined target plane extending 

substantially parallel to said base. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 6 in which said lens 
has a one-piece plastic construction and includes a first portion 

connected to said base adjacent one side of said bulb and 
inclined at an acute included angle relative to said base so as 

to converge toward said bulb upon progressing away from said 
base, said first portion extending away from said base to a 

location beyond the axis of said bulb, and said lens further 
including a second portion inclined at an obtuse included angle 

 
relative to said first portion and extending away from said 

location and toward a second plane containing said axis and 
disposed perpendicular to said target plane, said second portion 

extending beyond said bulb. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 7 in which said lens 
includes a third portion inclined at an acute included angle 

relative to said second portion and extending away from said 
second portion and toward said bulb to a location substantially 

in said second plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 8 in which said lens 
includes fourth, fifth and sixth portions which are mirror images 

of said first, second and third portions, respectively, said 
fourth portion being connected to said base adjacent the opposite 

side of said bulb, and said sixth portion being joined to said 
third portion substantially in said second plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 8 including a 
reflector located between said base and said bulb, said reflector 

comprising a substantially V-shaped member having an apex 
pointing toward said bulb and centered with respect to the axis 

thereof for redirecting light emitted from said bulb through said 
lens, the inner side of said first portion of said lens i
ncluding 
a first group of generally V-shaped facets located between said 

base and a third plane extending parallel to said target plane 
and containing the axis of said bulb, each of the facets of said 

first group having long and short legs which join one another at 
an acute included angle, the long legs of the facets of said 

 
first group being generally parallel to one another and facing 

generally toward said reflector, the short legs of the facets of 
said first group being generally parallel to one another and 

facing generally away from said reflector. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 10 in which the 
inner side of said first portion of said lens also includes a 

generally V-shaped facet having legs joining one another at an 
obtuse included angle having an apex located closely adjacent 

said third plane. 
A light fixture assembly as defined in claim 11 in 
which the inner side of said first portion of said lens includes 

yet another generally V-shaped facet located between said third 
plane and said target plane and having long and short legs which 

join one another at an acute included angle, the long leg of said 
last-mentioned facet extending substantially parallel to and 

facing said second plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 12 in which the 
inner side of said second portion of said lens includes a group 

of generally V-shaped facets each having long and short legs 
which join one another at an acute included angle, the long legs 

of said last-mentioned facets extending generally parallel to and 
facing said second plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 13 in which the 
inner side of said third portion of said lens includes a group of 

generally V-shaped facets each having long and short legs which 
join one another at an acute included angle, the long legs of 

 
said facets of said third portion being generally parallel to one 

another and facing generally away from said second plane, and the 
short legs of said facets of said third portion being generally 

parallel to one another and facing generally toward said third 
plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 14 in which said 
lens includes fourth, fifth and sixth portions having inner sides 

which are mirror images of the inner sides of said first, second 
and third portions, respectively, said fourth portion being 

connected to said base adjacent the opposite side of said bulb, 
and said sixth portion being joined to said third portion 

substantially in said second plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 6 including a 
reflector located between said base and said bulb, said reflector 

comprising a substantially V-shaped member having an apex 
pointing toward said bulb and centered with respect to the axis 

thereof for redirecting light emitted from said bulb through said 
lens, the inner side of said lens includes a first group of 

generally V-shaped facets located between said base and a second 
plane extending parallel to said target plane and containing the 

axis of said bulb, each of the facets of said first group having 
long and short legs which join one another at an acute included 

angle, the long legs of the facets of said first group being 
generally parallel to one another and facing generally toward 

said reflector, the short legs of the facets of said first group 
 

being generally parallel to one another and facing generally away 
from said reflector. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 16 in which the 
inner side of said lens also includes a generally V-shaped facet 

having legs joining one another at an obtuse included angle 
having an apex located closely adjacent said second plane. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 17 in which the 
inner side of said lens includes a second group of generally V-shaped 

facets located between said second plane and said target 
plane, each facet of said second group having long and short legs 

which join one another at an acute included angle, the long legs 
of the facets of said second group extending generally parallel 

to and facing a third plane containing the axis of said bulb and 
disposed perpendicular to said target plane, the short legs of 

the facets of said second group being generally parallel to one 
another and facing generally oppositely of the short legs of the 

facets of said first group. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 1 further including 
a transparent tube telescoped over said bulb in radially spaced 

relation therewith and at least partially enclosed by said lens, 
said tube serving to thermally insulate said bulb. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 6 further including 
means for releasably securing said lens to said base, said means 

comprising clamps each having a tongue normally engaged with said 
lens to hold said lens in a fixed position on said base, and 

 
means for selectively releasing each clamp to enable the tongue 

thereof to be moved out of engagement with said lens. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 1 in which one of 
said light fixtures is supported within said cabinet adjacent 

opposite sides of said shelves. 
A refrigerator as defined in claim 21 in which said 
frame includes laterally spaced frame members, and said light 

fixtures are mounted between said frame members and a front of 
said shelves. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
