<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642478</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROCESS AND SYSTEM FOR PRODUCING CEMENTITIOUS MATERIALS FROM FERROUS BLAST FURNACE SLAGS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B700	C04B7153	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B7	C04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention comprises a process and systems for producing ferrous blast furnace slags by mixing molten slag (52) and a CaO source in a slag runner (51). The CaO source is transported by pipeline (13, 14) to bulk storage chamber (21), fed into pipe (31), conveyed into injection chamber (41), and directed into slag runner (51) via volumetric feeder (44). In this process sufficient CaO is mixed with molten slag to raise the ratio of CaO to SiO2, the C/S ratio of the slag, to between 1.06-1.25, while maintaining the Base Number of molten slag to less than about 1.55. The slag is then water granulated and ground to a predetermined degree of fineness. An activator then is added to the ground granulated slag. The C/S ratio of the granulated slag determines the effective degree of fineness to attain the desired hydration rate in the resultant cementitious material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLUE CIRCLE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLUE CIRCLE INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINIECKI RONALD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINIECKI, RONALD, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to improvements in the cementitious properties
of granulated, ferrous blast furnace slags used to produce cementitious
materials. Specifically, it relates to a process for mixing a source of calcium
oxide (CaO) with molten ferrous blast furnace slag, such that the hydraulic
reactivity of the slag after granulating is enhanced. When such slag is
ground, cementitious properties that are the same as or similar to those of
more finely ground cementitious materials can be achieved at a lower specific
surface area, thereby saving production and energy costs. Moreover,
improved properties can be achieved by grinding such slag to the same or
similar specific surface area as that of a ground, granulated blast furnace slag
produced without the addition of a source of CaO. The invention further
relates to a system for performing this addition.Portland Cement is the most widely used cementitious material. It is
manufactured by heating a finely ground and controlled blend of limestone
(or another source of CaO, such as chalk) with an argillaceous material such
as shale or clay to a temperature of about 3180°F (1500°C). When
necessary, other sources of silica (SiO2), such as sand; alumina (Al2O3), such
as bauxite; and ferric oxide (Fe2O3), such as pyrites, may also be added.
After it is cooled, the resultant clinker is mixed with gypsum (or a mixture
of anhydrite and gypsum) and ground to a fine powder.There are a number of different processes for making cementitious
materials. In a wet process, the mixture of materials is ground with water to
produce a slurry which is then fed to a rotary kiln. In this process, the fuel
consumption in the kiln is generally high due to the need to dry, as well as
to heat the materials. In a traditional dry process, the materials are ground 
dry to form a powder which is then fed to a kiln. This process generally has
a lower fuel consumption than wet processes. Variants of these processes
include a semi-wet process, in which water is partially removed from the
slurry by filtration to form a cake of ground materials which then is fed to
the kiln, or the Lepol process, in which a dry powder is first nodulized with
the addition of some water after which the nodules are fed to the kiln.In a suspension preheater process, the materials are ground dry to
form a powder which is passed through a series of cyclones before it enters
the kiln. In these cyclones, the powder mixes with waste gases from the kiln
and is gradually heated, such that the powder may be reach a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 13 July 1994 (13.07.94); original claims 1,3,8,13,17,19 amended; remaining claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1. A process for producing a cementitious material from molten ferrous slag, said molten ferrous slag containing CaO, MgO, and Si0
2
5 comprising: mixing a source of CaO with said molten ferrous slag, so that a ratio of CaO to Si0
2
 in said molten slag in a range of about 1.06 to 1.25 is obtained and said molten slag has a Base Number less than about 1.55, wherein said Base Number equals (CaO + MgO/Si0
2
;
10 granulating by breaking up and quenching said molten slag; and grinding said granulated slag to a degree of fineness to obtain a hydration rate.
2. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the steps of: adding an activator to said ground, granulated slag. 15 3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the step of granulating said molten slag comprises injecting fluid at a temperature effective to quench said molten slag into said molten slag at a sufficient rate and at a sufficient pressure to granulate said molten slag.
4. The process of Claim 3 wherein said activator is selected from an 20 alkali group consisting of potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, and calcium hydroxide.
5. The process of Claim 3 wherein said activator is Portland Cement.
6. The process of Claim 1 wherein said source of CaO is dolomitic quicklime.
25 7. The process of Claim 6 further comprising the steps of: adding an activator to said ground, granulated slag. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein the step of granulating said molten slag comprises injecting water at a temperature effective to quench said molten slag into said molten slag at a rate about ten times said 


 rate of flow of said molten slag and at a pressure of about 30 psi (1551 torr).
9. The process of Claim 8 further comprising the step of: mixing a low volatile fuel with said quicklime and said molten slag, whereby heat is generated in said molten slag.
10. The process of Claim 1 wherein said source of CaO is lime and further comprising the step of: mixing a low volatile fuel with said lime and said molten slag, whereby sufficient heat is generated in said molten slag to dehydrate said lime.
11. The process of Claim 10 further comprising the step of: adding oxygen to said molten slag to facilitate combustion of said low volatile fuel.
12. The process of Claim 11 further comprising the steps of: adding an activator to said ground, granulated slag.
13. The process of Claim 12 wherein the step of granulating said molten slag comprises injecting water at ambient temperature into said molten slag at a rate about ten times said rate of flow of said molten slag and at a pressure of about 30 psi (1551 torr). 14. The process of Claim 1 wherein said source of CaO is limestone and further comprising the step of: mixing a low volatile fuel with said limestone and said molten slag, whereby sufficient heat is generated in said molten slag to decarbonize said limestone. 15. The process of Claim 14 further comprising the step of: adding oxygen to said molten slag to facilitate combustion of said low volatile fuel. 16. The process of Claim 15 further comprising the steps of: adding an activator to said ground, granulated slag. 


17. The process of Claim 16 wherein the step of granulating said molten slag comprises injecting water at a temperature effective to quench said molten slag into said molten slag at a rate about ten times said rate of flow of said molten slag and at a pressure of about 30 psi (1551 torr).
18. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the step of: adding a volatile fuel to said molten slag whereby said molten slag is percolated and formation of a layer of crystalline slag on said molten slag's surface is prevented. 19. The process for producing a cementitious material from molten slag flowing from at least one slag tap hole of a ferrous blast furnace comprising: determining said molten ferrous slag's chemical composition said molten slag containing CaO, MgO, and Si0
2
; measuring said molten slag's rate of flow from said tap hole; mixing quicklime with said molten slag, so that a ratio of CaO to Si0
2
 in said slag in a range of about 1.06 to 1.25 is obtained and said slag has a Base Number less than about 1.55 wherein said Base Number equals (CaO + MgO/Si0
2
; granulating by breaking up and quenching said molten slag by injecting water at ambient temperature into said molten slag at a rate of about ten times said molten slag's rate of flow and at a pressure of at least about 30 psi (1551 torr); grinding said water granulated slag to a degree of fineness to obtain a hydration rate; and adding an activator to said ground, granulated slag. 20. A system for producing a cementitious material from molten ferrous slag comprising: 


 means for mixing said source of CaO with said molten slag at a predetermined rate at a mixing point, so that a ratio of CaO to SiO
a
 in a range of about 1.06 to 1.25 is obtained, and said slag has a Base Number less than about 1.55; means for granulating said molten slag; and means for grinding said granulated slag to a predetermined degree of fineness.
21. The system of Claim 20 wherein said means for granulating comprises a granulating station at which fluid at a temperature sufficiently low to quench said molten slag is injected into said molten slag in sufficient quantity and under sufficient pressure to granulate said molten slag.
22. The system of Claim 21 further comprising means for collecting and removing caustic dust released during mixing of said source of CaO with said molten slag.
23. The system of Claim 22 wherein said means for collecting and removing caustic dust comprises a dedusting chamber surrounding said mixing point; a fan, whereby air and said dust are drawn from said dedusting chamber; and a scrubber, whereby said air and said dust are separated.
24. The system of Claim 20 wherein said source of CaO is dolomitic quicklime.
25. The system of Claim 20 wherein said source of CaO is lime and further comprising means for mixing a low volatile fuel to said molten slag.
26. The system of Claim 24 further comprising means for injecting oxygen into said molten slag. 


27. The system of Claim 20 wherein said source of CaO is limestone and further comprising means for mixing a low volatile fuel to said molten slag.
28. The system of Claim 27 further comprising means for injecting oxygen into said molten slag.
29. A system for producing a cementitious material from molten ferrous slag comprising: a volumetric feeder for delivering measured amounts of quicklime at a predetermined rate to said molten slag in said slag runner and a baffle projection affixed to said slag runner's side wall for creating turbulence in said molten slag, whereby said quicklime is mixed with said molten slag at a mixing point, so that a ratio of CaO to Si0
2
 in a range of about 1.06 to 1.25 is obtained, and said slag has a Base Number less than about 1.55; a granulating station at which water at ambient temperature is are injected into said molten slag at a rate about ten (10) times said molten lag's rate of flow and at a pressure of at least about 30 psi (1551 torr) to granulate said molten slag; and a ball mill grinder for grinding said granulated slag to a predetermined degree of fineness. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
