<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VERTICAL-CAVITY SURFACE-EMITTING LASER ABRAY DISPLAY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2700	G02B2700	G02B2701	G02B2701	G02B2722	G02B2722	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F3042	H01S323	H01S323	H01S500	H01S500	H01S540	H01S542	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A visual display system is disclosed which utilizes one- and/or two-dimensional arrays of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) (200) in order to provide a desired visual display within an observer's field of view (220). Sweep and subscanning techniques are employed, individually or in combination, to create a full M x N image from 1 x L or K x L arrays of VCSELs, where M and N are multiple integers of K and L, respectively. Preferably, the VCSELs (200) are contained within a display housing which may be attached to the head of the user by an attachment mechanism or may alternatively be hand held or mounted to a surface. The circular symmetry and low divergence of the emitted VCSEL radiation as well as the availability of multiple wavelengths, particularly, red, blue, and green, allow high resolution monochrome or color images to be generated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOTONICS RES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOTONICS RESEARCH INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEWELL JACK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLBRIGHT GREGORY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEWELL, JACK L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLBRIGHT, GREGORY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VERTICAL-CAVITY SURFACE-EMITTING LASER ARRAY DISPLAY SYSTEMCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION This application is related to our co- pending application serial No. 07/790,964 entitled "Visible Light Surface Emitting Semiconductor Laser" filed on November 7, 1991, which is incorporated herein by reference.FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to the field of miniature visual displays and, more particularly, to miniature visual displays that utilize visible emitting vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) to project a display within an observer's field of view.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Because of the human visual sensory system's enormous capacity to absorb and process information, visual displays are extremely effective in displaying a variety of information formats, such as, for example, moving sceneries, alphanumeric characters, maps, graphs, and targeting data, all of which may be superimposed on an observer's normal field of vision. Particularly, tactical military operations requiring highly complex series of tasks to be performed in unpredictable environments greatly benefit from the use of miniature visual displays, such as head-up, direct view, or helmet-mounted displays. For instance, tactical aircraft personnel are now being equipped with helmet-mounted displays (HMDs) which allow a miniature visual display system to be held on the head of the observer so as to project a display 

 within the observer's field of vision. In the commercial sector, high-resolution HMDs can provide a "virtual reality" for entertainment and education.In the last decade, a vast amount of effort5 has been expended to develop compact, lightweight visual displays, such as HMDs. Desirably, miniature visual displays should efficiently deliver an image generated from the display device, typically a cathode ray tube (CRT), to the observer's field of view with 0 minimal or no distortion. Unfortunately, the progress made to date in the miniature visual display and, more particularly, the HMD technology has been primarily in the classical or holographic optics used in the imaging or relaying of the image. See, for example, 5 J. R. Burley et al., "A Full-Color ide-Field-of-View Holographic Helmet Mounted Display for Pilot/Vehicle Interface Development and Human Factors Studies," Proceedings of the SP E. Vol. 1290, pp. 9-15 (1990) .Very little progress has, in fact, been made 0 in developing compact, high brightness, high contrast, low power CRTs. Accordingly, the lack of suitable compact CRTs
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A visual display system comprising: a plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers, each of said lasers emitting radiation; and means for displaying an image of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers within the field of view of an observer.
2. The visual display system of claim 1 having a size suitable for headgear-mounted use.
3. The visual display system of claim 2 wherein said means for displaying includes means for creating a virtual image of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers, and a rotating mirror for displacing said virtual image over a desired field-of-view.
4. The visual display system of claim 1 further comprising means for selectively modulating the intensity of the radiation from each of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers so that said image substantially represents a predetermined visual display.
5. The visual display system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers emit radiation at a predetermined wavelength so that said image is monochrome. 


 6. The visual display system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers emit radiation at a plurality of wavelengths so that said image is in color.
7. The visual display system of claim 6 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers are aligned in sets of three lines, said vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers in each line emitting radiation at a different predetermined wavelength.
8. The visual display system of claim 7 wherein vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers in a first line of said sets emit in the visible red region of the electromagnetic spectrum, vertical-cavity surface emitting lasers in a second line of said sets emit in the visible green region of the electromagnetic spectrum, and vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers in a third line of said sets emit in the visible blue region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
9. The visual display system of claim 8 wherein said vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers in said first, second and third lines are staggered with respect to each other.
10. The visual display system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers are aligned in a substantially one-dimensional array. 


 11. The visual display system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers are aligned in a substantially two-dimensional array.
12. The visual display system of claim 1 wherein said means for displaying comprises imaging means for creating a virtual image of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers, and means for reflecting said virtual image into the field of view of the observer.
13. The visual display system of claim 12 wherein said means for reflecting includes a mirror.
14,- The visual display system of claim 12 wherein said means for reflecting includes a partially transmissive, partially reflective faceplate such that the observer can simultaneously view the image of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers and external visual information directed to the observer.
15. The visual display system of claim 12 further comprising means for adjusting the location of said virtual image from infinity to a distance close to the observer.
16. The visual display system of claim 15 wherein said means for adjusting includes a mechanical servo for displacing said plurality of vertical-cavity surface emitting lasers. 


 17. The visual display system of claim 1 further comprising micro-lenslets for directing the propagation of the radiation from said plurality of vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers.
18. A visual display system for displaying an image having M x N picture elements within the field of view of an observer, said visual display system comprising: a plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers aligned substantially in at least a first 1 x N array, said lasers emitting radiation; means for creating an image of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers; means for repetitively displacing the position of said image within the field of view of the observer; and means for selectively controlling the intensity of the radiation emitted from each of said plurality.of vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers as the position of said image is displaced to create the desired M x N image.
19. The visual display system of claim 18 wherein said image is a virtual image.
20. The visual display system of claim 18 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers emit radiation at a predetermined wavelength so that said M x N image is monochrome. 


 21. The visual display system of claim 18 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface emitting lasers emit radiation at a plurality of wavelengths so that said image is in color.
22. The visual display system of claim 21 wherein said plurality of visible emitting vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers are aligned in three lines of 1 x N arrays, said vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers in each line emitting radiation at a different predetermined wavelength.
23. The visual display system of claim 22 wherein vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers in a first line of said 1 x N arrays emit in the visible red region of the electromagnetic spectrum, vertical- cavity surface emitting lasers in a second line of said 1 x N arrays emit in the visible green region of the electromagnetic spectrum, and vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers in a third line of said 1 x N arrays emit in the visible blue region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
24. The visual display system of claim 18 further comprising micro-lenslets for directing the propagation of the radiation from said plurality of vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers.
25. The visual display system of claim 18 wherein vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers within said 1 x N arrays are staggered with respect to one another. 


 26. A visual display system for displaying an image having M x N picture elements within the field of view of an observer, said visual display system comprising: a plurality of visible emitting lasers aligned substantially in a K x L array, said lasers emitting radiation; means for creating an image of said plurality of visible emitting vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers; means for repetitively displacing the position of said image within the field of view of the observer; and means for selectively controlling the intensity of the radiation emitted from each of said plurality of vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers as the position of said image is displaced to create the desired M x N image, where M and N are greater than K and L, respectively.
27. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein said visible emitting lasers are vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers.
28. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein said visible emitting lasers are light emitting diodes.
29. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein said visible emitting lasers are edge-emitting laser diodes.
30. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein said image is a virtual image. 


 31. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein said plurality of visible emitting lasers emit radiation at a predetermined wavelength so that said M x N image is monochrome.
32. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein said plurality of visible emitting lasers emit radiation at a plurality of wavelengths so that said image is in color.
33. The visual display system of claim 26 wherein 1 x L arrays of said K x L arrays of said plurality of visible emitting lasers are aligned in three lines, said visible emitting lasers in each line emitting radiation at a different predetermined wavelength.
34. The visual display system of claim 33 wherein visible emitting lasers within said 1 x L arrays are staggered with respect to one another.
35. The visual display system of claim 33 wherein said visible emitting lasers in a first line of said 1 x L arrays emit in the visible red region of the electromagnetic spectrum, vertical-cavity surface emitting lasers in a second line of said 1 x L arrays emit in the visible green region of the electro¬ magnetic spectrum, and vertical-cavity surface- emitting lasers in a third line of the said 1 x L arrays emit in the visible blue region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
36. The visual display system of claim 26 further comprising micro-lenslets for directing the 


 propagation of the radiation from said plurality of visible emitting lasers.
37. A visual display system for displaying 
5
 a desired image within the field of view of an observer, said visual display system comprising: a laser array including a plurality of vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers and light emitting diodes, said vertical-cavity surface-emitting 
Q
 lasers and light emitting diodes emitting radiation in the visible electromagnetic spectrum; means for creating an optical image of said laser array; means for repetitively displacing the 5 position of said optical image within the field of view of the observer; and means for selectively controlling the intensity of the radiation emitted from said laser array as the position of said optical image is 0 displaced to create the desired image.
38. A visual display system for displaying a desired image having M x N picture elements within the field of view of an observer, said visual display 5 system comprising: a plurality of surface-emitting lasers aligned substantially in K 1 x L arrays, said 1 x L arrays being arranged in groups of two or more lasers; a plurality of lenslet pairs having an 0 optical axis substantially collinear with the direction of propagation of radiation emitted from said lasers, each lenslet pair for imaging lasers within a group to corresponding groups of reduced image size such that the inter-group spacing for the 5 


groups of reduced image size is greater than that for said groups of lasers; means for creating an image of said groups of reduced image size; means for repetitively displacing the position of said image within the field of view of the observer so as to generate sub-picture elements between the groups of reduced image size; and means for selectively controlling the intensity of the radiation emitted from each of said plurality of surface-emitting lasers as the position of said image is displaced to create the desired M x N image, where M and N are greater than K and L, respectively.
39. The visual display system of claim 38 wherein said surface-emitting lasers are vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers.
— 40. The visual display system of claim 38 wherein said surface-emitting lasers are light emitting diodes.
41. The vidual display system of claim 38 wherein said surface-emitting lasers are edge-emitting laser diodes.
42. A visual display system for displaying a desired image having M x N picture elements within the field of view of an observer, said visual display system comprising: a plurality of surface-emitting lasers aligned substantially in a 1 x L array, said 1 x L array being arranged in groups of two or more lasers; 


 a plurality of lenslet pairs having an optical axis substantially collinear with the direction of propagation of radiation emitted from said lasers, each lenslet pair for imaging lasers within a group to corresponding groups of reduced image size such that the inter-group spacing for the groups of reduced image size is greater than that for said groups of lasers; means for creating an image of said groups of reduced image size; means for repetitively displacing the position of said image within the field of view of the observer so as to generate sub-picture elements between the groups of reduced image size and picture elements along first and second directions, respectively, of said image; and means for selectively controlling the intensity of the radiation emitted from each of said plurality of surface-emitting lasers as the position of said image is displaced to create the desired M x N image, where M and N are greater than K and L, respectively.
43. The visual display system of claim 42 wherein said surface-emitting lasers are vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers.
44. The visual display system of claim 42 wherein said surface-emitting lasers are light emitting diodes.
45. The visual display system of claim 42 wherein said surface-emitting lasers are edge-emitting laser diodes. 


 46. A scanning configuration comprising: a plurality of surface-emitting lasers substantially aligned in at least a 1 x N array along a first direction, said 1 x N array having an inter-element spacing, d, and each of said lasers corresponding to a picture element; means for creating an image of said plurality of surface-emitting lasers; and means for repetitively displacing the image of said plurality of surface-emitting lasers by a distance less than the inter-element spacing, d, along said first direction so as to generate sub-picture elements between the images of adjacent lasers.
47. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein said surface emitting lasers are vertical- cavity surface-emitting lasers.
48. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein said surface emitting lasers are light emitting diodes.
49. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein said surface emitting laser are edge-emitting laser diodes.
50. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein surface-emitting lasers within said 1 x N array are staggered with respect to one another.
51. The scanning configuration of claim 46 further comprising means for respectively displaying the image of said plurality of surface-emitting lasers along a second direction, said second direction substantially perpendicular to said first direction. 


 52. The scanning configuration of claim 51 wherein said plurality of surface-emitting lasers emit radiation at a plurality of wavelengths so that said image is in color.
53. The scanning configuration of claim 51 wherein said plurality of surface-emitting lasers are aligned in three lines of 1 x N arrays, said surface- emitting lasers in each line emitting radiation at a different predetermined wavelength.
54. The scanning configuration of claim 53 wherein surface-emitting lasers in a first line of said 1 x N arrays emit in the visible red region of the electromagnetic spectrum, surface-emitting lasers in a second line of said 1 x N arrays emit in the visible green region of the electromagnetic spectrum, and surface emitting lasers in a third line of said 1 x N arrays emit in the visible blue region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
55. The scanning configuration of claim 46 further comprising micro-lenslets for directing the propagation for radiation from said plurality of surface-emitting lasers.
56. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein said means for creating an image includes an optical lens system.
57. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein said means for repetitively displacing said image includes a resonating mirror. 


 58. The scanning configuration of claim 46 wherein said means for repetitively displacing said image includes a rotating mirror.
59. The scanning configuration of claim 58 wherein said rotating mirror has N sides, each side having a vertical tilt with respect to each other. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
