<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626748</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Miniature D.C. motor provided with rotation detector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01P342	G01P3481	H02K700	H02K720	H02K1100	H02K1100	H02K2300	H02K2300	H02K2366	H02K2366	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01P	G01P	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01P3	G01P3	H02K7	H02K7	H02K11	H02K11	H02K23	H02K23	H02K23	H02K23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A miniature D.C. motor (21) has a casing (32) in 
which magnets (31) are disposed and a rotor (33) is disposed 

inside the magnets. The rotating condition is detected by 
a rotation detector (50) which comprises an inductor (53) 

and a capacitor (55). The capacitor detects leaking fluxes 
externally from the casing among fluxes created by mutual 

operations of the magnets and an armature (43) and converts 
a change of the leaking fluxes into electric signals. The 

capacitor (55) is electrically connected to the inductor so 
as to constitute a resonance circuit (54). The resonance 

circuit is mounted to an outer surface of the casing. A 
resonance frequency (f₀) of the resonance circuit is made so 

as to correspond to a frequency (f) to be generated for a 
rotating time of the armature. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MABUCHI MOTOR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MABUCHI MOTOR CO., LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATA NOBUYUKI C O MAUBUCHI MOT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATA, NOBUYUKI, C/O MAUBUCHI MOTOR CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a miniature D.C. 
(direct current) motor provided with a rotation detector. 
The detector detects a rotating condition such as revolving 
speed of the motor utilized for an actuator for driving, for 
example, a power window of an automobile. Miniature D.C. motors have been widely applied to 
automobiles in recent years, and this application tends to 
increase as the electronics technology progresses. For 
example, a miniature D.C. motor is utilized for operating 
the power window which automatically opens and closes window 
glasses of the automobile. Further the opening and closing 
operations of the window glasses are performed in a 
conventional technology by simply opening and closing the 
window glasses at full length. Recently it has been 
required to open and close the window glasses in various 
modes. For example, it requires for window glasses to 
ascend or descend with small pitches. In other cases the 
window glass would stop instantly in its ascending operation 
or open in a safety view point when a hand or a neck of a 
person is nipped between the window glass and the window 
frame. As described above, for the motor utilized for the 
actuator to drive the power window in various modes, it is 
necessary to detect the rotating condition of the motor by  
 
a rotation detector. The rotating condition such as sum of 
revolutions of the motor and revolving speed thereof is 
detected for detecting the positions of the window glasses 
and the opening and closing speeds. In the known art, there is a miniature D.C. motor 
provided with a rotation detector which is accommodated 
inside the motor. The motor is provided with a casing in 
which a permanent magnet is mounted and a rotor is disposed 
in the permanent magnet. The rotor has a rotation shaft 
supported to be rotatable by two bearings mounted in the 
casing and a commutator is mounted to the rotation shaft. 
A brush fixed to the casing is slidingly engaged with the 
commutator. A rotation detecting ring of the rotation detector 
is mounted to the rotation shaft. The rotation detecting 
ring is disposed adjacent to the commutator and has 
substantially the same structure as that of the commutator. 
On the other hand, a rotation detecting brush is attached to 
the casing and slidingly engaged with the rotation detecting 
ring. Connecting terminals are provided for a cover of the 
casing and connected to the brush and the rotation detecting 
brush respectively through lead wires embedded in the 
casing. According
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A miniature D.C. motor having a casing in which a 
magnet means is disposed, a rotor having a rotation shaft 

and disposed inside the magnet means to be rotatable, and a 
rotation detector detecting a rotation condition of the 

rotor, said rotation detector characterized by comprising: 
   an inductor means (53) for detecting magnetic 

fluxes leaking externally from the casing (32) among the 
magnetic fluxes created by mutual operations of the magnet 

means (31) and an armature (43) of the rotor (33) and for 
converting a change of the leaking magnetic fluxes into an 

electric signals; and 
   a capacitor means (55) electrically connected to 

the inductor means so as to constitute a resonance circuit 
means, said resonance circuit means being mounted on an 

outer surface of the casing; 
   wherein a resonance frequency (f₀) of the resonance 

circuit means is made so as to correspond to a value of a 
frequency (f) to be generated for a rotating time of the 

armature. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein the resonance circuit means is composed of a 

parallel resonance circuit (54) in which the inductor means 
(53) and the capacitor means (55) are connected in parallel 

to each other and the resonance frequency (f₀) is set to 
 

have a value within a range of 1 to 1.5 times that of the 
generated frequency (f). 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 2, 
wherein the resonance frequency is substantially coincident 

with the generated frequency. 
wherein preferably the rotation detector (50) has a unit 

structure to be detachably mounted on the outer surface of the 
casing (32), and 

wherein preferably the casing has axial two end portions and 
the rotation detector is mounted on an outer end surface of one 

of the end portions opposite to another side at which a 
commutator (44) is mounted to the rotation shaft (24). 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein the electric signals generated by the resonance 

circuit means are amplified by an amplifying circuit (70) 
connected to the resonance circuit means and then 

transmitted to a control unit (71) connected to the 
amplifying circuit. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein said inductor means (53) and said capacitor means 

 
(55) are fixed on a bottom plate (57) of a sensor case (56) 

having a hollow box-shaped structure formed out of an 
electrically insulating material. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein said magnet means is composed of a pair of permanent 

magnets (31) mounted on an inner peripheral surface of the 
casing, each of said permanent magnets being formed in an 

arc segment shape and being formed out of a magnetic 
material such as hard ferrite. 

wherein preferably a center (P) of said inductor means (53) is 
disposed to an angled position in a range of 90° ± 50° in a 

case where one direction of a central line (E) connecting 
centers of the respective permanent magnets (31) is assumed as 

0(zero)-angled position and another direction normal to this 
one direction is assumed as 90-angled position, and 

wherein preferably said inductor means (53) is arranged in the 
90-angled position and the ferrite core (51) of the inductor 

means is directed to a direction parallel to the central 
line connecting the centers of the permanent magnets. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein a motor driving current applied to the miniature 

 
D.C. motor (21) is subjected to a pulse width modulation 

control by means of a pulse width modulation circuit (80). 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein said inductor means (53) is composed of a ferrite 

core (51) and a copper wire (52) wound around the ferrite 
core. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein said inductor means (53) is composed of a copper 

wire (52) wound so as to provide a hollow cylindrical 
structure. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein the rotation detector (50) is mounted to the 

miniature D.C. motor for an actuator (20) for which a 
control is required by detecting the rotating condition of 

the rotor, and 
wherein preferably said actuator (20) is utilized for a power 

window of an automobile. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein said casing (32) comprises a bottomed hollow 

cylindrical housing (34) having an opening (34a) and a cover 
member (35) applied to the opening of the housing, said 

 
cover member being formed out of an electrically insulating 

material, and 
wherein preferably said housing (34) is integrally formed by 

means of a press molding. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 11, 
wherein said housing (34) and said cover member (35) are 

provided with a pair of cylindrical portions (37) and a pair 
of flat portions (38) which are parallel to each other and 

are integrated with the cylindrical portions respectively, 
and a pair of permanent magnets (31) constituting the magnet 

means are mounted on inner peripheral surfaces of the 
cylindrical portions. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 11, 
wherein said housing has an axial one end (39) to a central 

portion at which a recessed portion (40) is formed so as to 
protrude externally at its bottom, a bearing (41) is 

accommodated in the recessed portion, said cover member (35) 
has a central portion to which the other bearing (42) is 

mounted, and the rotation shaft (24) is rotatably supported 
by these bearings, and 

wherein preferably said inductor means (53) and said capacitor 
means

 
(55) are secured to a bottom plate (57) of a sensor case 

(56) of a hollow box-shape structure formed out of an 
electrically insulating material, an externally protruded 

portion (58) so as to form the recessed portion (40) is 
integrally formed at the central portion of the axial one 

end portion (39) of the housing, and another recessed 
portion (59) is integrally formed at a central portion of 

the bottom plate (57) of the sensor case so as to have an 
inner shape corresponding to an outer shape 
of the protruded 
portion (58) of the housing, whereby the sensor case (56) is 

firmly secured to the outer end surface (65) of the axial 
one end portion (39) of the housing by fitting the protruded 

portion (58) of the housing into the recessed portion (59) 
of the bottom plate of the sensor case. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 13, 
wherein a side plate (60) integrated with the bottom plate 

(57) of the sensor case (32) has an outer shape 
corresponding to a shape of the housing (34), the side plate 

(60) has an upper side section (60a) to which a pair of 
connecting terminals (61) are fixed so as to extend 

externally, said bottom plate (57) of the sensor case is 
formed as a printed circuit board on which a copper foil 

circuit pattern (62) is printed, said resonance circuit 
being electrically connected by soldered lead wires (62a) 

and the circuit pattern (62) printed thereon, and an 
interior of the sensor case (56) is tightly closed by 

 
applying a cover member (63) to the side plate. 
A miniature D.C. motor according to claim 1, 
wherein said casing (32) comprises a bottomed hollow 

cylindrical housing (34) having an opening (34a) and being 
formed out of a steel material and a cover member (35) to be 

tightly fitted to the opening of the housing, said cover 
member being formed out of an electrically insulating 

material, said housing having an axial one end (39) to a 
central portion at which a recessed portion (40) is formed 

so as to protrude externally at its bottom as a protruded 
portion (58), a bearing (41) supporting a rotation shaft 

(24) of the rotor (33) is accommodated in the recessed 
portion (40), said rotation detector (50) is constructed to 

be a sealed unit in which said resonance circuit (54) is 
accommodated and is detachably mounted on an outer surface 

(65) of the axial end portion of the housing, said rotation 
detector being provided with a sensor case (32) having a 

bottom plate at a central portion at which a recessed 
portion (59) fitting in said protruded portion is formed, 

said sensor case is tightly mounted on the outer surface 
(65) of the axial end portion of the housing, said sensor 

case having an outer shape corresponding to an outer shape 
of the housing, said magnet means is composed of a pair of 

permanent magnets (31) oppositely mounted on an inner 
peripheral surface (37a) of the housing, each of said 

permanent magnets being formed out of a magnetic material 
 

such as hard ferrite so as to provide an arc segment shape, 
said resonance circuit is formed as a parallel resonance 

circuit (54) in which the inductor means (53) and the 
capacitor means (55) are connected in parallel to each 

other, said inductor means being composed of a ferrite core 
(51) and a copper wire wound around the ferrite core in coil 

shape, said parallel resonance circuit having the resonance 
frequency (f₀) being substantially coincident with the 

generated frequency (f), and in a case where one direction 
of a central line (E) connecting centers of the respective 

permanent magnets is assumed as 0-angled position and 
another direction normal to this one direction is assumed as 

90-angled position, said inductor means (53) is arranged in 
the 90-angled position and the ferrite core of the inductor 

means is directed to a direction parallel to the central 
line (E) connecting the centers of the permanent magnets. 
A miniature D.C. motor having a casing in which a 
magnet means is disposed, a rotor having a rotation shaft and 

disposed inside the magnet means to be rotatable, and a 
rotation detector detecting a rotation condition of the 

rotor, said rotation detector comprising: 
   detecting means (53) for detecting magnetic fluxes; 

and 
   a capacitor means (55) electrically connected to 

said detecting means so as to constitute a resonance circuit 
means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
