<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610968</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image forming apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1500	G03G1500	G03G1504	G03G1504	H04N1387	H04N1387	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
According to the present invention, a belt-like recording medium on which an optional 
mark can be described and driving means thereof is provided in a digital image forming 

apparatus. Therefore, the mark can be also read in addition to usual reading of a document, 
thereby causing the mark image to be automatically described or transferred into 

usual document images. An embodiment in which only a mark can be independently 

described at an optional position is included as one of the embodiments of the invention. 
By a digital image forming apparatus according to the present invention, it is possible to 
automatically insert such a mark as trademark, logograph (or logtype), etc., to an optional 

position on a sheet of recording paper. Therefore, an operator can be freed from 
such a troublesome work as attaching the mark to a source document before printing, 

etc. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITA INDUSTRIAL CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITA INDUSTRIAL CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORI KAZUTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHATA YOSUKE TAKATSU MANSHON -
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONE EIICHI MEZON KAKUI -GO -
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORI, KAZUTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHATA, YOSUKE, TAKATSU MANSHON 401-GO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONE, EIICHI, MEZON KAKUI 302-GO, 4-3, 4-CHOME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a digital image forming apparatus in which an optical 
system moves relatively to a document placed on a document table, and the image of the 
document is read by an optical reading means and recorded on a sheet of recording paper. 
The invention more particularly relates to a digital image forming apparatus furnished 
with means by which additional images (marks) other than the document image can 
be recorded on the sheet of recording paper. An image forming apparatus having the above features is known for instance from Patent 
Abstracts of Japan, Vol. 3, No. 15 (E-89), 9th February 1979; and the respective JP-A-53-143232. 
In this prior image forming apparatus an accommodation slot is provided 
at a belt arranged on the document table, and a card on which a mark is described is 
inserted into the accommodation slot. The accommodation slot is transferred to the 
position exposable by the optical system by moving the belt, whereby other images 
(marks) than the document image can be transferred to a sheet of recording paper. Heretofore, in a conventional image forming apparatus composed as indicated above, a 
card on which the corresponding mark is described must be re-inserted in the accommodation 
slot whenever changing the mark to be transferred to the sheet of recording paper. 
Accordingly, the conventional image forming apparatus inherently has the problem 
that the operation takes much time. The object basic to the present invention is to provide for a digital image forming apparatus 
having means by which any optional mark can be remarkably simply transferred to 
a sheet of recording paper without replacing cards on which a mark is decribed. In order to accomplish the above object, a digital image forming apparatus in which an 
optical system moves relatively to a document, thereby causing an image of the document 
to be read by an optical reading means and to be recorded on a sheet of recording 
paper, in conformity with the subject invention comprises:
 
a belt-like recording medium in which a plurality of opional marks can be physically 
described;
 
mark selecting means for selecting one or more marks of the plurality of the marks 
described in the recording medium;
 
 
a mark travelling mechanism for driving and travelling the belt-like recording medium 
so that a mark selected by the mark selecting means can be moved to an optional position:
 
control means for controlling the mark travelling mechanism and for driving the recording 
medium to the optional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital image forming apparatus (B) in which an optical system (55) moves relatively 
to a document, thereby causing an image of the document to be read by an optical 

reading means (CCD) and to be recorded on a sheet of recording paper, comprising: 
a belt-like recording medium (1) in which a plurality of optional marks can be physically 

described; 
mark selecting means (3) for selecting one or more marks of the plurality of the 

marks described in the recording medium (1); 
a mark travelling mechanism (2) for driving and travelling the belt-like recording 

medium (1) so that a mark selected by the mark selecting means (3) can be moved 
to an optional position; 

control means (15, 18, 19) for controlling the mark travelling mechanism (2) and for 
driving the recording medium (1) to the optional position corresponding to the selected 

mark; and 
mark recording means (33 to 36, 52, 55) for recording at an appointed position on a 

sheet of recording paper, an image of the selected mark or marks. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: 
mark reading means for reading the image of a mark on the recording medium (1) 

driven to an appointed position by said control means (15, 18, 19); 
data extracting means for extracting the data of the mark image selected by the 

mark selecting means (3) of the mark images read by the mark reading means; and 
recording processing means for outputting the data of the mark image extracted by 

the data extracting means, corresponding to the recording position on a sheet of recording 
paper for recording processing. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 2, comprising: 
image reading means including the optical system (55) and the optical recording 

means (CCD) for reading both the image of a mark on the recording medium (1) 
driven to an appointed position and the image of a document placed on a document 

table (4); 
composing processing means for composing the data of the mark images extracted 

by the data extracting means and the data of the document images; and
 

recording processing means for outputting the data of images composed and processed 
by the composing processing means, corresponding to the recording position on 

the sheet of recording paper. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: 
first detecting means (25) for detecting a first origin position of scanning of the optical 

system (55) to a document placing area (4a) on a document table (4) which is 
divided into the document placing area (4a) and a mark scanning area (4b); and 

second detecting means (26) placed in the vicinity of the boundary portion between 
the document placing area (4a) and the mark scanning area (4b) for detecting a second 

origin position of scanning of the optical system (55) to the mark scanning 
area (4b), the recording medium (1) being arranged in the mark scanning area (4b); 

the image reading means including document reading means for reading the image 
of the document placed in the document placing area (4a) by moving the optical system 

(55) from the first origin position of moving of the optical system, which is detected 
by the first detecting means (25), and mark reading means for reading the 

image of the mark described on the recording medium (1) by moving the optical 
system (55) from the second origin position of moving of the optical system, which is 

detected by the second detecting means (26); 
said composing processing means being designed for composing a part or the whole 

of the image data read by the mark reading means and the image data read by the 
document reading means. 
An image forming appartus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, further comprising 
mark detecting means for detecting the shape of a mark on the recording 

medium (1), said control means (15, 18, 19) controlling the mark travelling mechanism 
(2) on the basis of the results of detecting the shape of the mark by the mark 

detecting means. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the recording medium (1) is arranged on a document pusher (5). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the recording medium (1) is arranged at the forward side in the subscanning direction 

(6) for the document. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark recording means (33 to 36, 52, 55) includes different magnification or reduction 

 
means for reco
rding a mark image at a different ratio of magnification or 
reduction appointed when recording a mark. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark selecting means (3) includes changer switches (11, 12) for a single mark 

and plural marks. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark selecting means (3) includes ten numeral keys (13) for appointing the 

number of marks. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark selecting means (3) comprises an input switch including a transfer button, 

said mark selecting means being so composed that a mark located at an appointed 
position can be selected by pressing down the input switch. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark selecting means (3) includes an opening (5a) by which only a single mark 

can be seen, said mark selecting means being so composed that the mark which can 
be seen through the opening (5a) can be selected. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein the opening (5a) is 
formed on the upper surface of the document pusher (5). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark selecting means (3) includes a selector switch which informs an operator 

of completion of the inputting by a tablet (19), the mark selecting means being so 
composed that the mark which is located at an appointed position can be selected 

when pressing down the selector switch. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 and 14, wherein 
the mark selecting means (3) includes a transparent sight window through which all 

the marks facing toward an operator can be seen. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark travelling mechanism (2) includes an increment switch (20) by which the 

recording medium (1) can be driven and moved pitch by pitch by an appointed 
amount. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark travelling mechanism (2) comprises a set of rollers (7, 8) by which the recording 

medium (1) can be driven and moved. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the mark travelling mechanism (2) includes a stepping motor (10) for moving the 

recording medium (1). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the recording medium (1) is composed of a white endless belt. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the recording medium (1), the mark selecting means (3) and the mark travelling 

mechanism (2) are provided at a document pusher (5). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the 
recording medium (1), the mark selecting means (3), the mark travelling mechanism 

(2) and a tablet (19) are provided at a document pusher (5). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the mark extracting 
means is composed of a blank lamp (22). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the control means includes a tablet (19) for appointing the travelling position of the 

selected mark in the main scanning direction. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein the tablet (19) is formed 
on the upper surface of a document pusher (5). 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein the 
control means includes a sensor (18) for reading a reference line (17) described on 

the recording medium (1), said control means being so composed that means for 
moving the recording medium to an appointed position, standardizing the signal 

coming from the sensor (18), can be provided therein. 
An image forming apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 25, wherein automatic 
changing means (40) of image recording paper is provided for composed 

processing of a mark image or a document image by the mark reading means or the 
document reading means by automatically supplying again a sheet of recording paper 

to a paper supplying portion on which a document image or a mark image is recorded. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
