<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637979</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GOLF GAME SIMULATING APPARATUS AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B6936	A63B6936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B69	A63B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCU SPORT INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCU-SPORT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTTZ JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS EDGAR P JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTTZ, JAMES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS, EDGAR, P., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
golf, and more particularly, to an apparatus and method
for accurately simulating a golf shot including the
roll distance thereof.The sport of golf has enjoyed tremendous
popularity in recent times. Unfortunately, in many
areas golf courses are overcrowded as new courses
cannot be constructed fast enough to meet the surge in
demand. As many recreational players will attest, golf
can be a frustrating sport, especially when long
waiting times and slow play hamper the player's ability
to maintain even a consistent level of skill. Practice
outdoor golf ranges are fairly common and serve to
permit the player to practice a variety of shots with
different clubs without the time commitment of playing
18 holes on a golf course. Indoor practice training
devices are also available and these indoor facilities
can remain open during times of the year when weather
restricts play outdoors.A number of golf practice aids have been
developed including interactive video systems primarily
for indoor use, such as the Birdie Rush manufactured by
Joytec Ltd. of Burnaby, B.C., Canada. The available
interactive video systems use several approaches for 
measuring the estimated speed and angle of the struck
golf ball. Unfortunately, the estimated quantities do
not predict with sufficient accuracy where a real golf
ball would land and come to rest on a real golf course.As is readily appreciated, wind speed, air
temperature, air density, type of grass, type of ball,
ball spin, and club affect the actual distance and path
of a golf shot. Manufacturers of available interactive
video games readily admit errors of 20%. However,
skilled golfers, such as professionals and expert
amateurs, can repeat a shot within 1%. Thus, an
inaccurate system has little or no value to a skilled
player as a golf practice aid. Interactive video
systems do, however, offer entertainment for the
player. For example, famous courses which are
otherwise inaccessible may be readily programmed into a
memory for display and simulated play. An example of a
film-based simulation game is disclosed in U.S. Patent
No. 4,437,672 to Wilson. U.S. Patent No. 3,712,624 to
Conklin discloses a similar system including a screen
for displaying a simulated position on a simulated golf
hole layout wherein the trajectory of the struck ball
is estimated based upon data from sensors positioned
adjacent the tee area.Outdoor golf practice ranges are available,
and, such ranges include the effects of wind speed, air
density, and other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (10) for use at a golf practice range
having a tee area (13) and an adjacent target area (14),

said apparatus including a display (22) for indicating a
golf shot total distance (25),

   characterised in that

(i) said apparatus includes;

(a) first sensor means (16) adapted to be
associated with the tee area (13) for sensing a

golf ball striking time representative of the
beginning of flight of the struck golf ball (12)

toward the target area (14);
(b) second sensor means (20) adapted to be
associated with the target area (14) for sensing

the initial impact time and initial impact position
of the struck golf ball (12) on the target area

(14) thereby ending its flight; and
(c) a processor (24) operatively connected to said
first sensor means (16), said second sensor means

(20), and in that
(ii) said golf shot total distance is simulated and
includes a simulated golf ball roll distance (R, R
S
) based
upon the flight time (T) of the struck golf ball and the

initial impact position of same on the target area (14).
The apparatus according to claim 1, including a
memory (26) operatively connected to said processor (24)

for storing data representing a simulated golf hole image
(23); and wherein said processor comprises means for

displaying said simulated golf hole image (23) on said
display (22) with the simulated golf shot total distance

(25) indicated thereon.
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, including
a memory (26) operatively connected to said processor (24) 

for storing a series of simulated golf shot total distances
for a series of respective golf shots.
An apparatus (10) for use at a golf practice range
having a tee area (13) and an adjacent target area (14),

said apparatus characterised by:

(a) a first sensor means (16) adapted to be associated
with the tee area (13) for sensing a golf ball striking

time representative of the beginning of the flight of the
struck golf ball (12) toward the target area (14);
(b) second sensor means (20) adapted to be associated
with the target area (14) for sensing the initial impact

time and initial impact position of the struck golf ball
(12) on the target area (14) thereby ending its flight; and
(c) a processor (24) operatively connected to said
first sensor means (16) and said second sensor means (20)

for generating a simulated golf shot roll distance (R, R
S
)
based upon the flight time (T) of the struck golf ball and

the initial impact position of same on the target area
(14).
The apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said processor (24) comprises:


means for determining the difference between the
initial impact time of the struck golf ball (12) on the

target area (14) and the striking time of the golf ball to
thereby determine the flight time (T) of the struck golf

ball (12);
means (54) for determining the linear flight
distance of the struck golf ball from the tee area (13) to

the initial impact position on the target area (14); and
means (56) for determining the simulated golf ball
roll distance (R, R
S
) based on the flight time (T) and the
linear flight distance (D
f
) of the struck golf ball.
The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said 
means (56) for determining the simulated golf ball roll

distance (R, R
S
) comprises means for determining a ratio
(D
f
/T
2
) between the linear flight distance (D
f
) and the
square (T
2
) of the flight time.
The apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, including
a memory (26) operatively connected to said processor (24)

for storing at least one predetermined value related to a
golf ball roll distance on a predetermined type of surface

of a golf course; and wherein said means (56) for
calculating the simulated golf ball roll distance (R, R
S
)
includes means for calculating same based upon said at east

one predetermined value.
The apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said first sensor means (16) comprises an optical

sensor or an acoustic sensor.
The apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said second sensor means (20) comprises an array of

spaced apart acoustic sensors adapted to be positioned on
the target area (14).
The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said
processor (24) includes triangulation means operatively

connected to said array of acoustic sensors for determining

the initial impact position of the struck golf ball on the
target area.
A method for simulating a golf shot at a golf
practice range having a tee area (13) and an adjacent

target area (14), the method being characterised by the
steps of:


determining the flight time (T) of a struck golf
ball (12) from the start of flight until the initial impact

on the target area (14); 
determining the linear distance (D
f
) travelled by
the struck golf ball from the tee area (13) to the initial

impact position on the target area (14); and
simulating a golf ball roll distance (R, R
S
) from
the flight time (T) and the linear flight distance (D
f
).
The method according to claim 11, including the
steps (58, 62) of generating a simulated golf shot total

distance (25) and indicating same on a display (22).
The method according to claim 12, including the
step (62) of displaying a simulated golf hole image (23) on

the display (22) along with the simulated golf shot total
distance (25).
The method according to claim 13, including the
step (60) of storing in a memory a plurality of simulated

total golf shot distances (25) for a respective plurality
of golf shots.
The method according to claim 12, wherein the step
(56) of generating the simulated golf ball roll distance

(R, R
S
) comprises the step of generating same based upon a
ratio (D
f
/T
2
) of the linear distance (D
f
) to the square
(T
2
) of the flight time.
The method according to claim 12, wherein the step
of determining the initial impact position of the struck

golf ball on the target area (14) comprises the step of
triangulating inputs from adjacent ones of an array of

spaced apart acoustic sensors (20).
The method according to claim 12, wherein the step
(56) of simulating the golf ball roll distance (R, R
S
)
comprises simulating same based upon a predetermined type

of golf course surface.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
