<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628188</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF IDENTIFYING AND CHARACTERIZING A VALID OBJECT BY COLOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T700	G06T700	G06T740	G01V810	G06T100	G06T740	G06T100	G01V810	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G01V	G06T	G06T	G06T	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T7	G06T7	G06T7	G01V8	G06T1	G06T7	G06T1	G01V8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method of identifying and characterizing, by color, at least one valid object having at least one predetermined attribute value in a background. The method generates a plurality of images of a candidate object and the background, where each image is one of three primary color images or a black-and-white image. The method searches the image for a candidate object using an automatically calculated threshold gray level and determines the interior points of the candidate object. The method further determines the gray level value of the interior points in the image and calculates a color parameter for the interior points. The method thus enables one to characterize the candidate object by the color parameter and validate the candidate object having the valid object predetermined attribute value.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWLER DENNIS BURTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAIDYANATHAN AKHILESWAR GANESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWLER, DENNIS, BURTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAIDYANATHAN, AKHILESWAR, GANESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image analysis
method for automatically identifying an object in a
background by generating a description of the gray level
space of an image of the object and the background.
Object identification is enhanced by determining the
interior points of the object, thereby further
characterizing the object by color, texture and pattern.The ability to access interior points of a region
when its contour is given is a classic problem in image
processing. Previous solutions to this problem have been
described by L.W. Chang and K. L. Leu in an article
entitled "A Fast Algorithm for the Restoration of Images
Based on Chain Codes Description and Its Application",
Computer Vision, Graphics, and Image Processing, 50, 296 -
307 (1990). One algorithm described, connectivity
filling, requires that every pixel in the object be 
interrogated. Since the number of pixels within an object
is greater than the number of pixels which comprise the
perimeter of the object, such a technique is relatively
slow. Another method described is parity checking, which
is based on the fact that the intersection of a straight
line with the contour regions of an object delineates an
even number of points on the perimeter of the object.
Designation of the interior points is determined by an
arbitrary filling rule, where all points between each odd
point and the next even point on the contour in each line
of the image are designated as interior points. Such a
parity checking algorithm will not work with objects of
complex shape.In the same article cited above, Chang and Leu
propose an enhanced parity checking algorithm which relies
on characterizing the perimeter points into one of four
categories, based on direction code values.
Characterizing the points leads to the creation of a new
buffer of perimeter points, wherein some points have been
duplicated and others eliminated. By applying the parity
checking algorithm to the newly created buffer, interior
points of objects with complex shapes may be identified.
However, the enhanced algorithm presented by Chang and Leu
is an indirect method for solving the problem of interior
point determination, requiring an excessive number of
steps.Japanese Patent Publication Number 62-60069 to
Hitachi Electronic Engineering Co., Ltd., published on
December 14, 1987, discloses a colony screening device
which distinguishes colonies based on color. Colonies are
identified by pattern recognition using a predetermined
threshold, and a small number of points in the center of a
co
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for identifying and 
characterizing by

color at least one valid object having at least one
predetermined attribute value, comprising the steps of:


(a) generating a plurality of images of candidate
objects and a background, each of said plurality of

images being one of a primary color image or a black and
white image, each image being constituted by a two-dimensional

intensity value distribution;
(b) searching at least one of said plurality of
images for at least one candidate object by detecting

the perimeter of the at least one candidate object using
at least one automatically calculated threshold level

and excluding the background from said at least one of
said plurality of images;
(c) determining the interior points of the at
least one object on the basis of the perimeter of the at

least one candidate object and detecting at least one
intensity value of the interior points of the at least

one object;
(d) calculating at least one color parameter from
each detected intensity value;
(e) characterizing the candidate object by the
said at least one color parameter; and
(f) validating the at least one candidate object
if it has the at least one predetermined color attribute

value so as to identify it.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
searching the image includes the sub-steps of:


(i) generating a gray level histogram of the
image, the gray level histogram having an entropy

function,
(ii) entropically selecting a threshold gray level
value such that the entropy function of the histogram is

maximized, 
(iii) scanning the image for at least one object
using the entropically selected threshold gray level

value, and
(iv) tracing the candidate object having at
least one boundary gray level value determined by the

entropically selected threshold gray level value.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
determining at least one interior point of the

candidate object includes the sub-steps of:

(i) determining the perimeter points of the
candidate object by tracing the candidate object

sequentially, the candidate object having at least one
boundary gray level determined by the entropically

selected threshold gray level values,
(ii) creating a perimeter buffer, the perimeter
buffer comprising the perimeter points, each perimeter

point having a row-position coordinate value, a column-position
coordinate value and a direction code vector,

the direction code vector comprising a first and a
second direction code value for each perimeter point,

the first direction code value describing the
relationship of each respective perimeter point to the

next perimeter point and the second direction code
value describing the relationship of each respective

perimeter point to the previous perimeter point,
(iii) sorting the perimeter points in the
perimeter buffer in a predetermined order to create a

sorted perimeter buffer,
(iv) assigning to each perimeter point a status
variable having one of a first and a second value, the

value of the status variable being determined by the
first and second direction code values, and
(v) designating as the interior points of the
object each point on the same line segment as the

perimeter point being examined and lying between the 
examined perimeter point and the next perimeter point,

the examined perimeter point being assigned the first
value of the status variable.
The method of claim 1, further comprising the
step of checking for each redundant perimeter point.
The method of claim 4, further comprising the

step of designating all points lying between each
redundant perimeter point and the next perimeter point

on the same line segment as the interior points of the
object only when all instances of each redundant

perimeter point are assigned the first value of the
status variable.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
determining the gray level value of each interior point

comprises the sub-step of characterizing the object by
texture using the gray level values of the interior

points.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
determining the gray level value of each interior point

comprises the sub-step of characterizing the object by
at least one pattern in the object using the gray level

values of the interior points.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
calculating at least one color parameter comprises the

sub-step of calculating the hue for each interior point
of the candidate object.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
calculating at least one color parameter comprises the

sub-step of calculating the saturation for each
interior point of the candidate object.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of
calculating at least one color parameter comprises the

sub-step of calculating the lightness for each interior
point of the candidate object. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the validating
step comprises the sub-step of validating the candidate

object having at least one predetermined attribute
value, wherein the predetermined attribute value is at

least one color parameter.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
