<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIRECTIONAL LIGHT FILTER AND HOLOGRAPHIC PROJECTOR SYSTEM FOR ITS PRODUCTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B532	G02B532	G02C702	G02C702	G03H102	G03H102	G03H104	G03H104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02C	G02C	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02C7	G02C7	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photosensitive optical body (23) is exposed by 
a diverging three-dimensional standing wave 

interference pattern generated by a holographic 
projector system. The projector system, using binary 

optics, creates a diverging lattice of hexagonal or 
square rod-like intensity maxima extending through the 

optical body. After the standing wave image is 
recorded and fixed, the optical body will contain a 

honeycomb-like grid or pattern that will cause either 
an absorption or a refractive index modulation effect 

on light that differs in incidence to the direction of 
normal propagation through the created channels to a 

focus or convergence point. This produces either a 
volume-absorption hologram or a volume-phase hologram 

(transmittance function modulated by the permittivity 
[index of refraction]
) with such properties as depth 
of focus, high resolution, and a one-way (directional 

perspective) and anti-glare effect with reduced 
diffraction. Unique photosensitive aromatic diazo 

compounds which possess high thermal stability and 
soluble in non-polar solvents are provided. In the 

volume-absorption hologram, the compounds react with 
couplers within the optical body during development to 

form azo dye in the areas corresponding to destructive 
interference during exposure. While chiefly intended 

for use in eyeglass lenses, the optical body may also 
find use in teles
copes, detectors, film and video 
cameras, and various other optical devices. The 

holographic projector system also affords a production 
method of writing highly-corrected peripheral as well 

as center-field mesh patterns on planar or non-planar 
surfaces. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER KENNETH M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER, KENNETH M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER KENNETH M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER, KENNETH M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to an 
improved optical lens or the like, and its related 
method of production and system components used in 
connection therewith, to provide improved depth of 
field, high resolution, and a one-way (directional 
perspective) and anti-glare effect with reduced 
diffraction. In the prior art, anti-glare eyeglasses are 
well known and have been the subject of many patents. 
Generally, they have consisted of polarizing and/or 
occluding elements in or on the lenses such as 
gratings, louvers, or painted strips. Some of the 
latter have even had movable parts, but all of these 
occluding elements tended to obstruct vision. 
Polarized eyeglass lenses are generally only effective 
in reducing or eliminating glare from a certain range 
of angles, while allowing glare from a complementary 
range of angles to propagate through the lenses. Pinhole eyeglasses, containing an array of 
pinholes in each lens in an opaque material, are known 
to achieve a remarkable focusing effect on both near 
and far images, with a keen resolution. However, this 
depth of field effect is adversely fragmented across 
the image panorama due to an uneven blending of the 
images from each pinhole. This problem is not present 
in smaller, closer-packed meshes such as nylon mesh 
stocking material, but here there is a diffusion 
effect. The holes in the mesh material do not possess 
a deep enough aspect ratio (depth divided by diameter) 
and the material does not possess the proper absorbent  
 
quality nor the same refractive index as the holes to 
eliminate the edge diffractions which cause the 
diffusion effect. There is a special problem in creating a 
three-dimensional grid pattern of a relatively large 
depth and of a size that is small enough to be 
unnoticeable. Unless exotic methods are used, neither 
etching nor photographic techniques can achieve the 
necessary aspect ratio. The general rule in 
microlithography is that the depth of the detail 
cannot be held much past its width. Thus, for 
example, if the walls of the grid are 2 microns wide, 
and a mask containing this detail is contact printed 
onto a photosensitive substrate with collimated light, 
the detail will hold in the photosensitive substrate 
to a depth of about 2 microns before light diffusion 
destroys the detail. Holographic methods, in which 
the image is essentially "in focus" at any depth have 
been a way around this problem. In accordance with prior holographic 
techniques, a laser beam has been divided into three 
or four
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A holographic projector system for 
exposing a photosensitive substrate, comprising: 

   a laser light source providing a relatively 
narrow beam of substantially collimated light; 

   means for expanding and distributing the 
intensity profile of said narrow beam to provide an 

expanded beam of substantially collimated light having 
a selected energy profile distribution; 

   means for separating said expanded area beam 
into a plurality of at least three substantially 

collimated, divergent beams; and 
   means for expanding said plurality of beams 

in order to result in crossing of their paths to 
produce a three-dimensional standing wave interference 

pattern for incidence upon the substrate, whereby said 
interference pattern produces a diverging lattice of 

intensity maxima in the photosensitive substrate. 
The holographic projector system of 
claim 1 further including correctional lens means 

disposed between said beam separating means and the 
substrate for providing a corrected three-dimensional 

standing wave interference pattern with substantially 
constant interferometric angles. 
The holographic projector system of 
claim 1 wherein the photosensitive substrate comprises 

an eyeglass lens. 
The holographic projector system of 
claim 1 wherein the photosensitive substrate includes 

a photosensitive material selected from the group 
consisting of photoresist, index of refraction 

modulation media and light absorbing media, 
 

wherein preferably said index of refraction modulation 
media is selected from the group consisting of a 

dichromated gelatin and a photopolymer material, and 
wherein preferably said light absorption and occluding 

media is selected from the group consisting of silver 
halide, leuco dye, and azo dye. 
The holographic projector system of any of claims 1 - 4 

   wherein the photosensitive substrate includes 
a photosensitive material comprising vesicular diazo 

material, 
wherein preferably the photosensitive substrate includes 

a photosensitive material comprising reverse vesicular 
diazo material, 

wherein preferably the photosensitive substrate includes 
a photosensitive material comprising reverse vesicular 

diazo material in combination with azo dye imaging 
material, 

wherein preferably said substrate has a photosensitive 
coating thereon, 

wherein preferably said substrate has a photosensitive 
material distributed therein, 

wherein preferably said photosensitive material 
comprises a diazo compound,

 
wherein preferably said photosensitive material 

comprises a diazo compound with a long chain aliphatic 
group, 

wherein preferably said photosensitive material 
comprises a diazo compound soluble in a nonpolar 

solvent, and 
wherein preferably said beam separating means comprises 

a holographic diffraction grating. 
The holographic projector system of 
claim 5 wherein said holographic diffraction grating 

is defined by a repeatable cell pattern: 
 

wherein the labelled numbers correspond to the phase 
levels 0 = 0, 1 = 2π/3, 2 = π, and 3 = 5π/3 in 

radians. 
The holographic projector system of 
claim 5 wherein said holographic diffraction grating 

is defined by a repeatable cell pattern: 

 

wherein the labelled numbers correspond to the phase 
levels 0 = 0.0, 1 = 0.295167, 2 = 0.647584, and 3 = 

0.647584 in radians. 
The holographic projector system of 
claim 5 wherein said holographic diffraction grating 

is defined by a repeatable cell pattern: 
 

wherein the labelled numbers correspond to the phase 
levels 0 = 0, 1 = π/2, and 3 = 3π/2 in radians. 
The holographic projector system of any of claims 
   1 - 8 wherein said holographic diffraction grating 

divides the incident expanded beam principally into 
three diverging spectral order beams of substantially 

the same intensity profile, 
wherein preferably said holographic diffraction grating 

divides the incident expanded beam principally into 
four diverging spectral order beams of substantially 

the same intensity profile, 
further including preferably pinhole means for blocking 

undesired spectral order beams projected by said 
holographic diffraction means and scattered light, 

wherein preferably the diverging lattice of intensity 
maxima is formed so that said maxima are generally of 

uniform dimension and diverge from a central point,
 

   wherein said means for shaping and 
distributing said narrow beam comprises beam expander 

means for reshaping said narrow beam to said expanded 
beam, and beam profile distributor means for 

distributing the intensity of the beam wavefront in a 
selected manner across the profile of said expanded 

beam, and 
wherein preferably said selected energy profile provides 

a substantially uniform intensity across the surface 
of the substrate. 
A method of producing a diverging 
lattice of intensity maxima in a photosensitive 

substrate, said method comprising the steps of: 
   providing a substantially collimated beam of 

light having a selected intensity profile; 
   separating the beam into a plurality of at 

least three substantially collimated divergent beams; 
   expanding said plurality of beams to result 

in crossing of their paths to produce a three-dimensional 
standing wave interference pattern; and 

   exposing the photosensitive substrate to the 
interference pattern to produce the diverging lattice 

of intensity maxima therein. 
The method of claim 10 further 
including the step of correcting the interference 

pattern to provide substantially uniform 
interferometric angles. 
The method of claim 10 wherein said 
step of providing the collimated beam comprises 

expanding a narrow light beam from a laser to form a 
collimated beam of expanded cross section, and 

 
distributing the beam wavefront to provide a selected 

intensity profile. 
The method of claim 10 wherein said 
beam separating step comprises separating the beam 

with a holographic diffraction grating, and 
   wherein preferably said substrate comprises a lens, 
The holographic projector system of any of claims 
   1 - 9 wherein said holographic diffraction grating 

is defined by a repeatable cell pattern: 
 

wherein the labelled numbers correspond to the phase 
levels 0 = 0 and 1 = π in radians, 

   wherein preferably the photosensitive substrate is, 
exposed while immersed in a refractive index matching 

liquid, 
wherein preferably the photosensitive substrate is 

exposed while in air, and 
wherein preferably the photosensitive substrate comprises 

a photoresist material developed after exposure and 
etched to produce a relief pattern. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
