<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641568</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Chlamydia antigen, process for its manufacture and its use.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K39118	A61K39118	C07K1612	C07K1612	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61K39	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Ladder-like banding pattern antigen (LLBPA) characterized in that it is resistant 
against proteolytic digestion, is resistant to heat (70°C, 1 h) at neutral 

pH is extracted by phenol-water extraction preferably into the water-phase, 
gives rise to a regular ladder-like banding pattern upon sodium 

dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) as detected 
by silver-staining the gel or by blotting to nitrocellulose followed by 

staining with labelled antibodies, and induces antibodies upon immunization 
or infection, processes for its manufacture and its use in the diagnosis, 

prevention and treatment of human and animal infections. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRADE HELMUT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRADE, HELMUT, DR. MED.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRADE HELMUT DR MED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRADE, HELMUT, DR. MED.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to ladder-like banding pattern antigens (abbreviated 
in the following as LLBPA), processes for their manufacture and 
their use in the diagnosis and therapy of human and animal infections. Chlamydia psittaci, C. pneumoniae and C. trachomatis are the three species 
of the genus Chlamydia which are pathogenic obligatory intracellular 
parasites causing diseases in animals and humans. More than 300 million 
of people suffer world wide from trachoma, a chronic infection of the eye 
which leads in the final stages to blindness. A similar number of patients 
have sexually transmitted diseases of the genital tract which may result in 
infertility, particularly in woman (chronic salpingitis). C. pneumoniae 
causes a broad spectrum of diseases of the respiratory tract and has been 
reported as a potential cofactor in the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease 
and myocardial infarction. Although chlamydiae are sensitive to antibiotics, antibiotic treatment often 
fails to eradicate the infectious agent due to the fact that chlamydiae 
are obligatory intracellular parasites which can persist in the host without 
clinical signs of a disease. In addition, it is desirable to prevent chlamydial 
infections. The problem of the present invention therefore is the provision of new antigens 
which may be used in the diagnosis and therapy of human and animal 
infections, preferably for the manufacture of reagents for the diagnosis 
and pharmaceutical compositions for the prevention and treatment of human 
and animal chlamydial infections. It has been found that this problem can be solved by means of a new antigenic 
material, i.e. a ladder-like banding pattern antigen (LLBPA), which 
has been derived from cultures of specific microorganisms. The ladder-like banding pattern antigen (LLBPA) of the present invention 
is characterized in that it is resistant against proteolytic digestion, is resistant 
to heat (70°C, 1 h) at neutral pH, is extracted by phenol-water extraction  
 
preferably into the water-phase, gives rise to a regular ladder-like 
banding pattern upon sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis 
(SDS-PAGE) as detected by silver-staining the gel or by blotting to 
nitrocellulose followed by staining with labelled antibodies, and induces 
antibodies upon immunization or infection. Specifically the antigen is resistant against proteolytic digestion by trypsin 
or proteinase K. The antigenic material of the present invention is characterized by a specific 
pattern upon
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Ladder-like banding pattern antigen (LLBPA) characterized in that 
it is resistant against proteolytic digestion, 

it is resistant to heat (70°C, 1 h) at neutral pH, 
it is extracted by phenol-water extraction preferably into the water-phase, 

it gives rise to a regular ladder-like banding pattern upon sodium dodecylsulfate 
polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) as detected by silver-staining 

the gel or by blotting to nitrocellulose followed by staining 
with labelled antibodies, and 

it induces antibodies upon immunization or infection. 
The antigen according to claim 1, characterized in that it is resistant 
against proteolytic digestion by trypsin or proteinase K. 
The antigen according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that it has 
been derived from cultures of Chlamydia, Neisseria, Bacteroides, Acinetobacter, 

Haemophilus and Bordetella in embryonated eggs, tissue culture 
cells or appropriate artificial media. 
The antigen according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that it has 
been derived from cultures of Chlamydia psittaci, Chlamydia pneumoniae, 

Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria meningitidis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, 
Bacteroides fragilis, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, Haemophilus influenzae 

and Bordetella pertussis.
The antigen according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that it has 
been derived from cultures of Chlamydia psittaci 6BC or Chlamydia trachomatis 

serotype L2 or E. 
A process for the manufacture of the antigen according to claims 1 to 
5 characterized by growing said microorganism strains in embryonated 

eggs, killing and homogenizing the eggs, washing the lyophilized dry product 
with organic solvents, digesting it with trypsin and dialyzing it against 

water, centrifugating and ultracentrifugating the supernatant, lyophilizing 
the sediment obtained containing partially purified elementary bodies, 

 
subjecting said elementary bodies to a phenol-water extraction, dialyzing 

the water-phase against water and lyophilizing the antigen obtained. 
The process for the manufacture of the antigen according to claim 6 
characterized by growing Chlamydia psittaci 6BC strain in embryonated 

eggs, killing with phenol and homogenizing the eggs in saline and lyophilizing 
the product, washing the dry product with ethanol, acetone and 

ether, digesting the dried product after suspension in saline with trypsin 
and dialyzing it against water, centrifugating and ultracentrifugating the 

supernatant, lyophilizing the sediment obtained by centrifugation containing 
partially purified elementary bodies, subjecting said elementary 

bodies to a hot phenol-water extraction, dialyzing the water-phase against 
water and lyophilizing the antigen obtained. 
A process for the manufacture of the antigen according to claims 1 to 
5 characterized by growing said microorganism strains in tissue cells, 

killing the cells, centrifuging the mixture of cells, cell debris and said microorganisms, 
centrifuging the supernatant, dialyzing the supernatant 

obtained, digesting it with trypsin, dialyzing again and lyophilizing the 
product, subjecting the dry product to a phenol-water extraction, dialyzing 

the water-phase against water and lyophilizing the antigen obtained. 
The process for the manufacture of the antigen according to claim 8 
characterized by growing Chlamydia trachomatis serotype L2 or E in tissue 

cells L929, killing the cells with phenol, centrifuging the mixture of 
cells, cell debris and said microorganisms, ultracentrifuging the supernatant, 

dialyzing the supernatant obtained, digesting it with trypsin, dialyzing 
again and lyophilizing the product, subjecting the dry product to a phenol-water 

extraction, dialyzing the water-phase against water and lyophilizing 
the antigen obtained. 
The use of the antigen according to any one of claims 1 to 5 in the diagnosis, 
prevention and treatment of microorganism infections. 
The use of the antigen according to any one of claims 1 to 5 for the 
manufacture of reagents for the diagnosis and of pharmaceutical compositions 

for the prevention and treatment of chlamydial infections. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
