<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639328</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spinning reel for fishing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K89027	A01K8900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K89	A01K89	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spinning reel for fishing is described which comprises a reel 
casing 10, a spool shaft 3 supporting a rotatable spool 1 and a 

drag mechanism. The drag mechanism 11 has a cylindrical shaft 9 
fitted at the spool shaft 3 and comprising engagement means 7, 

13, 13'. The cylindrical shaft 9 further includes braking means 
12 and an operation lever 20 pivotably supported on the reel 

casing 10. The lever 20 has an actuating portion 18 and is 
adapted to be moved between a first and a second position. In 

its first position the engagement means 7,13,13' being engaged 
for activating the brake means 12 to break rotation of the spool 

1. For providing a drag mechanism which is smoothly and surely 
performed during the change-over between a drag-actuated state 

and a spool-free state, it is proposed to adapt the actuating 
portion 18 to move an actuator member 16 pivotably supported on 

reel casing 10. A yoke 17 is pivotably arranged at the actuator 
member 16 and the cylindrical shaft 9 for movement therewith. 

The cylindrical shaft is slidable in the axial direction and 
upon actuating the actuator member 16 the pivot motion of the 

operation lever 20 being converted into an axial motion of the 
cylindrical shaft 9 enabling the engagement of engagement 

portions 7 and engagement holes 13, 13' by the axial motion of 
the cylindrical shaft 9. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANEKO KYOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANEKO, KYOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a spinning reel for fishing as
described in the preamble of claim 1.To facilitate fishing, it is known that a drag mechanism in the
spinning reel can be immediately changed from a state in which
the drag is actuated to a second state in which the spool of the
reel is freely rotatably. A drag mechanism of the
above-mentioned type is described in US-A-4 746 077. The known
spinning fishing reel includes a drag mechanism to be actuated
and released by an operation lever. The drag mechanism includes
a rigid wheel provided with teeth on its circumference, and a
lock member having a pawl to be moved in engagement and
disengagement with the rigid wheel by shifting the operation
lever into either its first or its second position. By shifting
the operation lever into one of its positions, the pawl of the
lock member and the rigid wheel are moved into engagement with
each other by a motion of the pawl in the radial direction with
respect to the axis of the spool shaft. The impact load is
therefore concentrated to one tooth of the rigid wheel and the
pawl of the lock member, requiring these parts to have
sufficient strength and size for withstanding these forces. The
drag mechanism of the known spinning reel can be formed as a
front drag system or a rear drag system. In a front drag system
the braking means for braking the rotation of the spool are
arranged between the spool shaft and the spool for braking the 
spool if the spool shaft is held stationery, and the spool is
rotated by the drawing action of a fish relative to the spool
shaft. A rear drag system has arranged the braking plates
between a braking member and a casing while the spool shaft
rotates with the spool.Unexamined JP Publication No. sho-61-274638 discloses a drag
mechanism, which comprises a cylindrical shaft engageable
/disengageable with/from a braking cylinder having a drag
mechanism. The cylindrical shaft is slid directly by an
operation lever so as to engage/disengage with/from the braking
cylinder. When the drag mechanism is to be changed over to
return into a drag-actuated state from a spool-free state by
rotational operation of a handle, and if the engagement position
of holes of the cylindrical shaft does not accord with that of
engagement positions of the braking cylinder, an excessive force
is exerted onto the operation lever and the engagement portions
so that the returning change-over operation cannot be smoothly
and lightly performed. Since the cylindrical shaft is directly
pressed by a front end
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spinning reel for fishing, comprising:

a reel casing (10);
a spool shaft (3) supporting a rotatable spool (1);
and a drag mechanism (11) comprising brake means (12) provided at the top end
portion of said spool shaft (3), said drag mechanism (11) having a cylindrical shaft (9)

fitted at a rear end of said spool shaft (3), and comprising engagement means (7, 13'),
said cylindrical shaft (9) being adapted to operate said brake means (12), and an

operation lever (20) pivotably supported on a rear portion of said reel casing (10), said
operation lever (20) having an actuating portion (18) and being provided with a spring

(21) for urging said lever (20) towards either one of first and second positions opposite to each
other, in said first position of said operation lever (20) said engagement means (7, 13')

being engaged for activating said brake means (12) to brake rotation of said spool (1),
and in said second position of said operation level (20), said engagement means (7,

13') being disengaged,
characterised in that
an actuator member (16) is provided having a lower end portion pivoted on a lower
portion of said reel casing (10) and having an upper end portion pulled backward by a

spring (15), said actuating portion (18) is engageable with the rear side of the upper
portion of said actuator member (16) for moving said actuator member (16); 
a yoke (17) is pivotably arranged at said actuator member (16) for movement therewith
and for pivoting around an axis perpendicular to said cylindrical shaft (9);
said cylindrical shaft (9) is slidable in axial direction, and is rotatably locked in said yoke
(17); and
said engagement means comprising engagement portions (7) provided at said
cylindrical shaft (9) and engagement holes (13') provided at the rear end position of

said casing (10), said engagement portions (7) being axially engageable and
disengageable fitted in said engagement holes (13');
so that upon actuating said actuator member (16) by said operation lever (20) the pivot
motion of the operation lever (20) being converted by said yoke (17) into the axial

motion of the cylindrical shaft (9) enabling the engagement and disengagement of the
engagement portions (7) and the engagement holes (13') by the axial motion of the

cylindrical shaft (9).
A spinning reel according to claim 1, further comprising:

a braking body (6) partially provided with click teeth (5) and being integrally fitted on an
outer circumferential portion of said cylindrical shaft (9);
a click paw (32) engaged with said click teeth (5); and
a braking member (33) made into contact with an outer circumference of said braking
body (6) with a variable contacting force.
A spinning reel according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising:

a regulator means (37,38) adapted to engage an upper side of said actuator member
(16) for regulating the rotation of said actuator member (16) in said first position of said

operation lever (20); and 
a release means for releasing the regulation by said regulator means (37, 38) in
response to a change-over operation into a drag free state by said operation levers

(20) movement into said second position.
A spinning reel according to one of the claims 1 to 3, further comprising:

a drive gear (25);
a handle shaft (22) provided on a rear surface of said drive gear (25);
a return member (27) provided with kick portions (26), urged by a spring (28) so as to
be rotatable by a predetermined angle, and fittingly mounted on said handle shaft (22);
a return actuator member (31) pivoted on said reel casing (10) and arranged at a
portion between said return member (27) and said actuator member (16), said return

actuator member (31) being within a rotational locus of said return member (27) in
response to actuation of said operation lever (20), into said second position, said return

actuator member (31) being urged by a spring (30) toward the outside of said rotational
locus of said return member (27).
A spinning reel according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said operation lever (20)
comprises a spring (21) having a dead-point, and is biased in said first and said second

positions by a dead-point action of said spring (21).
A spinning reel according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein said operation lever (20)
further has a return portion (19) engaging said actuator member (16) during movement

of said operation lever (20) from said second position toward said first position.
A spinning reel according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said actuator member
(16) is biased by said spring (15) in a direction of movement of said engagement

means (7, 13') into mutual engagement.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
