<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Portable electrical power supply.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J700	H02J700	H02J906	H02J906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J7	H02J7	H02J9	H02J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A portable power supply is shown generally at 10. The 
power supply comprises a sealed rechargeable lead acid 

battery 11 to which is connected a charging circuit 12 for 
charging the battery 11. 
A switching unit 13 controls the switching of power from 
the battery 11 either to accessory sockets 14 or to power 

output leads represented by 15. 
Between the switching unit 13 and the power output leads 
15 are a reverse-polarity protection circuit 16, a 

vehicle-start test/timer unit 17 and a stand by/monitor 
circuit 18, the operation of all of which will be 

described below. 
The power supply apparatus 10 is primarily for use in the 
supply of 12 V dc electrical power at locations remote 

from conventional electricity supplies. The battery 11, 
at the heart of the apparatus, can be recharged from 

either a domestic mains electricity supply, using an 
integral mains charger unit 19, or from a 12-18 V dc 

source, such as a vehicle cigar lighter socket, a 
photovoltaic solar cell array, a wind-driven generator 

etc. using an integral 12 V dc charger lead 20. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTABLE POWER SYST LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTABLE POWER SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERBERT RAYMOND F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERBERT RAYMOND F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a portable electrical 
power supply apparatus and to a method of supplying 
electrical power. According to a first aspect of the present invention, 
there is provided portable apparatus for the supply of 
electrical power, the apparatus comprising rechargeable 
energy storage means arranged, in use, to store electrical 
energy, output means arranged, in use, to provide an 
output for electrical power from the storage means and 
charging means arranged, in use, to charge the storage 
means with electrical energy from an external source. In a preferred arrangement the apparatus comprises a 
housing. Preferably the storage means comprises at least one 
battery. In a preferred arrangement, the charging means comprises 
an electrical charging circuit arranged, in use, to 
recharge the or each battery from an external source of 
electrical power. The unit may be arranged to supply direct current 
electrical power. Alternatively or additionally, the 
apparatus may be arranged to supply alternating current 
electrical power. The charging means may be arranged in use to recharge the 
or each battery from an external source of alternating 
current electrical power.  Preferably the charging means is arranged, in use, to 
recharge the or each battery from an external source of 
mains electrical power. Alternatively or additionally, the charging means may be 
arranged in use to recharge the or each battery from an 
external source of direct current electrical power. Preferably the charging means is arranged in use to 
recharge the or each battery from a direct current power 
source of a vehicle. The apparatus preferably comprises a first monitor means 
arranged in use to monitor an external power supply. In 
a preferred arrangement, the apparatus is arranged in use 
to supply electrical power automatically to an external 
appliance according to the monitored condition of the 
external power supply. The apparatus may be arranged in use to supply electrical 
power to an external appliance automatically, according to 
a condition of an external power supply to an external 
appliance, which condition is detected by the first 
monitor means. The apparatus may comprise a second monitor means 
arranged, in use, to monitor a condition of an external 
appliance. Preferably, the apparatus is arranged in use 
to supply electrical power to an external appliance 
according to the monitored condition of the appliance, 
which condition is detected by the second monitoring 
means. The first and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Portable apparatus for the supply of electrical power 
characterised in that the apparatus comprises rechargeable 

energy storage means arranged, in use, to store electrical 
energy, output means arranged, in use, to provide an 

output for electrical power from the storage means and 
charging means arranged in use to charge the storage means 

with electrical energy from an external source. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein the apparatus 
comprises a housing. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein 
the storage means comprises at least one battery. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein 
the charging means comprises an electrical charging 

circuit arranged, in use, to recharge the or each battery 
from an external source of electrical power. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein 
the unit is arranged to supply direct current electrical 

power. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein 
the apparatus is arranged to supply alternating current 

electrical power. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 6, wherein 
the charging means is arranged in use to recharge the or 

each battery from an external source of alternating 
current electrical power. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 7, wherein 
the charging means is arranged, in use, to recharge the or 

each battery from an external source of mains electrical 
power. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 8, wherein 
the charging means is arranged in use to recharge the or 

each battery from an external source of direct current 
electrical power. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 9, wherein 
the charging means is arranged in use to recharge the or 

each battery from a direct current power source of a 
vehicle. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 10, wherein 
the apparatus comprises a first monitor means arranged in 

use to monitor an external power supply. 
Apparatus according to Claim 11, wherein the 
apparatus is arranged in use to supply electrical power 

automatically to an external appliance according to the 
monitored condition of the external power supply. 
Apparatus according to Claim 11 or Claim 12, wherein 
the apparatus is arranged in use to supply electrical 

power to an external appliance automatically, according to 
a condition of an external power supply to an external 

appliance, which condition is detected by the first 
monitor means. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 13, wherein 
the apparatus comprises a second monitor means arranged in 

use to monitor a condition of an external appliance. 
Apparatus according to Claim 14, wherein the 
apparatus is arranged in use to suppl
y electrical power to 
an external appliance according to the monitored condition 

of the appliance, which condition is detected by the 
second monitor means. 
Apparatus according to Claim 11 and Claim 14, wherein 
the first and second monitor means comprise a common 

monitor means. 
Apparatus according to Claim 2, wherein the housing 
comprises a case. 
Apparatus according to Claim 17, wherein the case 
comprises a closure member which is moveable between a 

first open position in which a user may gain access to one 
or more controls of the apparatus and a second closed 

position in which the user may not so gain access. 
Apparatus according to Claim 17 or 18 wherein the 
case comprises a transparent window portion for enabling 

a user to see one or more controls of the apparatus. 
Apparatus according to Claim 19, wherein the closure 
member comprises the transparent portion. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 17 to 20, 
wherein the case comprises a bag. 
A method of starting an engine using a portable power 
supply apparatus, the method including electrically 

connecting the apparatus to terminals of a battery of the 
engine, supplying a charging current from a storage means 

of the apparatus to the battery of the engine to a 
predetermined extent, and subsequently switching on a 

 
starter motor of the engine whilst the apparatus is still 

electrically connected to the battery of the engine. 
A method of supplying electrical power to an 
electrical appliance from portable supply apparatus, the 

method including supplying power from a rechargable 
storage means to at least one output means, which output 

means is connected to the appliance. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
