<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612369</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VENTILATION DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B702	E06B702	F24F1316	E06B710	F24F1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	F24F	E06B	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B7	E06B7	F24F13	E06B7	F24F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A ventilation device (1) is provided for location at the outer edge of a window frame (52) and comprises side members (5A) defining inlet and outlet portions. The members (5A) provide opposing sockets (13B) to receive plates (4) completing a closed duct in the device for air flow, the width of this device (1) being varied by providing plates (4) of different width. The ends of the duct include closure assemblies (17), and the side members (5A) preferably comprise exactly similar structures. Weather members (6) are fitted to the side members by releasable fastening means (7, 8). In an alternative embodiment (Fig. 4), the side members are dissimilar, one integrally carrying the plates (37) while the other includes the socket (35) for the plates.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROD DESIGN 
&
 INNOVATION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRODUCT DESIGN 
&
 INNOVATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMILTON JOHN GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMILTON, JOHN, GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a ventilation 
device. DE-A-2607 937 shows a ventilation device in 
accordance with the preamble of appended claims 1 and 11, 
the ventilation device of DE-A-2607 937 comprising a main 
duct body having a plurality of parts including opposed 
side members which have bottom or outer surfaces which 
can serve as support surfaces for the duct body on the 
edge of a window frame, the duct body including aperture 
meams permitting a flow of ventilation air through the 
duct body. Further certain of the parts of the duct 
body are connected by tongue-in-socket connections 
thereby permitting variation in the width of the duct 
body. However, the ventilation device of DE-A-2607 937 is 
designed specifically to support glazing panels so that 
the device is located between the glazing panels and the 
window frame, the space between the glazing panels 
forming a portion of the ventilation duct and this has 
resulted in the ventilation device of DE-A-2607 937 
having a relatively complex construction. US-A-5137 492 shows another ventilation device 
designed to locate a glazing panel and positioned between 
the glazing panel and a rebate in a window frame. This 
ventilation device comprises two similar opposed side 
members with extrusions linking the side members to form 
an air duct between the side members. Again the 
ventilation device is relatively complex and in 
particular for variation in width of the device different 
extrusions have to be supplied. It is the principal object of the present invention 
to provide a versatile ventilation device suitable for 
location at the outer edge of a window frame which is of 
a simpler and more economic construction but which 
nevertheless permits convenient variation in the width of 
the device.  
 The present invention satisfies the above object by 
arranging the ventilation device to have the features set 
out in the characterising clause of either of appended 
claims 1 or 11. Therefore plain laminer plates can be used in the 
device so that width variation of the device is achieved 
simply by cutting the plates to a selected width, or 
alternatively width variation of the device can be 
achieved purely by means of the depth of the socket means 
on one of the side members. Embodiments of the present invention will now be 
described by way of example with reference to the 
accompanying drawings wherein:- 
Fig. 1 shows a cross-sectional elevation of a 
ventilation device according to one embodiment of the 
present invention; Fig. 2
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A ventilation device for location at a window 
frame (F,52); said device including a main duct body (1A) 

comprising first and second side members (2, 3) each 
including a bottom part (5) serving as a support whereby 

the members can rest on an outer edge of a window frame 
(F) at respective corners thereof, each of said side 

members (2, 3) including an aperture means for through 
flow of ventilating air, characterised in that the 

ventilation device (1) is suitable for placing between a 
window frame (F,52) and a surrounding building structure, 

in that a pair of joining plates (4) link said side 
members (2, 3) and define a duct (11) for air flow 

between said aperture means of the side members (2, 3) 
and in that each of said side members (2, 3) includes 

socket means (13A, 13B) to receive respective edges of 
said joining plates (4), the socket means (13A, 13B) of 

one side member (2, 3) being located opposite the socket 
means (13A, 13B) of the other side member (2, 3) when the 

ventilation device (1) is assembled for use. 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised in that the fitting of said plates (4) into 

the socket means (13A, 13B) of said first and second 
members (2, 3) form a unitary assembly with structural 

integrity. 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that said plates (4) comprise plain 

laminar plates. 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that said first and 

second members (2, 3) comprise inlet and outlet portions 
which are similar, essentially representing mirror images 

of each other. 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the ends of the 

main duct body (1A) are closed by closure assemblies 
(17).  

 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 5, 
characterised in that each of said closure assemblies 

(17) comprise a pair of end plugs (18A, 18B) for fitting 
into the first and second side members and a lateral 

closure plate (19) supported by said end plugs (18A, 
18B). 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 6, 
characterised in that the length (L) of said lateral 

closure plate (19) extending between the end plugs (18A, 
18B) equals the width of each joining plate (4) linking 

the side members (2, 3). 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of 

claims 5 to 7, characterised in that additionally end 
caps (23) are provided for additional side fitments on 

the side members (2, 3). 
A ventilating device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that each side member 

(2, 3) includes a downstand wall (12) for engagement with 
a side surface of a window frame. 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the socket means 

(13A, 13B) include internal serrations to facilitate 
securement of the joining plates (4) in the socket means 

(13A, 13B). 
A ventilation device for location at a window 
frame ; said device (1) including a main duct body (1A) 

comprising first and second side members (2, 3) each 
including a bottom part serving as a support whereby the 

members can rest on an outer edge of a window frame at 
respective corners thereof, each of said side members (2, 

3) including an aperture means for through flow of 
ventilating air, characterised in that the ventilation 

device is suitable for placing between a window frame and a 
surrounding building structure, in that a pair of 

vertically spaced connecting devices (37, 39) link the 
side members (2, 3) so as to define a duct (11) for air 

flow between the aperture means of said side members (2, 
3), each of said connecting devices (37, 39) comprising a  

 
tongue (37) carried by one side member (3) and a socket 

(39) carried by the other side member (2) to receive said 
tongue (37) whereby said connecting devices (37, 39) 

provide for width variation of the ventilation device. 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that at least one of 

the side members (2, 3) includes releasable connecting 
means (7, 8) whereby an additional fitment (6, 40) can be 

attached to the main duct body (1A). 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 12, 
characterised in that said releasable connecting means 

(7, 8) comprises a male-female connection. 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims. characterised in that at least one of 

said side members (2, 3) includes receiving means (15) to 
receive a slider plate (16) of an air flow control, said 

at least one side member (2, 3) including an apertured 
wall adjacent said receiving means (15). 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding caims, characterised in that recess means (42, 

43) are provided on any of the top and bottom of the main 
duct body (1A) to receive fitting tongues (45, 45A) of an 

associated fitment. 
A ventilation device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claim, characterised in that said side members 

(2, 3) comprise basic elements constituted by open form 
extrusions, said aperture means being subsequently cut in 

said extrusions. 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 12, 
chacterised in that a weather canopy (6, 40) is attached 

to at least one of said side members (2, 3) by said 
releasable connecting means (7, 8) to shield the aperture 

means of the side member (2, 3). 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 11, 
characterised in that any one of the tongue (37) and 

socket (39) of each connecting device carries serrations 
to facilitate securement of the tongue (37) in the socket 

(39).  
 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 11, 
characterised in that end caps are provided to close the 

ends of the main duct body (1A). 
A ventilation device as claimed in claim 14, 
characterised in that both of said side members (5A) 

includes a slider (16) located in receiving means, and 
connecting means (64) join the sliders (15) so that the 

sliders are caused to move together. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
