<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627328</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Programmable organizer and method of making same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42D500	B42D504	G09B2900	G09B2900	G09D300	G09D304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42D	B42D	G09B	G09B	G09D	G09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42D5	B42D5	G09B29	G09B29	G09D3	G09D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disposable two-ply programmable reack or organizer (48) is 
described along with a preferred in-line paper supply 

handling or manufacturing system. A preferred system, using a 
roll of paper (40) for a supply source is shown and described 

along with several alternate systems. Paper of the supply may 
be pre-printed or blank so that the two-ply programmable rack 

or organizer may be manufactured in printed form or made in 
blank form. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILEN RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILEN, RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILEN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILEN, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to programmable devices, such 
as organizers and methods of making programmable devices. In 
particular the present invention relates to disposable or 
inexpensive programmable devices made from relatively 
inexpensive materials and methods of making such programmable 
devices. In the days prior to television broadcasting, radio was a 
large part of family entertainment, especially in the home. 
There were relatively few radio broadcasting stations in any 
one particular area and, for the most part, most radio 
stations shut down during the early hours of the morning. 
Only a few radio stations broadcast twenty-four (24) hours a 
day and most of those that did broadcast around the clock 
played pre-recorded music over the air. Another characteristic 
of radio was that most radio, which was not pre-recorded 
music, was broadcast live. Programs for radio were published in the newspaper, usually 
on a daily basis. Programs were based on time of presentation 
and the radio station airing the broadcast. It was normal for 
an individual to look at a radio program, seek out the 
particular time on the program schedule and look to see what 
was listed as being presented over the various radio stations 
at that time. Essentially, radio programs were simple and 
easy to read. There was very little, if any program duplication 
or replay. With the introduction of television there were also only a 
relatively few television broadcasting stations during the 
infancy of television for any particular area. Television 
programs, also published in the newspaper, were also published 
daily and were based on time of presentation primarily,  
 
and the television stations commonly referred to as 
"channels" listed under the time, with the identification of 
the presentation being broadcast. Although radio broadcasting was expanded from audio modulation 
broadcasting to frequency modulation broadcasting and 
radio broadcasting was networked among the major broadcasting 
stations in large population areas, radio was not cablized 
and carried to individual homes by a cable network. In 
addition, radio really never competed with motion pictures 
because radio lacked the visual concept found in motion 
pictures. Thus, radio programming remained relatively uncomplex and 
programs published daily in local papers for local broadcasting 
stations remain relatively simple and easy to read. Television, hereinafter referred to as TV, unlike radio, 
became greatly expanded. Networks of cable were installed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A two-ply programmable organizer sheet comprising 

a) a first sheet (15) and a second sheet (16) bonded 
together in two-ply configuration (48) by adhesive 

stripes (10a - 10d; 11a - 11d), said adhesive stripes 
also defining hollow pockets in the two-ply sheet 

formed by said two-ply configuration, and 
b) slits (21a - 21e) cut into the surface of said first 
sheet (15), said slits being offset from said adhesive 

stripes (10a - 10d; 11a - 11e) and defining openings 
in said hollow pockets. 
A two-ply programmable organizer sheet as in claim 1, in 
which one sheet of said first sheet (15) and said second 

sheet (16) includes printed data thereon. 
A two-ply programmable organizer sheet as in claim 1, in 
which said slit cuts extend substantially across the 

surface of said first sheet (15) without interruption. 
A two-ply programmable organizer sheet as in claim 1, in 
which said slits (21a - 21e) cut into the surface of said 

first sheet (15) extend substantially across the surface 
of said first sheet with at least one interruption (23) 

of said slit (21a - 21e). 
A two-ply programmable organizer as in claim 1, in which 
said slits (21a - 21e) are cut into the surface of said 

first sheet (15) and said adhesive stripes (11a - 11e) 
are layed down on a surface of said second sheet (16). 
A two-ply programmable organizer as in claim 1, in which 
said slits (21a - 21e) are cut into a surface of said 

first sheet (15) and said adhesive stripes (11a - 11e) 
are layed down on said surfadce of said first sheet (15). 
A two-ply programmable organizer for programming a series 
of events over a predetermined calender period, said 

programmable organizer comprising 
a) a first sheet (15) of paper of a predetermined size 
and predetermined shape, and a second sheet (16) of 

paper of said predetermined size and said predetermined 
shape, a pattern of lines (11a - 11e) of 

adhesive material on said first sheet (15), said first 
sheet and said second sheet bonded together in a 

two-ply sheet (48) by said pattern of lines of 
adhesive material, said pattern of lines of adhesive 

material including a plurality of vertically spaced 
horizontal lines defining at least five vertically 

spaced horizontal spaces between said first sheet and 
said second sheet, each space of said five vertically 

spaced horizontal spaces defining a space for a 
horizontal pocket for providing five vertically spaced 

said horizontal pockets, each said horizontal pocket 
representing a calendar week, each said horizontal 

pocket apparently divided into a group of seven daily 
pockets by an indicia on said second sheet, each said 

group of seven daily pockets defining a week in days 
of a week, 
b) each said space including a slit means (21a - 21e) cut 
in said second sheet (16) of said two-ply sheet (48) 

inside each pair of vertically spaced horizontal lines 
defining said horizontal pocket for forming an opening 

in said second sheet for providing access to each said 
daily pocket in said group of said seven daily 

pockets, and 
c) a data in the form of consecutive numbers assigned to 
sequentially positioned daily pockets, each number 

representing a numerical date of a month occurring on 
the day of the week to which such number is assigned 

for providing a predetermined calendar of pockets. 
A method of making a two-ply programmable organizer (48) 
from a paper supply (40) comprising the steps of 


a) feeding paper from the said supply (40) into a slit 
stage (41) for cutting a predetermined pattern of 

slits (21a - 21e) into a surface of said paper, 
b) laying down (42) a pattern of adhesive material strips 
onto said surface of said paper, and 
c) combining (43) said sheet with itself so that said 
sheet forms a two-ply sheet with said surface being 

the inside surface of said two-ply sheet (48). 
A method of making a disposable two-ply sheet programmable 
organizer from a paper supply comprising the steps 

of 

a) feeding paper from said supply (40) into a slit stage 
(41) for cutting a predetermined pattern of slits (21a 

- 21e) into a surface of said paper, 
b) feeding said paper into a glue stage (42) for laying 
down a predetermined pattern of stripes of glue on 

said surface of said paper, said stripes of glue being 

offset from said slits, 
c) feeding said paper into a combining stage (54) for 
making a two-ply sheet (48) with said surface an 

interior surface said stripe of glue bonding said 
two-ply sheet and defining pockets in said two-ply 

sheet, said slits (21a - 21e) defining openings in 
said pockets. 
A method of making a programmable organizer from a paper 
supply comprising the steps of 


a) feeding paper from said paper supply (40) into a 
slitter (41) for cutting a pattern of slits (21a -21e) 

into a surface of said paper, 
b) feeding said paper from said slitter into a pattern 
gluer (42) for laying down a pattern of glue stripes 

(11a - 11e) on said surface of said paper, said slit 
being offset from said glue stripes, 
c) feeding said paper from said pattern gluer (42) into a 
cutter (53) for cutting said paper into a first 

portion and a second portion, and 
d) feeding said paper from said cutter (53) into a 
combiner (54) for combining said first portion with 

said second portion, said first and second portions 
bonded together by said pattern of glue stripes and 

 
forming a two-ply sheet (48), said glue stripes (11a - 

11e) defining pockets in said two-ply sheet, said 
slits defining openings in said pockets. 
A method according to claim 10, further including the 
step of feeding said two-ply sheet into a cut-off device 

for separating said two-ply sheet from said paper supply. 
A method of making a programmable organizer from a common 
supply of paper comprising the steps of 


a) feeding paper from said supply (40) of paper into a 
slitter (41) for cutting a predetermined pattern of 

slits into a surface of a portion of said paper, 
b) feeding said paper from said slitter (41) into a 
pattern gluer (42) for laying down a pattern of glue 

stripes of said surface of said paper on a second 
portion thereof, and 
c) feeding said paper from said pattern gluer (42) into a 
folder (43) for folding said portion onto said second 

portion, whereby said surface is in the interior 
surface of the folded sheet, whereby said folded sheet 

is a two-ply sheet (48) bonded together by said glue 
along said pattern of glue stripes and defining 

pockets in said two-ply sheet and said slits define 
openings in said pockets for receiving and storing 

data therein. 
A method according to claim 12, further including the 
step of feeding said two-ply sheet onto a cut-off device 

for separating said two-ply sheet from said supply of 
paper. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein said paper supply 
is a stack of sheets of paper and feeding paper includes 

separating one sheet of paper from said stack of paper. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
