<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651119</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A transmitter for a remote control group
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08C1928	G08C1916	G07C900	G07C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08C	G08C	G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08C19	G08C19	G07C9	G07C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transmitter (2) for a remote control group can learn a 
code embedded in a radiation signal received from another 

transmitter (2) of the same group. A non-resettable teach 
status switch (16) sets an instruction which is 

transmitted with every time a code is transmitted. This 
instruction may be recognised by a receiving transmitter 

and instructs operation of the receiving transmitter. The 
information may be to indicate whether or not the code may 

be learned by the receiving transmitter and therefore, a 
transmitter may be set as a "learn only" transmitter or as 

a "learn and teach" transmitter. It is only necessary for 
the user to press the relevant transmit button on each of 

the transmitters. This is because the controller (20) of 
the transmitter monitors a radio receiver (23) every time 

the transmit button is pressed. In addition, it delays 
transmission of a code when a transmit button is pressed 

so that it can listen to the radiation receiver (23). 
There are two delay periods, the first for detection of a 

signal, and the second longer period for recognition of a 
valid code. The second period is not used if no signal is 

detected in the first period. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHISILOG RES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHISILOG RESEARCH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALATIANOS ALEXANDER DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALATIANOS, ALEXANDER, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a transmitter for a remote 
control group, the transmitter being of the type 
comprising:- 
a controller; a non-volatile memory; a radiation transmitter; a radiation receiver; a user interface; a means in the controller for directing transmission of 
a radiation signal having an embedded code recognisable 
by a receiver of the group for activation of a shared 
function; and means in the controller for directing reception of a 
radiation signal, for extraction of a code from a 
received signal, and for storage of the code in the 
non-volatile memory to learn the code for future use. In this specification, the phrase "remote control group" 
is intended to cover a group wherein there are one or more 
receivers and a number of transmitters. The invention 
applies particularly, but not exclusively to gate and 
barrier opening remote control groups where there may be 
hundreds of transmitters and several receivers. United States patent specification No. US-A-4988992 
(Chamberlain) describes a transmitter having the features 
set out above. In this transmitter, a program switch and  
 
a transmit switch are pressed simultaneously to cause 
random generation of a code which is inputted to a NOR 
gate. The other input of the NOR gate may receive at the 
same time a code from another transmitter via a radio 
reception circuit. If a remote code is being received, 
the random code generator is disabled and it is the 
received code which is stored in the non-volatile memory. 
If no remote code is being received, it is the randomly 
generated code which is stored. While this arrangement is apparently quite effective at 
providing for storage of fresh codes, it appears that 
problems would arise in security in the remote control 
group as the transmitter can learn a code from any other 
transmitter of the group. Thus, it would be quite easy 
for unauthorised people to operate a transmitter to learn 
a correct code from another transmitter. Another problem is that it is necessary to press 
simultaneously a combination of two input buttons out of 
a total of three such buttons. This requires a certain 
degree of knowledge of the program state of the 
transmitter. Where the remote control group includes 
hundreds of users, it can be quite time-consuming to 
educate every user as to how the transmitter operates. There is therefore a need for a transmitter which provides 
for additional security in control of remote control 
groups, and also for a transmitter which is easier to 
operate than
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmitter (2) for a remote control group, the 
transmitter (2) comprising : 


a controller (20); 
a non-volatile memory (21); 
a radiation transmitter (22); 
a radiation receiver (23); 
a user interface (13); 
means in the controller (20) for directing 
transmission of a radiation signal having an 

embedded code recognisable by a receiver of the 
group for activation of a shared function; and 
means in the controller (20) for directing 
reception of a radiation signal, for extraction of 

a code from a received signal, and for storage of 
the code in the non-volatile memory (21) to learn 

the code for future use, 
 
   characterised in that, 


the controller further comprises :- 
means for embedding an instruction together with 
the code in a transmitted radiation signal to 

instruct operation of a transmitter (2) receiving 
the signal; and  

 
means for automatically monitoring received 
radiation signals for presence of such an 

instruction, and for operating according to the 
instruction. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
instruction is an indicator as to whether or not the 

accompanying code can be learned, thereby setting the 
transmitter as having a teach and learn status or a 

learn only status. 
A transmitter as claimed in claims 1 or 2 wherein the 
controller (20) is connected to a non-resettable 

switch (16) which determines the instruction to be 
embedded in the radiation signal. 
A transmitter as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein the radiation signal cont
ains a sequence of 
binary bits, the instruction being within a pre-set 

sequence of the bits. 
A transmitter as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein the controller is activated to automatically 

monitor the radiation receiver in response to a 
transmit instruction from the user interface. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 5 wherein the 
controller comprises a means for delaying signal 

transmission for a pre-set period after receipt of a 
user transmit instruction, and a means for monitoring 

the radiation receiver during said period. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
controller (20) further comprises a means for 

delaying signal transmission for a second period if 
a signal is detected during the first period, and a  

 
means for attempting to extract a code embedded in a 

detected signal during the second period. 
A transmitter (2) for a remote control group, the 
transmitter comprising:- 


a controller (20); 
a non-volatile memory (21); 
a radiation transmitter (22); 
a radiation receiver (23); 
a user interface (13); 
means in the controller (20) for directing 
transmission of a radiation signal having an 

embedded code recognisable by a receiver of the 
group for activation of a shared function; 
means in the controller (20) for reception of a 
radiation signal, for extraction of a code from 

a received signal and for storage of the code in 
the non-volatile memory (21) to learn the code 

for future use, 
 
   characterised in that,
 
   the controller comprises means for automatically 

monitoring the radiation receiver in response to 
a transmit instruction from the user interface. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 8, wherein the 
controller comprises means for delaying signal 

transmission for a pre-set period after receipt of a  
 

user transmit instruction, and means for monitoring 
the radiation receiver during the period. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
controller further comprises means for delaying 

signal transmission for a second period if a signal 
is detected during the first period, and means for 

attempting to extract a code during the second 
period. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
