<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659278</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUID DISPENSING APPARATUS AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A chemical analyser (10) includes a fluid dispensing system (46) with a carrier member (18) and fluid dispensing head (72). The carrier member (18) includes a docking fixture (52) and the fluid dispensing head includes a docking receptacle (54). By engagment of the docking fixture and receptacle the carrier member carries the fluid dispensing head to a position above a recess (34) into which fluid is precisely dispensed. The carrier member also returns the fluid dispensing head to a storage location (64) substantially separating the fluids to be dispensed from the environment of the analyzer. When the fluid dispensing head is in its storage location the carrier member may disengage to perform other functions in the analyzer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSCAN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSCAN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLUID DISPENSING APPARATUS AND METHODBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention is in the field of fluid dispensing apparatus and methods. More particularly, the present invention relates to fluid dispensing apparatus and methods for analytical systems used in a variety .of environments to carry out analytical, laboratory, and clinical procedures. These analytical systems ' are generally automatic or semiautomatic and are used in hospital and clinical environments. Generally such analytical systems are used to process patient specimens including, for example, tissue and bodily fluid samples, for detecting the presence of various chemical compounds and organisms therein.Discussion of the Related TechnologyConventional chemical analyzers and incubators have been known which employ fluid dispensing apparatus. For example, microbiological analytical systems are known currently which carry out automated antimicrobic susceptibility testing procedures using both photometric and fluorometric detection methods. United States patents nos. 4,643,879; 4,676,951; and 4,681,741, describe certain features of such a system. Generally, the conventional analyzer includes a vertically extending annular incubation chamber within which is loaded a plurality of specimen trays each defining plural recesses within which a portion of selected specimen material is placed for processing. On the specimen trays the recesses are arranged in rows and columns to form a rectangular grid. The specimen trays in a horizontal disposition and each with an individual cover are stacked vertically one above the other and are 

vertically spaced apart in plural tray racks within the incubation chamber.The incubation chamber includes a carousel moving the specimen trays in their racks around the annulus of the incubation chamber. A column structure extends vertically up the center of the incubation chamber annulus, and a carrier is vertically movable on this column. The tray racks are moved about the incubation chamber to bring a selected rack in front of the carrier. This carrier includes an extensible shelf which may be extended into the tray storage rack to lift a particular specimen tray therefrom. The rack itself is configured so that the tray cover stays in the rack. Consequently, the carrier shelf receives the tray without its cover so that the recesses within which the specimens are carried are open while the tray is on the carrier shelf. The specimen trays are formed of translucent or transparent material,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims ;
1. A fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a fluid dispensing head having plural fluid dispensing nozzles, a carrier translatable along a first axis and including a shuttle member translatable along a second axis perpendicular to said first axis, said shuttle and fluid dispensing head defining cooperating means for selectively engaging and disengaging said fluid dispensing head with said shuttle in response to first, second, and third movements of said carrier and shuttle along said first, said second, and said first axis, respectively, for, when engaged, moving said fluid dispensing head with said shuttle for dispensing fluid to a first receptacle therefor, and when disengaged disposing said fluid dispensing head upon a second receptacle for receiving fluid therefrom.
2. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said carrier is movable vertically along said first axis.
3. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said shuttle member is movable horizontally along said second axis.
4. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said cooperating means includes said shuttle member and said fluid dispensing head respectively defining an engageable docking fixture and docking receptacle.
5. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said docking fixture includes a cavity extending parallel with said second axis. 


 6. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said docking receptacle includes a support lug extending parallel with said second axis and supportably receivable in said cavity.
7. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 6 wherein said support lug extends toward said docking fixture from a support portion of said docking receptacle, which support portion parallels said first axis.
8. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said docking fixture further includes a resilient member extending parallel with said second axis and defining a pair of cusps, said support portion of said support docking receptacle including a pair of chamfers which are engaged by said cusps when said support lug is fully engaged into said cavity.
9. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second receptacle includes a funnel member.
10. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 9 wherein said funnel member includes an upwardly open cylindrical bore, said fluid dispensing head including a depending cylindrical portion closely receivable into said funnel bore when said head is disengaged from said shuttle.
11. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said funnel member defines a spout portion communicating with said second receptacle.
12. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said second receptacle further includes a catch bag for receiving fluid from said head via said funnel member. 


 13. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said funnel bore and said depending portion of said head are circular in plan view, said docking receptacle further including an extending arm portion having a pin member extending therefrom parallel with said first axis, and a. locating lug fixedly related with said funnel member and defining a bore extending parallel with said first axis and slidably receiving said pin member when said dispensing head is disposed upon said funnel member.
14. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said locating lug further includes a sensor providing a signal indicative of the presence upon or absence from said funnel member of said dispensing head.
15. The fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said funnel member and said fluid dispensing head cooperatively define a substantially closed chamber into which said fluid dispensing nozzles open.
16. A fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a fluid dispensing head having a fluid dispensing nozzle communicating with a source of fluid to be dispensed; a head carrier member movable along an axis parallel with a line intersecting said fluid dispensing head; and cooperating docking means for engaging and disengaging said fluid dispensing head with said carrier member singularly in response to respective opposite movements of the latter along said axis.
17. The apparatus of Claim 16 wherein said cooperating docking means includes one of said fluid dispensing head and carrier member having a docking cavity extending parallel with said axis, the other of said fluid dispensing head and carrier member having a docking lug 


receivable into said docking cavity to engage said fluid dispensing head with said carrier member.
18. The invention of Claim 17 wherein said cooperative docking means further includes resilient means for removably retaining said docking lug within said docking cavity.
19. The invention of Claim 18 wherein said cooperating docking means further includes cooperating abutment surfaces for locating said fluid dispensing head relative to said carrier member.
20. The invention of Claim 16 further including means for holding and positioning said fluid dispensing head when the latter is not engaged with said carrier member and preparatory to such engagement.
21. The invention of Claim 20 wherein said means for holding and positioning said fluid dispensing head includes a receptacle for fluid from said dispensing head.
22. The invention of Claim 21 wherein said receptacle substantially sealingly cooperates with said fluid dispensing head to define a chamber into which said fluid dispensing nozzle opens.
23. In a chemical analyzer, a method of precisely and reliably attaching a fluid dispensing head which is disposed in a storage location with a carrier member for said head preparatory to movement of said head with said carrier and the dispensing from said head of fluid to preselected receptacles therefor; said method including the steps of: a) moving said carrier member along a first axis to a first position of alignment with said head along a second axis perpendicular with said first axis; 


 b) moving said carrier parallel with said second axis to engage said carrier member with said fluid dispensing head while the latter is held in said storage location; and c) moving said carrier member along said first axis to withdraw said head from said storage location.
24. The method of Claim 23 wherein said movements (a) and (c) are along said first axis in opposite directions.
25. The method of Claim 23 further including the steps of forming on said carrier member and dispensing head a respective cooperative docking fixture and docking receptacle which are mutually configured to interengage with one.another by relative movement along said second axis, and engaging said docking features by movement of said carrier along said second axis.
26. The method of Claim 25 further including the steps of providing a yieldable resilient member removably cooperatively retaining said docking features interengaged with one another.
27. The method of Claim 23 further including the steps of configuring said storage location and fluid dispensing head to allow relative withdrawal motion therebetween only along said first axis.
28. The method of Claim 23 further including the steps of configuring said storage location and said fluid dispensing head to cooperatively define a substantially closed chamber, and communicating a fluid dispensing nozzle of said head with said chamber. 


 29. A chemical analyzer apparatus comprising: a housing defining an incubation chamber; a column member in said incubation chamber; a carrier member vertically movable along said column member; a shelf member extendable and retractable from said carrier member to extract a specimen tray having plural specimen recesses therein from said incubation chamber into said carrier member; a shuttle member movable laterally on said carrier along said specimen tray; a reagent liquid dispensing assembly inferior to said incubation chamber, said dispensing assembly including a fluid dispensing head, and holding means for said dispensing head; and said shuttle member and said fluid dispensing head defining cooperating docking means for interengaging with one another in response to movement of said shuttle member laterally of said carrier member.
30. The chemical analyzer of Claim 29 wherein said cooperating docking means includes a support cavity and a support bug receivable into said cavity in response to relative movement of said shuttle member and said fluid dispensing head laterally of one another. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
