<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634078</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLOR CALIBRATION FOR LCD PANEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F1133	G09G336	G09G336	H04N912	H04N912	H04N930	H04N973	H04N973	H04N1700	H04N1700	H04N1704	H04N1704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N17	H04N17	H04N17	H04N17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A presentation system uses a computer to store and transmit electronic images to a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel which rests on an overhead projector. The LCD panel includes a calibration circuit designed to correct discrepancies in the saturation levels of the three primary colors. The calibration circuit determines the digital values in a signal corresponding to a test pattern of maximum intensity for all three colors, and compares these values to predetermined theoretical values. The differences between these values are recorded as calibration constants and are used to correct the image signals transmitted from the computer. A remote control unit may be used to provide a stimulus to both the computer (to generate the test pattern) and the LCD panel (to execute the calibration process).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEDY JAMES K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEDY, JAMES, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COLOR CALIBRATION FOR LCD PANELBackground of the Invention1. Field of the Invention The present invention generally relates to electronic video displays, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for calibrating the video output from a computer to optimize color contrast in a liquid crystal display panel. 2. Description of the Prior ArtLiquid crystal display (LCD) panels are known in the art and, in recent years, have increasingly been used in combination with overhead projectors (OHP's) to allow visual presentation of electronically stored graphic images. An exemplary LCD/OHP setup is shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,846,694. In this conventional configuration, a controller (typically a personal computer) is used to create and store the graphic images. The LCD panel, which is placed on the stage area of the OHP, is electrically connected to the primary or auxiliary video output port of the computer.The present invention relates to the use of LCD panels to display color (or gray-scale) images. Prior art devices have already overcome several problems in the presentation of color images. The first of these problems was the complete lack of an LCD panel which was even capable of display "true" colors, i.e., combinations of primary colors, either additive or subtractive. For example, the LCD panel disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,944,578 is a "pseudocolor" panel, capable of displaying only certain color combinations such as yellow and blue, based on the birefringent characteristics of the liquid crystal medium. The control electronics for that panel map primary colors from the computer video output to selected colors available in the panel; the color gamut may be varied by changing the operating voltage of the panel, which affects the birefringent response of the panel. 

 Later LCD panels provided true color by either using primary color triads, similar to the pixel triads in conventional television screens (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,791,415), or by providing a three-layer stack of LCD panels, each panel providing one of the three primary colors (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,917,465). Other refinements in color LCD technology include: automatic adjustment of color depending upon ambient lighting conditions and (with respect to the spectral luminous efficiency of human eyes) the particular color being used (see U.S. Patent No. 4,752,771); improved color convergence using synchronous adjustment of the transmission of primary color light gates (see U.S. Patent No. 4,907,862); and manual adjustment of color
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of correcting video output which is electronically transmitted from a source to a display device, the video output including at three components corresponding to three colors, comprising the steps of: generating, at the source, a test pattern having three signals corresponding to the three colors; determining the differences between a predetermined signal level and the signal level of each of the three color signals; and calibrating the video output by adjusting the video output based on each of the differences.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said generating step is accomplished by sequentially generating the three color signals.
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein said generating step is accomplished by simultaneously generating the three color signals.
4. The method of Claim 1 wherein said generating step generates a test pattern having three primary colors.
5. The method of Claim 1 wherein: the predetermined signal level and the three color signal levels are digital values; the differences are digital calibration constants, one for each of the three components of the video signal; and said calibrating step is accomplished by adding the calibration constants to the three components of the video signal, respectively.
6. The method of Claim 1 wherein the three components are transmitted in analog form, and further comprising the step of converting analog values of the three components into digital values using three separate analog-to-digital converters each having an external voltage reference, said calibrating step being accomplished by varying the external voltage references 


based on said differences.
7. The method of Claim 5 wherein the three components are transmitted in analog form, and further comprising the step of converting analog values of the three components into digital values using three separate comparators, each comparator having first and second inputs, the first inputs receiving the three analog components, respectively, and the second inputs being electrically connected in parallel to the output of a digital-to-analog converter, said determining step being accomplished by: sequentially increasing a digital input to the digital-to-analog converter to increase its output level until a given one of the comparators switches from a low state to a high state; and comparing the value of the digital input of the digital-to-analog converter, when the comparator so switches states, to the predetermined signal level.
8. The method of Claim 6 wherein: said external voltage references of said analog-to-digital converters are electrically connected, respectively, to three addressable outputs of a digital- to-analog converter; and said step of varying the external voltage references is further accomplished by adjusting the level of the three addressable outputs of the digital-to-analog converter. 

9. A device for visually presenting an electronically stored image based on electronic video output having three components in analog form, corresponding to three colors, comprising: means for converting analog voltage levels into digital values; correction means, electrically connected to said converting means, for (i) determining three digital reference values, one for each of the three colors, corresponding to three reference video signals, respectively, (ii) recording the differences, respectively, between a predetermined digital value and said digital reference values, and (iii) calibrating each of the three components in the video output based on said differences, respectively, resulting in calibrated digital values; video memory means for temporarily storing said calibrated digital values; display means electrically connected to said video memory means for visually reproducing the electronically stored image; means electrically connected to said video memory means and said display means for controlling output from said video memory means to said display means.
10. The device of Claim 9 wherein: said converting means comprises an analog-to- digital converter; and said correction means comprises means, electrically connected to said analog-to-digital converter and to said video memory means, for adding said differences, respectively, to digital values associated with the three components to yield said calibrated digital values, and for transmitting said calibrated digital values to said video memory means.
11. The device of Claim 9 further comprising a digital-to-analog converter having three individually 


addressable outputs, wherein: said converting means comprises three analog- to-digital converters, one for each color, each of said converters having an external voltage reference, said external voltage references being electrically connected to said addressable outputs of said digital-to-analog converter, respectively; and said correction means comprises means, electrically connected to each of said analog-to-digital converters, to said video memory means, and to said digital-to-analog converter, for biasing the reference voltages of said analog-to-digital converters. 12. The device of Claim 9 wherein: said converting means comprises a digital-to- analog converter having a digital input and an analog output, and three comparators each having a first input, a second input, and an output, said first inputs receiving_the three analog components, respectively, said second inputs being electrically connected in parallel to said analog output of said digital-to-analog converter; and said correction means comprises means, electrically connected to said digital input of said digital-to-analog converter, to said outputs of said comparators, and to said video memory means, for adding said differences, respectively, to digital values associated with the three components to yield said calibrated digital values, and for transmitting said calibrated digital values to said video memory means. 13. The device of Claim 9 further comprising means for remotely activating said correction means to determine said three digital reference values and to record said differences between said predetermined digital value and said digital reference values. 14. The device of Claim 9 wherein the colors corresponding to the three components of the video output are primary colors. 


 15. The device of Claim 9 wherein said display means comprises liquid crystal means for providing a light-transmissive image based on said calibrated digital values. 

16. In a presentation system having a source for transmitting three analog image signals, corresponding to the primary colors of an electronically stored color image, to a display device having means for reproducing the image, the improvement comprising: means, in said source, for generating a test pattern having three analog reference signals of maximum intensity, one for each of said primary colors; means, in said display device, for converting analog voltage levels into digital values; correction means, in said display device, electrically connected to said converting means and said reproducing means, for (i) determining three digital reference values corresponding to said three analog reference signals, respectively, (ii) recording the differences, respectively, between a predetermined digital value and said digital reference values, and (iii) calibrating each of said three analog image signals based on said differences, respectively. 17. The presentation system of Claim 16 further comprising means for remotely activating said generating means and said corrections means to determine said three digital reference values and to record said differences between said predetermined digital value and said digital reference values.
18. The presentation system of Claim 16 wherein: said converting means comprises an analog-to- digital converter; and said correction means comprises means, electrically connected to said analog-to-digital converter and to said reproducing means, for adding said differences, respectively, to digital values associated with said three analog image signals to yield three calibrated digital values, and for transmitting said calibrated digital values to said reproducing means.
19. The presentation system of Claim 16 further 


comprising a digital-to-analog converter having an input and three individually addressable outputs, said digital- to-analog converter located in said display device, wherein: said converting means comprises three analog- to-digital converters, one for each primary color, each of said converters having an external voltage reference, said external voltage references being electrically connected to said addressable outputs of said digital-to- analog converter, respectively; and said correction means comprises means, electrically connected to each of said analog-to-digital converters, to said reproducing means, and to said input of said digital-to-analog converter, for biasing the reference voltages of said analog-to-digital converters based on said differences.
20. The presentation system of Claim 16 wherein said display device comprises a liquid crystal display panel, and further comprising an overhead projector having a light-transmissive stage area, said liquid crystal display panel being located adjacent said stage area. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
