<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612358</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SPUTTER COATING EMPLOYING MACHINE READABLE INDICIA CARRIED BY TARGET ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1434	C23C1434	H01J3734	C23C1454	C23C1454	H01J3732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	H01J	C23C	C23C	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C14	C23C14	H01J37	C23C14	C23C14	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HURWITT STEVEN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINNEMAN FRANK M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HURWITT, STEVEN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINNEMAN, FRANK, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to sputter 
coating and more particularly to the management and 
use of information, in a sputter coating system, 
relating to the identity, characteristics and 
history of a sputtering target. Sputter coating is a process carried out 
in a vacuum chamber which is filled with a 
generally chemically inert gas in which a substrate 
is coated with a material from a target of 
sputtering material subjected to a negative 
electrical potential with respect to the chamber 
wall or other anode. The potential gradient 
adjacent the target surface causes electrons to be 
emitted from the target which, on their way to the 
chamber anode which is usually formed in part by 
the grounded chamber wall, strike and ionize some 
of the inert gas. The positive ions formed are 
then attracted to the negative target which they 
strike, transferring momentum to the target 
material, and ejecting particles of the material  
 
from the target surface. The substrate to be 
coated, which is positioned in the chamber usually 
with its surface facing the target, receives some 
of the ejected particles which adhere to and coat 
the substrate surface. Magnetron sputtering is a sputter coating 
process in which a magnetic field is formed over 
the target surface, usually including magnetic 
field lines parallel to the target surface, and, in 
many applications, in the form of a closed magnetic 
tunnel. The magnetic field causes the electrons 
emitted to move in curved spiral paths which trap 
them in regions proximate the target surface 
enclosed by the field, thereby increasing the rate 
of electron collisions with gas atoms, which in 
turn increase the ionization of the gas and the 
efficiency of the sputtering process. In magnetron sputter coating processes, 
the sputtering of materials from the sputtering 
target occurs most rapidly into regions of the 
target where the plasma trapped by the magnetic 
field is the most dense. This causes the 
proportionate consumption or erosion of the 
sputtering material from the target surface. The 
erosion of sputtering material from other portions 
of the sputtering target surface generally occurs 
at a rate which varies in proportion to the  
 
strength and/or duration of the plasma over that 
portion of the target surface. Such erosion of the 
target at different rates across the target surface 
is sometimes desirable to achieve, for example, 
uniform coating of the substrate, as for example is 
described in the commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 
4,957,605,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An expendable target of sputter coating material, 
characterised in that the target has secured thereto a 

storage medium having recorded thereon, in machine readable 
indicia, information relating to the target. 
A target as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the 
information recorded on the medium includes information 

relating to the identity of the target. 
A target as claimed in either Claim 1 or Claim 2, 
wherein the information recorded on the medium includes 

information relating to the composition of the target. 
A target as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the information recorded on the medium includes 

information relating to the history of the target. 
A target as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the medium is a read-write medium. 
A target as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4, 
wherein the medium is a read-only medium. 
A target as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the medium is carried by the sputter coating 

material. 
A target as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7, 
further comprising a target support having the sputter 

coating material secured thereto, the medium being carried 
by the support. 
A target as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the 
medium is disposed on the target support such that 

information recorded thereon is destroyed by a process of 
either removing the target from or securing the target to 

the target support.  
 
A target as claimed in either Claim 8 or Claim 9, 
wherein the target support is secured to the target such 

that the target must be heated to a threshold temperature 
to remove the target from the target support and the medium 

is thermally erasable, and erases information stored 
therein at or below said threshold temperature. 
A target as claimed in any one of Claims 8 to 10, 
wherein the medium is disposed on the back of the target 

support and the reading means is positioned behind the 
target support. 
A sputter coating apparatus comprising structure 
defining a sputter processing chamber, a target as claimed 

in any one of Claims 1 to 11 supported in the chamber, and 
means carried by the structure and positioned for reading 

the information from the storage medium. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 12, wherein the 
information recorded on the medium is information relating 

to the identity of the target and the apparatus further 
comprises means coupled to the reading means for storing 

information relating to the identity of the target. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 13, wherein the 
storing means further includes means for storing 

information related to the history of the use of the target 
correlated with the information relating to the identity of 

the target. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 14, wherein the 
apparatus further comprises means for performing a sputter 

coating process with the target in the sputtering chamber 
and means for updating the history of the target in 

accordance with the performance of the process therewith. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 13 to  
 

15, wherein the storing means further includes means for 
storing information related to the time of the use of the 

target correlated with the information relating to the 
identity of the target. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 
16, wherein the medium is a read-write medium and the 

apparatus further comprises means for performing a sputter 
coating process with the target in the sputtering chamber 

and for logging a record of the occurrence of the process 
into the medium. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 
17, wherein the information recorded on the medium is 

information relating to the composition of the target and 
the apparatus further comprises means for applying 

sputtering power to the target and means coupled to the 
reading means for controlling the power applying means in 

accordance with the information read from the medium. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 
18, further comprising sputtering means for performing a 

sputter coating process with the target in the chamber, the 
sputtering means being coupled to the reading means to 

permit the sputtering means to control the process in 
accordance with the information read from the medium. 
A method of manufacturing a sputter coated 
article comprising the steps of installing in a sputter 

coating chamber of a sputter coating apparatus a target of 
sputter coating material and performing a sputter coating 

process through the use of the target to deposit a coating 
of the sputter coa
ting material on an article, 
characterised in that the target has a medium carrying 

machine readable information carried thereby and in that 
the method includes reading with a reader carried by the 

apparatus information from the medium and storing in a  
 

memory, information regarding the use of the target, the 
information including information read from the medium. 
A method as claimed in Claim 20, wherein the 
reading step includes the step of reading information 

relating to the identity of the target. 
A method as claimed in either Claim 20 or 21, 
wherein the reading step includes the step of reading 

information relating to the history of the use of the 
target. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 
22, wherein the reading step includes the step of reading 

information relating to the composition of the target. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 
23, further comprising the step of writing the stored 

information to a medium carried by the target. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 
24, further comprising the steps of writing the stored 

information to a machine readable medium and affixing the 
written medium to the target. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 
25, further comprising testing for information recorded on 

the medium and, if no information is recorded on the 
medium, prompting an operator to provide information 

regarding the use of the target. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 
26, wherein the stored information includes information of 

the energy consumed by the target during the sputtering 
therewith. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to  
 

27, wherein the stored information of the energy consumed 
by the target during the sputtering therewith includes 

information of the power applied to the target and the 
amount of time during which the power is applied. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
