<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653358</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plastic drum closure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D3900	B65D3908	B65D3916	B65D5300	B65D5302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D39	B65D39	B65D39	B65D53	B65D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A closure assembly for a shipping and storage drum (22) where 
the drum includes an internally threaded plastic outlet (21) for 

receipt of the closure assembly includes a plastic closure (20) 
having a generally cylindrical main body portion (40) which is 

externally threaded (46,47) and which constitutes the leading edge of 
threaded engagement into the outlet (21). Disposed at the upper 

end of the main body portion (40) and integral therewith is an 
annular, peripheral flange (43) the underside of which is shaped 

with an annular groove (44) which is designed to receive an 
elastomeric gasket (61). The annular groove (44) has an outwardly 

inclined outer wall and a generally cylindrical inner wall. 
The gasket (61) is held in position as part of the closure (20) by an 

interference fit between the inside surface of the gasket (61) and 
the inner cylindrical wall of the groove. The plastic outlet (21) 

of the shipping and storage drum includes a generally 
cylindrical raised rib (31) and outward thereto and concentric 

therewith a generally cylindrical raised wall (32). Upon full 
threaded engagement of the closure (20) into the outlet (21), the 

raised rib (31) presses into the central area of the elastomeric 
gasket (61) and the upper surface of the closure (20) is seated within 

the raised wall (32) and is below the top surface of the wall (32). 
The external threads (46,47) of the closure (20) arranged with two 

threaded portions, one portion being a straight thread (46) and 
the lower or leading edge portion being a tapered thread (47). 

The thread pitch is the same and the threads are continuous 
with each other. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIEKE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIEKE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUGHMAN GARY MONROE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUGHMAN, GARY MONROE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to externally
threaded plastic closures for plastic drums of the type where
the opening(s) in the drum have standard two inch (5.08 cm)
NPS threads. More particularly, the present invention
relates to plastic closures which have a gasket encapsulating
structure in the closure flange and external threads arranged
with a straight portion and a lower tapered portion as defined in the
preamble of claim 1.Drum manufacturers and plastic drum reconditioners have
the majority of their processing problems either
manufacturing or servicing the two inch (5.08 cm) NPS
threaded opening. Because of the inherent design of the NPS
thread (originally designed for steel pipe fittings), drum
manufacturers have a very difficult time manufacturing a drum
which will perform to the required Department of
Transportation and United Nations regulations. Typically the
first area to fail is the two inch (5.08 cm) NPS threaded
opening. Reconditioners have significant problems with the
NPS opening ovalizing and shrinking to the point where a
plastic drum closure cannot be screwed into the opening in
the drum end. However, drum users want to maintain the NPS
thread due to adaptability or existing pumps and faucets.US-5211304 (corresponding to the preamble of claim 1) discloses a
closure assembly comprising a
closure element which is releasibly engaged with a
shipping and storage container for selectively
restricting the flow through a discharge outlet of the
container. The present invention provides an improvement and
solution to the foregoing problem by a unique thread
configuration and gasket encapsulating structure. The
present invention addresses the problems of ovalization and
shrinkage at the reconditioners and performance problems at
the drum manufacturers. In the present invention the
external threads on the closure are configured with one
portion which is straight, exhibiting a constant pitch
diameter, while the bottom most portion (bottom three 
threads) is tapered, or has a reducing pitch diameter. The
pitch of both the straight and tapered threads is constant
and this feature allows the closure to be installed in drum
openings which have ovalized or shrunk, problems which are
typically experienced by drum reconditioners. This opening
or outlet distortion is caused by the temperature of cleaning
solutions involved in the reconditioning process. Distortion
is promoted due to the relaxation of material stresses which
are introduced in the original manufacturing process of the
plastic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A closure assembly for a shipping and
storage drum (22), said drum having an internally

threaded plastic outlet (21) for receipt of said
closure assembly, said closure assembly

comprising:

a plastic closure (20) having an upper
end and opposite thereto a lower end and being formed

as an integral member including an externally
threaded (45) main body portion (40) and an

outwardly radiating annular flange (43) adjacent
said upper end and disposed at one end of said

main body portion (40), said annular flange (43)
being formed with and defining an annular groove

(44) opening down towards said lower end, said
annular groove (44) including an inner, generally

cylindrical, side wall (53); and an elastomeric
gasket (61) assembled into said groove (44),

characterised in that;
the elastomeric gasket (61) is held in
position by the sizing of said inner generally

cylindrical side wall (53) and the sizing of said
elastomeric gasket (61) so as to create an

interference fit; and
said externally threaded portion (45) is
arranged with two threaded portions including a

straight thread portion (46) adjacent said upper 
end and a tapered thread portion (47) adjacent

said lower end.
A closure assembly according to Claim 1,
wherein the upper end of the closure assembly

defines an exterior end which remains outside of
said threaded outlet (21) and the inner end of the

closure assembly defines an inserted end which
extends into said threaded outlet (21) when said

closure is received by the storage drum;

the annular groove (44) on the annular flange
defines a three-sided opening towards the inserted

end and including a top axial wall (52), an outer
inclined side wall (54) and the inner, generally

cylindrical side wall (53);
the ring-shaped elastomeric gasket (61) is held in
position by sizing the generally cylindrical side

wall (53) of the groove (44) larger than a
generally cylindrical inside surface of the gasket

(62), causing the gasket (61) to stretch in order
to fit around the generally cylindrical side wall

(53) of the groove (44); and
the threaded portions (46, 47) of the main body
have the same pitch and are continuous with each

other.
A closure assembly according to Claim 1,
wherein the two thread portions (46, 47) are 

continuous with each other and have the same
pitch.
A closure assembly according to any
previous claim, wherein the outermost radial

extent of the straight thread portion (46) is in
axial alignment with the generally cylindrical

side wall (53).
A closure assembly according to any
previous claim, wherein the plastic closure (20)

is formed with a plurality of wrench slots (42)
to assist in tightening and removing the closure

(20) from the plastic outlet.
A combination of a shipping and storage
drum, having a drum end (23) and an internally

threaded plastic outlet (21), and a plastic
closure (20) as defined in Claim 1, wherein:


the plastic outlet includes an inner,
generally cylindrical raised axial rib (31) and an

outer axial generally cylindrical raised wall
(32); and
the two threaded portions (46, 47) of the
main body (40) have the same pitch, the tapered

thread portion (47) being the first thread
inserted into the internally threaded plastic

outlet (21).
The combination according to Claim 6,
wherein said raised rib (31) is pressed into said

gasket (61) when said plastic closure (20) and
gasket (61) are fully seated into said plastic

outlet (21).
The combination according to Claims 6 or
7, wherein the uppermost portion of said plastic

closure (20) is disposed below the uppermost edge
of said raised wall (32) when said plastic closure

(20) is fully seated into said plastic outlet
(21).
The combination according to any one of
Claims 6, 7 or 8, wherein said gasket (61) is

pressed onto the top surface of said plastic
outlet (21) when the closure (20) is fully seated

within said plastic outlet (21).
A combination according to any one of
Claims 6 to 9, wherein the outermost radial extent

of said straight thread portion (46) is in axial
alignment with said generally cylindrical side

wall (53).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
