<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654709</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Container of solid processing agent used for silver halide photosensitive material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03D306	G03D306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03D	G03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03D3	G03D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A container for holding a solid processing agent used for a 
silver halide photosensitive material. The container includes 

a body for accommodating the plural solid processing agents, 
which are formed as tablets, in alignment. The body has a 

height (H) in a range from 1.03 to 1.50 times larger than a 
diameter (D) of the solid processing agents; and the body has 

a width (W) in a range from 1.03 to 1.50 times larger than a 
thickness (T) of the solid processing agents. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONISHIROKU PHOTO IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONICA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSE SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO, MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSE, SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a container for solid
processing agent used for silver halide photosensitive
material and a package containing the solid processing agent.
This solid processing agent used for silver halide
photosensitive material will be referred to as a processing
agent, hereinafter. More particularly, the present invention
relates to a container for solid processing agent used for
silver halide photosensitive material in which the problems of
damage of the solid processing agent and occurrence of powder
are solved in the process of conveyance or handling in the
case where the solid processing agent is formed into tablets.Usually, silver halide photosensitive material is
subjected to development processing, using processing
solutions such as a monochromatic developing solution, fixing
solution, color developing solution, bleaching solution,
bleaching and fixing solution, and stabilizing solution. For 
convenience, each processing solution is usually put into
plastic bottles in the form of a single type processing
solution or a plurality of types of processing solutions, and
these bottles filled with the processing solution are supplied
to users as a processing solution kit. Users dissolve the
processing solution kit in water, so that the processing
solution can be used for development as a starting solution or
a replenishing solution.Recently, in the business world of photographic
processing, the number of small-scale developing factories
referred to as a mini-laboratory is increased, wherein
automatic small developing apparatus are used in the mini-laboratory.
As the number of the mini-laboratories is
increased, the number of plastic bottles used for processing
solution is sharply increased every year.Since plastic is light and strong, it is widely used not
only for the bottles of photographic processing solutions but
also for other purposes. Production of plastic is increased
in the world every year. In 1988, the annual production
exceeded a hundred million tons. On the other hand, an amount
of waste plastic is large. For example, in Japan, about 40%
of its production is discarded as waste. When waste plastic
is discarded into the sea, environmental problems are caused,
and marine animals are affected. In Europe, waste plastic is
incinerated in incinerators, the exhaust gas processing
devices of which are incomplete, which is one of the causes of 
acid rain, and the problems of acid rain become acute every
year.In the circumstances described above, it is not
preferable that a large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A container for holding a solid processing agent used
for a silver halide photosensitive material, comprising:


a body (15,151) for accommodating a plurality of said
solid processing agents, which are formed as tablets (J), in

alignment;

characterized in that said body includes:

a plurality of chambers for accommodating said solid
processing agent tablets (J) wherein each of said chambers

has an inside height (H) in a range from 1.03 to 1.50 times
larger than the diameter (D) of said solid processing agent

tablets; and each of said chambers has an inside width (W) in
a range from 1.03 to 1.50 times larger than the thickness (T)

of said solid processing agent tablets; and in that
a rail member (15c) is provided in each of said chambers
for smoothing the roll of said solid processing agent tablets

in said chambers wherein at least one piece of said rail
member (15c) is provided at at least one of the upper inner wall side and

the lower inner wall side of each of said chambers.
The container of claim 1, wherein said body (15,151) is
made of a synthetic resin.
The container of claim 2, wherein said synthetic resin
is polyethylene.
The container of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said body
(15,151) includes a door member (15a,152), having an open

position and a closed position, provided at a side of said
body (15,151) from which said solid processing agent tablets

are delivered. 
The container of claim 4, wherein said door member (15a,
152) is adapted to be automatically set at said open position

when said container is coupled with a mount (16) for
receiving said container.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a protrusion shape and one is provided

at each of upper walls and lower walls of said chambers.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a protrusion shape and more than one

are provided at each of upper walls and lower walls of said
chambers.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a cut-out shape and one is provided at

each of upper walls and lower walls of said chambers.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a cut-out shape and more than one are

provided at each of upper walls and lower walls of said
chambers.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a protrusion shape and one is provided

either at upper walls or at lower walls of said chambers.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a protrusion shape and more than one

are provided either at upper walls or at lower walls of said
chambers.
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a cut-out shape and one is provided

either at upper walls or at lower walls of said chambers. 
The container of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
rail member (15c) has a cut-out shape and more than one are

provided either at upper walls or at lower walls of said
chambers.
The container of claim 1, wherein said solid processing
agent tablets are loaded in said body (15,151) so that only

a part of the outer circumference of any of said solid
processing agent tablets is in contact with a part of the

outer circumference of a consecutive one of said solid processing
agent tablets.
The container of claim 1, wherein said body includes;

at least a pair of partition walls protruding from the inner sides of the upper and lower walls of said body for separating said
body to at least two substantial chambers for

accomodating said solid processing agent tablets, wherein the
height H' of said partition walls and the inside heig
ht H of
said substantial chambers satisfy:


0.1 ≤ H' / H ≤ 0.6 .
A package of a solid processing agent used for a silver
halide photosensitive material, comprising:


a plurality of said solid processing agents, which are
formed as tablets (J) and are accommodated in alignment with

each other in a container body (15,151) for processing said
silver halide photosensitive material;

characterized in that said body (15,151) includes:

a plurality of chambers for accommodating said solid
processing agent tablets wherein each of said chambers has an

inside height (H) in a range from 1.03 to 1.50 times larger
than the diameter (D) of said solid processing agent tablets;

and each of said chambers has an inside width (W) in a range
from 1.03 to 1.50 times larger than the thickness (T) of said

solid processing agent tablets; and in that
a rail member (15c) provided in each of said chambers,
for smoothing the roll of the said solid processing agent tablets

in said chambers wherein at least one piece of said rail 
member (15c) is provided at at least one of the upper inner wall side and

the lower inner wall side of each of said chambers.
The package of claim 16, wherein a bulk density of said
solid processing agent tablets is between 1.0 and 2.5 g/cm
3
.
The package of claim 16 or 17, wherein a mechanical
strength (Z) of said solid processing agent tablets is

between 0.3 and 3.5 kg/mm.
The package of claim 16, 17 or 18, wherein a water
content of said solid processing agent tablets is between 0.1

and 15 weight %.
The package of any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein said
solid processing agent tablets are a color developer

including at least one of a development accelerator.
The package of any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein said
solid processing agent tablets are a bleaching processing

agent including at least one of a bleaching agent, halide,
and bleaching accelerator.
The package of any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein said
solid processing agent tablets are fixing processing agent

including at least one of a fixing agent, antioxidant, pH
adjusting agent, and fixing accelerator.
The package of any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein said
solid processing agent tablets are a bleaching fixing agent

including at least one of a bleaching agent, halide,
bleaching accelerator, a fixing agent, antioxidant, pH

adjusting agent, and fixing accelerator.
The package of any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein said
solid processing agent tablets are a stabilizing agent

including at least one of a surface active agent, 
formaldehyde substitute compound, chelate agent, fungicide,

and antioxidant.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
