<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622909</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Quantized coherent rake receiver for CDMA signals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B169	H04B1707	H04B169	H04L2722	H04B1707	H04L2722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04B	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04L27	H04B1	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implementation of coherent diversity combining in a RAKE
receiver that uses energy in signal echoes by integrating

information from main-path and bit-period-delayed signal
propagation paths to remove echo distortion, or time dispersion,

is described. If delayed by one chip in a CDMA system,
such echoes appear as uncorrelated interference. The RAKE

receiver correlates a despreading code with the current (main-path)
signal samples and with the signal samples delayed by 1,

2, 4, ... bit periods, and combines the correlation results to
determine the information content of the signal. After

appropriate conditioning, the received signal is digitized
and the signal samples are stored. Groups of samples are Fast

Walsh Transformed, and the real and imaginary transforms are
scaled according to a table of coefficients; the scaled

results are stored. Weighted, scaled transforms of groups
shifted by 1, 2, 4, ... samples are accumulated, and the index

of the largest-magnitude accumulation is used to select real
and imaginary transform values. The selected values are

transferred to a RAKE coefficient computer and quantizer that
determines from the sequence of values presented the mean

value and trend of the real and imaginary components. A
Kalman filter may use these values to estimate the values that

will occur during the next group analysis period.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENT PAUL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENT, PAUL W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Applicant's invention relates to methods and apparatuses for
receiving spread spectrum radio signals, such as digitally
modulated signals in a Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)
mobile radio telephone system, and more particularly to a RAKE
receiver scheme for such signals.In CDMA communication systems, transmitted information
signals overlap in both time and frequency as described in,
e.g., N. Tzannes, Communication and Radar Systems, pp. 237-239,
Prentice-Hall, Inc. (1985). An informational data stream
to be transmitted is impressed upon a much-higher-rate data
stream known as a "signature sequence". Typically, the
signature sequence data are binary, providing a bit stream.
One way to generate this signature sequence is with a pseudo-noise
(PN) process that appears random, but can be replicated
by an authorized receiver. The informational data stream and
the high-bit-rate signature sequence stream are combined by
multiplying the two bit streams together, assuming the binary
values of the two bit streams are represented by +1 or -1.
This combination of the higher-bit-rate signal with the lower-bit-rate
data stream is called "coding" or "spreading" the
informational data stream. Each informational data stream,
or channel, is allocated a unique signature sequence, or
"spreading code".A plurality of coded information signals modulate a radiofrequency
(RF) carrier by, for example, quadrature phase shift
keying (QPSK), and are jointly received as a composite signal
at a receiver. Each of the coded signals overlaps all of the
other coded signals, as well as noise-related signals, in both
frequency and time. If the receiver is authorized, the
composite signal is correlated with one of the unique spreading 
codes, and the corresponding information signal can be
isolated and decoded.One CDMA technique, called "traditional CDMA with direct
spreading", uses a spreading code to represent one bit of
information. Receiving the transmitted code or its complement
(the opposite of each bit of the code sequence) indicates
whether the information bit is a "-1" or "+1". The signature
sequence usually comprises N bits, and each bit is called a
"chip". The entire N-chip sequence, or its complement, is
referred to as a transmitted symbol. The receiver correlates
the received signal with the known signature sequence of its
own signature sequence generator to produce a normalized value
ranging from -1 to +1. When a large positive correlation
results, a "-1" is detected; when a large negative correlation
results, a "+1" is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for decoding a Code Division Multiple
Access signal comprising the steps of:


correlating (114) at least two time shifts of a
received signal against a spreading code, the received

signal comprising successive transmitted data symbols, the
at least two time shifts corresponding to a transmitted data

symbol;
weighting (112, 115a, 115b) the results of the
correlating step (114) according to coefficients selected

from a coefficient memory (115a), each coefficient having a
sign and a value that is an inverse integer power of two and

corresponding to a respective time shift;
summing (116) the results of the weighting step (112,
115a, 115b, 120) for each time shift in an accumulator; and
determining (117) the sign of the sum in the
accumulator to decode the transmitted data symbol.
The method of claim 1, wherein and the spreading
code and a complement of the spreading code correspond to

different respective transmitted binary data symbols
(+1, -1).
The method of claim 2, wherein the correlating
step (114) produces numerical binary-coded values in bit-serial

form.
The method of claim 3, wherein the summing step
(116) comprises the step of summing the weighted

correlations bit-serially in a plurality of recirculating
bit-serial memories.
The method of claim 4, wherein the weighting (112,
115a, 115b) step comprises the step of delaying use of the

bit-serial sums by an amount corresponding to the selected
coefficients. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the received signal
comprises a plurality of successive complex vector values,

and the correlating step (114) comprises the step of
producing complex correlation values, and the coefficients

are complex values whose both real and imaginary parts have
a sign and a value that is an inverse integer power of two.
The method of claim 1, modified in that the at
least two time shifts are correlated against at least two

spreading codes, the at least two spreading codes
corresponding to different transmitted data symbols, and the

weighting step (112, 115a, 115b) results are summed for each
time shift in a respective accumulator for each spreading

code, and the determining step (117) identifies the largest
sum produced by the summing step (116) to decode the

transmitted data symbols.
The method of claim 7, wherein the spreading codes
are mutually orthogonal.
The method of claim 8, wherein the spreading codes
are Walsh-Hadamard codes.
The method of claim 9, wherein the correlating
step (114) comprises carrying out a Fast Walsh Transform.
The method of claim 8, wherein the spreading codes
are Walsh-Hadamard codes modified by bitwise modulo-2

addition of a predetermined scrambling bit pattern.
The method of claim 11, further comprising the
step of varying the scrambling bit pattern from one code

block to another in response to a signal from a scrambling
sequence generator. 
An apparatus for decoding a Code Division Multiple
Access signal comprising:


means (114) for correlating at least two time shifts of
a received signal with a spreading code, the received signal

comprising successive transmitted data symbols, the at least
two time shifts corresponding to a transmitted data symbol;
means (112, 115a, 115b, 120) for weighting correlations
produced by the correlating means (114) according to

respective ones of at least two coefficients, each
coefficient having a sign and a value that is an inverse

integer power of two and corresponding to a respective time
shift;
means (116) for summing the weighted correlations
produced by the weighting means (112, 115a, 115b, 120) for

each time shift; and
means (117) for determining the sign of the sum
produced by the summing means (116) to decode the

transmitted data symbol.
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the means for
correlating (114) is adapted to correlate the at least two

time shifts of the received signal with the spreading code
and a complement of the spreading code corresponding to

different respective transmitted binary data symbols
(+1, -1).
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the correlating
means (114) produces binary-coded values in bit-serial form.
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the summing
means (116) comprises a plurality of bit-serial adders

(116a) and associated recirculating bit-serial memories
(116b).
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the weighting
means (112, 115a, 115b, 120) comprises means for delaying

use of a bit-serial value (120) produced by the correlating 
means (114) by an amount corresponding to the respective

coefficient.
The apparatus of claim 13, modified in that the
correlating means (114) correlates the at least two time

shifts against at least two spreading codes, the at least
two spreading codes corresponding to different transmitted

data symbols, and the summing means (116) sums weighted
correlations for each time shift for each spreading code,

and the determining means (117) identifies the largest sum
produced by the summing means (116) to decode the

transmitted data symbols.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the spreading
codes are mutually orthogonal.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the spreading
codes are Walsh-Hadamard codes.
The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the correlating
means (114) comprises means for carrying out a Fast Walsh

Transform.
The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the spreading
codes are Walsh-Hadamard codes modified by bitwise modulo-2

addition of a predetermined scrambling bit pattern.
The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a
scrambling sequence generator and means for varying the

scrambling bit pattern (140) from one code block to another
in response to a signal from the scrambling sequence

generator.
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the received
signal comprises a plurality of successive complex vector

values, and the correlating means (114) produces complex
correlation values, and the coefficients are complex values 

whose both real and imaginary parts have a sign and a value
that is an inverse integer power of two.
The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising
means for determining coefficients from complex correlation

values (130) produced by the correlating means (114), the
determined coefficients for use in decoding a succeeding

transmitted data symbol.
The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the coefficient
determining means (130) comprises means for averaging the

real and imaginary parts of the complex correlation values
and means for quantizing the averaged parts to respective

values that are each an inverse integer power of two, the
quantized values being for use as coefficients in decoding

the succeeding transmitted data symbol.
The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the averaging
means includes a Kalman filter.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the
coefficients are selected from a coefficient memory (115a),

and each coefficient corresponds to a respective time shift
and a respective spreading code; and wherein the apparatus

further comprises means for subtracting a waveform
corresponding to the decoded transmitted data symbol from

the received signal.
The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the subtracting
means subtracts the waveform based on the correlations.
The apparatus of claim 29, wherein a waveform is
subtracted for each time shift and the subtracted waveforms

are based on the correlations with the corresponding time
shifts. 
The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the subtracting
means subtracts the waveforms for different time shifts in

order of the correlation magnitudes from strongest to
weakest.
The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the correlating
means (114) correlates at least two time shifts of the

received signal after subtraction of the waveform from a

time shift having a stronger correlation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
