<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649718</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of packaging an adhesive composition
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B6308	B65B6300	B29B1300	B29B1302	B65B2900	B65B6108	B32B700	B65D7500	B65D8500	B65B2900	C09J17504	B65B900	B65D7500	B65D8500	C09J17504	B65B6104	B32B700	B65B900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B29B	B29B	B65B	B65B	B32B	B65D	B65D	B65B	C09J	B65B	B65D	B65D	C09J	B65B	B32B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B63	B65B63	B29B13	B29B13	B65B29	B65B61	B32B7	B65D75	B65D85	B65B29	C09J175	B65B9	B65D75	B65D85	C09J175	B65B61	B32B7	B65B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of packaging an adhesive 
composition, especially a thermoplastic or thermosetting hot 

melt adhesive, and to correspondingly packaged adhesives. The 
method comprises the steps of providing one substantially 

uniform separate portion of the adhesive composition; 
sufficiently solidifying said portion for packaging; 

substantially completely surrounding said sufficiently 
solidified portion with a plastics packaging material; the 

packaging material being meltable together with the adhesive 
composition and blendable into said molten adhesive 

composition, the kind and amount of said packaging material 
being chosen so as not to disadvantageously affect the 

properties of the adhesive composition when blended into same. 
Preferably, the packaging material is a net, a wrap, a sack or 

a bag. Packagings made of plastic film are advantageously 
voided of air, to prevent problems in melting. The packaged 

adhesive can be melted as it is. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FULLER H B LICENSING FINANC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
H.B. FULLER LICENSING 
&
 FINANCING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIENTE EMMANUELLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROUYER ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEBOA-KODIE PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIENTE,EMMANUELLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROUYER,ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEBOA-KODIE,PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of packaging a thermoplastic or thermosetting hot melt adhesive.Thermoplastic adhesives, especially hot melts, can be confectioned and packaged as e.g. disclosed in German patent 22 48 046.According to this prior art, now widely used throughout the world, a hot melt adhesive is squeeze-cut into roughly pillow-shaped pieces; the pieces are subsequently cooled and thus solidified and are then put into sacks, cartons and such like for packaging.In order to reduce the tendency of the individual pillows to stick, i. e. adhere to each other, it is known to coat them with a separating, anti-stick substance, e. g. a wax or a polymer, compare also DE 33 27 289 Kaiser.From WO 84/03457 and WO 84/03468, Societe Noweile Raffinerie Meridionale de Ceresines-Belix, it is known to outwardly coat such autoprotected blocks with a powdery separating agent.For thermoplastic adhesive compositions with a relatively high softening point (ASTM E28-58T), i. e. above 120°C and especially above 150°C, these coatings provide sufficient anti-stick properties. Such compositions can therefore be packaged, stored and dispensed from sacks, without any major sticking problems.These known packagings have the disadvantage that the thermoplastic adhesive composition must be removed from the packaging prior to use, which means an extra handling step. Further, the packaging material must be discarded after emptying, which leads to material waste and expenditure for disposing of the used packaging material.A further problem arises with thermoplastic adhesive compositions, e. g. HMPSA's, having a relatively low softening point, i.e. below 120°C and especially between 60°C and 105°C. Such compositions show marked creep and cold flow properties even at ambient temperatures. Further, the expansion coefficients of these materials are sufficiently different from those of the coating materials as to lead to cracking and peeling of the coating materials, especially in prolonged storage at varying temperatures. Thus, the surfaces of the individual adhesive pillows or pieces become exposed and the pillows stick together, making the handling, especially the dosing of the adhesive more difficult and again leading to increased expenditure and handling problems. This is especially pertinent in cases where the adhesive composition is exposed to increased pressure and/or temperature during storage or handling.A variety of:prior art disclosures relate to the packaging of individual pieces of materials such as bitumen
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of packaging a thermoplastic or thermosetting hot melt adhesive composition, said method comprising the steps of:

b) providing a plurality of substantially uniform separate portions of the adhesive composition;
c) sufficiently solidifying all said portions for packaging;
d) forming a batch comprising the plurality of solidified portions, and
e) placing said batch in a bag of plastics packaging film material; said packaging film material being meltable together with the adhesive composition and blendable into said molten adhesive composition, the kind and amount of said packaging film material being chosen so as not to disadvantageously affect the properties of the adhesive composition when blended into same,
f) sealing said bag and
g) voiding said bag of air by compressing the bag at elevated temperature so that the packaging film material is forced into close contact with the adjoining adhesive material and is adhered to the adhesive.
The method according to claim 1, further comprising, before step b), as a step a) the outward coating with a separating, anti-stick substance and, in case, the pre-cooling, of the adhesive composition.
The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the packaging material bag weighs between 0.1 and 3 % by weight with respect to the weight of the adhesive composition contained in the package.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the portions being provided by separating a continuous mass of adhesive composition into roughly pillow-shaped pieces weighing between 0.1 and 50 grams.
The method according to claim 4, the adhesive composition having a low softening point below about 120° C, especially between about 50° C and 105° C, and the packaging bag of plastics film material being sealed by welding after filling with the adhesive.
The method according to claim 5, the bag taking a batch of about 100 to 40000, especially about 250 to 1000 grams of pillow-shaped adhesive composition portion pieces.
The method according to claim 6, the plastics film packaging material having a softening point substantially corresponding to the softening point of the adhesive composition.
The method according to claim 6 or 7, the plastics film material having a thickness in the range between about 5 µm and 200 µm, especially from 15 µm to 50 µm.
The method according to any one of claims 5 to 8, the plastics material being selected from the group consisting of ethylene based polymers such as ethylene/vinyl acetate, ethylene acrylate, ethylene methacrylate, ethylene methyl acrylate, ethylene methyl methacrylate, high and low density polyethylene, polyethylene blends and chemically modified polyethylene, copolymers of ethylene and 1-6 mono- or di-unsaturated monomers,
 polybutadiene rubber, polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate; thermoplastic polycarbonate, atactic poly-alpha-olefins, including atactic polypropylene, and others; thermoplastic polyacrylamides, polyacrylonitrile, copolymers of acrylonitrile and other monomers such as butadiene styrene; polymethyl pentene, polyphenylene sulfide, aromatic polyurethanes, styrene-acrylonitrile, acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, styrene-butadiene rubbers, acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene elastomers, A-B, A-B-A, A-(B-A)
n
-B, (A-B)
n
-Y block copolymers wherein the A comprises a polyvinyl aromatic block, the B block comprises a rubbery midblock which can be partly hydrogenated, and mixtures of said substances.
The method according to any one of claims 5 to 9, the adhesive composition portion pieces being cooled to ambient or below ambient in a cooling bath at least on their outsides and thereafter conveyed to a bagging station for packaging.
The method according to any one of claims 5 to 10, the bag filled with the adhesive composition portion pieces being weld-sealed.
The method according to claim 11, the filled and sealed bag being compressed and air being forced out from around and between the portion pieces and out of the bag through pores, punctures and perforations in the film material and/or through openings in the weld seam, the batch of adhesive composition pieces being compacted and the packaging film material being adhered to the surfaces of the compacted batch.
The method according to claim 12, the adhesive in the bag being sufficiently re-heated before compression or allowed to retain sufficient internal heat in the cooling step to facilitate deformation of the packaged adhesive composition portion pieces during compression.
The method according to claim 12 or 13, the compression being provided by means of a press.
The method according to claim 12 or 13, the compression being provided by the weight of the stacked filled bags under the influence of elevated ambient temperature, especially through stacking the bags in delivery boxes, crates, cartons and such like, and storing same in a sufficiently heated room.
The method according to any one of claims 12 to 15, the compression being carried out at an elevated temperature of between 30° C and 150° C.
The method according to any one of claims 1 to 16, the plastics packaging material having a melting or softening point of below about 125° C, preferably below about 120° C and most preferably above 90° C.
A method of packaging a thermoplastic or thermosetting hot melt adhesive composition, said method comprising the steps of:

b) providing the adhesive composition in flowable form, sufficiently plastified for packaging;
c) inserting a plurality of portions of said flowable, plastified adhesive composition into a plastics packaging film material bag;

said packaging film material having a melting or softening point of below 120° C and being meltable together with the adhesive composition and blendable into said molten adhesive composition, the kind and amount of said packaging film material being chosen so as not to disadvantageously affect the properties of the adhesive composition when blended into same;
d) sealing said bag, and
e) voiding said bag of air by compressing the bag at elevated temperature so that the packaging film material is forced into close contact with the adjoining adhesive material and is adhered to the adhesive.
The method according to claim 18, further comprising, before step b), as a step a) the outward coating with a separating, anti-stick substance and, in case, the pre-cooling to flowable, plastified state, of the adhesive composition.
The method according to claim 18 or 19, wherein the packaging material enclosure is a bag made of plastics film weighing between 0.1 and 3 % by weight with respect to the weight of the adhesive composition contained in the package.
The method according to claim 20, wherein the packaging material bag is sealed by welding after filling with the adhesive composition.
The method according to any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the flowable, plastified composition has a temperature of between about 50° C and 100° C, preferably about 80° C.
The method according to any one of claims 18 to 22, wherein the flowable, plastified composition is provided by means of a melt extruder having cooling means for adjusting the temperature of the extrudate.
The method according to any one of claims 18 to 23, the plastics packaging material having a melting or softening point of above 90° C.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
