<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621819</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ERGONOMIC HANDLE CONSTRUCTION FOR HAND-HELD TOOLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B700	B25B700	B25G100	B25G110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	B25G	B25G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B7	B25B7	B25G1	B25G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hand-held tool such as a plier, cutter or the like, having a tool body (10) including pivotally connected basic handles (12, 14) having a preselected arcuately shaped portion (27, 30), plastic extension members (32, 34) adapted to partially fit over the tool body basic handles (12, 14) and to define therewith an elongated handle subassembly (12a, 14a) having a desired streamlined shape, and plastic, flexible sheaths (44) located over the elongated handle subassemblies (12a, 14a) to define a final handle assembly (12b, 14b) having a desired elongated, streamlined contour with a soft, elastically deformable sheath or covering whereby a lightweight hand-held tool is provided having ergonomically constructed handle assemblies.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIANGLE TOOL GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIANGLE TOOL GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOLAK DAVID ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOLAK DAVID ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ERGONOMIC HANDLE CONSTRUCTION FOR HAND-HELD TOOLSSUMMARY BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to hand-held tools such as pliers and cutters and more particularly to a unique ergonomically designed handle construction for such toolsMany industrial tasks require the use of hand-held tools such as pliers, cutters and the like. While these tools are not necessarily large in themselves, the continued use and hand manipulation of these tools in the performance of repetitive motions and tasks can result in fatigue and/or stress to the operator's hand and/or wrist which can lead to a condition referred to as a condition referred to as Cumulative Trauma Disorder ("CTD") .In addressing this problem, a number of factors have to be considered. One factor, of course, is the provision of a construction having a desired mechanical advantage so as to maintain the forces necessary for squeezing or cutting objects to a reasonable level; equally important, however, is a construction providing a generally uniform configuration facilitating gripping by the hand and allowing the gripping pressure to be distributed over the full palm area while permitting an even application of force from all four fingers.Another factor is the provision of a handle contour which facilitates gripping while still providing an effective shape especially suited to the hand.Another factor is the provision of a handle construction and design which is sufficiently flexible while still providing adequate strength to withstand the necessary work loads without permanent deformation or breakage. This flexibility acts to absorb the shock loads which would normally be directed to the palms, fingers and wrist when cutting or squeezing various objects.Yet, another factor is a construction meeting the above objectives while still providing a hand tool which is compact and of a generally light weight. 

 The above objectives are met in the unique design of the present invention. Here a basic hand tool body is provided with a nose portion comprising conventional cutting blades and/or gripping members which are pivotally connected through handles . This basic structure is constructed of a strong, durable metal which commonly is a high strength ferrous material. The handles can define the typically arcuately bowed shape. In the present invention, however, the handles are elongated by use of extension members made of a flexible plastic material. The extension members are adapted to provide a preselected extension and contour designed to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A hand-held tool comprising: a tool body having a pair of elongated basic handles pivotably connected at their upper ends to pivot about a pivot axis, at least a portion of the lower ends of said basic handles having outer surfaces of an arcuate, convexly curved contour, said tool body including a nose portion defined by a pair of work members connected with and extending from said upper ends of said basic handles, said work members adapted to engage a workpiece, a pair of extension members, each of said extension members having a hollow portion adapted to receive at least a portion of said lower ends of said basic handles with a generally snug fit, said hollow portion being of a minimal wall thickness whereby it will generally adopt the contour of the portion of said lower ends which it overengages, said extension members having a substantially solid portion extending from said lower ends of said basic handles, said solid portions having an arcuate concave contour whereby a generally serpentine contour is defined by the combination of said hollow portion contour following the convex contour of said lower ends of said basic handles and said concave solid portion, a soft flexible sheath covering each of said extension members to define a final handle assembly adapted to be gripped by the operator and selectively manipulated to pivot the handle members about said axis to selectively engage the workpiece with said work members.
2. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said associated convex contour of said basic handles being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface, and 


 said arcuate concave contour of said solid portions being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface.
3. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with the linear distance from said pivot axis to the end of said solid portions being at least around five inches or 12.5 centimeters.
4. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said associated convex contour of said basic handles being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface, and said arcuate concave contour of said solid portions being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface, the linear distance from said pivot axis to the end of said solid portions being at least around five inches or 12.5 centimeters.
5. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic.
6. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said extension members each having a weight generally no greater than around .013 ounces or .369 grams.
7. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said extension members each having a weight generally no greater than around .013 ounces or .369 grams, said soft flexible sheaths each having a weight generally no greater than around .016 ounces or .454 grams.
8. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a 


 ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters.
9. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters, said extension members being secured to said basic handles with a liquid adhesive with said hollow portions having a vent opening proximate to said solid portions to facilitate evacuation of air and excess liquid adhesive during installation. 10. The hand-held tool of claim 1 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portions being of an overall length to receive substantially the full length of said basic handles which is to be gripped by the operator. 11. A hand-held tool comprising: a tool body having a pair of elongated basic handles pivotably connected at their upper ends to pivot about a pivot axis, at least a portion of the lower ends of said basic handles having outer surfaces of an arcuate, convexly curved contour, said tool body including a nose portion defined by a pair of work members connected with and extending from said upper ends of said basic handles, said work members adapted to engage a workpiece, a pair of extension members, 



 each of said extension members having a hollow portion adapted to receive at least a portion of said lower ends of said basic handles with a generally snug fit, said hollow portion being of a minimal wall thickness whereby it will generally adopt the contour of the portion of said lower ends which it overengages, said extension members having a substantially solid portion extending from said lower ends of said basic handles, said solid portions having an arcuate concave contour whereby a generally serpentine contour is defined by the combination of said hollow portion contour following the convex contour of said lower ends of said basic handles and said concave solid portion, a soft flexible sheath covering each of said extension members to define a final handle assembly adapted to be gripped by the operator and selectively manipulated to pivot the handle members about said axis to selectively engage the workpiece with said work members, said basic handles each having a linear length from said pivot axis to its free end in the range of from around 3.25 inches or 8.26 centimeters to around 3.75 inches or 9.53 centimeters, said basic handles with said extension members secured thereto defining handle subassemblies with each having a linear length from said pivot axis to its free end in the range of from around 4.4 inches or 11.18 centimeters to around 5.4 inches or 13.72 centimeters, said handle subassemblies with said sheaths secured thereto defining handle assemblies with each having a linear length from said pivot axis to its free end in the range of from around 4.5 inches or 11.43 centimeters to around 5.5 inches or 13.97 centimeters.
12. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said associated convex contour of said basic handles being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface, and 


 said arcuate concave contour of said solid portions being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface.
13. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic.
14. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said extension members each having a weight generally no greater than around .013 ounces or .369 grams.
15. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said extension members each having a weight generally no greater than around .013 ounces or .369 grams, said soft flexible sheaths each having a weight generally no greater than around .016 ounces or .454 grams.
16. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters. 17. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters, 


 said extension members being secured to said basic handles with a liquid adhesive with said hollow portions having a vent opening proximate to said solid portions to facilitate evacuation of air and excess liquid adhesive during installation.
18. The hand-held tool of claim 11 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portions being of an overall length to receive substantially the full length of said basic handles which is to be gripped by the operator.
19. A hand-held tool comprising: a tool body having a pair of elongated basic handles pivotably connected at their upper ends to pivot about a pivot axis, at least a portion of the lower ends of said basic handles having outer surfaces of an arcuate, convexly curved contour, said tool body including a nose portion defined by a pair of work members connected with and extending from said upper ends of said basic handles, said work members adapted to engage a workpiece, a pair of extension members, each of said extension members having a hollow portion adapted to receive at least a portion of the lower end of the associated one of said basic handles with a generally snug fit, said hollow portion being of a minimal wall thickness whereby it will generally adopt the contour of the portion of said lower end which it overengages, each of said extension members having a substantially solid portion extending from the associated one of said lower ends of said basic handles, said solid portions having an arcuate concave contour whereby a generally serpentine contour is defined by the combination of said hollow portion contour following the 


 convex contour of said lower ends of said basic handles and said concave solid portion.
20. A hand-held tool comprising: a tool body having a pair of elongated basic handles pivotably connected at their upper ends to pivot about a pivot axis, at least a portion of the lower ends of said basic handles having outer surfaces of an arcuate, convexly curved contour, said tool body including a nose portion defined by a pair of work members connected with and extending from said upper ends of said basic handles, said work members adapted to engage a workpiece, a pair of extension members, each of said extension members having a hollow portion adapted to receive at least a portion of the associated one of said lower ends of said basic handles with a generally snug fit, said hollow portion being of a minimal wall thickness whereby it will generally adopt the contour of the portion of said lower ends which it overengages, said extension members having a substantially solid portion extending from said lower ends of said basic handles, said solid portions having an arcuate concave contour whereby a generally serpentine contour is defined by the combination of said hollow portion contour following the convex contour of the associated one of said lower ends of said basic handles and said concave solid portion, said basic handles each having a linear length from said pivot axis to its free end in the range of from around
3.25 inches or 8.26 centimeters to around 3.75 inches or 9.53 centimeters, said basic handles with said extension members secured thereto defining handle subassemblies with each having a linear length from said pivot axis to its free end in the range of from around 4.4 inches or 11.18 centimeters to around 5.5 inches or 13.97 centimeters. 


 21. The hand-held tool of claim 20 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters.
22. The hand-held tool of claim 20 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters, said extension members being secured to said basic handles with a liquid adhesive with said hollow portions having a vent opening proximate to said solid portions to facilitate evacuation of air and excess liquid adhesive during installation.
23. In a hand-held tool having: a tool body having a pair of elongated basic handles pivotably connected at their upper ends to pivot about a pivot axis, at least a portion of the lower ends of said basic handles having outer surfaces of an arcuate, convexly curved contour, said tool body including a nose portion defined by a pair of work members connected with and extending from said upper ends of said basic handles, said work members adapted to engage a workpiece, the improvement comprising: a pair of extension members, each of said extension members having a hollow portion adapted to receive at least a portion of an associated one of said lower ends of said basic handles with a generally snug fit, 


 said hollow portion being of a minimal wall thickness whereby it will generally adopt the contour of the portion of the associated one of said lower ends which it overengages, said extension members each having a substantially solid portion extending from the associated one of said lower ends of said basic handles, said solid portions each having an arcuate concave contour whereby a generally serpentine contour is defined by the combination of said hollow portion contour following the convex contour of the associated one of said lower ends of said basic handles and said concave solid portion.
24. The hand-held tool of claim 23 with said arcuate concave contour of said solid portions being generally defined by a radius of around three inches or 7.62 centimeters at the outer surface.
25. The hand-held tool of claim 23 with the basic handles with said extension members secured thereto having a linear distance from said pivot axis to the end of said solid portions being at least around five inches or 12.7 centimeters.
26. The hand held tool of claim 23 with the basic handles with said extension members secured thereto defining handle subassemblies with each having a linear length from said pivot axis to its free end in the range of from around 4.4 inches or 11.18 centimeters to around 5.4 inches or 13.72 centimeters.
27. The hand-held tool of claim 23 with the basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters.
28. The hand-held tool of claim 23 with said basic handles and nose portion of said tool body being made of a 


ferrous material and with said extension members being made of a lightweight plastic, said hollow portion of each of said extension members being defined by a generally continuous wall having a thickness generally no greater than around .050 inches or .127 centimeters, said extension members being secured to said basic handles with a liquid adhesive with each of said hollow portions having a vent opening proximate to said solid portion to facilitate evacuation of air and excess liquid adhesive during installation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
