<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Noise reducing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N521	H04N964	H04N521	H04N964	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N9	H04N5	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A noise reducing apparatus includes a delay 
device for delaying first video signal by one horizontal 

period. Also included is a first subtracter for 
subtracting the output of the delay device from an input 

video signal, and a limiter for clipping the output of 
the first subtracter at a designated level. A variable 

coefficient multiplier is also provided for multiplying 
the output of the limiter by a variable coefficient k 

where 0
<
k
<
1. A second subtracter subtracts the output 
of the variable coefficient multiplier from the input 

video signal and an adder adds the output of the first 
subtracter and the output of the limiter. A coeffcient 

multiplier is also provided for multiplying the output 
of the adder by a fixed value 0.5. A third subtracter 

subtracts the output of the coefficient multiplier from 
the input video signal and a correlation detector 

provides a signal to control the coefficient value of the 
variable coefficient multiplier in response to the output 

of the first subtracter. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAGEYAMA ATSUHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI KAZUNARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAGEYAMA, ATSUHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI, KAZUNARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a noise
reducing apparatus for reducing noise component
included in a video signal.Noise reducing apparatus for reducing
luminance noise or color noise are widely employed in
home video cassette recorders used for replaying video.
Noise reducing apparatus using a line-recursive process
are generally used, however, these noise reducing
apparatus have a problem. Specifically, a downward color 
bleeding phenomenon occurs at an area in which picture
brightness varies vertically in the picture. This area
is the vertical boundary area.In order to solve the above problem, for
example, Japanese Laid-Open No. 2-(1990)-231890,
discloses a method
which is employed to detect a color signal corresponding
to the vertical boundary area and to control that
vertical boundary area using a coefficient value k in a
coefficient multiplier.A noise reducing apparatus is accordance with
the prior art is explained below with reference to FIG. 1
to FIG. 3. FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a noise reducing
apparatus in accordance with the prior art. A color
signal including noise is provided to a color signal
input terminal 200 and is supplied from a color signal
output terminal 201 via an adder 205. The output signal
is provided to a 1H delay device 202 and is delayed by 1H
where H is equal to a horizontal scanning period. The 1H
delayed color signal is subtracted from the input color
signal at a first subtracter 203 to produce a vertical
boundary color signal including noise.The vertical boundary color signal including
noise is obtained at a second subtracter 206 and then
provided to a coefficient controller 207. At the
coefficient controller 207, the noise component included
in the input signal is clipped to produce a control
signal corresponding to a level of the vertical boundary
signal. The control signal is then provided to a
coefficient multiplier 204. A circuit diagram, for
example, of the variable coefficient multiplier 204 is
shown in FIG. 2. The output of the coefficient 
controller 207 is provided to a first control signal
input terminal 208 (shown in FIG. 2) as a control signal.
The input signal is provided to a second control signal
input terminal 209 which is gain controlled according to
the control signal provided to the first control signal
input terminal 208 to produce an output signal at output
terminal 210. FIG. 3 shows the coefficient control
characteristic, (that is the gain control characteristic)
of the coefficient controller 207 shown in FIG. 1.However, in the prior art
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A noise reducing appratus comprising:

delay means (1) for delaying first video signal by
one horizontal period to produce a delayed video signal;
first subtracting means (2) for subtracting the
delayed video signal from an input color difference

signal to produce a second video signal;
limiting means (3) for clipping said second video
signal designated level to produce a clipped video

signal;
variable coefficient multiplying means (4) for
multiplying said clipped signal by a variable coefficient

value which is between 0 and 1 to produce a third video
signal;
second subtracting means (5) for subtracting the
third video signal from said input color difference

signal to produce said first video signal and for
providing said first video signal to said delay means;
adding means (6) for adding said clipped video
signal and said third video signal to produce a fourth

video signal;
coefficient multiplying means (7) for multiplying
said fourth video signal by a fixed coefficient value

which is between 0 and 0.5 to produce a fifth video
signal;
third subtracting means (8) for subtracting said 
fifth video signal from said input color difference

signal to produce a noise reduced color difference
signal;

characterized by

correlation detecting means (9), responsive to said
second signal, for controlling said variable coefficient

multiplying means by:
decreasing the variable coefficient value of
said variable coefficient multiplying means, in response

to an increase in said second video signal, and
increasing the variable coefficient value of
said variable coefficient multiplying means, in response

to a decrease in said second video signal.
A noise reducing apparatus comprising:

delay means (1) for delaying a first video
signal by one horizontal period to produce a delayed video

signal;
first subtracting means (2) for subtracting the
delayed video signal from an input video signal

to produce a second video signal;
limiting means (3) for clipping said second video
signal at a designated level to produce a

clipped video signal;
variable coefficient multiplying means (4) for
multiplying said clipped video signal by a variable

coefficient value which is between 0 and 1 to produce a
third video signal; 
second subtracting means (5) for subtracting the
third video signal from said input video signal

to produce said first video signal and for providing
said first video signal to said delay means;
adding means (6) for adding said clipped
video signal and said third video signal to produce a

fourth video signal;
coefficient multiplying means (7) for multiplying
said fourth video signal by a fixed coefficient value

which is between 0 and 0.5 to produce a fifth video
signal;
third subtracting means (8) for subtracting said
fifth video signal from said input video signal

to produce a noise reduced video signal;

characterized in that all video signals are luminance signals, and by

correlation detecting means (9), responsive to
said second video signal, for controlling said

variable coefficient multiplying means by:
decreasing the variable coefficient value of
said variable coefficient multiplying means, in response

to an increase in said second video signal, and
increasing the variable coefficient value of
said variable coefficient multiplying means, in response

to a decrease in said second video signal.
A noise reducing apparatus comprising:

delay means (1) for delaying a first chrominance
signal by one horizontal period to produce a delayed 

chrominance signal;
first adding means (13) for adding the delayed
chrominance signal and an input chrominance signal to

produce a second chrominance signal;
limiting means (3) for clipping said second
chrominance signal at a designated level to produce a

clipped chrominance signal;
variable coefficient multiplying means (4) for
multiplying said clipped chrominance signal by a variable

coefficient value which between 0 and 1 to produce a
third chrominance signal;
first subtracting means (5) for subtracting the
third chrominance signal from said input ch
rominance
signal to produce said first chrominance signal and for

providing said first chrominance signal to said delay
means;
second adding means (6) for adding said clipped
chrominance signal and said third chrominance signal to

produce a fourth chrominance signal;
coefficient multiplying means (7) for multiplying
said fourth chrominance signal by a fixed coefficient

value which is between 0 and 0.5 to produce a fifth
chrominance signal;
second subtracting means (8) for subtracting said
fifth chrominance signal from said input chrominance

signal to produce a noise reduced chrominance signal; and
correlation detecting means (9), responsive to said 
second chrominance signal, for controlling said variable

coefficient multiplying means by:
decreasing the variable coefficient value of
said variable coefficient multiplying means, in response

to an increase in said second chrominance signal, and
increasing the variable coefficient value of
said variable coefficient multiplying means, in response

to a decrease in said second chrominance signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
