<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639478</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drum lock mechanism.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60N216	B60N216	E05F1138	E05F1148	F16D5100	F16D5104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60N	B60N	E05F	E05F	F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60N2	B60N2	E05F11	E05F11	F16D51	F16D51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drum lock mechanism (2) forming part of a vehicle seat or window 
adjustment system in which a coiled spring (11) acts as a brake against an 

outer drum (12). 
In order to reduce play the spring (11) is provided with a radially 
inwardly extending loop (23) which co-operates with an output shaft (9). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUNLOP COX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUNLOP COX LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTOPHER HUGH CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTOPHER, HUGH CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to drum lock mechanisms generally and 
particularly, but not exclusively, to such mechanisms adapted for use as part 
of motor vehicle seat height adjustment devices. Where a vehicle seat is provided with a manual height adjustment 
device, operative to raise and lower the seat, it is necessary to provide a 
locking mechanism to retain the seat in any chosen position. A requirement 
of such a mechanism is that the seat height should not change inadvertently 
for example when the seat is first sat on or, more importantly, during 
emergency braking when the effective weight of the seat and a person 
occupying the seat increases substantially. When it is desired to alter the seat height it is necessary that the 
locking mechanism is rendered inoperable during adjustment but becomes 
locked once more as soon as the seat is stationary and the manual 
adjustment device released. Typically such devices comprise a hand operated lever actuating height 
adjustment means through a drum lock. Known drum lock mechanisms have 
a plurality of friction elements resiliently urged into braking engagement with 
a brake drum when at rest and disengageable therefrom on lever operation. 
An example of such a mechanism is to be found in our European Patent 
Application Serial No. 0 479 449. A simpler type of mechanism in which a plurality of coiled springs 
provide frictional elements self-urged into frictional engagement is disclosed 
in UK Patent Application Serial No. 2 211 565. This latter type suffers the 
disadvantage that manufacturing tolerances often result in unwanted free 
play in the mechanism as a whole. In use such play may lead to sloppiness 
of operation or irritating rattling of the mechanism when it is at rest. Our 
aforementioned European Patent Application discloses a construction which 
is intended to overcome these disadvantages but without using a coiled 
spring. It is an object of the invention to provide a construction of drum lock 
mechanism incorporating a coiled spring and intended to overcome some of  
 
the aforedescribed disadvantages of prior art constructions. According to the invention a drum lock mechanism comprises an 
output drive shaft, a rotatable input drive member and a coiled spring all 
coaxially mounted and rotatable relative to a fixed brake drum, wherein 
radially inwardly extending ends of the spring engage the input drive member, 
a radially inwardly extending intermediate portion of the spring is engaged by 
a drive key secured to the drive shaft and at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A drum lock mechanism comprising an output drive shaft (9), a 
rotatable input drive member (10) and a coiled spring (11), all coaxially 

mounted and rotatable relative to a fixed brake drum (12), characterised in 
that radially inwardly-extending ends (13, 14) of the spring (11) engage the 

input drive member (10), a radially inwardly-extending intermediate portion 
(23) of the spring is engaged by a drive key (24) secured to the drive shaft 

(9) and at rest the outer periphery of the spring is in braking engagement with 
an interior cylindrical surface of the brake drum (12), the arrangement 

providing that a torque applied to the drive shaft (9) tends to unwind the 
coiled spring against the cylindrical surface and that application of a torque 

to the input drive member (10) winds up the coiled spring (11) out of braking 
engagement with said surface of the drum (12) and drivably connects the 

input drive member (10) to the output drive shaft (9). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 1, characterised in that 
when the application of a torque to the input drive member (10) winds up the 

coiled spring (11) out of braking engagement with said surface of the drum 
(12), the drive member (10) is drivably connected to the drive shaft (9) 

through the spring (11) and the drive key (24). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 1 characterised in that 
when the application of a torque to the input drive member (10) winds up the 

coiled spring (11) out of braking engagement with said surface of the drum 
(12), the drive member (10) is drivably connected to the drive shaft (9) 

through the drive key (24) alone. 
A drum lock mechanism according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the input drive member (10) is of generally tubular 

configuration with a slot extending along at least part of its length and forms 
a core about which the coiled spring (11) is mounted with the slot providing 

side faces (51, 52) against each of which a respective one of the inwardly-extending 
ends (13, 14) of the spring (11) is able to locate. 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 4 characterised in that said 
intermediate portion (23) of the spring (11) is at least in part disposed within 

 
the slot in the input drive member (10) and able to move angularly therein 

sufficiently to allow disengagement of the coiled spring (11) from the 
cylindrical surface of the drum (12). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 4 or Claim 5 characterised 
in that the coiled spring (11) and drive member (10) are dimensioned so that 

when assembled, each end (13, 14) of the spring (11) is resiliently urged 
towards the respective side face (51, 52) of the slot formed in the input drive 

member (10). 
A drum lock mechanism according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the intermediate portion (23) of the spring (11) is 

disposed equi-distant from the ends (13, 14) of the spring (11). 
A drum lock mechanism according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that an input drive element is rigidly attached to one end of 

the drive member (10). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 8 characterised in that the 
input drive element is in the form of a cylindrical cover (15) which fits over 

the brake drum (12). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 9 characterised in that an 
operating lever is attached to the cylindrical cover (15). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 10 characterised in that 

the lever comprises a telescopic handle (1). 
A drum lock mechanism according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the brake drum (12) is attached to a backing plate (8) 

having an annular boss (19) concentric with the drum which provides a 
journal bearing for the output drive shaft (9). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 12 characterised in that 
the backing plate (8) is integral with a formation (21) spaced apart from the 

journal bearing (19) which provides a second journal bearing surface (20) for 
supporting the output drive shaft (9). 
A drum lock mechanism according to Claim 12 or Claim 13 
characterised in that the backing plate (8) and formation (21) are capable of 

being rigidly attached with screw-threaded means to the chassis of an 
 

automotive vehicle seat. 
A mechanism comprising a drum lock mechanism in accordance with 
any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the shaft of the drum 

lock mechanism is attached to at least one lever arm (22) which on rotation 
of the shaft (9) raises or lowers a seat. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
