<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0040069</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRIP CASTING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22D1106	B22D1100	B22D1100	B22D1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22D11	B22D11	B22D11	B22D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for continuously casting metallic strip mat­
erial, comprising a tundish (22) and a nozzle comprising a 

curvilinear element (24), with an orifice passage (30) in the 
element (24) having substantially uniform cross-sectional 

dimensions throughout the longitudinal extent thereof. Dis­
posed outside the nozzle is a cooled casting surface (14) mov­

able past the nozzle in a direction substantially perpendicular 
to the longitudinal axis of the orifice passage (30). 
The casting surface (14) is disposed at a standoff distance 
from the nozzle of less than 3.048mm (.120 inch). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARINGER, ROBERT EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 STRIP CASTING APPARATUS
 The present invention relates to strip casting apparatus for the casting of strip material at high quench rates and at high production rates. #More particularly, the present invention is directed to apparatus for rapidly casting thin metallic strip material.


 Incorporated herein, by reference, is the subject mater of our co-filed European Patent Applications entitled "Method And Apparatus For Strip Casting",   11Method    Of Repetitiously Marking Continuously Cast
Metallic Strip Material", "Apparatus For Strip Casting   nd    "Strip Casting Material".


 The apparent advantages and economic significance of producing thin metallic strip material by a casting process, as compared to the conventional rolling or reducing operations, are numerous. The fact that strip   casting    may be performed at such high quench rates as to   prepuce    amorphous material is even more meaningful.  


However, it is equally apparent that there are a multitude of strip casting parameters which must be controlled or manitored to assure that the cast strip is of acceptable quality and of uniform composition and structure. For these reasons, those skilled in the art appreciate the intricacies involved in the development of a commercially successful strip casting apparatus.


 The general concept of casting thin metallic materials such as sheet, foil, strip and ribbon was disclosed in the early   l900's.    For example, United States
Patents Nos. 905,758 and 993,904 teach processes wherein molten material flows onto a moving cool surface and the material is drawn and hardened thereon into a continuous thin strip. These references teach that molten metal may be poured onto the smooth peripheral surface of a rotating liquid-cooled copper drum or disc to form strip materials
Despite early disclosure of such concept, there is no evidence of commercial success of strip casting during the early part of the 20th century.


 Recently, in United States Patents Nos. 3,522,836 and 3,605,863 a method for manufacturing a continuous product, such as metallic wire or strip, from molten metal has been disclosed. These references teach that a convex meniscus of molten material should project from a nozzle. A heat extracting surface, such as a watercooled drum, is moved in a path substantially parallel to the outlet orifice and into contact with the meniscus of molten metal to continuously draw material from the meniscus to form a uniform continuous product. The     above-described    method is commonly called the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims



1. Apparatus for continuously casting metal strip comprising:
 a tundish for receiving and holding molten metal,

 a nozzle comprising a curvilinear element disposed in the tundish, said curvilinear element having an orifice passage therein, with the longitudinal extent of the orifice passage approximating the width of the strip to be cast, said orifice passage having substantially uniform cross-sectional dimensions throughout the longitudinal extent thereof,
 a cooled casting surface at least as wide as the strip to be cast, disposed at a standoff distance of less than 3.048mm (.120 inch) from the nozzle, movable past the orifice passage in a direction substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the orifice passage,

 said orifice passage defined between a first side portion and a second side portion of the curvilinear element.



2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein:
 said first side portion has a substantially planar inside surface with respect to the orifice passage, and an outer, lip projecting surface at the discharge end of the orifice passage disposed toward, and facing the casting surface for a length of at least   0.254mm    (.01 inch) before the outer, lip projecting surface of the first side portion is relieved to define a lip projection.  




3. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein:
 said second side portion has a substantially planar inside surface substantially parallel to and facing the inside surface of the first side portion at least at a lower portion of said orifice passage, and a bottom surface disposed toward, and facing the casting surface, 4. Apparatus according to claim 1,2 or 3 wherein the orifice passage is substantially centrally located in the curvilinear element.




5. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the casting surface is movable past the nozzle at a rate of from 61 to 3048 linear surface metres (200 to 10,000 linear surface feet) per minute.



6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the casting surface is movable past the nozzle at a rate of from 549 to 1219 linear surface metres (1,800 to 4,000 linear surface feet) per minute.



7. Apparatus according to claim 3,wherein an inside portion of the orifice passage defined between the inside surface of the first side portion and the inside surface of the second side portion tapers inwardly from the molten metal holding portion of the nozzle to the location where said inside surfaces are parallel to one another.



8. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims 2 to 7, wherein the standoff distance between the outer, lip projecting surface and the casting surface is less than 2.032mm (0.080 inch).



9. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims  2 to 8, wherein the outer, lip projecting   surface    extends for a length of at least 0.508mm   (.0#O2      inchl    before the projecting surface is relieved to define the lip projection.



10. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein an integral curvilinear surface is provided between the inside surface of the first side portion and the outer, lip projecting surface of the first side portion.



11. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a standoff distance of less than   2032mum    (0.080 inch) is maintained between the bottom surface of the second side portion and the casting surface 12. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the casting surface comprises the peripheral surface of a water cooled wheel 13. Apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the wheel is made of a metal selected from copper, copper alloy, aluminum,   aluminum alloy, E #teel, molybdenum and combinations thereof.   



14. Apparatus acording to claim 2, wherein at least a portion of the   ou er,    lip projecting surface is in complete parallelism with   ahe    opposed portion of the casting surface.



15. Apparatus   cording    to claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the   bosom    surface of the second side portion is in complete   pazilllelism    with the opposed portion of the casting   surfac.   



16. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the distance between the casting surface and the parallel, facing outer, lip projecting surface of the first side portion is less than 0.635mm   (0.02--    inch).  



17. Apparatus according to   claim    14, wherein the distance between the casting surface and the parallel, facing outer, lip projecting surface of the first side portion is less than 0.254mm (0.010   inch).   



18. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the distance between the casting surface and the parallel, facing outer, lip projecting surface of the first side portion is from 0.0762 to 0.1524mm (0.003 to 0.006   inch),    19. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the distance between the parallel facing inside surfaces defining at least an outer portion of the orifice passage is from 0.254 to 0.889mm (0.010 to 0.035   inch),    20. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a standoff distance of less than 0.0508mm (0.002 inch) is maintained between the bottom surface of the second side portion and the casting surface.

 


21. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the inside surfaces defining the orifice passage are disposed toward the casting surface at an angle of less than   90 .   



22. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the inside surfaces defining the orifice passage are disposed toward the casting surface at an angle of substantially   450.   



23. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the curvilinear element is constructed of a material selected from graphite, alumina graphite, clay graphite, quartz, fiberized kaolin, boron nitride, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, boron carbide, alumina, zirconia, stabilized zirconia silicate, magnesia and combinations thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
