<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved vacuum pressure swing adsorption process
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B1302	B01D5304	B01D5304	B01D53053	C01B1302	B01D53047	B01D53047	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	B01D	B01D	B01D	C01B	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B13	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	C01B13	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A trans-atmospheric pressure swing adsorption 
process is carried out using product gas for purge and 

partial repressurization in the production of oxygen 
from air. No transfer of gas is made directly from one 

bed to another, as for pressure equalization purposes, 
but the power requirements are reduced under controlled 

pressure swing conditions. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEAVITT FREDERICK WELLS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEAVITT, FREDERICK WELLS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Field of the Invention - The invention relates to a
pressure swing adsorption process for the production of
oxygen from air. More particularly, it relates to
improvements to enhance adsorbent utilization and
reduce the energy requirements of the process.Description of the Prior Art - In numerous chemical
processing, refinery, metal production and other
industrial applications, purified gas streams are
employed for a variety of processing purposes. For
example, high purity oxygen is used in chemical
processing, steel mills, paper mills, and in lead and
gas production operations. Oxygen and nitrogen are
produced from air, typically by cryogenic distillation.
While such cryogenic processing can be very efficient,
particularly when conducted in large size plants, it
nevertheless requires complex and costly equipment.Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) processes have
also been used to separate and purify gases, but the
production of oxygen by the PSA approach has generally
been confined to relatively small-sized operations with
respect to which the use of cryogenic air separation
may not be economically feasible. Many commonly
available adsorbents, particularly the class of
materials known as molecular sieves, selectively adsorb
nitrogen more strongly then oxygen, and this
preferential adsorption is the basis of a variety of
PSA processes that have been developed for the
separation of air to produce oxygen and nitrogen
product gas. PSA processes for air separation to produce
product oxygen are known in the art, as indicated by
the Skarstrom patent, U.S. 2,944,627. Such processes
typically comprise four separate operating steps
carried out, in turn, in each bed of multi-bed PSA
systems. Such steps are (1) adsorption, in which feed
air is passed at an upper adsorption pressure to the
feed end of the bed, containing adsorbent material
capable of selectively adsorbing nitrogen as the more
readily adsorbable component of air, with the less
readily adsorbable oxygen being recovered from the
product end of the bed; (2) countercurrent
depressurization to a lower desorption pressure; (3)
desorption of the more readily adsorbable nitrogen from
the adsorbent bed, and its withdrawal from the feed end
of the bed with or without the introduction of purge
gas to the product end of the bed; and (4)
repressurization of the bed to the upper adsorption
pressure. This processing sequence, or variations
thereof, is then repeated in each bed of the system
with additional quantities of feed air, as continuous
oxygen-producing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An improved pressure swing adsorption process
for the production of oxygen from air in an adsorption

system containing at least one adsorbent bed containing
an adsorbent material capable of selectively adsorbing

nitrogen as the more readily adsorbable component of
air, each bed undergoing, on a cyclic basis, a

processing sequence consisting essentially of:

(a) passing feed air to the feed end of the
bed to increase the pressure of the bed from an

intermediate pressure to a super-atmospheric adsorption
pressure in the range of from about 100 kPa to about

160 kPa, with the selective adsorption of nitrogen from
said feed air;
(b) passing additional quantities of feed
air to the feed end of the bed at the super-atmospheric

adsorption pressure, with the selective adsorption of
nitrogen from said feed air and the simultaneous

recovery of oxygen from the product end of the bed;
(c) countercurrent depressurization of the
bed with the release of nitrogen from the feed end of

the bed;
(d) evacuation of the bed to a lower sub-atmospheric
desorption pressure with the withdrawal of

nitrogen from the feed end of the bed, said lower sub-atmospheric
desorption pressure being in the range of

from about 20 kPa to about 70 kPa;
(e) introducing product oxygen to the
product end of the bed at said lower sub-atmospheric

desorption pressure as product purge gas to displace
nitrogen from the product end of the bed, with the

withdrawal of a nitrogen-containing waste stream from
the feed end of the bed, such introduction of product

purge gas being continued until shortly before 
breakthrough of high concentrations of oxygen into the

waste stream; and
(f) passing product oxygen to the product
end of the bed to assure the displacement of nitrogen

from the product end of the bed, and to increase the
pressure in the bed from the lower sub-atmospheric

desorption pressure to an intermediate pressure,
whereby oxygen is recovered from air with low power

consumption and enhanced overall efficiency
and the process does not include any steps involving the direct transfer of gas

from one adsorbent bed to another adsorbent bed.
The process of Claim 1 in which the
intermediate pressure is about 70% or less of the

super-atmospheric adsorption pressure.
The process of Claim 1 in which said product
oxygen is recovered at a purity of from about 90% to

about 95.6%.
The process of Claim 1 in which the adsorbent
material comprises lithium X, said super-atmospheric

adsorption pressuring being in the range of from about
110 kPa to about 160 kPa, and said lower sub-atmospheric

desorption pressure being in the range of
from about 30 kPa to about 50 kPa.
The process of Claim 1 in which the adsorbent
material comprises sodium X, said super-atmospheric

adsorption pressure being in the range of from about
120 kPa to about 160 kPa, and said lower sub-atmospheric

desorption pressure being in the range of
from about 40 kPa to about 70 kPa.
The process of Claim 1 in which the adsorbent
material comprises calcium X, said super-atmospheric 

adsorption pressure being in the range of from about
100 kPa to about 120 kPa, and said lower sub-atmospheric

desorption pressure being in the range of
from about 20 kPa to about 35 kPa.
The process of Claim 1 in which the
adsorption system contains one adsorbent bed.
The process of Claim 1 in which the
adsorption system contains two adsorbent beds.
The process of Claim 1 in which the
adsorption system contains three or more adsorbent

beds.
The process of Claim 8 in which the
countercurrent depressurization step is terminated in

one bed at the same time that the passing of product
oxygen to the product end of the other bed to increase

the pressure therein to an intermediate pressure is
terminated.
The process of Claim 9 in which the

adsorption system contains three adsorbent beds, and
the countercurrent depressurization step is terminated

in one bed at the same time that the passing of product
oxygen to the product end of another bed to increase

the pressure therein to an intermediate pressure is
terminated.
The process of Claim 8 in which step (c) is
terminated in one bed at the same time the step (e) is

terminated in the other bed. 
The process of Claim 8 in which step (b) is
terminated in one bed at the same time step (f) is

terminated in the other bed.
The process of Claim 8 in which step (b) is
terminated in one bed at the same time the pressure in

the other bed reaches one atmosphere in the other bed
during step (a) therein.
The process of Claim 9 in which three
adsorbent beds are included in the adsorption system

and in which step (c) is terminated in one bed at the
same time that step (e) is terminated in another bed of

the system, the total time of steps (d) and (e) in each
bed being about 1/3 of the overall processing sequence

cycle time of steps (a)-(f) in each bed.
The process of Claim 9 in which three
adsorbent beds are included in the adsorption system

and in which step (c) is terminated in one bed at the
same time step (e) is terminated in the another bed,

the total time of steps (a) and (b) in each bed being
about 1/3 of the overall processing sequence cycle time

of steps (a)-(f) in each bed.
The process of Claim 9 in which three
adsorbent beds are included in the adsorption system

and in which step (b) is terminated in one bed at the
same time the pressure in the other bed reaches one

atmosphere during step (a) therein, the total time of
steps (a) and (b) in each bed being about 1/3 of the

overall processing sequence cycle time of steps (a)-(f)
in each bed. 
The process of Claim 9 in which three
adsorbent beds are included in the adsorption system

and in which step (b) is terminated in one bed at the
same time step (e) is terminated in the other bed, the

total time of steps (b) and the superatmospheric
portion of step (a) being about 1/3 of the total cycle

time.
The process of Claim 9 in which three
adsorbent beds are included in the adsorption system

and in which step (b) is terminated in one bed at the
same time the pressure in the other bed reaches one

atmosphere during step (a) therein, the total time of
step (b) and the superatmospheric portion of step (a)

being about 1/3 of the total cycle time.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
