<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR FABRICATING INSULATION-FILLED DEEP TRENCHES IN SEMICONDUCTOR SUBSTRATES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L2176	H01L21762	H01L21763	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for forming an isolation wall in a silicon semiconductor substrate (10) wherein a trench (12) is etched into the silicon using a hard mask (30), a layer of silicon dioxide (14) is formed on the side walls of the trench, a filling of polysilicon (16) is placed in the region between the side wall layers, the polysilicon is planarized by etching while the hard mask remains in place, and the hard mask then is stripped from the silicon, permitting field oxide (18) to be grown over the trench region.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YALLUP KEVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YALLUP, KEVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR FABRICATING INSULATION-FILLED DEEP TRENCHES IN SEMICONDUCTOR SUBSTRATESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to processes for develop¬ ing isolation walls in semiconductor devices such as inte¬ grated circuit (IC) chips. More particularly, this inven¬ tion is related to so-called trench isolation, wherein a trench is formed in the semiconductor device and filled with an insulating material.2. Description of the Prior ArtIt frequently is necessary to electrically isolate adjacent portions of an integrated circuit, and various techniques have been developed for this purpose. One such technique that has practical advantages is that of forming a trench at the place where isolation is needed, and filling the trench with an insulating material. 

 Although a variety of proposals have been put forward for such purpose, important problems have arisen with all of those proposals.For example, when a field oxide is thermally grown over a trench isolation region, a large step can (with prior art techniques) develop in the field oxide just above the trench edge, due to the usual difference in height between the insulation surface and the surrounding silicon, and the commonly lower oxidation rate of the insulating material as compared to the surrounding bulk material. Another problem is that notches can develop in the field oxide if the trench filling is layered in such a way that differential etching occurs at one or more layers. Such notches can attract residues from subsequent layers deposited over the trench (to form portions of the integrated circuit) such that conductive lines crossing the trench become electrically inter-connected, thereby resulting in a defective part. Also, when using trench isolation with a Silicon On Insulation (SOI) substrate, the removal of the trench hard mask after trench etch can lead to unintended etching of the buried insulating layer which can cause defective parts.Efforts have been made by others to solve some of these and still further problems. For example, it has been proposed to use a combination of additional oxide steps and a nitride/oxide sandwich layer, as described in U.S. Patent 4,791,073. Such a procedure however is excessively com¬ plex. Moreover, the additional thermal steps can adversely affect the characteristics of the final product, and such procedure would not in any event solve the problem of etch¬ ing of the buried oxide layer of a Silicon-On-Insulation substrate. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn a preferred
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A method for forming an isolation wall in a semiconductor substrate having a principal surface, comprising: forming a mask layer on said principal surface with an opening outlining a trench to be formed in said substrate; etching said substrate through said mask opening to develop said trench; applying a layer of dielectric material to the side walls of said trench while leaving the interior regions of the trench within said side wall layers free of said dielectric; filling said interior regions with additional dielectric material, said additional material being applied so as to extend above said trench and along the adjacent upper surfaces of said mask layer; planarizing said additional dielectric material to remove that material from above said mask layer while leaving said additional material in said trench with an upper surface no higher than the level of said mask layer; and stripping said mask layer from said principal surface.
2. The method of Claim 1 including the step of forming a field oxide over said trench and said principal surface.
3. The method of Claim 1, wherein said substrate is silicon.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein said side wall layer is thermally-grown silicon dioxide. 


 5. The method of Claim 3, wherein said additional dielectric material is polysilicon.
6. The method of Claim 3, wherein said mask layer is deposited silicon dioxide.
7. The method of Claim 6, wherein said mask layer is stripped by etching.
8. The method of Claim 1, wherein said additional material in said trench has, after planarization, a height which is above the surface of said substrate but below the surface of said mask layer.
9. The method of Claim 1, wherein said planarizing is effected by etching.
10. The method of Claim 1, wherein said substrate is formed with a buried insulating layer; the etching of said substrate through said mask opening being controlled so that the bottom of the trench just reaches the upper surface of said buried insulating layer.
11. A method for forming an isolation wall in a semiconductor substrate including a buried insulator and having a principal surface, said method comprising: forming a mask layer on said principal surface with an opening outlining a trench to be formed in said substrate; etching said substrate through said mask opening to develop said trench; filling said trench with dielectric material, said dielectric material being applied so as to extend above said trench and along the adjacent upper surfaces of said mask layer; 


 planarizing said dielectric material to remove the portions of that material from above said mask layer while leaving said dielectric material in said trench with an upper surface no higher than the level of said mask layer; and stripping said mask layer from said principal surface.
12. The method of Claim 11, including the step of forming a field oxide over said trench and said principal surface.
13. The method of Claim 11, wherein said substrate is silicon.
14. The method of Claim 13, including the step of applying a layer of insulating material to the side walls of said trench prior to filling said trench with dielectric material.
15. The method of Claim 1, wherein said mask layer is an oxide-only film.
16. The method of Claim 1, wherein said planarization is carried out by an etch arranged to effect removal of said dielectric material above said mask layer while leaving said upper surface of said additional material in said trench at a predetermined height "h" above said principal surface.
17. The method of Claim 16, wherein said mask layer is an oxide-only film and said interior regions of said trench are filled with polysilicon. 


18. A method for forming an isolation wall in a semiconductor substrate including a buried insulator and having a principal surface, said method comprising: forming a mask layer on said principal surface with an opening outlining a region where a trench is to be formed in said substrate; etching said substrate through said mask opening to develop said trench; filling said trench with dielectric material, said dielectric material being applied so as to extend above said trench and along the adjacent upper surfaces of said mask layer; planarizing said dielectric material to remove the portions of that material from above said mask layer; stripping said mask layer from said principal surface; and thereafter forming a field oxide over both said trench and said principal surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
