<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639428</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drive for linear pick-and-place assembly apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23P1904	B23P1904	B23Q125	B23Q162	B23Q522	B23Q534	B25J902	B25J902	B65G2500	B65G2502	F16C2904	F16C2904	F16H2500	F16H2516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23P	B23P	B23Q	B23Q	B23Q	B23Q	B25J	B25J	B65G	B65G	F16C	F16C	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23P19	B23P19	B23Q1	B23Q1	B23Q5	B23Q5	B25J9	B25J9	B65G25	B65G25	F16C29	F16C29	F16H25	F16H25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The drive apparatus for use with linear 
pick-and-place assembly devices includes a movable 

carriage (90) having an improved guide track assembly. 
The guide track assembly comprises a series of V-rollers 

(102A, 102B, 104A, 104B, 107A, 107B, 108A, 108B) and 
mating V-tracks (98, 100, 124, 126) to provide the 

vertical and horizontal translational movements for a 
linear pick-and-place assembly device's output member 

(110). The guide track assembly includes V- roller 
elements (104A, 104B, 107A, 108A) which can be 

eccentrically adjusted to create a tight, pre-loaded 
sliding engagement with the mating V-tracks (100,124), 

all so as to substantially eliminate any undesired end 
play movement within the movable carriage (90). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMERSON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDROCK DON G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDROCK, DON G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to linear pick-and-place 
assembly devices, and more specifically, to a cam-actuated drive 
apparatus for a linear pick-and-place device. Cam-driven, automated assembly apparatus are becoming 
more prevalent in industrial assembly applications. One type of 
automated assembly device is the so-called linear pick-and-place 
device. Its output is pre-designed, via specific cam design 
selection, to provide both vertical and horizontal movements to 
its output, and any associated end effector member, e.g., a 
pick-up device or robot hand. The resultant output is both in 
and out, as well as up and down, thereby allowing various types 
of motion sequences for assembly applications, dependant upon 
what cam design is used. For example, with such a linear 
pick-and-place device, a part can be picked up at one location, 
moved vertically, horizontally transferred over to another 
location, and then dropped vertically in place, such as in an 
associated tooling station or die set, whereafter the sequence 
is repeated for the next part. The known linear pick-and-place devices of the prior 
art typically use a movable carriage device, driven by 
associated cam members, which carriage typically has two 
hardened and grounded output shafts which slide upon and within 
multiple bearing assemblies carried by the carriage. Such  
 
ground multiple output shaft arrangements are known in the 
industry as Thompson (Trademark) shafts. See, for example, U.S. 
Patent No. 3,881,362, which typifies this type of linear 
pick-and-place device. The movable carriage units for such known linear 
pick-and-place devices are cumbersome and costly. Also, all the 
known designs of prior art linear pick-and-place devices suffer 
the disadvantage of having their output member aligned 
off-center from the unit's input shaft. This is due to 
interference of the multiple shaft carriage unit with the cam 
members if the former is placed in centered alignment with the 
latter. Inherently, such designs are relatively wide. 
Therefore, in many applications, such as where multiple linear 
pick-and-place devices need to be aligned in side-by-side 
parallel fashion for a given assembly application, they are 
often unusable. The present invention overcomes these difficulties by 
utilizing, in the drive of a linear pick-and-place apparatus, a 
unique guide track assembly for the movable carriage. A series 
of V-rollers and mating V-tracks are used for both the vertical 
and horizontal (i.e., translation) movements of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pick-and-place assembly for moving work pieces 
cyclically between adjacent work stations, said assembly 

comprising: 
   an input shaft rotably mounted in a housing and having 

a lift cam and a translator cam mounted thereon; 
   first and second output shafts rotably mounted in said 

housing generally transverse to said input shaft; 
   a first cam follower mounted on said first output shaft 

and engaging said translator cam, and a second cam follower 
mounted on said second output shaft and engaging said lift cam; 

   a carriage plate disposed in said housing and having a 
first set of V-rollers mounted thereon for slidably engaging 

respective V-tracks mounted on a carriage guide bar in said 
housing, said carriage plate having a second set of V-rollers 

mounted thereon and positioned to slidably receive respective 
V-tracks mounted on a translator bar; 

   a translator arm having a first end mounted on said 
first output shaft and a distal end positioned to engage said 

translator bar such that when said input shaft is rotated, said 
translator arm imparts horizontal movement to said translator 

bar; and 
   a lift arm having a first end mounted on said second 

output shaft and a distal end connected to said carriage plate 
such that when said input shaft is rotated, said lift arm 

impacts vertical movement to said carriage plate and said 
translator bar. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said lift cam and said 
translator cam are roller gear cams. 
The invention of claim 3 wherein said carriage guide 
bar is fixedly mounted to said housing. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said first set of 
V-rollers mounted on said carriage plate includes four V-rollers 

and said V-tracks comprise a first V-track mounted on one side 
of said carriage guide bar and a second V-track mounted on the 

other side of said carriage guide bar, whereby a first pair of 
said V-rollers engages said first V-track and a second pair of 

said V-rollers engages said second V-track. 
The invention of claim 4 wherein one of said pair of 
said V-rollers is each mounted on an eccentric bushing which 

allows the V-roller to be pre-loaded against said V-tracks. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said second set of 
V-rollers mounted on said carriage plate includes four V-rollers 

and said V-tracks comprise a first V-track mounted along an 
upper edge of said translator bar and a second V-track mounted 

along a lower edge of said translator bar, whereby a first pair 
of said V-rollers engages said first V-track and a second pair 

of said V-rollers engages said second V-track. 
The invention of claim 6 wherein one of said pair of 
said V-rollers is each mounted on an eccentric bushing which 

allows said V-rollers to be pre-loaded against said V-tracks. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said distal end of 
said translator arm has a drive V-roller mounted thereon and 

said translator bar includes a pair of spaced-apart V-tracks to 
create a track way to slideably receive said drive V-roller. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said input shaft and 
said translator bar are substantially mounted in the same plane. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said housing has a 
center line and said translator bar and said input shaft are 

positioned in parallel alignment along said center line. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein a plurality of said 
linear pick-and-place assemblies are closely spaced in parallel 

alignment and said input shafts are driven by a common drive 
shaft. 
The invention of claim 11 wherein said input shafts 
each have a beveled gear mounted thereon to engage one of a 

plurality of beveled gears mounted along said common drive 
shaft. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein a plurality of said 
 

linear pick-and-place assemblies are radially positioned 
substantially equidistant about a central axis, said plurality 

of assemblies each having said input shafts connected to a 
common drive means. 
The invention of claim 13 wherein each of said input 
shafts has a beveled gear disposed thereon and in engagement 

with a central bevel gear connected to a drive means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
