<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0934669</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELECTING A COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL FOR A MOBILE STATION BASED ON HANDOVER FREQUENCY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A threshold limit representing the number of handovers allowed to be performed by a mobile station (140) within a predetermined period of time is assigned to a serving mobile network (130). In case a fast moving mobile station (140) exceeds the prescribed number of handovers, a cell selection in accordance with the hierarchical cell location method is overruled. Instead, a cell selection in accordance with the normal cell location method is implemented to reduce the number of future handovers by the fast moving mobile station (140).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to mobile telecommunications systems and, in
particular, to the facilitation of handover between different layers of hierarchical
cells for fast moving mobile stations within a mobile telecommunications network.A mobile telecommunications service area associated with a particular Public
Land Mobile Network (PLMN) is sub-divided into a number of geographic areas
known as cell areas. The size of each cell area is determined by a number of
different factors. Such factors include the traffic capacity and carrier-to-interference
ratio expected or required from a particular geographic area. The carrier-to-interference
ratio (C/I ratio) is defined as the ratio of the level of the received
desired signal to the level of the received undesired signal. The distribution of the
C/I ratio desired in a system determines the number of frequency groups, F, which
may be used. If the total allocation of N channels is partitioned into F groups, then
each group will contain N/F channels. Since the total number of channels (N) is
fixed, a smaller number of frequency groups (F) would result in more channels per
set and per cell. Accordingly, decreasing the number of frequency groups and
reducing the frequency re-use distance result in high channel capacity but also results
in a lower average C/I distribution in the system. As a result, in order to provide
an increase in channel capacity and, at the same, maintain an acceptable C/I ratio,
the corresponding cell area needs to be reduced. Inversely, in order to obtain a
larger cell area, low channel capacity is maintained by increasing the total number
of frequency groups (F).With the continuing development in mobile telecommunications technology,
the concept of hierarchical cells has been introduced. Instead of "planning" or
providing a single layer of cells, a number of different over-layed radio coverage
cells are provided for a particular geographic area. As an illustration, layer 1 cells 
(also known as microcells) are first provided with the smallest cell areas. On top
of the layer 1 cells, layer 2 cells (also known as macrocells) are provided with larger
cell areas. Layer 3 cells can further be over-layed at the very top with even larger
cell areas. Such structure ensures optimal coverage, by covering up holes in the cell
plan and providing extra capacity for high demand areas.For example, a microcell with high channel capacity is provided for the
demanding downtown Stockholm area and a macrocell with large radio coverage
area is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for selecting a new cell channel for a mobile station (140)
travelling out of a cell area and travelling into a geographic area concurrently

covered by a microcell (60a-f) and a macrocell (20a-b) within a mobile
telecommunications network (10), whereby said mobile station (140) can be assigned

a traffic channel within either said macrocell (20a-b) or said microcell (60a-f), said
method comprising the steps of:


determining a need to handover said mobile station (140) to one of said
microcell (60a-f) or macrocell (20a-b);
determining an actual number of handovers of said mobile station (140) that
occurred within a particular period of time within said mobile telecommunications

network (10);
determining whether said actual number of handovers performed by said
mobile station (140) within said particular period of time is less than a threshold

number of handovers; and
performing a handover of said mobile station (140) depending on said
determination,

   said step of performing a handover comprising:

in response to an affirmative determination:

a step of performing a hierarchical cell selection procedure to
handover said mobile station (140), by selecting the traffic channel associated with

said microcell (60a-f),
characterised in that

   said step of performing a handover further comprising:

in response to a non-affirmative determination:

a step of performing a cell selection procedure based on a highest
signal strength detected by said mobile station (140) to handover said mobile station

(140) to either said macrocell (20a-b) or said microcell (60a-f).
The method according to claim 1, 
characterised in that
 said step of
performing said hierarchical cell selection procedure further comprises the steps of: 


maintaining data representing said handover being performed to said selected
cell; and
communicating said data to a telecommunications node associated with said
selected cell.
The method according to claim 2, 
characterised in that
 said
telecommunications node comprise a base station controller, BSC, (50; 50a-c)

associated with said selected cell.
The method according to claim 2, 
characterised in that
 said data further
includes a time stamp indicating the time said handover was performed.
The method according to claim 2, 
characterised in that
 said step of
communicating said data utilises handover signals.
The method according to claim 1, 
characterised by
 the further step of
initialising data representing said actual number of handovers performed by said

mobile station (140) if said step of performing said cell selection procedure based on
a highest signal strength detected by said mobile station (140) results in a selection of

said macrocell (20a-b).
A system for handing over a mobile station (140) from a first geographic
area to a second geographic area within a mobile telecommunications network (10),

said second geographic area being served by a plurality of cells including a microcell
(60a-f) and a macrocell (20a-b), said system comprising:


a processor for determining a number of handovers performed by said mobile
station (140) within a particular period of time;
said processor being further arranged for evaluating whether said determined
number of performed handovers exceeds a threshold number of handovers; and
a module for handing over said mobile station (140) to particular one of said
plurality of cells in response to a result of said evaluating, 
said module being arranged for handing over said mobile station (140) utilising
a cell selection method based on a hierarchical procedure if said evaluation does not

give that said determined number of performed handovers exceeds said threshold
number of handovers, whereby said mobile station (140) is handed over to said

microcell (60a-f),
characterised in that

   said module being further arranged for handing over said mobile station (140)
utilising a cell selection method based on signal strength detected by said mobile

station (140) if said evaluation gives that said determined number of performed
handovers exceeds said threshold number of handovers.
The system according to claim 7, 
characterised in that
 said processor
includes an application module (150; 150a-b).
The system according to claim 7, 
characterised in that
 said module is
included in a base station controller (50; 50a-c).
The system according to claim 7, 
characterised by

   a generator for generating data representing said handover to said
microcell (60a-f); and

   a transmitter for communicating said data with a telecommunications
node (50; 50a-c) associated with said microcell (60a-f).
The system according to claim 10, 
characterised in that
 said system
further includes a telecommunications node having a base station controller, BSC,

(50; 50a-c) serving said microcell (60a-f).
The system according to claim 10, 
characterised in that
 said data
includes a time stamp indicating the time of said handover.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
