<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632818</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OLIGOSACCHARIDES HAVING GROWTH FACTOR BINDING AFFINITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H300	C07H306	C08B3700	C08B3700	C08B3710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	C08B	C08B	C08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H3	C07H3	C08B37	C08B37	C08B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANCER RES CAMPAIGN TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANCER RESEARCH CAMPAIGN TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAGHER JOHN THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNBULL JEREMY EWAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAGHER, JOHN THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNBULL, JEREMY EWAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OLIGOSACCHARIDES HAVING GROWTH FACTOR BINDING AFFINITYThe present invention relates to the field of biochemistry and medicine. More particularly, it concerns certain novel oligosaccharide products and preparations thereof which have particular binding affinity for certain bioactive proteins or polypeptides present in biological systems, especially certain growth factors or cytokines such as fibroblast growth factors (FGF's). It also concerns uses of such oligosaccharide products, especially in medicine.BACKGROUNDIn complex multicellular living organisms, for example humans and other mammals, it is well known that various aspects of cell development, migration, growth and/or proliferation, involving in some cases cell-cell interactions, are often under the control of or are regulated by various extracellular mediators or cytokines, commonly referred to as growth factors, which are generally specialised soluble proteins or polypeptides secreted by cells of the tissues concerned.These growth factors, of which many have already been isolated and subsequently synthesised using recombinant DNA technology, are believed to act through a variety of mechanisms, but in general their effect appears to result from an initial interaction with specific receptors or binding sites on the surface of target cells which are thereby activated to bring about a chain or sequence of intracellular biochemical events.Certain of these protein growth factors, characterised inter alia by a high binding affinity for heparin, are designated by the general term FibroblastGrowth Factor (FGF) of which two main forms having partial amino acid sequence identity but differing isoelectric 

points are recognised, acidic Fibroblast Growth Factor (aFGF) and basic Fibroblast Growth Factor (bFGF) . FGF's are present in a wide variety of mammalian tissues; they appear to function in both normal and in diseased physiological states as important signalling molecules involved in regulation of cell growth and differentiation and they act as potent itogens stimulating proliferation for a range of cell types. A review by D Gospodarowicz of some of the characteristics and properties in FGF's is to be found in Cell Biology Reviews (1991) 25 (4), 305- 314.In particular, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) appears to have an important role in processes such as embryonic development, wound repair and tumour growth, and it has been specifically implicated as being directly concerned in various disorders or degenerative conditions involving cell
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An oligosaccharide product having a specific binding affinity for fibroblast growth factors (FGF's), characterised in that it consists essentially of oligo¬ saccharide chains which are substantially homogeneous with respect to FGF binding affinity and which contain at least six disaccharide units including a contiguous sequence of sulphated disaccharide units that are each composed of an N-sulphated glucosamine residue
•
 (±6S) and a 2-O-sulphated iduronic acid residue.
2. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 1 in which each of said sulphated disaccharide units is IdθA(2S)-αl,4-GlcNS0
3
.
3. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 in which said oligosaccharide chains consist of a sequence of less than ten disaccharide units.
4. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 3, further characterised in that it is substantially completely resistant to depolymerisation by heparitinase but not by heparinase.
5. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 4 in which at least the predominating majority of said oligosaccharide chains are all of the same length.
6. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which substantiaaly all said oligosaccharide chains consist of a sequence of six disaccharide units in all.
7. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which said oligosaccharide chains include a contiguous sequence of at least four said sulphated disaccharide units. 


8. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 4 in which substantially all the oligosaccharide chains consist of a sequence of seven disaccharide units of which at least five are included in said contiguous sequence of sulphated disaccharide units.
9. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the content (if any) of glucosamine residues in the oligosaccharide chains which are O-sulphated at C6 is less than 20%.
10. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 9 in which the content (if any) of glucosamine residues in the oligosaccharide chains which are O-sulphated at C6 is less than 5%.
11. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 10 further characterised in that it is obtainable from heparan sulphate (HS) of human fibroblast heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG) by enzymic partial depolymerisation to the fullest extent with heparitinase followed by size fractionation, using for example gel filtration size exclusion chromatography, followed by, in respect of a selected fraction or fractions recovered from the size fractionating stage, affinity chromatography using an FGF growth factor as the immobilised ligand in order to separate out the FGF-binding fragments, and then eluting selectively over a range of salt concentrations under a salt gradient, advantageously a serially stepped gradient, to fractionate said fragments in respect of FGF binding affinity, followed by recovering the most strongly bound fragments and, optionally, further purifying the recovered product by carrying out at least one additional step of size fractionation and selection of recovered product.
12. An oligosaccharide product having a specific binding affinity for fibroblast growth factors (FGF's), 


characterised in that
(a) it is composed predominantly of a molecular species:
X Y—z
L
 -*n in which
X is nHexA-GlcNS0
3
(±6S),
Y is IdθA(2S)-GlcNS0
3
(±6S),
Z is IdoA-GlcR(±6S) or IdoA(2S)-GlcR(±6S) where R is NSO3 or NAc, and n is in the range 4 to 7
(b) the content, if any, of monosaccharide residues having a 6-O-sulphate group is less than 20%;
(c) it is obtainable by a process comprising the steps of digesting a heparan sulphate with heparitinase so as to bring about partial depolymerisation thereof to the fullest extent, followed by size fractionating the oligosaccharide mixture produced using for example gel filtration size exclusion chromatography, collecting a fraction or fractions containing oligosaccharide chains having a particular size selected within the range of 12 to 18 monosaccharide residues, then subjecting said selected fraction or fractions to affinity chromatography using an immobilised FGF ligand and recovering the more strongly FGF-binding constituents by eluting under a salt gradient over a range of salt concentrations and collecting a selected fraction or fractions containing the bound material which desorbs only at the highest salt concentrations.
13. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 12, wherein Y is exclusively IdoA(2S)-GlcNSθ3. 


14. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 12 or 13, wherein n is 5 or 6.
15. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 14 wherein said molecular species consists of a total of seven disaccharide units in all.
16. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 12 or 13 wherein n is 4 and the total number of disaccharide units in said molecular species is 6.
17. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 12 to 16 in which the content, if any, of residues having a 6-O-sulphate group is less than 5%.
18. An oligosaccharide product having a specific binding affinity for fibroblast growth factors (FGF's) that is substantially all composed of oligosaccharide chains which are fourteen monosaccharide residues in length and which contain an internal contiguous sequence of 5 or 6 disaccharide units each consisting of an IdoA(2S) residue linked to a GlcNS0
3
(±6S) residue, with less than 20% of the glucosamine residues (terminal or internal) being 6-0- sulphated.
19. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 18 wherein the oligosaccharide chains have sequences selected from
(PI)GlcA-GlcNS0
3
-[IdoA(2S)-GlcNS0
3
]5-IdoA-GlcR and
(0)GlcA-[GICNSO3-IdoA(2S)]
6
-GlcR where R is NSO3 or NAc.
20. An oligosaccharide product having a specific binding affinity for fibroblast growth factors (FGF's) that is substantially all composed of oligosaccharide chains which are twelve monosaccharide residues in length and which contain an internal contiguous sequence of 4 disaccharide 


units each consisting of an IdoA(2S) residue linked to GlcNS0
3
(±6S) residue, with less than 20% of the glucosamine residues (terminal or internal) being 6-0- sulphateά.
21. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the predominant oligosaccharide chain sequence is (0)GlcA-GlcNS0
3
(±6S)-[IdoA(2S)-GlcNS0
3
]
4
-IdθA-GlcR(±6S) where R is NSO3 or NAc.
22. An oligosaccharide product having a relatively high specific binding affinity for basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and consisting essentially of oligo¬ saccharide chains having a disaccharide sequence nGlcA-βl,4-GlcNS0
3
-αl,4-[IdθA(2S)-αl,4-GlcNS0
3
]
5
- αl,4-IdoA-αl,4-GlcR or nGlcA-[GlcNS0
3
-IdoA(2S)]
6
-GlcR where R is NSO3 or NAc
or minor variants thereof which have at least the same relatively high specific binding affinity for bFGF.
23. A method of isolating from a glycosaminoglycan such as heparan sulphate small oligosaccharides in a purified and relatively homogeneous state which have a specific binding affinity for a selected bioactive protein or polypeptide that itself binds to said glycosaminoglycan or to the corresponding proteoglycan in multicellular biological systems, said method comprising the steps of (a) preparing an affinity chromatographic matrix or substrate incorporating a sample of said protein or polypeptide as the affinity ligand immobilised thereon;
(b) treating said glycosaminoglycan with a selective scission reagent so as to cleave the polysaccharide chains thereof selectively in regions of relatively low sulphation;
(c) subjecting the product of step (b) . to size 


 fractionation, , for example by gel filtration size exclusion chromatography, and collecting selectively therefrom fractions that appear to contain oligosaccharides composed of less than ten disaccharide units,
(d) contacting the affinity chromatographic matrix or substrate from step (a) with a selected fraction, or set of fractions, from step (c) containing a specific number of disaccharide units in the range of four to nine in order to extract from the latter and retain on said matrix or substrate size selected oligo¬ saccharide fragments of the glycosaminoglycan that have at least some binding affinity for the immobilised said protein or polypeptide;
(e) eluting the affinity chromatographic matrix or substrate using a progressively increasing salt concentration or gradient in the eluant;
(f) collecting the fraction or set of fractions containing oligosaccharide fragments eluting in selected highest ranges of eluant salt concentration; and optionally,
(g) further purifying the product of the selected fraction, or set of fractions, from step (f) by selectively repeating step (c) using said selected fraction or set of fractions collected in step (f) instead of the reaction mixture obtained from step (b), and optionally also repeating steps (d), (e) and (f).
24. A method as claimed in Claim 23, wherein the glycos¬ aminoglycan is heparan sulphate derived from heparan sulphate proteoglycan of mammalian cells and the selected bioactive protein or polypeptide is a cytokine or growth factor that when activated under physiological conditions stimulates mammalian cells through binding interaction with signal transducing receptors on the surface of said cells. 


25. A method as claimed in Claim 24 in which the selective scission reagent is heparitinase and the heparan sulphate is partially depolymerised to the fullest extent by digesting therewith until cleavage of the heparitinase sensitive linkages is complete.
26. A method as claimed in Claim 24 wherein the selective scission reagent is nitrous acid which, after prior treatment of the heparan sulphate with an N- deacetylating agent, is reacted at about pH 4 with the polysaccharide to cleave it at the free amino groups therein.
27. A method as claimed in any of Claims 23 to 26 wherein the bioactive protein or polypeptide selected is a fibroblast growth factor (FGF).
28. A method as claimed in any of Claims 23 to 26 wherein the selected bioactive protein or polypeptide is basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF).
29. A method as claimed in any of Claims 23 to 28, wherein the fractions collected from the size fractionation stage are those that appear to contain oligosaccharides composed of seven disaccharide units.
30. A method as claimed in any of Claims 23 to 28 wherein the fractions collected from the size fractionation stage are those that appear to contain oligosaccharides composed of six disaccharide units.
31. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 22 for therapeutic use as an active FGF- activity stimulating agent for promoting healing or tissue repair in treating mammals in need of such treatment, for example in conditions such as wound healing, bone healing, nerve regeneration, duodenal or venous ulcers, various ocular and retinal disorders, atherosclerosis. 


disorders, ischaemia, or for protecting tissues against serious damage during radiation treatment.
32. A medical composition comprising the oligosaccharide product of Claim 31 in association with an exogenous FGF growth factor for co-administration therewith in carrying out the treatment therein referred to.
33. An oligosaccharide product as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 22 for therapeutic use as an active FGF- activity inhibiting agent for controlling or reducing cell growth or proliferation in treating mammals in need of such treatment, for example in connection with conditions such as diabetic retinopathy, capsular opacification, proliferative vitreoretinopathy, tumour angiogenesis, cancer cell growth and metastasis, rheumatoid arthritis, mild muscular dystrophy, Alzheimer disease, various viral infections (e.g. Herpes Simplex type 1), or restenosis following angioplasty.
34. A pharmaceutical formulation or composition for medical use comprising a therapeutically effective non- toxic amount of an FGF-activity modulating agent comprising an oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 22 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or vehicle.
35. Use of an oligosaccharide product as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 22, for the manufacture of a medical preparation for use in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy, capsular opacification, proliferative vitreoretinopathy, tumour angiogenesis, cancer cell growth and metastasis, rheumatoid arthritis, mild muscular dystrophy, Alzheimer disease, various viral infections (e.g. Herpes Simplex type 1), or restenosis following angioplasty or for use in promoting repair of damaged tissues in conditions such as wound healing, bone healing, 


tissues in conditions such as wound healing, bone healing, nerve regeneration, duodenal ulcers, various ocular and retinal disorders, atherosclerosis, degenerative muscle disorders, ischaemia, or for protecting tissues against serious damage during radiation treatment.
36. An oligosaccharide product having a specific binding affinity for fibroblast growth factors (FGF's), consisting essentially of oligosaccharide chains which are substantially homogeneous with respect to FGF binding affinity and which contain a sequence of less than ten disaccharide units including, intermediate its terminal residues, a plurality of sulphated disaccharide units that are each composed of an N-sulphated glucosamine residue (±6S) and a 2-0-sulphated iduronic acid residue.
37. A pharmaceutical composition or formulation for use in controlling the activity of fibroblast growth factors in mammals for promoting tissue repair or for inhibiting cell growth or proliferation in the treatment of disorders resulting therefrom, said composition or forumulation comprising a therapeutically useful and therapeutic amount of an essentially pure oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 36.
38. A method for treating a mammal to promote healing or tissue repair in the case of wounds, duodenal or venous ulcers, various ocular and retinal disorders, atherosclerosis, degenerative muscle disorders, or ischaemia, for promoting bone healing or nerve regeneration, or for protecting tissues against serious damage during radiation treatment, which comprises administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of an essentially pure oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 36 or in any of Claims 1 to 22.
39. A method as claimed in Claim 38 in which the 


oligosaccharide product is co-administered with a preparation of bFGF.
40. A method of treating diabetic retinopathy, capsular opacification, proliferative vitreoretinopathy, tumour angiogenesis, cancer cell growth and metastasis, rheumatoid arthritis, mild muscular dystrophy, Alzheimer disease, various viral infections (e.g. Herpes Simplex type 1), or restenosis following angioplasty in mammals by inhibiting FGF growth factor activity, which method comprises administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of an essentially pure oligosaccharide product as claimed in Claim 36 or in any of Claims 1 to 22. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
