<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654389</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved combination wear and lubricating liner assembly for railway car truck bolster bowl
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B61F516	B61F502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B61F	B61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B61F5	B61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wear and lubricating liner having a cup-shaped wear liner 
assembly (20) which includes a first bottom plate portion (16). 

An aperture (18) 
is formed centrally through such first bottom plate (16) and a first 

upstanding wall portion (22) is connected at a bottom thereof to an 
outer perimeter of such first bottom plate (16). A lubricating liner 

assembly (30) having at least one substantially solid lubricating 
material (24) with a bottom surface thereof disposed adjacent and in 

contact with an upper surface of such bottom plate and a vertically 
disposed ring-like solid lubricating material (26). An outer surface of 

such ring-like lubricating material is disposed adjacent and in 
contact with an inner surface of such upstanding wall of the wear 

liner (20). A protective cover member (40) includes a second bottom plate 
portion (28) having a bottom surface disposed adjacent and in contact 

with an upper surface of such at least one solid lubricating 
material. Another aperture (32) is formed centrally through such second 

bottom plate. A second upstanding wall portion (34), located on the 
protective cover (40), is connected at a bottom thereof to an outer 

perimeter of such second bottom plate (28) and an annular lip-like 
portion (36) is connected adjacent an inner edge thereof to an upper 

edge of such second upstanding wall (34). Such lip-like portion (36) extends 
outwardly from such upper edge of the second upstanding wall and 

downwardly toward a top surface of such bolster bowl. A space (38) is 
disposed between an inner surface of such ring-like lubricating 

material and an outer surface of such second upstanding wall. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAJIH KANJO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAJIH, KANJO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates, in general, to wear liner
components and lubrication of railway car truck bolster center
bowls and, more particularly, this invention relates to an improved
combination wear and lubricating liner assembly for use in such
truck bolster center bowls.It is very well recognized, by both maintenance and design
engineers in the railway industry, that in order to negotiate the
curves encountered in a track structure, during train operation, a
rotatable connection must be provided between the railway car body
portion and the railway truck portion. This connection is usually
accomplished, in a standard railway car, by use of a center plate
member secured to the bottom of such car along the longitudinal
centerline thereof and the bolster bowl disposed on the top of such
railway truck. In an articulated coupling arrangement, however,
used to connect adjacent ends of a pair of railway cars together in
a substantially semipermanent manner, this rotatable connection is
accomplished between the female connection member and the bolster
bowl.Lubrication of such rotatable connection is generally quite
difficult to achieve and it is, also, even more difficult to
maintain sufficient lubricant in place due to the very hostile 
environment encountered. For example, during operation of a train
consist in a rain storm, moisture may cause the lubricant being
used to be washed out of such bolster bowl prematurely. Lack of
lubrication in this critical area can cause undue frictional wear
on the car components, thus adding to the repair and maintenance
cost. Additionally, and of even more concern to the railroad
industry, such lack of lubrication, in the most severe cases, may
even lead to derailments occurring. Obviously, this may lead to
injury or damage to lading being carried by the railroad thereby
adding significantly to their cost of doing business.The best example of the prior art is regarded to be US-A-5 228
393. Here, a support plate is formed as a disk, whereas an axial
wear structure is formed as trapezoidal pieces. A radial wear
structure is formed as a short cylindrical ring.The present invention provides an improved combination wear
and lubricating liner assembly for reducing wear on the bolster
bowl disposed on an upper surface of a railway car truck. Such
combination wear and lubricating liner assembly will include a
generally round cup-shaped wear liner assembly having a first
predetermined outer diameter and a first predetermined inner
diameter. The wear liner assembly will include
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A combination wear and lubricating liner assembly
(10) for a bolster bowl (12) disposed on an upper surface

of a railway car truck, comprising:

(a) a lubricating liner assembly (30), including,

(i) at least one substantially flat solid lubricating
material (24) having a bottom surface disposed

adjacent and in contact with an upper surface of a
bottom plate portion (16) of a wear liner assembly

(20), and
(ii) a vertically disposed ring-like substantially
solid lubricating material (26), having a predetermined

height, an outer surface of the ring-like
lubricating material disposed adjacent and in contact

with an inner surface of an upstanding wall portion
(22) of the wear liner assembly;
b) a protective cover member (40) having a predetermined

outer diameter and a predetermined inner diameter,
including,


(i) a generally round bottom plate portion (28),
having a predetermined thickness, a bottom surface of

the second bottom plate portion being disposed
adjacent and in contact with an upper surface of the

at least one substantially solid lubricating material
(24),
(ii) a centrally disposed aperture (32), having a
predetermined diameter, formed through said bottom

plate portion (28),
(iii) an upstanding generally round wall portion
(34), having the same thickness as the bottom plate

portion (28) and a predetermined height, connected at 
a bottom portion thereof to an outer perimeter of the

bottom plate portion, and
(iv) an annular lip-like portion (36) connected
adjacent an inner edge thereof to an upper edge of

the upstanding wall portion (34), said lip-like
portion extending outwardly from the upper edge of

the upstanding wall portion (34) and downwardly
toward a top surface of the bolster bowl (12); and
(c) an annular space (38) disposed between an inner surface
of the ring-like lubricating material (26) and an outer

surface of the upstanding wall portion (34), a width of
said annular space being predetermined,

   
characterized
 by a generally round cup-shaped
wear liner assembly (20) having a predetermined

outer diameter and a predetermined inner diameter,
including,


(i) a generally round bottom plate portion (16)
having a predetermined thickness,
(ii) a centrally disposed aperture (18), having a
predetermined diameter, formed through the bottom

plate portion (16), and
(iii) an upstanding generally round wall portion
(22), having the same thickness as the bottom portion

(16) and a predetermined height, connected at a
bottom portion thereof to an outer perimeter of said

first bottom plate portion.
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the wear liner assembly (20)
further includes a radius portion (42), having a first

predetermined radius, disposed between the outer perimeter
of the bottom plate portion (16) and the bottom portion of

the upstanding wall portion (22).
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that cover member (40) further
includes a radius portion (44), having a second 

predetermined radius, disposed between the outer perimeter
of the bottom plate portion (28) and the bottom portion of

the upstanding wall portion (34).
A liner assembly according to claim 3, 
characterized

in that the cover member (40) further
includes a radius portion (46), having a third

predetermined radius, disposed between the upper edge of
the upstanding wall portion (34) and the inner edge of the

annular lip-like portion (36).
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the diameter of the aperture
(18) formed through the bottom plate (16) of the wear liner

assembly (20) is greater than the diameter of the aperture
(32) formed through the bottom plate (28) of the cover

member (40).
A liner assembly according to claim 5, 
characterized

in that the cover member (40) further
includes a lip-like portion (48) extending downwardly from

the bottom plate (28) adjacent the aperture (32) for a
predetermined distance.
A liner assembly according to claim 6, 
characterized

in that the distance is at least about
6.4 mm.
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the thickness of the wear liner
assembly (20) is greater than the thickness of the

protective cover member (40).
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the lubricating liner assembly
(30) includes a plurality of solid lubricating material

pieces.
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the lubricating liner assembly
(30) has a single piece solid lubricating material and a

centrally disposed aperture, having the same diameter as 
the aperture (18) in the wear liner assembly (20) and

formed through the single piece solid lubricating material.
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the bottom plate portion (16)
and the upstanding wall portion (22) are formed as a single

piece wear liner (20).
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the bottom plate-like portion
(28), the upstanding wall portion (34) and the annular lip-like

portion (36) are formed as a single piece protective
cover member (40).
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the height of the upstanding
wall portion (22) of the wear liner assembly (20) is at

least sufficient to enable an upper edge thereof to extend
above the top surface of the bolster bowl (12).
A liner assembly according to claim 13, 
characterized

in that an outer edge of the annular
lip-like portion (36) of the cover member (40) contacts the

top surface of the bolster bowl (12).
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the annular space (38) disposed
between the inner surface of said ring-like lubricating

material (26) and the outer surface of the upstanding wall
portion (34) of the cover member (40) is substantially

between about 0.64 mm and about 2.4 mm.
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the thickness of the bottom
portion (16) of the wear liner assembly (20) is

substantially between about 3.8 mm and about 3.2 mm.
A liner assembly according to claim 16, 
characterized

in that the thickness of the bottom
portion (28) of the cover member (40) is substantially

between about 1.8 mm and about 2.0 mm. 
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the solid lubricating material
is a lubricating polymer.
A liner assembly according to claim 1, 
characterized

in that the height of the upstanding
wall portion (22) of the wear liner assembly (20) is less

than the height of the upstanding wall portion (34) of the
cover member (40).
A liner assembly according to claim 19, 
characterized

in that the height of the upstanding
wall portion (22) of the wear liner assembly (20) is

greater than the height of the ring-like lubricating
material (24).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
