<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multipoint to point radiocommunications network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L100	H04L100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L1	H04L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data collection system in which a number of remote 
terminals (RT) transmit data packets for reception by one or more 

fixed data collectors (FDC) or a portable data collector (PDC). 
Each remote terminal (RT) transmits data in two frequency sub-bands 

to which the fixed and portable data collectors are respectively 
tuned. Channel capacity is improved in at least the fixed data 

collector (FDC) sub-band by the use in the remote terminal of 
minimum shift keying (MSK) encoding and pseudo-random variation of a 

frequency error applied to the packet transmission frequency for 
successive packets. In the fixed data collectors dual fast-Fourier 

transform signal processing enables the interpretation of 
simultaneous packets with different error frequencies. The use of a 

single design of remote terminal (RT) in conjunction with portable 
data collectors (PDC) simplifies system set-up, with the portable 

collectors providing coverage for those areas where a fixed data 
collector (FDC) network has yet to be established. The system has 

particular application to the monitoring of devices such as gas and 
electricity meters and security systems. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLUMBERGER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLUMBERGER INDUSTRIES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEEK THOMAS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWSELL FRANCIS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEEK, THOMAS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWSELL, FRANCIS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to radio communications 
networks which are intended primarily to collect data from many 
remote terminals at low cost. The invention has particular 
application where the remote terminals are associated with devices 
such as utility meters, security systems, and remote monitoring 
equipment of various kinds. A number of such systems are known and, in the United Kingdom 
a specific VHF frequency band with a 50kHz channel spacing is 
allocated for such systems when used by utilities. Figure 12 of the 
accompanying drawings schematically illustrates a typical 
arrangement for such a system. A number of remote terminals RT communicate with fixed local 
data collectors or concentrators FDC using a radio data link. The 
data collected by the local concentrators is supplied to a central 
controller via a data network ISDN to which other local 
concentrators are connected, or via a radio link RL. Information 
collected at the central controller is then passed to customer 
billing and settlement departments. A typical objective for such a system is to provide a 99% 
probability of radio coverage throughout the service area for a high 
proportion of the time. The remainder of the service area is 
covered by a fallback system in which meter reading data is 
collected manually. The network cost is dominated by the cost of 
the remote terminals which are required to be inexpensive. However 
the cost and complexity of the fixed collector infrastructure must 
also be minimised to enable a practical system roll-out. An example of a multiple-point to point network, for use in 
the monitoring of consumer water supply meters, is described in 
United States Patent No. 4,940,976 of Gastouniotis et al. The 
remote terminals of Gastouniotis are mounted on or adjacent to the 
casing of an existing water meter and include remote flow sensing 
apparatus in the form of a magnetic flux sensor which senses the 
varying magnetic field produced by the water meter's rotating 
magnet. A calculation unit converts the sensor signal into a binary 
count signal representative of the volume of water consumed. This  
 
binary count signal is transmitted to local fixed data collectors by 
a conventional low power frequency shift keyed (FSK) modulator and 
transmitter operating in the 72-76 MHz frequency band and having a 
power output of below 2 watts as required by United States FCC 
regulations for telemetry operations. Accumulated data from the 
fixed data unit is then transmitted to a central office by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Remote terminal apparatus for use in a multipoint to 
point data network, the apparatus comprising a data encoder 

operable to receive a stream of data for transmission and to 
encode the said data into packets, and a variable frequency 

transmitter operable to periodically transmit the data packets 
in a frequency sub-band and to apply a pseudo-random frequency 

error to the packet transmission frequency within the frequency 
sub-band. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the transmitter 
is operable to to transmit data packets in each of two 

frequency sub-bands and to apply the pseudo-random frequency 
error within at least one of the sub-bands. 
Remote terminal apparatus for use in a multipoint to 
point data network, the apparatus comprising a data encoder 

operable to receive a stream of data for transmission and to 
encode the said data into packets, and a variable frequency 

transmitter operable to periodically transmit the data packets 
in each of two frequency sub-bands. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, in which the transmitter 
is operable to apply a pseudo-random frequency error to the 

packet transmission frequency within at least one of the two 
frequency sub-bands. 
Apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 3, including 
means operable to control the time of transmission of data 

packets such that the interval between successive packets 
transmitted is greater for packets transmitted in one of the 

two frequency sub-bands than for packets transmitted in the 
other frequency sub-band. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 4, in which the 
transmitter is operable to vary the pseudo-random frequency 

error applied for each successive data packet. 
Apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 4, in which the 
transmitter applies the pseudo-random frequency error within 

one of the frequency sub-bands, and the remote terminal 
apparatus transmits data at a first packet data rate in that 

sub-band and transmits data at a second packet data rate, 
greater than the first packet data rate, in the other of the 

frequency sub-bands. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 7, in which the 
data encoder applies minimum shift key encoding to received 

data. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8, including a 
memory associated with the variable frequency transmitter and 

storing information describing the modulation characteristics 
of the remote terminal apparatus, the transmitter being 

operable to read the said information and to apply a correction 
for the modulation characteristics to the frequency signal for 

each packet transmission. 
Apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 3, in which the 
two frequency sub-bands are upper and lower parts of a 50KHz 

channel in a VHF frequency bands. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 10, including 
timer means operable to apply a pseudo-random delay, within a 

predetermined interval, to the start of transmission time of a 
packet. 
A multipoint to point data collection network, comprising 
at least one remote terminal apparatus according to claim 1 and 

 
a local collector operable to receive signals transmitted 

therefrom in the frequency sub-band. 
A multipoint to point data collection network, comprising 
at least one remote terminal apparatus according to claim 3 and 

a local collector operable to receive signals transmitted 
therefrom in one of the two frequency sub-bands. 
A network according to claim 12 or claim 13, in which the 
local collector comprises a first antenna tuned to the said 

frequency sub-band, a down-conversion receiver stage operable 
to generate a first intermediate frequency signal from signals 

received by the said first antenna, an image cancellation 

receiver stage operating on the first intermediate frequency, 
and a decoder operable to recover data from received data 

packets. 
A network according to claim 14, in which the local 
collector further comprises a second antenna with associated 

down-conversion and image cancellation receiver stages in line 
to the decoder, the first antenna being optimised for the 

reception of vertically polarised data packet signals and the 
second antenna being optimised for the reception of 

horizontally polarised data packet signals. 
A network according to claim 15, in which the local 
collector further comprises a third antenna with associated 

down-conversion and image cancellation receiver stages in line 
to the decoder, the third antenna being optimised for the 

reception of broadcast interferers and the decoder being 
operable to apply interference cancellation to signals received 

by the first and second antennae in dependence on broadcast 
interferers received by the third antenna. 
A network according to any of claims 12 to 16, in which 
the local collector includes signal processing circuit means 

 
operable to apply dual fast-Fourier-transform algorithm 

interpretation to received data signals. 
A network according to claim 17, in which the signal 
processing circuit means is further operable to apply 

differential minimum shift keyed demodulation to received data 
signals. 
A network according to claim 14, in which the local 
collector is movable relative to the location of the or each 

remote terminal apparatus, further comprising memory means 
storing information identifying the locations of the or each 

remote terminal apparatus. 
A network according to any of claims 14 to 16, in which 
the or each image cancellation circuit is a circuit selected 

from among the following: 
   a frequency lock loop receiver; 

   an offset homodyne receiver; 
   a direct-conversion receiver; 

   a quadrature mixer and addition receiver; and 
   a specially selected first IF crystal filter. 
A network according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the 
remote terminal includes a receiver whose receive frequency has 

a known relationship to the frequency of the transmitter, and 
wherein the local collector includes a signal processing means 

for determining the frequency of the or each said transmitter 
and a further transmitter whose transmission frequency is 

derived from the determined frequency of each said transmitter 
and said known relationship, said further transmitter being 

arranged to transmit messages to the receiver in the or each 
said transmitter in the or each remote terminal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
