<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629279</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRIPLE-EFFECT ABSORPTION REFRIGERATION SYSTEM WITH DOUBLE-CONDENSER COUPLING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25B1500	F25B1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25B	F25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25B15	F25B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIERMANN WENDELL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEVAULT ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIERMANN, WENDELL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEVAULT, ROBERT, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TRIPLE-EFFECT ABSORPTION REFRIGERATION SYSTEM WITH DOUBLE-CONDENSER COUPLINGBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to an im¬ proved triple-effect absorption refrigeration system and method, and more particularly to such a system which utilizes three generators with a double-condenser cou¬ pling that is provided by coupling the high temperature condenser with both the medium temperature generator and the low temperature generator to provide improved inter¬ nal heat recovery and thereby increasing the thermal efficiency of the system.This invention was made with the support of the United States Government under contract No. DE-AC05-84- OR21400 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy, Office of Building Technologies. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.Absorption refrigeration systems which typically utilize hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas or oil, as the system-operating heat source have undergone consider¬ able modifications in recent years in order to increase the thermal efficiency or the coefficient of performance (COP) of the system and thereby improving the economics of operating the system on hydrocarbon fuels. The modi¬ fications were usually made to the basic commercial ab¬ sorption refrigeration system which utilizes a single- effect absorption system that typically comprises a de- sorber or generator, a condenser, an evaporator, and an absorber coupled together. In the single-effect system the working fluid or refrigerant-absorbent solution, commonly.known as a solution pair, is heated in the gen¬ erator by an external heat source, normally the combus¬ tion of a hydrocarbon fuel, to vaporize the refrigerant from the solution and concentrate the absorbent liquid. The concentrated absorbent liquid is returned to the absorber while the vaporized refrigerant is condensed to liquid in the condenser and then evaporated in the evapo-SUBSTITUTESHEET 

rator to provide the desired refrigeration effect. The COP of a single-effect absorption refrigeration system is typically in the range of about 0.6 to 0.7.An increase in the COP of absorption refrigeration systems was provided by the development of the double- effect absorption system in which two generators are coupled to the absorber with the second generator being operable at a higher temperature and pressure than the first generator. In this system the high temperature generator is externally heated while the first generator is heated by the heat rejected during the condensation of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
Claim 1. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser, said system comprising: first, second and third generator means, first, second and third condensing means, evaporating means, and absorber means operatively coupled together and with the first, second and third condensing means adapted to re¬ spectively receive vaporous refrigerant from the first, second and third generator means for condensing the va¬ porous refrigerant; means for heating refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the third generator means to a first refrig¬ erant-vaporizing temperature; first heat exchange means operatively associated with the third condensing means and the second generator means for heating refrigerant-containing absorption solu¬ tion in the second generator means to a second refriger¬ ant-vaporizing temperature that is lower than said first temperature; second heat exchange means operatively associated with the second condensing means and the first generator means for providing heat to the refrigerant-containing adsorption solution in the first generator means; and heat transfer means for combining heat from refrig¬ erant condensed in the third condensing means with the heat provided to the refrigerant-containing solution in the first generator means by the second heat exchange means for heating the refrigerant-containing solution in the first generator means to a third refrigerant-vaporiz¬ ing temperature that is lower than said second tempera¬ ture.
Claim 2. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first, second and third generator means are adapted to operate at temperatures and pres¬ sures different from one another.
21 


 Claim 3. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first, second and third generator means are coupled in one of a series or parallel flow arrangement with the absorber means for receiving refrig¬ erant-containing absorption solution therefrom.
Claim 4. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 3, wherein the first, second and third generator means are coupled in one of a series or parallel flow arrangement with the absorber means for conveying concen¬ trated absorption solution thereinto, and wherein heat exchange means are operatively associated with the series or parallel flow arrangement for transferring heat from the concentrated absorption solution to the refrigerant- containing solution.
Claim 5. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first, second and third generator means are coupled in parallel to the absorber means for providing each generator means with a selected portion of the refrigerant-containing absorption solution.
Claim 6. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first, second and third generator means are each adapted to receive a preselected amount of the refrigerant-containing absorption solution from the absorber means with said preselected amount being in the range of about 25-30 percent, about 25-35 percent, and about 40-45 percent, respectively, for the first, second, and third generator means.
Claim 7. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first temperature is in the range of about 360°-500°F, wherein said second temperature is in the range of about 300°-360°F, and wherein said third temperature is in the range of about 180°-210°F.
22 


 Claim 8. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 1, wherein said heat transfer means comprises third heat exchange heat operatively associated with the third condensing means and the first generator means for sup¬ plementing the heating of the refrigerant-containing solution in the first generators as provided by the sec¬ ond heat exchange means.
Claim 9. A multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 8, wherein the third condensing means comprises both vapor condensing means for condensing to liquid the vaporous refrigerant received by the third condensing means and liquid cooling means coupled to said vapor condensing means for receiving and extracting heat from the liquid refrigerant.
Claim 10. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 9, wherein said vapor condensing means defines the first heat exchange means, and wherein the liquid cooling means defines the third heat exchange means.
Claim 11. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 10, wherein the liquid refrigerant received by the liquid cooling means is at a temperature substantial¬ ly the same as said second temperature, and wherein heat extracted from the liquid refrigerant by the liquid cool¬ ing means is used in combination with heat from said second heat exchange means for heating the first genera¬ tor means to said third temperature.
Claim 12. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 1, wherein said heat transfer means comprises means for combining the condensed refrigerant from the third condensing means with vaporous refrigerant from the second generator means prior to being received by the second condensing means.
23 


 Claim 13. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 12, wherein the second condensing means are coupled by first conduit means to the second generator means for receiving a stream of vaporous refrigerant therefrom, and wherein second conduit means couple the third condensing means to the first conduit means for combining a stream of condensed refrigerant from the third condensing means with the stream of vaporous re¬ frigerant from the second generator means.
Claim 14. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 13, wherein pressure reducing means are opera¬ tively associated with the second conduit means for re¬ ducing the pressure of the condensed refrigerant in the second conduit means to substantially the same pressure as that of the vaporous refrigerant in the first conduit means prior to the combining of the streams of condensed refrigerant and vaporous refrigerant.
Claim 15. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 14, wherein said pressure reducing means is provided by orifice means disposed in the second conduit means adjacent to the coupling of the second conduit means to the first conduit means.
Claim 16. A multiple-effect absorption refrigera¬ tion system having a double-coupled condenser as claimed in claim 14, wherein the temperature of the combined streams of refrigerant is substantially the same as said second temperature.
Claim 17. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system comprising first, second and third generator means and condensing means, evaporat¬ ing means, and absorber means operatively coupled togeth¬ er and with the first, second and third condensing means respectively receiving and condensing hot vaporous re-
24 


frigerant from the first, second and third generator means, said method comprising: heating refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the third generator means to a first temperature for vaporizing refrigerant contained therein;
.utilizing heat from the third condensing means for heating refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the second generator means to a second refrigerant-vaporizing temperature that is lower than said first temperature; and utilizing heat from the third condensing means with heat provided to the second condensing means by the va¬ porous refrigerant from the second generator means for heating refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the first generator means to a third refrigerant-vaporizing temperature that is lower than said second temperature.
Claim 18. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the refrigerant-containing absorption solution comprises water and lithium bromide.
Claim 19. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 17, including the step of coupling the first, second and third generator means in one of a series or parallel flow arrangement with the absorber means for providing each of said generator means with refrigerant-containing absorp¬ tion solution from the absorber means.
Claim 20. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 19, including the steps of coupling the first, second and third generator means in one of a series or parallel flow arrangement with the absorber means for conveying concen¬ trated refrigerant absorption solution from each of said generator means thereinto, and passing the concentrated refrigerant absorption solution in heat exchange with the refrigerant-containing absorption solution for heating
25 


the latter prior to being received by each of said gener¬ ator means.
Claim 21. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the first, second and third generator means are coupled in a parallel flow arrangement with the absorber means for receiving refrigerant-containing absorption solution therefrom, and including the step of respective¬ ly providing the first, second and third generator means with preselected amounts of the refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the range of about 25-30 percent, about 25-35 percent, and about 40-45 percent of the total refrigerant-containing absorption solution provided ther¬ eto from the absorber means.
Claim 22. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 17, wherein said first temperature is in the range of about 360°-500°F, wherein said second temperature is in the range of about 300°-360°F, and wherein said third temper¬ ature is in the range of about 180°-210°F.
Claim 23. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the step of utilizing the heat from the third condensing means with the heat provided to the second condensing means is provided by the steps of condensing to liquid the vaporous refrigerant received in the third condensing means from the third generator means, and extracting heat from the condensed liquid refrigerant from the third condensing means by heating the refriger¬ ant-containing absorption solution in the first generator means.
Claim 24. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the condensing of the vaporous refrigerant in the third condensing means provides the heat for heating the refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the second generator means to said second temperature, wherein the
26 


heat extracted from the condensed liquid refrigerant from the third condensing means provides a portion of the heat used for heating the refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the first generator means to said third tem¬ perature, and wherein the heat from the second condensing means used in conjunction with said portion of the heat for the heating of refrigerant-containing absorption solution in the first generator means to said third tem¬ perature.
Claim 25. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the step of utilizing heat from the third con¬ densing means with heat provided to the second condensing means is provided by combining a stream of condensed refrigerant from the third condensing means with a stream of vaporous refrigerant from the second generator means prior to the reception of the vaporous refrigerant by the second condensing means.
Claim 26. A method for operating a multiple-effect absorption refrigeration system as claimed in claim 25, including the step of reducing the pressure of the stream of condensed refrigerant from the third condensing means to substantially the pressure of the stream of vaporous refrigerant from the second generator means prior to combining the refrigerant streams.
27 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
