<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617528</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radio telecommunication apparatus with privacy or non-privacy communication mode.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04K100	H04K100	H04W8800	H04W8802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04K	H04K	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04K1	H04K1	H04W88	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
When the user of a radio telecommunication apparatus requests 
a privacy mode and a call origination, the apparatus of the 

present invention sends a call signal including the requested 
privacy mode to a base station. Thereafter, the apparatus 

receives an acknowledge signal from the base station, including a 
designated communication mode designated by the base station. If 

the received designated communication mode does not correspond to 
the requested privacy mode, the apparatus warns the user. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OBAYASHITA ARATA C O INTELL PR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMASHITA MASATAKA C O INTELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OBAYASHITA ARATA C O INTELL PR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMASHITA MASATAKA C O INTELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a radio 
telecommunication apparatus such as a portable telecommunication 
apparatus or a mobile telecommunication apparatus, and more 
particularly to a radio telecommunication apparatus using a dual 
mode by which either an analog mode or a digital mode is selected. FIG. 8 shows a diagram illustrating a radio telecommunication 
system. The system includes a control station CS connected to a 
landline network NW over a landline CL. The control station CS is 
further connected to plural base stations BS1, BS2, BS3 ... over 
landlines CL1, CL2, CL3 .... Each base station covers its own 
radio zone E1, E2, E3, .... Each portable apparatus communicates 
over radio channels with the base station in the radio zone in 
which it is located. Further, each portable apparatus is 
connected to the landline network NW through the base station BS 
and the control station CS. In the digital mode, the system operates as a time division 
multiple access system, referred to as a TDMA system. In the TDMA 
system, as shown in FIG. 9, each radio channel for a downward 
channel and for an upward channel, includes a plurality of time 
frames. Each time frame includes six time slots. In the event 
that a communication link is formed between the base station and 
the portable station, one time slot for the downward signal is 
assigned from the downward radio channel and one time slot for the 
upward signal is assigned from the upward radio channel. After  
 
that, the portable apparatus receives the downward signal in the 
assigned downward slot and sends the upward signal in the assigned 
upward slot. As shown in FIG. 9, if the portable apparatus PS is 
assigned TS1' as an upward slot, the portable apparatus PS sends 
the intermittent upward signal to the base station BS during a 
period corresponding to the upward slot TS1'. Furthermore, if the 
portable apparatus is assigned TS1 as a downward slot, the 
portable apparatus PS receives the downward signal during a period 
corresponding to a downward slot TS1. Thus, from the perspective 
of portable apparatus PS, the upward slot TS1' is defined as a 
transmit slot and the downward slot TS1 is defined as a receive 
slot. During a period corresponding to the downward slots TS2, 
TS3, TS4, TS5, the apparatus PS sends no signal to the base 
station BS. Therefore, the slots corresponding to the slots TS2, 
TS3, TS4, TS5 are defined as an idle slot. The above six slots 
TS1 ∼ TS6 repeat in every frame. Presently, there is more than one type
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radio telecommunication apparatus used in a radio 
telecommunication system, wherein speech signals are selectively 

communicated with a base station in either one of a privacy mode 
or a communication mode other than the privacy mode characterized 

in that the radio telecommunication apparatus comprises: 
   requesting means (3) for requesting the base station to 

designate the privacy mode; 
   receiving means (21) for receiving a designated 

communication mode designated by the base station; and 
   warning means (5, 76, 78) responsive to the requesting 

means (3) and the receiving means (21) for warning the user of 
the apparatus if the received designated communication mode does 

not correspond to the requested privacy mode. 
The apparatus of claim 1 characterized in that the 
requesting means (3, 15) comprises input means (3) for inputting a 

call origination request and a privacy mode request, and sending 
means (15) responsive to the input means (3) for sending a call 

signal including the inputted call origination request and the 
inputted privacy mode request. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the radio 
telecommunication apparatus further comprises mode assigning means 

(30) responsive to the receiving means (21) for assigning the 

received designated communication mode to a communication mode of 
the apparatus. 
The apparatus claimed in any preceding claim characterized 
in that the warning means (5, 76, 78) comprises sound generating 

means (78) for generating sound. 
The apparatus claimed in any preceding claim characterized in that 
the warning means (5, 76, 78) comprises informing means (5, 76) for 

informing the user of the apparatus that the requested privacy 
mode is not designated by the base station. 
The apparatus of claim 5 characterized in that the 
informing means (5, 76) comprises displaying means (5) for 

displaying information indicating that the requested privacy mode 
is not designated by the base station. 
The apparatus of claim 5 characterized in that the 
informing means (5, 76) comprises voice synthesis means (76) for 

generating a synthesized voice indicating that the requested 
privacy mode is not designated by the base station. 
A radio telecommunication apparatus used in a radio 
telecommunication system, wherein speech signals are selectively 

communicated with a base station in either one of a privacy mode 
or a communication mode other than the privacy mode characterized 

in that the radio telecommunication apparatus comprises: 
   receiving means (21) for receiving a mode change 

indication signal including a designated communication mode from 
the base station while the speech signals are communicated with 

the base station in the privacy mode; and 
   warning means (5, 76, 78) responsive to the receiving 

means (21) for warning the user of the apparatus if the received 
 

designated communication mode does not correspond to the privacy 
mode of the apparatus. 
The apparatus of claim 8 characterized in that the radio 
telecommunication apparatus further comprises mode change means 

(30) responsive to the receiving means for changing the privacy 
mode of the apparatus to the received designated communication 

mode if the received designated communication mode does not 
correspond to the privacy mode of the apparatus. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9 characterized in that the 
alarming means (5, 76, 78) comprises sound generating means (5) 

for generating sound. 
The apparatus of claim 8, 9 or 10 characterized in that the alarm 
means (5, 76, 78) comprises informing means (5, 76) for informing 

the user of the apparatus that the privacy mode of the apparatus 
is cancelled by the base station if the received designated 

communication mode does not correspond to the privacy mode of the 
apparatus. 
The apparatus of claim 11 characterized in that the 
informing means (5, 76) comprises displaying means (5) for 

displaying information indicating that the privacy mode is 
cancelled. 
The apparatus of claim 11 characterized in that the 
informing means (5, 76) comprises voice synthesis means (76) for 

generating a synthesized voice indicating that the privacy mode of 
the apparatus is cancelled. 
A radio telecommunication apparatus used in a radio 
telecommunication system, wherein speech signals are selectively 

 
communicated with a first base station covering a first zone in 

either one of a privacy mode or a communication mode other than 
the privacy mode, and wherein the first base station sends a mode 

change indication signal including a communication mode of a 
second base station if the apparatus approaches a second zone 

covered by the second base station characterized in that the radio 
telecommunication apparatus comprises: 

   receiving means (21) for receiving the mode change 
indication signal including the communication mode of the second 

base station while the speech signals are communicated with the 
first base station in the privacy mode; and 

   warning means (5, 76, 78) responsive to the receiving 
means (21) for warning the user of the apparatus if the received 

sent communication mode of the second base station does not 
correspond to the privacy mode of the apparatus. 
A method of warning the user of a radio telecommunication 
apparatus used in a radio telecommunication system, wherein 

speech signals are selectively communicated with a base station in 
either one of a privacy mode or a communication mode other than 

the privacy mode characterized in that the method comprises the 
steps of: 

   requesting the base station to designate the privacy 
mode; 

   receiving a designated communication mode designated by 
the base station; and 

   warning the user if the received designated communication 
mode does not correspond to the requested privacy mode. 
A method of warning the user of a radio 
telecommunication apparatus used in a radio telecommunication 

system, wherein speech signals are selectively communicated with a 
base station in either one of a privacy mode or a communication 

mode other than the privacy mode characterized in that the method 
comprises the steps of: 

   receiving a mode change indication signal including a 
designated communication mode from the base station while the 

speech signals are communicated with the base station in the 
privacy mode; and 

   warning the user if the received designated communication 
mode does not correspond to the privacy mode of the 

apparatus. 
A method of warning the user of a radio 
telecommunication apparatus used in a radio telecommunication 

system, wherein speech signals are selectively communicated with a 
first base station covering a first zone in either one of a 

privacy mode or a communication mode other than the privacy mode, 
and wherein the first base station sends a mode change indication 

signal including a communication mode of a second base station if 
the apparatus approaches a second zone covered by the second base 

station characterized in that the method comprises the steps of: 
   receiving the mode change indication signal including 

the communication mode of the second base station while the speech 
signals are communicated with the first base station in the 

privacy mode; and
 

   warning the user if the received sent communication 
mode of the second base station does not correspond to the privacy 

mode of the apparatus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
