<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622908</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Switching circuit for transmit-receive.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B140	H04B140	H04B144	H04B144	H04B726	H04B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for alternately providing a first frequency to a 
receiver stage (20) and a second frequency to a transmitter 

stage (25) of a transmitter and receive circuit (11). The 
circuit comprises an oscillator (38), a first switch (33), a 

second switch (42), and a control circuit (29). The first switch 
(33) couples information to the oscillator (38) to be transposed 

on the second frequency during transmission. The second 
switch (42) couples the oscillator (38) to either the 

transmitter stage (25) or the receiver stage (20). Prior to 
changing oscillator frequency the control circuit (29) disables 

both outputs of the second switch (42). The control circuit 
(29) alternately tunes the oscillator (38) to the first 

frequency and enables the second switch (42) such that the 
oscillator (38) is coupled to the receiver stage (20) and tunes 

the oscillator (38) to the second frequency, enables the first 
switch (33), and enables the second switch (42) such that the 

oscillator (38) is coupled to the transmitter stage (25). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATCHETT, JOHN D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRTICH, VINCENT L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates, in general, to transmitter and 
receiver circuits and more particularly to oscillator stages of 
the transmitter and receiver circuit. Communication equipment such as cellular telephones 
have achieved wide spread availability due to increased levels 
of circuit integration and lower costs. The transmitter and 
receiver circuit of a communication device, send and receive 
data or information. It is well known by those skilled in the 
art that the transmitter circuit "transmits" either directly or 
via a carrier signal with data transposed thereon for reception 
by receiver circuits. The transmitter circuit generally outputs 
a signal of significant power to provide a signal over a wide 
spread area. Conversely, the receiver circuit is sensitive to a 
small amplitude signal. If the received signal is a carrier 
frequency of high frequency, it will be reduced by the receiver 
circuit to a lower frequency that is easily manipulated within 
an integrated circuit thereby allowing the information 
transposed on the signal to be retrieved. Although transmitter and receiver circuits are different 
in function, both utilize similar oscillator frequencies. For 
example, a two stage receiver is tuned to receive a carrier 
signal of 915 megahertz (MHz). The input signal (915 MHz) is 
mixed with a first local oscillator signal having a frequency of 
1055 MHz. The first stage mixer outputs a difference of the 
two frequencies (1055 MHz - 915 MHz) resulting in a frequency 
of 140 MHz. A second stage mixer is used to further lower the 
frequency of the signal. The 140 MHz signal output by the first 
stage mixer is mixed with a 129.3 MHz signal from a second 
local oscillator, the difference of the two signals yielding a  
 
10.7 MHz signal. The signal is reduced from 915 MHz to 10.7 
MHz so that it is easily manipulated using circuitry formed on a 
standard integrated circuit process. An example of a two stage transmitter circuit that would 
be paired with the previous receiver example outputs a 915 
MHz signal for reception by other receiver circuits. Data to be 
sent is applied to an offset oscillator that outputs 140 MHz. 
The data or information is transposed on the 140 MHz signal. 
The 140 MHz signal output by the offset oscillator and the 
1055 MHz signal from the first local oscillator (used in the 
receiver example) is applied to an offset mixer. The offset 
mixer outputs a difference signal (1055 MHz - 140 MHz) of 915 
MHz. The 915 MHz signal is then amplified and transmitted. 
The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmitter and receiver circuit (11) comprising: 
   a first mixer (12) including a first input, a second input 

and an output; 
   a first oscillator (26) including a first output coupled to 

said second input of said first mixer and a second output; 
   a second mixer (24) including a first input coupled to said 

output of said first mixer (12), a second input, and an output; 
   a first switch (33) including an input, a control input, and 

an output; 
   a second oscillator (38) including an input coupled to said 

output of said first switch (33), a control input, and an output; 
   a second switch (42) including an input coupled to said 

output of said second oscillator (38), a first control input, a 
second control input, a first output coupled to said second 

input of said second mixer (24), and a second output; 
   a third mixer (48) including a first input coupled to said 

second output of said second switch (42), a second input 
coupled to said second output of said first oscillator (26), and 

an output; and 
   a control circuit (29) including a transmit enable input, a 

receive enable input, a first output coupled to said control 
input of said first switch (33), a second output coupled to said 

control input of said second oscillator (38), a third output 
coupled to said first control input of said second switch (42), 

and a fourth output coupled to said second control input of said 
second switch (42). 
A transmitter and receiver circuit as recited in claim 
1 wherein said second oscillator (38) is a voltage controlled 

oscillator. 
A transmitter and receiver circuit (60) as recited in 
claim 2 further including 

   an incremental adjustment circuit having a first input for 
receiving a reference signal, a feedback input coupled to said 

output of said second oscillator (38), and an output; and 
   a low pass filter (64) having an input coupled to said 

output of said incremental adjustment circuit (60) and an 
output coupled to said input of said second oscillator (38), said 

incremental adjustment circuit (60), said low pass filter (64), 
and said second oscillator (38) forming a phase lock loop. 
A method for alternately providing a first frequency to 
a receiver stage and a second frequency to a transmitter stage, 

the method comprising: 
   providing a voltage controlled oscillator, said voltage 

controlled oscillator being variable in frequency; 
   decoupling said voltage controlled oscillator from the 

receiver stage and the transmitter stage; 
   adjusting said voltage controlled oscillator to the first 

frequency; 
   stabilizing to the first frequency; 

   coupling said voltage controlled oscillator to the receiver 
stage; 

   decoupling said voltage controlled oscillator from the 
receiver stage; 

   adjusting said voltage controlled oscillator to the second 
frequency; 

   stabilizing to the second frequency; 
   coupling said voltage controlled oscillator to the 

transmitter stage; 
   transposing information on the second frequency; and 

   decoupling said voltage controlled oscillator from said 
transmitter stage. 
A circuit for alternately providing a first frequency to 
a receiver stage (20) and a second frequency to a transmitter 

stage (25), the circuit comprising: 
   an oscillator (38) being frequency variable including a 

control input, an input, and an output; 
   a first switch (33) including a control input, an input, and 

an output coupled to said input of said oscillator; 
   a second switch (42) including an input coupled to said 

output of said oscillator (38), a first control input, a second 
control input, a first output coupled to the receiver stage (20), 

and a second output coupled to the transmitter stage (25); 
   a control circuit (29) including a first output coupled to 

said control input of said first switch (33), a second output 
coupled to said control input of said oscillator (38), a third 

output coupled to said first control input of said second switch 
(42), and a fourth output coupled to said second control input of 

said second switch (42), whereby said first output of said 
control circuit (29) enables said first switch (33) during 

transmission, said second output of said control circuit (29) 
changes said oscillator (38) frequency, and said third and 

fourth outputs of said control circuit (29) control said second 
switch (42). 
A circuit as recited in claim 5 wherein said oscillator 
frequency locks to the first or second frequency and wherein 

said oscillator (38) is a voltage controlled oscillator. 
A circuit as recited in claim 5 wherein first switch 
(33) comprises a transmission gate having a control input, a 

first terminal, and a second terminal corresponding 
respectively to said control input, input, and output of said 

first switch (33). 
A circuit as recited in claim 5 wherein said second 
switch comprises: 

   a first transmission gate having a control input, a first 
terminal, and a second terminal corresponding respectively to 

said first control input, input, and first output of said second 
switch (42); and 

   a second transmission gate having a control input, a first 
terminal and a second terminal corresponding respectively to 

said second control input, input, and second output of said 
second switch (42). 
A circuit as recited in claim 5 further including an 
error voltage circuit (79) for rapidly changing said oscillator 

frequency, said error voltage circuit (79) comprising: 
   a first resistor (93) coupled between a terminal of a 

power supply and said second output of said control circuit 
(29); 

   a second resistor (94) coupled between said second 
output of said control circuit (29) and ground; 

   a transmission gate (96) having a control input coupled to 
a transmit enable input of said control circuit (29), a first 

terminal coupled to said second output of said control circuit 
(29), and a second terminal; and 

   a third resistor (95) coupled between said second 
terminal of said transmission gate and ground. 
A circuit as recited in claim 5 further including 
   an OR gate (89) including a first input coupled to a 

transmit enable input of said control circuit (29), a second 
input coupled to a receive enable input of said control circuit 

(29), and an output; 
   a switch timing circuit (83) including an input coupled to 

said output of said OR gate (89) and an output, whereby said 
 

switch timing circuit (83) delays enablement of said second 
switch (42); 

   a first AND gate (107) including a first input (88) coupled 
to said receive enable input, a second input coupled to said 

output of said switch timing circuit (83), and an output 
corresponding to said third output of said control circuit (29); 

and 
   a second AND gate (102) including a first input coupled to 

said transmit enable input (87), a second input coupled to said 
output of said switch timing circuit (83), and an output 

corresponding to said fourth output of said control circuit (29). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
