<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641248</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEMBRANE SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USE FOR LOW PRESSURE SEPARATIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6136	B01D6308	B01D6502	B01D6108	B01D6500	B01D6136	B01D6102	B01D6308	B01D6500	B01D6508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D61	B01D63	B01D65	B01D61	B01D65	B01D61	B01D61	B01D63	B01D65	B01D65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A membrane fluid separation apparatus comprising A) a vessel; B) a plurality of membrane cassettes in the vessel which comprise: i) a plurality of membrane units capable of performing a fluid separation at a relatively low transmembrane pressure arranged substantially parallel to one another with the ends of the membrane units bound in a cured binder such that the interior of the membrane units are open at one or both of the bound ends, ii) a casing comprising a frame arranged about one or more of the plurality of membrane units such that there are two fluid flow systems which do not communicate, the first fluid flow system is in contact with the outside of the membrane units and is adapted for contacting feed fluid with the membrane units and the second fluid flow system is in contact with the interior of the membrane units and comprises a permeate collection chamber at one or both ends of the plurality of membrane units and a flow passage which is adapted for removing permeate from the vicinity of the membrane units; C) a means for introducing feed fluid to the vessel; D) a means for contacting the feed fluid with the feed side of the membrane units; E) a means for removing the permeate from the permeate flow passages of the plurality of membrane cassettes and the vessel; F) one or more means for creating a transmembrane pressure differential wherein at least part of the pressure differential is achieved by use of a means which creates a vacuum on the permeate side of the membrane units; and G) a means of removing feed fluid which does not permeate across the membrane from the vessel.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW DANMARK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW DANMARK A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOELLER JENS KLOPPENBORG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOELLER, JENS, KLOPPENBORG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to apparatus for 
membrane 
separation in which the transmembrane 
pressure may be low. Membrane separation processes are becoming 
increasingly popular for the separation of a feed stream 
into two streams, a permeate stream which is rich in components which selectively pass through the membrane, 
and a retentate stream which is rich in a component which does not. 
Examples of 
such processes include gas separations, such as the 
separation of oxygen from nitrogen, reverse osmosis 
processes in which dissolved salts are removed from water, 
processes for converting surface water to potable water by 
removing particulates and high molecular weight species 
such as bacteria, and pervaporation processes in which 
volatile components of a liquid stream selectively permeate 
through a membrane. In order for a membrane separation to be effective 
there must be some driving force. The two most common 
driving forces are based on a concentration or a pressure 
differential from one side of the membrane to the other. 
When pressure is a driving force the pressure is higher on 
the feed side of the membrane. When concentration is the 
driving force, the concentration of the species which 
preferentially permeates is typically higher on the feed 
side. Recently, some plate and frame membrane separation 
devices have been disclosed (Japan Kokai 41-10090 
(application no. 2,229,631) published 10 April 1992; Japan 
Kokai 47023 (application no. 2,107,991) published 10  
 
January 1993 and Japan Kokai 4187222 (application no. 
2,319,141) published 3 July 1992) which have suction pumps 
on the permeate side of a plate and frame membrane. The 
pressure differential can be created by the suction pumps. 
In such devices each membrane element is a plate with a 
membrane attached to it wherein each plate has a permeate 
flow channel on the permeate side of the membrane. The 
suction pump is connected individually to each plate. The 
membrane plates are carefully separated from one another to 
allow turbulent flow along the surface of each membrane to 
facilitate removal of solids which tend to stick to the 
retentate side of the membrane. The plates are generally 
placed vertically in a tank. The turbulent flow is created 
by pumps, blades or air blown through aeration pipes placed 
near the membrane services. U.S. Patent No. 5084220 discloses apparatus 
including a membrane cassette which is useful in converting 
large amounts of surface water into potable water. The 
disclosed apparatus comprises an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A membrane fluid separation apparatus comprising a 
fluid separation membrane (61), means for contacting the 

feed fluid with the feed side of the membrane, means (20) 
for removing the permeate from the permeate collection 

chamber (72), and means (19) for creating a transmembrane 
pressure differential by reducing the pressure on the 

permeate side of the membrane to sub-atmospheric pressure,
 
   characterized in that the said membrane is provided in 

the form of a plurality of membrane layers, and in that the 
membrane fluid separation apparatus comprises a frame (33) 

supporting the said membrane layers (61) at their 
peripheral edges and permitting feed fluid access to the 

feed side of the separation membrane such that the said 
feed side of the membrane is open to ambient pressure, 

wherein each said layer is sealed at two or more of its 
peripheral edges to one or more adjacent membrane layers to 

form membrane pairs and wherein a spacer (63) is located 
between the sheets of each membrane pair (61, 62) to 

promote the flow of permeate between the membrane layers, 
such that the membrane layers define a feed side and a 

permeate side, wherein the permeate side of each said 
membrane layer opens to at least one collection area common 

to another one or more membrane layer permeate side, and 
wherein, the membrane layers are sealed such that the feed 

side and permeate side of the membrane layers do not 
communicate otherwise than through the membrane.  

 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein the membrane 
layers (61, 62) are in the form of rectangular sheets 

arranged in a stack wherein the edges of the sheets are 
aligned to form four planes perpendicular to the surfaces 

of the membrane layers, wherein the stack of membrane 
layers is bound together by a cured binder along at least 

two of the four planes. 
Apparatus according to Claim 2, wherein the stack of 
membrane layers (61, 62) is bound by the said cured binder 

along two opposite edges, and wherein adjacent pairs of 
edges of the membrane layers are sealed to each other along 

their other opposite edges, thereby creating flow passages 
between the membrane layers of each said adjacent membrane 

pair and between each said adjacent membrane pair, to 
define the said feed side and permeate side respectively. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 which further comprises 
a vessel (46) for holding a plurality of membrane cassettes 

(34), wherein each cassette comprises a plurality of said membranes (61), and means for contacting feed fluid with feed side of 
the membrane of each said cassettes, and means for removing 

permeate from the collection area vessel of each cassette. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 to 4 
wherein the membrane is adapted to separate components 

having a molecular weight of from 10,000 and a particle size 
of 5 microns from a liquid stream.  

 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 to 5 
wherein the reduced pressure on the permeate side of the 

membrane is created by applying a vacuum to the permeate 
side (72) of the membrane. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 to 6 
including a propeller (15) for contacting the feed fluid 

with the feed side of the membrane. 
A method of separating a feed fluid stream into two 
components using a membrane at low transmembrane pressure differentials, which comprises 


A. contacting the feed stream with the feed side of 
the membrane of apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 

to 7; 
B. reducing the pressure on the permeate surfaces of 
the membrane units from 10,000 to 80,000 Pa such that a 

portion of the feed fluid permeates through the membrane; 
C. removing the portion of the feed fluid which 
permeates through the membrane from the vicinity of the 

internal surfaces of the membrane; and 
D. removing the portion of the feed fluid which does 
not permeate through the membrane from the vicinity of the 

external surfaces of the membrane. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
