<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613598</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TECHNIQUE FOR CORRECTING NON-LINEARITY IN A PHOTODETECTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J108	G01J108	G01J345	G01J345	G01J3453	G01N2125	G01N2127	H01J4000	H01J4014	H01J4300	H01J4330	H03G1100	H03G1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01N	G01N	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H03G	H03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J1	G01J1	G01J3	G01J3	G01J3	G01N21	G01N21	H01J40	H01J40	H01J43	H01J43	H03G11	H03G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIO RAD LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURBELO RAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURBELO, RAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TECHNIQUE FOR CORRECTING NON-LINEARITY IN A PHOTODETECTOR 5BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates generally to photodetectors and more specifically to techniques for providing a linear detector output for use in a Fourier 10 transform spectrometer.A Fourier transform spectrometer typically includes a Michelson interferometer into which an infrared beam to be analyzed and a monochromatic reference beam (typically in the visible range) beam are directed. The interferometer has a 15 fixed mirror and a movable mirror which is driven at a nominally constant velocity over a portion of its travel. Each of the input beams is split at a beam splitter with one portion traveling a path that causes it to reflect from the fixed mirror and another portion traveling a path that causes 20 it to reflect from the movable mirror. The portions of each beam recombine at the beam splitter, and the recombined infrared and monochromatic beams are directed to appropriate photodetectors (detectors) .Due to optical interference between the two portions 25 of each beam, the intensity of the monochromatic beam is modulated at a frequency proportional to its optical frequency and the mirror velocity while each frequency component of the infrared beam is modulated at a frequency proportional to that component's optical frequency and the mirror velocity. 30 Each detector has associated circuitry to generate a voltage representative of (preferably proportional to) the light intensity falling on the detector. The infrared detector output signal therefore represents the superposition of the modulated frequency components and provides an J 35 interferogram whose Fourier transform yields the desired spectrum. The monochromatic detector provides a nominally sinusoidal reference signal whose zero crossings occur each time the moving mirror travels an additional one quarter of 

 the reference wavelength. The data acquisition electronics are triggered on these zero crossings to provide regularly sampled values for the interferogram. With the appropriate choice of mirror velocity, the output signal can be made to fall within a convenient range of modulation frequencies, as for example in the audio range.Certain types of detectors, such as photodiodes and photomultiplier tubes are typically used with DC amplifiers, while others, such as photoconductors are typically used with AC amplifiers. In either case, the average value of the interferogram provides no useful spectral information, and is typically subtracted out before
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
l. A method of measuring the intensity incident on a detector that provides an output signal that exhibits a non- linear variation as a function of intensity, comprising the steps of: providing calibration information representing the non-linear variation; coupling the detector to a preamplifier circuit characterized by the absence of positive feedback to provide a preamplifier output signal representing the intensity; applying to the preamplified output signal a set of operations that results in a set of digitized values that have been corrected in accordance with the calibration information; and subjecting the corrected digitized values to further
processing.
2. A method of acquiring interferogram data in a
Fourier transform spectrometer, the spectrometer including a detector that provides an output signal that exhibits a non¬ linear variation as a function of intensity, comprising the steps of: providing calibration information representing the non-linear variation; coupling the detector to a preamplifier circuit characterized by the absence of positive feedback to provide a preamplified output signal representing the intensity; operating the spectrometer to modulate the intensity; and applying to the preamplified output signal a set of operations that results in a set of digitized values that have been corrected in accordance with the calibration information.
3. In the operation of a Fourier transform spectrometer, a method of correcting for detector non- linearity comprising the steps of: 


 providing calibration information representing the non-linearity; simultaneously measuring AC and DC components of the detector signal; determining a correction factor on the basis of at least the calibration information and the measured DC level; and applying the correction factor to the AC component.
4. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the preamplified output signal includes DC and AC components.
5. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein: the preamplified signal includes DC and AC components; and the DC and AC components are provided in separate channels.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein the preamplified output signal includes an AC component only and where an average value is determined on the basis of the maximum peak- to-peak excursion of the AC component.
7. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said applying step includes the substeps, carried out in the order stated, of: coupling the preamplified output signal to an amplifier circuit characterized by the absence of positive feedback to provide an amplified output signal; digitizing the amplified output signal to provide measured values representing uncorrected intensity information; correcting each measured value using the calibration information to provide a corrected value.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein each measured value represents a linear combination of the DC and AC components. 


 9. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the preamplified signal includes DC and AC components, the DC and AC components are provided in separate channels, and said digitizing step is carried out on signals representing the AC and DC components separately, and further comprising the step, carried out before said correcting step, of linearly combining the digitized AC and DC values.
10. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said applying step includes the substeps, carried out in the order stated, of: correcting the preamplified output signal using the calibration information to provide a corrected signal; and digitizing the corrected signal to provide a set of corrected values.
11. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said applying step includes the substeps, carried out in the order stated, of: coupling the preamplified signal to an amplifier circuit having a positive feedback portion representing the calibration information to provide a corrected signal; and digitizing the corrected signal to provide a set of corrected values.
12. The method of claim 1 or 2 or 3 wherein the detector is an MCT detector.
13. A method of calibrating a detector in a Fourier
Transform spectrometer, the detector providing an output signal that exhibits a non-linear variation as a function of intensity, comprising the steps of: coupling the detector to a preamplifier circuit characterized by the absence of positive feedback to provide a preamplifier output signal representing the intensity; coupling the output signal to an adjustable non¬ linear network having an output terminal; 


 providing a first light source characterized by an intensity that exhibits fluctuations about an average value where the amplitude of the fluctuations and the average value are small compared to a defined maximum; providing a second light source having an adjustable intensity capable of assuming values between zero and the defined maximum, the intensity, once adjusted, being constant; illuminating the detector with only the first source operating at a reference intensity, and measuring the AC component of the voltage at the output terminal of the non¬ linear network, the measured value being designated a reference value; and illuminating the detector with both sources at each of a set of conditions with the first source operating at the reference intensity and the second source adjusted to provide a different intensity for each condition, and for each condition, adjusting the non-linear network so that the AC component of the voltage at the output terminal of the non¬ linear network is equal to the reference value.
14. A method of calibrating a detector in a Fourier Transform spectrometer, the detector providing an output signal that exhibits a non-linear variation as a function of intensity, comprising the steps of: generating a plurality of interferograms at a corresponding plurality of different illumination conditions, the illumination conditions having a known relationship to each other; measuring corresponding uncorrected intensity values for each of the interferograms; and correlating the measured uncorrected intensity values and the known relationship to determine calibration information representing the non-linear variation.
15. A method of calibrating a detector in a Fourier
Transform spectrometer, the detector providing an output signal that exhibits a non-linear variation as a function of intensity, the spectrometer including an interferometer and 


 circuitry for generating an uncorrected detector signal, comprising the steps of: generating a plurality of interferograms at a corresponding plurality of different illumination conditions, the illumination conditions having a known relationship to each other, the spectrometer being adjusted for low chopping efficiency so that the interferograms exhibit fluctuations that are a small fraction of the average value of the interferogram; measuring corresponding values of the detector signal for each of the interferograms; and correlating the measured detector signal values and the known relationship to determine calibration information representing the non-linear variation.
16. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the different illumination conditions are established using a source operated at fixed conditions with one or more attenuators of known characteristic.
17. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the corresponding intensity values are the average values of intensity.
18. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the corresponding intensity values are the average values and at least some values of peak-to-peak excursions of intensity.
19. The method of claim 13 or 14 or 15 wherein the detector is an MCT detector.
20. The method of claim 14 or 15, and further comprising the steps of: measuring the detector signal value for zero intensity; and using the value, so measured, in said correlating step. 


 21. Apparatus for measuring the intensity incident on a detector that provides an output signal that exhibits a non-linear variation as a function of intensity, comprising: means for providing calibration information representing the non-linear variation; an amplifier circuit, responsive to the output signal and characterized by the absence of positive feedback to provide an amplified output signal representing the intensity; means for digitizing the amplified output signal to provide measured values representing uncorrected intensity information; means for correcting each measured value using the calibration information to provide a corrected value; and means for subjecting the corrected values to further
processing.
22. A Fourier transform spectrometer comprising: means for providing calibration information representing the non-linear variation; an amplifier circuit, responsive to the output signal and characterized by the absence of positive feedback to provide an amplified output signal representing the intensity; means for modulating the intensity; and means for digitizing the amplified output signal to provide measured values representing uncorrected intensity information; and means for correcting each measured value using the calibration information to provide a corrected value.
23. A Fourier transform spectrometer comprising: a detector that provides an output signal that exhibits a non-linear variation as a function of intensity; means for providing calibration information representing the non-linearity; 


 means for measuring AC and DC components of the detector signal; means for determining on the basis of the calibration information and a predetermined linear combination of the measured AC and DC components a correction factor appropriate for the measured linear combination; and means for applying the correction factor to the measured linear combination
24. In a Fourier transform spectrometer, apparatus for correcting the AC signal for detector non-linearity comprising: means defining an AC signal channel; means defining a DC signal channel; means for providing calibration information regarding the detector non-linearity; means, responsive to at least said calibration information and signals in said DC channel, for changing the gain in said AC channel to provide at least a partial correction.
25. The Fourier transform spectrometer of claim 22 wherein said amplifier circuit includes separate AC and DC channels that provide respective AC and DC components of said amplified output signal, and said means for digitizing operates on said AC and DC components separately, and further comprising means for linearly combining the AC and DC components, so digitized.
26. The Fourier transform spectrometer of claim 22 wherein said amplifier circuit is DC-coupled.
27. The Fourier transform spectrometer of claim 22 or 23 or 24 wherein said detector is an MCT detector. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
