<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653949</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR REMOVING TOXICANTS FROM AQUEOUS PETROLEUM WASTE STREAMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1500	B01D1500	C02F128	C02F128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D15	B01D15	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Specific toxicants are selectively removed from aqueous waste streams associated with the production of petroleum and petroleum products by contacting such aqueous waste streams with a non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin having a low to intermediate surface polarity. The toxicants are a group of structurally-related organic molecules containing at least one carboxylic acid group and having a molecular weight in the range of about 200 to about 400. These molecules are toxic to certain indicator species of fish at concentrations of less than 10 parts per billion.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEVRON RES 
&
 TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEVRON RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'REILLY KIRK T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI JOHN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'REILLY, KIRK, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, JOHN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR REMOVING TOXICANTS FROM AQUEOUS PETROLEUM WASTE STREAMSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a process for removing an organic toxicant from an aqueous waste stream using a polymeric adsorbent. More particularly, the present invention relates to a process for selectively removing specific organic toxicants from aqueous waste streams associated with the production of petroleum and petroleum products by contacting such waste streams with a non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin.DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ARTWastewater produced by certain industrial processes often contains toxic materials that are unique to the particular industry involved. Each industry, therefore, seeks to employ the most effective and economical methods available to treat or remove the particular toxicants found in that industries' effluent wastewater.In the petroleum industry, a number of methods are currently used to render contaminated wastewater suitable for discharge, including microbial biodegradation and treatment with activated carbon. The treated effluent produced by these processes is typically monitored to determine its suitability for discharge. One increasingly important method of monitoring effluent toxicity uses a bioassay technique in which an indicator species, such as a species of fish known to be sensitive to certain toxicants, is 

exposed to the treated wastewater to determine if the water contains any residual toxicity. In recent years, such bioassays have become more stringent by using indicator species which are increasingly sensitive to the presence of very low levels of aquatic toxicants.Using such bioassay techniques, aqueous waste streams associated with the production of petroleum and petroleum products have recently been found to be toxic to certain highly-sensitive species of indicator fish. We have discovered that this toxicity is caused by a specific group of organic materials. These newly-discovered organic materials are present in aqueous waste streams at extremely low levels. However, even at concentrations of less than 10 parts per billion, these materials are highly toxic to the indicator species of fish. Thus, aqueous waste streams containing these materials must be treated prior to discharge to reduce the concentration of these toxicants to an acceptable level.These newly-discovered organic toxicants do not appear to be readily biodegraded under the conditions currently employed to treat aqueous petroleum waste streams. More costly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A process for removing a toxicant from an aqueous waste stream associated with the production of petroleum or petroleum products wherein the toxicant is characterized as a thermally stable organic molecule having a molecular weight in the range from about 200 to about 400 and containing at least one carboxylic acid group, said toxicant being further characterized- as highly toxic to certain indicator species of fish at concentrations of less than about 10 ppb, said process comprising the steps of:
(a) contacting the waste stream with an activated non- ionic macroreticular polymeric resin having low to intermediate surface polarity for a time sufficient to reduce the amount of said toxicant in said waste stream to a preselected level, and
(b) recovering the waste stream from the resin with a reduced level of toxicity.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin is a copolymer of styrene and divinylbenzene.
3. The process of claim 2 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin has a surface area in the range of about 300 to about 800 m /g and an average pore diameter of about 50 to about 90 A.
4. The process of claim 3 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin is AMBERLITE速 XAD-2 or AMBERLITE速 XAD-4. 


 -37- 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymer resin is an essentially all aliphatic polymer comprising about 2 to 100 weight percent of a polyfunctional methacrylate containing at least three methacrylate groups.
6. The process of claim 5 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin has a surface area in the range of about 100 to 400 m/g and an average pore diameter of about 80 to about 250 A.
7. The process of claim 6 wherein the polyfunctional methacrylate is trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate.
8. The process of claim 6 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin is AMBERLITE速 XAD-7.
9. The process of claim 1 including the additional steps of:
(c) contacting the resin of step (b) with fresh activating solvent for a time sufficient to reactivate the resin,
(d) recovering the reactivated resin from the activating solvent, and
(e) using the reactivated resin of step (d) as the activated macroreticular polymeric resin used in carrying out step (a) .
10. The process of claim 9 wherein the activation solvent is an organic solvent having a dielectric constant greater than about 4.0. 


 -38- 11. The process of claim 10 wherein the activation solvent is methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, diethyl ether, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane, chloroform, trichloroethane or mixtures thereof.
12. The process of claim 11 wherein the activation solvent is methanol.
13. A method of detecting a toxicant in an aqueous waste stream, wherein said toxicant is characterized as a thermally stable organic molecule having a molecular weight in the range from about 200 to about 400 and containing at least one carboxylic acid group, said toxicant being further characterized as toxic to certain indicator species of fish at concentrations of less than 10 ppb, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) contacting the aqueous waste stream with an activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin having a low to intermediate surface polarity for a time sufficient to adsorb a detectable-amount of the toxicant on the resin; thereafter,
(b) washing the resin with an extraction solvent under conditions effective for the removal of organic material from the resin to produce a resin extract in the extraction solvent; and,
(c) subjecting a sample of the resin extract to high performance liquid chromatography under conditions effective for detection of the toxicant. 


14. The method of claim 13 comprising the additional steps of:
(d) removing non-toxic organic material from the resin extract of step (b) by intimately contacting the resin extract in a partitioning solvent with water; thereafter,
(e) separating the partitioning solvent solution containing the resin extract from the water; and
(f) using the resin extract from step (e) to carry out step (c) of claim 13.
15. The method of claim 13 wherein the aqueous waste stream is associated with the production of petroleum or petroleum products.
16. The method of claim 13 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin is an essentially all aliphatic polymer comprising about 2 to 100 weight percent of a polyfunctional methacrylate containing at least three methacrylate groups.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin has a surface area in the range of about 100 to 400 m/g and an average pore diameter of about 80 to about 250 A.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein the polyfunctional methacrylate is trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein the activated non-ionic macroreticular polymeric resin is AMBERLITE速 XAD-7. 


 -40- 20. The method of claim 13 wherein the extraction solvent is an organic solvent having a dielectric constant greater than about 4.0.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein the extraction solvent is methanol, acetone, dichloromethane, chloroform, diethyl ether or ethyl acetate or mixtures thereof.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the extraction solvent is methanol.
23. The method of claim 14 wherein the partitioning solvent is a chlorinated organic solvent.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the partitioning solvent is dichloromethane.
25. The method of claim 13 wherein the high performance liquid chromatography is conducted using a reverse- phase column.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the reverse-phase column is an octadecyl silane column.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein said column is first eluted using a linear triple solvent gradient consisting of water, acetonitrile and a dilute aqueous solution of acetic acid; and then purged with methanol. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
