<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632059</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interpenetrating networks from unsaturated monomers and thermosetting resins.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F200	C08F200	C08F28300	C08F28300	C08F28310	C08G7300	C08G7306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F2	C08F2	C08F283	C08F283	C08F283	C08G73	C08G73	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cured resin product obtained by mixing (A) a 
compound having an addition-polymerizable group and 

capable of yielding a thermoplastic resin by its polymerization 
and (B) a thermosetting resin to form a uniform 

solution or dispersion and then curing the component (B) 
while simultaneously polymerizing the component (A), a 

process for producing the same, a resin composition, and 
the use of the same. 
 
As compound A olefinically unsaturated monomers like styrene, 
acrylonitrile or (meth)acrylates, particularly 

perfluoroalkyl(meth)acrylates, are preferred. 
The thermosetting resin 
is for example a cyanate, maleimide, phenolic or preferably epoxy resin 

in combination with a suitable curing agent. The compositions are used 
for water repellent coatings or for sealing semiconductor elements. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO CHEMICAL COMPANY, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARAI NORIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITAYAMA SHINICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUOKA YOSHIKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOMI YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMATSUTA KOHJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARAI, NORIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITAYAMA, SHINICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUOKA, YOSHIKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOMI, YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMATSUTA, KOHJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for 
producing a cured resin product improved in those 
properties which are considered unsatisfactory in cured 
products of prior thermosetting resins, for example, 
toughness, dielectric properties, etc. The present invention also relates to a cured 
resin product excellent in water repellency, oil 
repellency and water resistance, a thermosetting resin 
composition used as the raw material therefor, and a 
process for producing the cured resin product. The present invention further relates to a 
coating film forming resin composition excellent in water 
repellency, oil repellency and staining resistance, a 
coating material which uses the composition, a resin 
composition useful for sealing semiconductor elements, 
and a resin-sealed semiconductor device which uses the 
resin composition. It is already known to blend a thermoplastic 
resin into a thermosetting resin in order to impart such 
properties as, for example, toughness and excellent 
dielectric characteristics to the thermosetting resin. 
Thermoplastic resins used for such purposes include  
 
common elastomers and engineering plastics. It is also 
known to incorporate oligomers having a functional group 
at the terminal into the blend in order to prevent the 
increase of viscosity in such blending. It is also known to improve the physical 
properties of a thermosetting resin by incorporating 
thereinto particles of other resins. USP Nos. 4,524,181 
and 4,708,996 and Kobunshi Ronbunshu (Collection of 
Polymer Papers) (47, No. 4, 277 (1990)) disclose a method 
which comprises polymerizing and dispersing polymer 
particles into uncured epoxy resin. USP No. 4,524,181 discloses a process which 
comprises, for the purpose of improving the mechanical 
and thermal property of epoxy resins, blending an acrylic 
monomer, or a diisocyanate and a diol etc. into uncured 
epoxy resin with the aid of a dispersion stabilizer and 
polymerizing them in situ, thereby to obtain a stable 
acrylic polymer particle dispersion system or a stable 
polyurethane or polyurea particle dispersion system which 
contains uncured epoxy resin as the continuous phase. USP No. 4,708,996 discloses a process which 
comprises, for the purpose of improving the toughness of 
epoxy resin while preventing its softening temperature 
from lowering, dispersing an acrylic monomer into uncured 
epoxy resin with the aid of a dispersion stabilizer and 
polymerizing the monomer in situ, thereby to obtain 
uncured epoxy resin containing the acrylic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for producing a cured resin product 
which comprises mixing (A) a compound having an addition-polymerizable 

group and capable of yielding a thermoplastic 
resin by its polymerization and (B) a thermosetting 

resin to form a uniform solution or dispersion 
and curing the component (B) while simultaneously 

polymerizing the component (A). 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 1 wherein the component (A) is a 

compound having a polymerizable carbon-carbon double 
bond. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 1 wherein the component (A) is a 

monomer having a polymerizable carbon-carbon double bond 
represented by the following formula (1) and/or formula 

(2) or an oligomer having a polymerizable carbon-carbon 
double bond at one terminal represented by the formula 

(3): 
 

wherein R₁ is a hydrogen atom, a methyl group or a 
chlorine atom; and R₂ is an alkyl group having 3-18 carbon 

atoms, a 6-membered ring hydrocarbon group having 6-18 
carbon atoms, a halogen atom, OR₃,  

or -CN, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are each independently a hydrogen atom, 

an alkyl group having 1-18 carbon atoms; an alkyl group 
having 9-18 carbon atoms and having as substituents a 

hydroxyl group and a substituted or unsubstituted phenoxy 
group or cycloalkyloxy group; a 5- or 6-membered cyclic 

hydrocarbon group having 5-18 carbon atoms; or an 
alkoxyalkyl group having 2-18 carbon atoms; provided that 

R₃ together with R₄ and with 
 

bonded thereto may form a 5- or 6-membered ring, which 
ring may have an alkyl group having 1-6 carbon atoms or 

an aryl group as a substituent, 
 

wherein X is 
   -O- or 

 
wherein Y is a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group 

or a substituted or unsubstituted cyclohexyl group,  
wherein n is a number of 2-100, Z is a hydrogen atom, a 

halogen atom, an alkyl group having 1-5 carbon atoms or a 
6-membered ring hydrocarbon group having 6-18 carbon 

atoms, R₁ is the same as defined in the formula (1), Q is 
 

wherein R₅ is an alkylene group having 1-5 carbon atoms, 
and M is 

 
-D-O- or 

 
wherein R₁, R₂ and X are each the same as defined in the 

formula (1) and the formula (2), and D is an aromatic 
hydrocarbon group having 6-18 carbon atoms. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 1 wherein the thermosetting resin of 

 
the component (B) is at least one member selected from 

the group consisting of epoxy resin, polymaleimide resin, 
cyanate resin and phenol resin. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 1 wherein the compound having an 

addition-polymerizable group and capable of yielding a 
thermoplastic resin by its polymerization which is the 

component (A) is at least one member selected from the 
group consisting of styrene, methyl methacrylate, 

acrylonitrile and a combination of styrene with 
N-phenylmaleimide. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 1 wherein the compound having an 

addition-polymerizable group and capable of yielding a 
thermoplastic resin by its polymerization which is the 

component (A) is a fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable 
monomer. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 6 wherein a dispersion stabilizer is 

used in dispersing or dissolving the fluorine-containing 
radical-polymerizable monomer uniformly in liquid thermosetting 

resin. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 6 wherein domains of the polymer of 

the fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable monomer are 
distributed on the surface and/or in the inside of the 

cured product of the thermosetting resin which process 
comprises dissolving or dispersing the fluorine-containing 

 
radical polymerizable monomer uniformly in the 

liquid thermosetting resin, casting the resulting 
composition or coating it on the surface of a substrate 

and then bringing it to an elevated temperature thereby 
to polymerize the fluorine-containing polymerizable 

monomer and simultaneously to cure the thermosetting 
resin. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 6 wherein fine particles of the 

polymer of the fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable 
monomer are uniformly dispersed in the cured product of 

the thermosetting resin which process comprises dispersing 
the fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable monomer 

into a liquid thermosetting resin, casting the resulting 
composition and then bringing it to an elevated temperature 

thereby to polymerize the fluorine-containing 
radical-polymerizable monomer and simultaneously to cure 

the thermosetting resin. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 6 wherein the fluorine-containing 

radical-polymerizable monomer is a perfluoroalkyl group-containing 
polymerizable monomer represented by the 

formula (4) 
 

wherein X is a hydrogen atom, a chlorine atom, a fluorine 
atom or a methyl group; Y is an alkylene group having 1-4 

 
carbon atoms or -(CH₂)nN(R)SO₂-, in which R is an alkyl 

group having 1-4 carbon atoms or a hydrogen atom, and n 
is an integer of 1-4; and Rf is a fluoroalkyl group having 

1-15 carbon atoms and having a perfluoroalkyl group at 
the terminal. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 10 wherein the perfluoroalkyl group-containing 

polymerizable monomer is a fluorine-containing 
alcohol ester of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, fluoroacrylic 

acid or fluoromethacrylic acid. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 6 wherein a dispersion stabilizer is 

used when the fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable 
monomer is dispersed or dissolved uniformly into a liquid 

thermosetting resin. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 12 wherein the dispersion stabilizer 

is an oligomer or polymer having a fluoroalkyl portion. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 6 wherein the thermosetting resin is 

epoxy resin. 
The process for producing a cured resin product 
according to Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 wherein the 

polymerization completion time of the component (A) is 
made equal to or less than the gelation time of the 

component (B). 
The process for producing a cured resin product 

according to Claim 15 which comprises mixing (A) a 
 

compound having an addition-polymerizable group and 
capable of yielding a thermoplastic resin by its 

polymerization and (B) a thermosetting resin to form a 
homogeneous solution or uniform dispersion, casting the 

resulting composition or coating it on the surface of a 
substrate and then bringing it to an elevated temperature. 
A cured resin product wherein domains of a 
fluorine-containing polymer are distributed on the 

surface and in the inside of the cured product of a 
thermosetting resin. 
A cured resin product wherein fine particles of 
a fluorine-containing polymer are uniformly dispersed in 

the cured product of a thermosetting resin. 
The cured resin product according to Claim 17 
wherein the fluorine-containing polymer is a fluorine-containing 

acrylate or methacrylate resin obtained by 
polymerizing a material comprising a perfluoroalkyl 

group-containing polymerizable monomer represented by the 
above formula (4) as an essential component. 
The cured resin product according to Claim 18 
wherein the fluorine-containing polymer is a fluorine-containing 

acrylate or methacrylate resin obtained by 
polymerizing a material comprising a perfluoroalkyl 

group-containing polymerizable monomer represented by the 
above formula (4) as an essential component. 
The cured resin product according to Claim 19 
wherein the fluorine-containing polymer is a polymer of a 

 
fluorine-containing alcohol ester of acrylic acid, 

methacrylic acid, fluoroacrylic acid or fluoromethacrylic 
acid or a copolymer of the ester with another monomer. 
The cured resin product according to Claim 20 
wherein the fluorine-containing polymer is a polymer of a 

fluorine-containing alcohol ester of acrylic acid, 
methacrylic acid, fluoroacrylic acid or fluoromethacrylic 

acid or a copolymer of the ester with another monomer. 
The cured resin product according to Claim 17 
wherein the thermosetting resin is an epoxy resin. 
The cured resin product according to Claim 18 
wherein the thermosetting resin is an epoxy resin. 
A thermosetting resin composition comprising 
the perfluoroalkyl group-containing polymerizable monomer 

represented by the formula (4) and an epoxy resin as 
essential components. 
The thermosetting resin composition according 
to Claim 25 which further comprises a dispersion 

stabilizer. 
The thermosetting resin composition according 
to Claim 25 which further comprises an organic solvent. 
A coating film forming composition which 
comprises (A) a compound having an addition-polymerizable 

group and capable of yielding a thermoplastic resin by 
its polymerization and (B) a thermosetting resin, said 

compound (A) being uniformly dissolved or dispersed in 
said thermosetting resin. 
A water repellent coating film forming composition 
 

which comprises a thermosetting resin and a 
fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable monomer 

uniformly dispersed in the resin. 
A water repellent coating material which 
comprises the water repellent coating film forming 

composition according to Claim 29 as the main component. 
A resin composition for sealing semiconductor 
elements which comprises (A) a compound having an 

addition-polymerizable group and capable of yielding a 
thermoplastic resin by its polymerization and (B) a 

thermosetting resin, said compound being uniformly 
dissolved or dispersed in said thermosetting resin. 
The resin composition for sealing semiconductor 
elements according to Claim 31 wherein a fluorine-containing 

radical-polymerizable monomer is uniformly 
dispersed in the thermosetting resin. 
A resin composition for sealing semiconductor 
elements which comprises the following components (a), 

(b), (c) and (d) as essential ingredients, wherein the 
fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable monomer of the 

component (c) is uniformly dispersed in the system in the 
presence of a dispersion stabilizer: 


(a) an epoxy resin having at least two epoxy groups 
in the molecule, 
(b) an epoxy resin curing agent, 
(c) a fluorine-containing radical-polymerizable 
monomer, 
(d) radical polymerization initiator. 
The resin composition for sealing semiconductor 
elements according to Claim 33 wherein the fluorine-containing 

radical-polymerizable monomer is a fluorine-containing 
alcohol ester of acrylic acid and/or 

methacrylic acid. 
A resin-sealed semiconductor device which is 
obtained by sealing with the resin composition for 

sealing semiconductor elements according to Claim 33. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
