<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632859</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TUBULAR GUTTER SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02B1100	E02B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02B	E02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02B11	E02B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
System for draining a land surface (10) which is covered by a waterproof membrane (12), whereby tubular gutters (14) are installed in trenches in the land surface (10) adjacent to the margins of the waterproof membrane (12) and whereby the land surface (10) is slightly sloped such that water falling onto the membrane (12) will flow in a natural manner in the direction of a gutter (14). Each tubular gutter (14) can be assembled from one or more interconnected tubes each comprising one or more aligned apertures (16, 18, 20) in the upwards directed wall section. The marginal section of the membrane (12) adjacent ot said aligned row of apertures (16, 18, 20) in the tubular gutter wall is attached to the tubular gutter (14) by suitable means (17, 22, 32) such that water flowing along the membrane (12) will be received in said gutter (14).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARVADO PATENT BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARVADO PATENT B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DORP ARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DORP, ARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a system for collecting water from a 
surface which is covered by a waterproof membrane, whereby tubular 
gutters are installed in trenches in the surface adjacent to the margins 
of the waterproof membrane and whereby the surface is slightly sloped 
such that water on the membrane will flow in a natural manner in the 
direction of a gutter, each tubular gutter comprising apertures through 
which water may enter the gutter. A system of this type is described in the German Gebrauchsmuster 
DE 8804832. This prior art system is especially destined for use at the 
bottom of a waste disposal dump. In such applications one has to take 
care that no solids will reach the inside of the gutter whereas any 
fluid seeping through the mass of solid waste has to be collected on the 
membrane on the bottom of the dump and should flow from there through 
the apertures into the tubular gutter. For that purpose the apertures 
are embodied as relatively small apertures aligned in two rows each in 
one side wall of the gutter just above connection ridges or flaps 
extending from the respective side wall and destined to become attached 
to the marginal section of the membrane at the respective side of the 
gutter. The top half of the gutter is closed to avoid entrance of any 
solids. The invention is not directed to systems for use underground such 
as the abovementioned system, but is directed to systems for use at 
ground level. Other systems are also known from the state of the art, for instance 
for application in sports areas, tennis courts, etc. Examples 
thereof are described in the German Patent DE 465,166 and in the 
European Patent Application EP 0 072 559. In all these systems the 
waterproof membrane comprises a foil of plastic material, whereby 
separate drainage gutters or drainage tubes are used to receive water 
from this foil and to drain said water. In all these prior art systems 
the foil is furthermore covered with a top layer of soil, which may have 
5 a thickness of some tenths of centimetres and which gives the area the 
appearance of a tennis court, a football field or something like that. In the German Patent DE 465,166 no further special measures are  
 
taken to obtain a watertight connection between the membrane and the 
drainage tubes. Therefor part of the water flowing along the waterproof 
membrane will not be received in the gutter but will penetrate into the 
ground. Furthermore, the prior art gutters are made in situ from stone 
or concrete and are therewith
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
System for collecting water from a surface which is covered by 
a waterproof membrane, whereby tubular gutters are installed in trenches 

in the surface adjacent to the margins of the waterproof membrane and 
whereby the surface is slightly sloped such that water on the membrane 

will flow in a natural manner in the direction of a gutter, each tubular 
gutter comprising apertures through which water may enter the gutter, 


characterised in that
 the apertures in each tubular gutter of the 
system, which is destined to collect water from the upper surface of a 

piece of land, are present in the upwards directed wall of the tube and 
have an elongated shape with a largest dimension in length direction of 

the tube, whereby the marginal section of the membrane adjacent to said 
apertures is attached to the wall of the tubular gutter at or directly 

adjacent to the edge of each aperture such that water flowing along the 
membrane will be received in said gutter. 
System according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
elongated apertures in the tubular wall have semicircular end sections. 
System according to claim 2, characterized in that the 
elongated apertures in the tubular wall have a rectangular shape with 

rounded off corners. 
System according to one of the claims 1-3, characterized in 
that each tube comprises one aperture in the form of an elongated slit. 
System according to one of the claims 1-4, characterized in 
that the marginal section of the membrane is attached to the wall of the 

tubular gutter by means of an adhesive. 
System according to one of the claims 1-4, characterized in 
that the marginal section of the membrane is attached to the wall of the 

tubular gutter by means of a melting process whereby the membrane and 
the wall of the tubular gutter are locally heated to above the weakening 

temperature. 
System according to one of the claims 1-4, characterized in 
that the marginal section of the membrane is attached to the wall of the 

tubular gutter by means of mechanical fasteners such as screws or 

rivets. 
System according to one of the claims 1-4, characterized in  
 

that at each aperture the marginal section of the membrane is folded 
around the edge of the respective aperture in the tubular wall 

whereafter the membrane is attached to the tubular wall by clamping 
means. 
System according to claim 8, characterized in that the 
clamping means are formed of U-shaped profiles, having a length not 

longer than the length of an aperture, which profiles are clamped onto 
the edge of the respective aperture after folding the membrane around 

said edge. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that bridge parts, each spanning the width of an aperture, can 

be attached to both edges of an aperture or to the clamping means 
maintaining the marginal section of the membrane folded around the 

respective edge of the aperture. 
System according to claim 10, characterized in that the 
bridge sections are embodied such that they can be installed using a 

snap connection attaching the respective end of the bridge part to the 
edge of the respective aperture. 
System according to one of the preceding claims 1-11, 
characterized in that the tubes have a circular cross-section. 
System according to one of the preceding claims 1-11, 
characterized in that the tubes have a rectangular cross-section. 
System according to claim 13, characterized in that the 
corners off the rectangular cross-section are rounded off. 
System according to one of the preceding claims 1-11, 
characterized in that the tubes have in general a circular cross-section 

whereby the wall sections adjacent the apertures are approximately flat 
and in the operative condition positioned approximately horizontal. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the tubes are made of a plastic material, especially of 

PVC. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the tubular gutters are supported by foundation piles. 
System according to claim 17, characterized in that 
the tubular gutters are by suitable means attached to said foundation 

piles. 
System according to claims 18, characterized in that  
 

the tubular gutters are attached to said foundation piles by means of 
screws or nails extending through a predrilled hole in the lower wall of 

the tube whereby additional measures are taken to prevent leakage of 
water through said predrilled hole. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that in case the tubular gutter is assembled from two or more 

interconnected tubes a coupling sleeve is used receiving the end 
sections of both tubes to be interconnected, whereby a water blocking 

non solid material such as a greasy or jelly substance is used to obtain 
a water tight connection between the sleeve and the end of a tube. 
System according to claim 20, characterized in that 
the sleeve forms an integral part of one of the tubes to be connected. 
System according to claim 20 or 21, characterized in that 
a predetermined distance is maintained between the ends of both tubes 

when making an interconnection between two tubes providing space for 
temperature dependent expansion of the tubes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
