<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644039</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for converting plastic
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6510	B29C6510	B65B5110	B65B5110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C65	B29C65	B65B51	B65B51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tube-forming machine and process has a supply for delivering an elongate, 
folded, plastic web (10) along a path of travel. The web may be clear 

polyethylene folded treated surface to treated surface. A cutting 
mechanism (14) is 

positioned along the path including a hard cylindrical roll (18) and a 
cutter (24) having a 

cutting head and means to bias the head toward the roll. A rotatable sealing 
drum (15) has a cylindrical web engaging surface delineating a further 

portion of the 
path. A set of circumferentially spaced flame-emitting nozzles (55) 

are positioned 
adjacent the drum surface section. Each of the nozzles includes a 

tip disposed 
within the cylinder delineated by said drum surface and has an 

axis disposed in an 
imaginary radial plane. Each tip is directed radially upwardly 

to impinge its flame 
against portions of a web being fed along the path when such portions project 

from said drum surface. Each tip axis is at an angle from 90° to 60° with an 
imaginary line located by the intersection of such imaginary plane 

with said drum 
surface section with the 60° orientation of the tip axis being 

canted toward the 
drum. Preferably each tip axis is canted toward the drum at an 

angle of from 65° to 68° with said imaginary line. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN JOHN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN, JOHN D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to plastic conversion, and more particularly, to a 
method and apparatus for converting a folded plastic web into a tube. This application is directed to improvements over the method and apparatus 
disclosed in Application 
EP-A-0382545 and 
entitled Method and Apparatus for Manufacture of Tubing referred to here as the 
Hydrogen Sealer application. The mechanism of the Hydrogen Sealer application first prints a polyethylene 
web, and then folds it, printed side out. The folded web is fed past a 
trimmer to trim edges remote from the fold. The trimmed web is then fed over a 
large rotating drum with small portions of the web adjacent to the trimmed edges 
projecting outwardly from the drum. A set of copper hold-down rollers engage 
the web to maintain it against the drum and function with the drum as heat sinks. A set of torches are provided with each torch having a tip paired with one 
of the hold-down rollers, and oriented to direct a flame generally radially inwardly 
and downwardly to fuse the projecting portions. Each of these torches provides a 
thin, hot, intense flame, and each is fueled by a stoichiometric mixture of hydrogen 
and oxygen. While the machine and method of the Hydrogen Sealer application has 
been highly successful, there remains a problem that, on occasion, defective seals 
are produced. There are believed to be a number of factors which contribute to 
this problem.  
 One of the factors contributing to the problem is that the hold-down rolls 
must be properly aligned. If the axes of the drum and a hold-down roll are in a 
common plane but not parallel, one end portion of the hold-down roll will tend to 
pinch the web while the remote end portion may be out of contact. The result 
can be improper juxtaposition of the layers being fused. If the axes of a hold-down 
roller and the drum are not in a common plane, the upper layer of the web 
will tend to track in the direction of malalignment of the hold-down roller which 
may result in air being entrained into the seal being formed. While the elasticity of the polyethylene provides a certain amount of 
"forgiveness" for hold-down roll malalignment, nonetheless if not properly maintained, 
hold-down roll malalignment and foreign matter build-up on the rolls can 
each contribute to the production of defective products. Accordingly substantial 
amounts of maintenance are required. Another factor contributing to the problem with the machine of the 
Hydrogen Sealer application is that the trimming operation is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process of bonding plastic webs (10) comprising: 

a) passing a plurality of superposed webs over a 
surface of a rotating metal drum (15) while maintaining 

edge portions (49, 50) of the webs outwardly of and 
projecting laterally from an edge (47) of the surface; 
b) directing a thin, highly intense flame (90) from 
upwardly towards an upper part of the drum and the edge 

portions thereat to directly heat a lower edge portion 
(50); and 
c) continuing to heat the edge portions until they 
are fused; 
 
   characterised in that said flame is directed from 

outside the drum angularly towards said upper portion of 
the drum and the edge portions thereat, convectively 

heating an upper edge portion (49) shielded from the flame 
by the lower edge portion (50). 
A process according to claim 1 wherein the flame is 
emitted from a nozzle (60), including an outlet tip portion 

(62) having an axis disposed in a radial plane and at an 
angle of at least 60° with an axis of drum rotation. 
A process according to claim 2 wherein the angle is 
from about 65° to 68°. 
A process according to any one of the preceding 
claims, further including the step of score trimming the 

superposed edge portions prior to flame impingement. 
A process according to claim 4 wherein the edge 
portions are tacked together as the score trimming step is 

performed to maintain registration of the portions.  
 
A process according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the webs each have a treated surface and the webs 

are superposed treated surface to treated surface. 
A process according to claim 6 wherein each treated 
surface is a printed surface. 
A process according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the plastic webs are provided by a folded web. 
A process according to claim 8 wherein there are two 
folds, a pair of cutters (24, 25) and twin sets of flames 

(55, 57) concurrently forming a pair of tubes as the web is 
passed over a split drum. 
A process according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the webs are clear polyethylene. 
A tube-forming machine comprising: 

a supply (12) for delivering an elongate, folded, 
plastic web (10) along a path of travel; 
a rotatable sealing drum (15) having a cylindrical web 
engaging surface (54), a section of the surface delineating 

a further portion of the path; 
a set (55, 57) of flame-emitting nozzles (60, 62) 
positioned adjacent the drum surface section, the nozzles 

of the set being circumferentially spaced; 
 
   characterised in that the nozzles are arranged to 

direct thin, highly intense flames (90) from outside the 
drum upwardly and angularly towards an upper part of the 

drum and against edge portions (49, 50) of a web thereat 
fed along the path when such portions project from said 

drum surface section to directly heat a lower edge portion 
(50) while convectively heating an upper edge portion (49) 

shielded from the flame by the lower edge portion (50).  
 
A machine according to claim 11 wherein each nozzle 
includes a tip (62) disposed within the cylinder delineated 

by said drum surface and has an axis disposed in an 
imaginary radial plane which includes an axis of drum 

rotation, each tip being directed radially, said tip axis 
being at an angle at least 60° with an imaginary line 

located by the intersection of such imaginary plane with 
said drum surface section. 
A machine according to claim 12 wherein said angle is 
from 65° to 68°. 
A machine according to any one of claims 11 to 13 
wherein: 


a) the drum has a pair of axially spaced, 
cylindrical, web-engaging surfaces; 
b) there are a pair of cutting mechanisms (24, 25); 
and 
c) there are two sets (55, 57) of nozzles (60, 62) 
each positioned to emit flames against web portions (49, 

50) respectively projecting from surface sections of 
respectively associated drum surfaces whereby the machine 

may be used concurrently to produce a pair of tubes. 
A machine according to any one of claims 11 to 14 
further including a cutting mechanism positioned along the 

path including a roll having a section delineating a 
portion of the path and a cutter having a cutting head (30) 

and means to bias the head toward the roll section. 
A machine according to claim 15 wherein the cutting 
head is a scoring head. 
A machine according to any one of claims 11 to 16 
further including means (95) to tension a web section  

 
engaging said surface and feed the web section at a speed 

equal to the surface speed of the surface. 
A machine according to any one of claims 11 to 17 
wherein said supply is an in-line system with a printing 

press and folding mechanism. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
