<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623459</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for enhancing heating uniformity for setting adhesive in corrugated paperboard manufacturing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31F120	B31F136	B31F128	B32B328	B32B328	B31F100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31F	B31F	B31F	B32B	B32B	B31F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31F1	B31F1	B31F1	B32B3	B32B3	B31F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method is disclosed for slidably 
contacting and pressing upon the back side of a conveyor 

(43) to urge an advancing corrugated paperboard sheet (47) 
into substantially uniform contact with adjacent laterally 

extending heating surfaces (48) irrespective of any thermally 
induced deflection or bowing thereof. A plurality of 

heating chests (42) arranged in side-by-side relation 
define the series of laterally extending heating surfaces 

(48). A conveyor belt (43) is positioned opposite the 
series of heating surfaces for advancing the corrugated 

paperboard sheet (47) longitudinally along a predetermined 
path of travel. A plurality of contact assemblies (50) 

provides the sliding contact with the conveyor belt (43). 
Each contact assembly, in turn, preferably includes a 

plurality of contact shoes (54) arranged in side-by-side 
relation and carried by a laterally extending supporting 

frame (52). The contact shoes have contact surfaces slidably 
contacting the back side of the conveyor belt. Respective 

compressed springs (55) urge the contact surfaces of 
the contact shoes (54) against the conveyor belt (43) even 

in the presence of any thermally induced bowing and without 
causing edge crushing. The contact shoes (54) are mounted 

so that each is independently movable along a path of 
travel into and outward from the back side of the conveyor 

belt (43) and so that each is laterally pivotable with 
respect to its imaginary longitudinal centerline. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERFIC DEV INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERFIC DEVELOPMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SISSONS ANTHONY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SISSONS, ANTHONY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of 
corrugated paperboard manufacturing, and more 
particularly, to an apparatus and method for setting 
the adhesive in the manufacturing of corrugated 
paperboard. Corrugated paperboard is widely used as a 
material for fabricating containers and for other 
packaging applications. Corrugated paperboard is 
strong, lightweight, relatively inexpensive, and may be 
recycled. Conventional corrugated paperboard is 
constructed of two opposing liners and an intervening 
fluted sheet secured together using an adhesive. The 
adhesive is typically a starch-based adhesive applied 
as a liquid. Accordingly, heat is transferred to the 
adhesive to dry or set the adhesive during 
manufacturing of the corrugated paperboard. Referring to FIG. 1, a conventional so-called 
"double facer" 20 for setting adhesive is schematically 
illustrated. The double facer joins a "single faced" 
corrugated paperboard sheet, including a single liner 
and the fluted paper, together with a second liner and 
heats the sheet to dry or set the adhesive. This  
 
heating is typically achieved by passing the corrugated 
paperboard over a series of steam heating chests from 
left to right as shown in the illustrated double facer 
20. The heating chests are typically grouped together 
in heating sections 21a-21d. More particularly, the 
corrugated paperboard is advanced over the series of 
steam heated chests by an endless conveyor belt 23 and 
its associated drive 24 to engage the sheet and advance 
the sheet in contact with the underlying heating 
chests. A lower traction belt 26 assists in advancing 
the sheet through the double facer. Referring now to the cross-sectional 
schematic views of FIGS. 2 and 3, in a conventional 
double facer, a series of transversely extending rolls 
25 are carried by side rails 24 (FIG. 1) and provide a 
downward or backing pressure on the back side of the 
conveyor belt 23. Thus, the rolls 25 of a conventional 
double facer are intended to provide a backing force to 
facilitate contact between the advancing corrugated 
sheet 27 and the underlying heating surfaces 28 of the 
heating chests 22. See also, for example, U.S. Patent 
No. 4,316,755 to Flaum et al. and U.S. Patent No. 
3,981,758 to Thayer et al. As shown in FIG. 2, when the apparatus is 
first started, the upper heating surface 28 of the 
heating chest 22 is substantially planar. Accordingly, 
the sheet 27 is evenly pressed across the heating 
surface by the liner backing rolls 25, and uniform 
heating and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for setting an adhesive in 
corrugated paperboard during the manufacturing thereof, 

said apparatus comprising: 

a series of elongate heating chests (42) 
positioned in side-by-side relation and defining a 

series of laterally extending heating surfaces (48); and 
a conveyor belt (43) positioned opposite said 
series of heating surfaces for advancing a corrugated 

paperboard sheet (47) longitudinally along a predetermined 
path of travel over said heating surfaces (48);
 
characterized by a plurality of contact assemblies (50) associated 

with a back side of said conveyor belt (43) for slidably 
contacting and pressing upon the back side of said 

conveyor belt to urge the advancing corrugated 
paperboard sheet (47) into substantially uniform contact 

with said laterally extending heating surfaces (48), each of 
said contact assemblies comprising 


a laterally extending frame (52) positioned 
adjacent the back side of said conveyor belt (43), 
a plurality of contact shoes (54) carried by 
said frame and arranged in side-by-side 

relation, each of said contact shoes (54) having a 
contact surface (56) for slidably contacting the 

back side of said conveyor belt, and 
biasing means (55) operatively connected 
between said frame (52) and each of said contact 

shoes (54) for biasing the contact surface (56) thereof 
against the back side of said conveyor belt (43). 
An apparatus according to Claim 1, 
comprising a pair of rails (78) longitudinally extending 

along opposite sides of said heating surfaces (48), and 
contact assembly mounting means (81, 82) for mounting said 

plurality of contact assemblies (50) so that each contact  
 

assembly (50) is associated with a respective laterally 
extending heating surface (48). 
An apparatus according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein 
said plurality of contact shoes (54) comprise respective contact surfaces 

(56) having 
generally rectangular plates of substantially 

uniform dimensions, and wherein each generally 
rectangular plate has a length substantially 

corresponding to a length of a respective heating 
surface (48). 
An apparatus according to Claim 3, wherein 
each of said generally rectangular plates includes a 

laterally extending upturned leading edge (48) to facilitate 
sliding contact with said conveyor belt (43). 
All apparatus according to Claim 3 or Claim 4, 
wherein respective generally rectangular plates of each 

contact assembly (50) are arranged in laterally spaced apart 
relation defining longitudinally extending gaps between 

adjacent plates, and wherein said contact assembly 
mounting means (81, 82) includes means for mounting adjacent 

ones of said contact assemblies (50) in laterally staggered 
relation to laterally offset the longitudinally 

extending gaps in adjacent assemblies.  
 
A contact assembly apparatus adapted to be 
positioned on an apparatus of the type for setting an 

adhesive in corrugated paperboard during the 
manufacturing thereof, the setting apparatus comprising heating 

means (42) for defining a heating surface (48) and a conveyor 
belt (43) positioned opposite the heating surface (48) for 

advancing a corrugated paperboard sheet (47) along a 
predetermined path of travel over the heating surface (48), 

said contact assembly apparatus comprising: 

a frame (52) adapted to be positioned adjacent the 
back side of the conveyor belt (43) and extending laterally 

thereacross; 
a plurality of contact shoes (54) carried by said 
frame (52) and arranged in side-by-side relation, each of 

said contact shoes (54) having a contact surface (56) adapted for 
slidably contacting the back side of the conveyor belt (43); 

and 
biasing means (55) operatively connected between 
said frame (52) and each of said contact shoes (54) and adapted 

for urging the contact surface (56) thereof against the back 
side of the conveyor belt (43). 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding Claims, 
comprising shoe mounting means (62-70) for mounting 

each of said contact shoes (54) to said frame (52) so that each 
contact surface (56) is adapted to be independently movable 

along a predetermined path of travel generally normal 
to the heating surface (48). 
An apparatus according to Claim 7, 
wherein said shoe mounting means (62-70) comprises a plurality 

of arms (62, 64) and respective pivot shafts (65a, 65b; 66a, 66b) 
cooperating 

therewith for pivotally securing opposing ends of each 
arm to said frame (52) and each of said contact shoes (54), 

respectively.  
 
An apparatus according to Claim 8, 
wherein each of said arms (62, 64) has an enlarged opening (77, 78) 

in an 
end thereof to cooperate with respective pivot shafts 

(65a, 65b; 66a, 66b) 
for permitting pivotal movement of each of said contact 

surfaces (56) about an imaginary longitudinal center line 
thereof. 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, 
comprising stop means operatively connected 

between said frame (52) and each of said contact shoes (54) being 
adapted for defining a predetermined minimum spacing 

between each of said contact surfaces and a respective 
portion of the heating surface so that backing pressure 

is provided for a corrugated paperboard sheet (47) having a 
predetermined minimum thickness and to thereby relieve 

pressure on the back side of said conveyor belt (43) when 
the apparatus is operated without the corrugated 

paperboard sheet in place adjacent a respective portion 
of said conveyor belt. 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein said biasing means (55) comprises respective springs 

operatively connected between each of said contact 
shoes (54) and said frame (52). 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, 
comprising lifting means (86) connected to said 

frame (52) and adapted for selectively positioning said 
frame (52) between an operating position, wherein the 

contact surfaces (56) of said contact shoes (54) are adapted to 
be in contact with the back side of the conveyor belt (43), 

and a raised position, wherein said contact surfaces (56) 
are adapted to be spaced apart from the back side of 

the conveyor belt (43).  
 
A method for uniformly heating 
corrugated paperboard during the manufacturing thereof 

to set adhesive in the corrugated paperboard with an 
apparatus of the type including a plurality of heating 

chests arranged in side-by-side relation and defining a 
series of laterally extending heating surfaces, and a 

conveyor belt positioned opposite the series of heating 
surfaces, the method comprising the steps of: 


driving the conveyor belt (43) to advance a 
corrugated paperboard sheet (47) longitudinally along a 

predetermined path of travel over the heating surfaces (48); 
and 
slidably contacting and pressing upon a back 
side of the driven conveyor belt (43) to urge the advancing 

corrugated paperboard sheet (47) into substantially uniform 
contact with the adjacent laterally extending heating 

surfaces (48) despite any thermally induced deflection 
thereof, said step of slidably contacting the back side 

of the conveyor belt (43) comprising the steps of 

providing a series of contact assemblies 
associated with the back side of the conveyor 

belt, each contact assembly comprising a 
plurality of contact shoes arranged in side-by-side 

relation extending laterally across 
the conveyor belt, each of the contact shoes 

having a contact surface for slidably 
contacting the back side of the conveyor 

belt, and 
biasing each of the contact shoes for 
urging the contact surface thereof against 

the back side of the conveyor belt. 
A method according to Claim 13, further 
comprising the step of  

 

relieving pressure on the back 
side of said conveyor belt (43) when the apparatus is 

operated without the corrugated paperboard sheet (47) in 
place adjacent a respective portion of the conveyor 

belt (43). 
A method according to Claim 13 or Claim 14, wherein 
the apparatus comprises a plurality of contact shoes (54) 

each of which comprises a generally 
rectangular plate (56), the method comprising the step of 

arranging the generally rectangular plates (56) in laterally 
spaced apart relation defining longitudinally extending 

gaps between adjacent plates (56), and further comprising 
the step of mounting adjacent ones of the contact 

assemblies (50) in laterally staggered relation to laterally 
offset the longitudinally extending gaps in adjacent 

assemblies (50). 
A method according to anyone of claims 13 to 15, 
comprising the steps of sensing a temperature of the 

corrugated paperboard sheet (47) downstream from the heating 

surfaces (48), and lowering or lifting predetermined ones of 
the contact assemblies (50) to transfer more or less heat, 

respectively, so as to maintain the temperature of the 
corrugated paperboard sheet (47) within a predetermined 

range. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
