<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612698</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multiple orifice glass feed system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B700	C03B7086	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B7	C03B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple orifice glass feed system for use with a 
glass forehearth including a plurality of closely spaced 

plungers (12), each of which is individually supported 
independently of the other. Each plunger (12) includes a servo 

controlled linear actuator (16) and an arm (15) extending 
between each plunger and its respective servo-motor. Each servo-motor 

has an axis parallel to the axis of the plungeres (12). An 
air spring (18) is associated with each plunger (12) for 

balancing the weight of each plunger and its respective arm. The 
center liens of the plungers (12) lie generally in a plane 

(P1,P2). The arms (15) have the major portions thereof generally 
parallel and closely spaced. A feedback system is provided to 

monitor the position of each individual plunger (12) 
independently of the other at all times and make corrections to 

the actual position of the plunger if desired. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWENS BROCKWAY GLASS CONTAINER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWENS-BROCKWAY GLASS CONTAINER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIFRANK FRANK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEIDY WAYNE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIFRANK, FRANK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEIDY, WAYNE D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for
controlling glass flow through a plurality of orifices.In the manufacture of glass articles, it is common to
provide a glass forehearth and multiple orifices which are
controlled by reciprocable needles or plungers in order to
provide the necessary uniform weight of gobs. Plural needles
and orifices are utilized in order to maximize glass
production.US-Patent 1,926,764 discloses a glass feeding
apparatus where two plungers are arranged side by side and
laterally offset from each other. The plungers are linked to
levers at the center of each lever. Each lever, at its one
end, is connected to a respective stationary support, and at
its other end to operation means which includes stroke
limiting means. One of the operation means is arranged on
the left hand side, and the other one is arranged on the
right hand side. In consideration that the plungers are side
by side, when side viewed, and the plungers are side by
side, when front viewed, the plungers are really diagonally
arranged.Among the objectives of the present invention are to
provide a multiple orifice glass system wherein each plunger
is individually mounted in association with its respective
servomotor; wherein each servo control can be automatically
controlled to produce an accurate weight gob during
operation; wherein the actuating servo mechanisms are
mounted on the side of the forehearth and cannot contaminate
the glass and are protected from the heat of the glass;
and wherein a
single plunger can be monitored, operated and controlled
individually.An objective of a preferred embodiment of the
invention is to counterbalance the individual weight of the
plunger and support arm. The invention is defined in claims 1 and 17.In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
invention there is provided a multiple orifice glass feed system for use with
a glass forehearth including a plurality of closely spaced
plungers, each of which is individually supported
independently of the other. Each plunger is provided with a servo
controlled linear actuator and an arm extending between each
plunger and its respective actuator. Each servomotor has
an axis parallel to the axis of the plungers. An air spring
is associated with each plunger for balancing the weight of
each plunger and its respective arm. The center lines of the
plungers lie generally in a plane. The arms have the major
portions thereof generally parallel and closely spaced. A
feedback system is provided to monitor the position of each
individual needle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for controlling flow of glass through a
plurality of discharge orifices (13) lying in a single

vertical plane (P1, P2) in a glass forehearth (11), said
apparatus comprising


a plurality of closely spaced plungers (12) adapted
to be associated with said orifices (13),
each said plunger (12) having a vertical axis,
said vertical axes of said plungers (12) lying in a
single plane (P1, P2),
means for supporting each plunger (12) independently
of the other including
a plurality of closely spaced arms (15) each
associated with one of said plungers, and
a plurality of servo controlled linear actuators
(16) each associated with one of said arms,
each said arm (15) having opposed ends,
one end of each arm (15) being untiltably and
unrotatably mounted on its associated linear actuator

(16),
each linear actuator being independently operable and
adapted to move an associated one of said arms (15),
said actuators (16) being closely spaced to one
another and mounted on one side of said forehearth (11),
one of said ends of each said arm (15) being
connected to one of said plungers (12),
said arms (15) being configured such
that the arms have the major portions thereof generally

parallel or perpendicular to the plane (P1, P2) of the
plungers (12).
The apparatus set forth in claim 1,

wherein said means for supporting also includes a
plurality of air springs (18), each connected to a

respective arm (15) for balancing the weight of each
plunger (12).
The apparatus set forth in claim 1 or 2

wherein said arms (15) are horizontally arranged.
The apparatus set forth in any of claims 1 to 3

wherein said arms (15) have portions intermediate their
ends which are the greatest portion of their length and

which portions are parallel and equidistant to one
another.
The apparatus set forth in claim 4

wherein one of said arms is straight and the others of
said arms are generally L-shaped.
The apparatus set forth in claim 5

wherein each arm (15) has a major portion and a minor
portion, the minor portion of each arm being at a right

angle to the major portion such that the major portions
of the arms are parallel to said first plane (P1) of

said plungers (12).
The apparatus set forth in claim 6

wherein said straight arm has one side and an other
side, one of said L-shaped arms is on one side of said

straight arm and the other said L-shaped arms are on the
other side of said straight arm.
The apparatus set forth in claim 4

including at least three arms (15), one of said arms
being straight, the major portions of said other arms

being parallel to said straight arms, the other of said
arms having one end curved such that the plane (P1) of 

said plungers (12) on the curved ends of said arms (15)
is parallel to said straight arm and the major portions

of said other arms.
The apparatus set forth in any of claims 1 to 8,

wherein each servo controlled linear actuator (16)
includes


a drive post assembly having a welded portion (40)
movable to a fixed housing having a welded portion (30),

a top bearing collar (31) and an intermediate bearing
collar (32) for guiding said movable drive post assembly

vertically relative to the fixed housing (30), said
plunger arm (15) being mounted on said drive post

assembly,
operation means (17) mounted on a fixed apparatus
member and
means (34, 43, 45) operatively connecting said movable
drive post assembly to said operation means (17) and

being mounted in a lower bearing collar (33) of the
fixed housing.
The apparatus set forth in claim 9 wherein said means
(34, 43, 45) operatively connecting said operation means

(17) to said drive post assembly comprises a lead screw
(42) mounted in said lower bearing collar (33), and

wherein a nut (41) is threaded on said lead screw (42)
and is the movable driving element of the drive post

assembly to which it is fixed.
The apparatus set forth in any one of claims 1 to 10
including a motion control system for each said servo-controlled

linear actuator (16), each motion control
system being independently controllable of the other

motion control system and includes operation means (17).
The apparatus set forth in claim 11

wherein said motion control system being responsive to
an actual position of each said plunger (12) and 

including means for comparing said position of each said
plunger (12) to a preset value to generate a motor

torque signal.
The apparatus set forth in claim 12

wherein each motion control system includes means for
adjusting the height of the respective plunger (12).
The apparatus set forth in claim 12 or 13

wherein said motion control system has memory means for
a motion profile of each servo-controlled linear

actuator (16).
The apparatus set forth in claim 14

wherein said motion control system has means for
synchronising the movement of said plungers (12).
The apparatus set forth in any one of claims 9 to 15,

wherein said operation means (17) for each servo-controlled
linear actuator (16) includes a

servo-motor.
A method for controlling flow of glass through a
plurality of discharge orifices (13) lying in a single

vertical plane (P1, P2) in a glass forehearth (11)
comprising


providing a plurality of closely spaced plungers (12)
adapted to be associated with said orifices (13),

wherein each said plunger (12) having a vertical axis
and the vertical axes of said plungers (12) lie in

said single plane (P1, P2),
providing a plurality of closely spaced independently
operable servo controlled linear actuators (16) in

closely spaced relationship on one side of said
forehearth (11),
providing a plurality of closely spaced arms (15),
each said arm (15) having opposed ends,
 
wherein said arms (15) are configured such

that the arms have the major portions thereof generally
parallel or perpendicular to the plane (P1, P2) of the

plungers (12),

connecting one of said ends of each said arm (15)
to an associated one of said plungers (12),
connecting the other end of each said arm (15) to a
servo controlled actuator (16), such that the arms (15)

are horizontally arranged and untiltably and unrotatably
connected to and mounted on said servo controlled

actuators (16).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
