<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645308</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and packaging machine for unloading vessels from transport containers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B2100	B65B6900	B65B2112	B65B2118	B65B6900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B21	B65B69	B65B21	B65B21	B65B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and a packaging machine suitable for this, for unloading vessels from transport containers, with specific vessel features being taken into account. The vessels (1) located in the transport container (2) are unloaded from the latter and can be guided past a plurality of vessel delivery stations (II,III,IV), the individual vessels being releasable at a specific vessel delivery station as a function of one or more features, for example colour or height. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRONSEDER MASCHF KRONES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRONES AG HERMANN KRONSEDER MASCHINENFABRIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASHEIM GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASHEIM, GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A process for removing vessels (1) from transport containers (2), particularly bottles 
or the like from boxes or cartons, taking into consideration defined vessel features 

identifiable by a testing device (5), particularly colour, shape or height, wherein a 
vessel (1) situated in a transport container (2) in a vessel removal station (I) is 

removed by a controllable gripper element (3) and transported to a vessel discharge 
station (II, III, IV), characterised in that the gripper element (3) is led past a plurality 

of vessel discharge stations (II, III, IV), wherein the vessel (1) is released by the 
gripper element (3) at a defined vessel discharge statio
n (II, III, IV) in accordance 
with one or more features. 
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the identification of defined 
vessel features is effected before the grasping and removal of the vessels from a 

transport container. 
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the identification of defined 
vessel features is effected during grasping or during subsequent transport by a gripper 

element. 
A process according to claim 3, characterised in that the identification of defined 
vessel features is effected by the gripper element itself by means of associated devices 

or sensors (5). 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the 
gripper element is forcibly guided along a path of movement (21) which is of the 

same form for each operating cycle.  
 
A process according to claim 5, characterised in that the gripper element is forcibly 
guided, and in particular is continuously forcibly guided, along a closed path of 

movement (21) with a constant direction of circulation. 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the 
vessel discharge stations are disposed displaced along the path of movement of the 

gripper element and the gripper element is fed to each vessel discharge station in 
succession. 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the 
path of movement of the gripper head lies substantially in a vertical plane. 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the 
vessels released at the vessel discharge stations are continuously carried away. 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the 
vessels released at the vessel discharge stations are collected or placed in containers. 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the 
removal of the vessels from the transport containers is effected during the conveying 

movement of the transport containers. 
A process according to at least one of the preceding claims, characterised in that all 
the vessels situated in a transport container are grasped and removed simultaneously 

by a group of gripper elements, the group of gripper elements is led past the vessel 
discharge stations and each gripper element of the group call be triggered and 

operated in order to release the vessel held by it individually at one of the vessel 
discharge stations in accordance with the vessel features determined. 
A process according to claim 12, characterised in that each vessel which still remains 
at the last vessel discharge station before the vessel removal station is released 

irrespective of its features.  
 
A packing machine for removing vessels (1) from transport containers (2), 
particularly bottles or the like from boxes or cartons, having at least one gripper 

element (3) which can be moved from a vessel removal station (I) to a vessel 
discharge station (II) and back, which can be controlled taking into consideration 

defined vessel features identifiable by a testing device (5), characterised in that after 
the vessel removal station (I) the gripper element (3) can be led past a plurality of 

vessel discharge stations (II, III, IV) and can be controlled so that a vessel (1) having 
a defined feature can be released at a defined vessel discharge station (II, III, IV). 
A packing machine according to claim 14, characterised in that the testing device for 
the identification of defined vessel features is disposed upstream of the packing 

machine. 
A packing machine according to claim 14, characterised in that a testing device (5) 
or a plurality of testing elements for the identification of vessel features, particularly 

for the identification of colour or height, is associated with the gripper element (3). 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 16, 
characterised in that the operation of the gripper element (3) for grasping or 

discharging a vessel (1) is effected by a controller (7) which is connected to a 
stationary testing device or to testing devices (5) disposed on the gripper elements (3). 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 17, 
characterised in that a plurality of gripper elements (3) is assembled to form a 

packing head (4), but that the gripping function of each individual gripper element (3) 
can be controlled independently of the adjacent gripper elements. 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 18, 
characterised in that conveying means (9, 10, 11), which can be driven, for carrying 

the sorted vessels (1) away, are associated with the vessel discharge stations (II, III, 
IV).  

 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 19, 
characterised in that the transport containers (2) can be fed to the packing machine 

by a container conveyor (8), which can be driven. 
A packing machine according to claims 19 and 20, characterised in that the conveying 
means (9, 10, 11) of the vessel discharge stations (II, III, IV) are disposed above the 

container conveyor (8), preferably parallel to and aligned with the latter. 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 21, 
characterised in that the conveying means (9, 10, 11) of the vessel discharge stations 

(II, III, IV) are disposed offset in height in relation to each other, particularly in the 
manner of steps. 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 22, 
characterised in that the gripper element (3) or a packing head (4) has a horizontal 

component of movement in the region of the vessel discharge stations (II, III, IV) and 
of the vessel removal station (I), which horizontal component of movement 

corresponds to the conveying speed of the container conveyor (8) and of the 
conveying means (9, 10, 11). 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 23, 
characterised in that the gripper element (3) or a packing head (4) comprising a 

plurality of gripper elements is moved from the vessel removal station (I) to the 
vessel discharge stations (II, III, IV) and back by a forcibly controlled suspension 

(12), and the suspension (24) is preferably fixed to a support (13) which can be 
continuously driven. 
A packing machine according to claim 24, characterised in that a plurality of packing 
heads (4) is fixed, spaced apart in the direction of circulation, to the support (13) by 

means of suspensions (12) which can be forcibly controlled.  
 
A packing machine according to at least one of the preceding claims 14 to 25, 
characterised in that during a complete operating cycle the gripper element (3) or the 

packing head (4) circulates substantially in a vertical plane. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
