<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631878</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A force transferring magnetic actuator apparatus and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2300	B41J2314	B41J2332	H01F706	H01F706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J23	B41J23	B41J23	H01F7	H01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic actuator apparatus which transfers a magnetic force 
produced by a solenoid (16) to a movable arm (18). The arm (18) is movable 

between an engaged position spaced away from the solenoid and a solenoid 
position abutting the solenoid. The arm (18) has a bore (36) formed therein 

opposite the solenoid (16). A magnetic member (32) is slidingly received in the 
bore (36). The magnetic member (32) is spaced away from the solenoid (16) a 

distance less than the arm (18) when the arm is in the engaged position and 
abuts the solenoid when the arm is in the solenoid position. A head (34) is 

connected to the magnetic member (32) on the side of the arm opposite the 
solenoid to prevent the magnetic member from passing through the bore. The 

head (34) transfers the force applied to the magnetic member (32) to the arm 
when the solenoid (16) is energized. The arm (18) and the magnetic member 

(32) move in unison until the magnetic member abuts the solenoid at which 
point the arm moves relative to the magnetic member until the arm reaches the 

solenoid position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STORLIE CHRIS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STORLIE, CHRIS A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to actuation systems and more 
particularly to magnetic actuation systems in printers. Actuation systems using magnetic actuators such as solenoids 
have long been employed in printers. A typical example of a system, indicated 
generally at 10, is shown in FIGS. 1A and 1B. The system 10 is used to 
selectively engage and disengage a pick arm 12 from a gear 14, as shown in 
FIGS. 1A and 1B, respectively. The system 10 is used, for example, to control a print media feed 
mechanism of a printer (not shown). When the pick arm 12 is engaged, the 
rotation of the gear 14 is inhibited, as shown in FIG. 1A, and print media (not 
shown) is fed into a print media path, as is known in the art. However, when 
pick arm 12 is disengaged from gear 14, as shown in FIG. 1B, the gear rotates 
freely in a clockwise direction. This rotation stops the movement of the media 
through the print media path. The pick arm 12 is selectively engaged and disengaged under the 
control of a solenoid 16. The solenoid 16 exerts an attractive magnetic force 
upon a magnetic arm 18, to which the pick arm 12 is attached at a distal end. 
The magnetic arm 18 is preferably a ferromagnetic material such as soft iron or 
steel but can also be a permanent magnet. The magnetic force opposes the 
force generated by a spring 20, which biases pick arm 12 into engagement with 
the gear 14, and the frictional force exerted by the gear 14 against a pick 22 
when the pick 22 is engaged with the gear 14. If the magnetic force is strong 
enough, the pick arm 12 is disengaged from the gear 14 and the gear is 
permitted to rotate as shown in FIG. 1B. Once the pick arm 12 is disengaged, 
however, only a small amount of force is required to oppose the force generated 
by spring 20 and hold the arm 18 against solenoid 16. Referring to FIG. 2, a plot 24 of force required to move the arm is 
plotted as a function of distance "X" as measured between the solenoid 16 and  
 
the arm 18, referred to as the "gap distance". Two positions are noted on the 
graph: an engagement position "XENG" wherein the pick 22 is engaged with the 
gear 14; and a solenoid position "XSOL" wherein the pick 22 is disengaged from 
the gear 14 and adjacent to the solenoid 16. Superimposed on the graph is a 
plot 26 of the force exerted on the arm 18 by the solenoid as a function of 
distance X. It is apparent from FIG. 2 that there is a mismatch between the 
force requirements to move the arm and the available force generated by the 
solenoid. The force
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetic actuation apparatus comprising: 
   a source (16) for producing magnetic flux; 

   a magnetic arm (18) having a top side and a bottom side disposed 
opposite the flux source for movement; 

   means for disposing the arm (20) adjacent the flux source for 
movement between a first position spaced away from the flux source and a 

second position in which the bottom side arm abuts the source; 
   a gap reducing magnetic member (32) slidably engaged with the 

arm and disposed opposite the flux source at a displacement less than the arm; 
and 

   a force transferring member (34) attached to the gap reducing 
member and engaged with the arm for transferring the force generated by the 

flux source from the gap reducing member to the arm. 
A magnetic actuation apparatus according to claim 1 
wherein the force transferring member is gravitationally engaged with the top 

side of the arm. 
A magnetic actuation apparatus according to claim 1 
wherein the arm has a bore (36) formed therein opposite the flux source and the 

gap reducing member is slidably engaged with the bore. 
A magnetic actuation apparatus according to claim 1 
wherein the flux source comprises a solenoid (16). 
A magnetic actuation apparatus according to claim 1 
further comprising: 

   a second gap reducing (47) magnetic member slidably engaged 
with the arm and disposed opposite the flux source at a displacement less than 

 
the gap reducing member; and 

   a second force transferring member attached to the second gap 
reducing member and engaged with the arm for transferring the force generated 

by the flux source from the second gap reducing member to the arm. 
A magnetic actuation apparatus according to claim 1 
wherein the magnetic arm and the force transferring member are hingedly 

connected at a common point (55). 
A magnetic actuation apparatus for a paper feed 
mechanism in a printer comprising: 

   a circular gear (14) for engaging and disengaging the paper feed 
mechanism, the gear having teeth disposed around the perimeter of the gear, 

the gear being biased to rotate; 
   a source (16) for producing magnetic flux; 

   a magnetic arm (18) connected to the printer for movement 
between an engaged position wherein the arm is engaged with the teeth of the 

gear and a disengaged position wherein the arm is disengaged from the teeth of 
the gear, the arm having a top side and a bottom side disposed opposite the flux 

source; 
   a gap reducing magnetic member (32) slidably engaged with the 

arm and disposed opposite the flux source at a displacement less than the arm; 
and 

   a force transferring member (34) attached to the gap reducing 
member and engaged with the arm for transferring the force generated by the 

flux source from the gap producing member to the arm. 
A method of exerting a force produced by a magnetic flux 
source to a magnetic arm having a top side and a bottom side and disposed 

opposite the flux source, the method comprising: 
   slidably engaging a gap reducing member with the arm opposite 

the flux source at a displacement less than the arm;
 

   energizing the flux source such that a force is exerted on the gap 
reducing member; 

   transferring the force exerted on the gap reducing member to the 
arm; and 

   moving the arm relative to the gap reducing member after the gap 
reducing member abuts against the flux source. 
A method of exerting a force according to method 8 
wherein slidably engaging comprises: 

   forming a bore in the arm opposite the flux source for receiving the 
gap reducing member; and 

   positioning the gap reducing member in the bore. 
A method of exerting a force according to method 8 
where
in transferring the force comprises: 
   attaching a force transferring member to the gap reducing member 

on the top side the arm opposite the flux source; and 
   transferring the force to the top side of the arm. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
