<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611458</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIALLY SYMMETRIC HOLOGRAM AND METHOD OF FABRICATING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B532	G02B532	G03H108	G03H108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G03H	G03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G03H1	G03H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV NORTH CAROLINA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHARLOTTE; OFFICE OF LEGAL AFFAIRS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FELDMAN MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORRIS JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELCH W HUDSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FELDMAN, MICHAEL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORRIS, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELCH, HUDSON W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RADIALLY SYMMETRIC HOLOGRAM AND METHOD OF FABRICATING THE SAMEField of the InventionThis invention relates to holography, and more particularly to hologram fabrication methods and the holograms fabricated thereby. Background ofthe InventionImprovements in holographic technology have caused holography to play a major role in modern optical systems. Today, holograms are widely used as diffractive optical elements in a wide variety of applications including high resolution imaging systems, focusing and collimating optics, aspheric element testing, and chromatic aberration correction of refractive elements.It is currently known to fabricate holograms for diffractive optics by creating interference among coherent light beams on a photographic plate and then developing the photographic plate. See U.S. Patent 4,607,914 to Fienup entitled Optical System Design Techniques Using Holographic Optical Element, U. S. Patent 4, 649, 351 to Veldkamp et al . entitled Apparatus and Method for Coherently Adding Laser Beams, and U.S. Patent 4,813,762 to Leger et al. entitled Coherent Beam Combining of Lasers Using Microlenses and Diffractive Coupling. 

 Unfortunately, holograms produced by interference among coherent light beams contain internal features which produce the hologram's interference fringes. These interferometric holograms must typically be produced individually, using precision equipment to produce interference among coherent light beams on a photographic plate. These holograms, therefore, are difficult to mass produce. In order to overcome the mass production problems with interferometric holograms. ComputerGenerated Holograms ("CGH") have been developed. CGHs have been fabricated by calculating the desired holographic pattern to perform a particular function and then forming the pattern on a glass or other substrate using photolithographic or other techniques. This technique is described, for example, in U.S. Patent 4,960,311 to Moss et al. entitled Holographic Exposure System For Computer Generated Holograms .It is also known to design these CGHs using iterative discrete encoding. In iterative discrete encoding, the hologram is divided into a two-dimensional array of rectangular cells. An initial transmittance value for each rectangular cell is chosen and the optimized phase for the hologram is calculated. An iterative optimization process is then used to optimize the transmittance values of the cells. An error function for the hologram is then calculated based upon the image quality. A single cell is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of fabricating a radially symmetric hologram, having a plurality of concentric fringes of constant radial phase, comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values between said radial phase transition points for each concentric fringe; repeatedly optimizing said plurality of radial phase transition points and said radial phase values to obtain optimized radial phase transition points and optimized radial phase values; and fabricating a radially symmetric hologram having concentric fringes of constant radial phase corresponding to said optimized radial phase transition points and said optimized radial phase values wherein said repeatedly optimizing step comprises repeatedly performing the following steps: determining an optical system error function for said hologram; changing said plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values; determining whether said changed plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values reduces said optical system error function; and retaining said changed radial phase transition points and radial phase values if said error function is reduced.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining step is preceded by the step of: identifying a set of optical parameters for said hologram; and wherein said determining step comprises the step of determining said plurality of radial phase 


 transition points and radial phase values for each fringe of constant radial phase from said identified set of optical system parameters.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the following step is performed between said identifying step and said determining step: determining a plurality of optical system constants from the identified set of optical system parameters for said hologram.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining an optical system error function step comprises the step of: determining said error function from a 
•
 correlation between a discrete phase function and a continuous phase function.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of fabricating said hologram comprises the steps of: producing a predetermined plurality of masks having concentric fringes corresponding to said optimized radial phase transition points and said optimized radial phase values; and utilizing said masks to fabricate a radially symmetric hologram on a substrate.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein said utilizing step comprises the step of utilizing said predetermined plurality of masks to fabricate a hologram having phase levels greater than said predetermined plurality, and less than or equal to two raised to the power of said predetermined plurality.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: 


 producing a master radially symmetric hologram; and using said master radially symmetric hologram to emboss a plurality of radially symmetric holograms on a corresponding plurality of substrates.
8. A method of fabricating a hologram comprising the steps of: producing a predetermined plurality of masks; and utilizing said predetermined plurality of masks to fabricate a hologram having phase levels greater than said predetermined plurality of masks, and less than two raised to the power of said predetermined plurality.
9. A method of fabricating a radially symmetric hologram, having a plurality of concentric fringes of constant phase, comprising the steps of: specifying an optical system; identifying a set of optical system parameters for said optical system; determining optical system constants from said set of optical system parameters; determining a plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values between said radial phase transition points for each concentric fringe, from said set of optical system parameters and optical system constants; determining an optical system error function for said plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values between said radial phase transition points for each concentric fringe; repeatedly optimizing said plurality of radial phase transition points and said radial phase values, to obtain optimized radial phase transition 


 points and optimized radial phase values which reduce said optical system error function; and fabricating a radially symmetric hologram having concentric fringes of constant radial phase corresponding to said optimized radial phase transition points and said optimized radial phase values wherein said repeatedly optimizing step comprises repeatedly performing the following steps: changing said plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values; determining whether said changed plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values reduces said optical system error function; and retaining said changed radial phase transition points and optimized radial phase values if said error function is reduced.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein said determining an optical system error function step comprises the step of: determining said error function from a correlation between a discrete phase function and a continuous phase function.
11. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of fabricating said hologram comprises the steps of: producing a plurality of masks having concentric fringes corresponding to said optimized radial phase transition points and said optimized radial phase values; and utilizing said masks to fabricate a radially symmetric hologram on a substrate.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein said utilizing step comprises the step of utilizing said predetermined plurality of masks to fabricate a 


hologram having phase levels greater than said predetermined plurality, and less than or equal to two raised to the power of said predetermined plurality.
13. The method of claim 9 further comprising the steps of: producing a master radially symmetric hologram; and using said master radially symmetric hologram to emboss a plurality of radially symmetric holograms on a corresponding plurality of substrates.
14. A method of designing a radially symmetric hologram, having a plurality of concentric fringes of constant radial phase, comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values between said radial phase transition points for each concentric fringe; and repeatedly optimizing said plurality of radial phase transition points and said radial phase values to obtain optimized radial phase transition points and optimized radial phase values wherein said repeatedly optimizing step comprises repeatedly performing the following steps: determining an optical system error function for said hologram; changing said plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values; determining whether said changed plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values reduces said optical system error function; and retaining said changed radial phase transition points and optimized radial phase values if said error function is reduced. 


 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said determining an optical system error function step comprises the step of: determining said error function from a correlation between a discrete phase function and a continuous phase function.
16. A method of designing a radially symmetric hologram comprising the steps of: specifying an optical system; identifying a set of optical system parameters for said optical system; determining optical system constants from said set of optical system parameters; determining a plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values between said radial phase transition points for each concentric fringe from said set of optical system parameters and optical system constants; determining an optical system error function for said first plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values between said radial phase transition points for each concentric fringe; and repeatedly optimizing said first plurality of radial phase transition points and said radial phase values to obtain optimized radial phase transition points and optimized radial phase values which reduce said optical system error function wherein said repeatedly optimizing step comprises performing the following steps; changing said plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values; determining whether said changed plurality of radial phase transition points and radial phase values reduces said optical system error function; and 


 retaining said changed radial phase transition points and optimized radial phase values if said error function is reduced.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said determining an optical system error function comprises the step of: determining said error function from a correlation between a discrete phase function and a continuous phase function.
18. A method of designing a hologram, having a plurality of fringes, comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of phase transition points and phase values between said phase transition points for each fringe; and repeatedly optimizing said plurality of phase transition points and said phase values to obtain optimized phase transition points and optimized phase values wherein said repeatedly optimizing step comprises performing the following steps: determining an optical system error function for said hologram; changing said plurality of phase transition points and phase values; determining whether said changed plurality of phase transition points and phase values reduces said optical system error function; and retaining said changed phase transition points and optimized phase values if said error function is reduced.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein said determining an optical system error function step comprises the step of: 


 determining said error function from a correlation between a discrete phase function and a continuous phase function.
20. A radially symmetric hologram comprising: a substrate, having a plurality of concentric constant radial phase fringes thereon, each fringe having a predetermined plurality of radial phase rings; said constant radial phase fringes having a predetermined number of phase levels, at least two adjacent fringes having a phase level difference which is greater than one phase level and less than said predetermined number of phase levels minus one phase level.
21. The hologram of claim 20 wherein each fringe corresponds to a predetermined plurality of radial phase transition points and a radial phase value between said plurality of radial phase transition points. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
