<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614989</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method for in vivo selection of ligand-binding proteins.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1510	C12N1510	C12Q170	C12Q170	C40B4002	C40B4002	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C40B	C40B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C40B40	C40B40	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The application discloses a method, and kit, which enables the selection of proteins 
or other oligo- or polypeptides (collectively, ligand binding proteins, LBPs) which 

bind with high affinity to a target ligand or receptor. The method relies on the 
display of the LBP of interest on the surface of replicable genetic packages (RGPs) 

which are modified so as to be non-infective. Infectivity is restored to those RGPs 
displaying LBPs with high affinity for a target ligand or receptor by an infectivity 

mediating complex. The infectivity mediating complex comprises the ligand or 
receptor covalently linked to a polypeptide which brings about interaction between 

the RGP and a host cell. It is envisaged that the LBP of interest will belong to a 
genetically diverse collection of similar substances. The method therefore allows 

selection of substances with high affinity for target, from within a large collection of 
variants. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MORPHOSYS PROTEINOPTIMIERUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MORPHOSYS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREBBER CLAUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORONEY SIMON DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLUECKTHUN ANDREAS DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER CHRISTIAN DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREBBER,CLAUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORONEY,SIMON DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLUECKTHUN,ANDREAS DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER,CHRISTIAN DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for the selection of proteins or other oligo-or 
polypeptides which bind with high affinity to a target ligand or receptor. The 
invention relates in particular, but not exclusively, to a system which can be used to 
select among a large population of variants for antibodies having high affinity for a 
target antigen. The advent of methods for the production of functional antibody fragments in 
recombinant bacteria (1,2) has opened the way to genetic manipulation of antibody 
genes. As a result of this development, genetic engineering is increasingly being used 
to generate antibodies for particular applications. Examples of this methodology are 
antibody chimerization (3) and humanization (4). These processes produce 
antibodies better suited to human therapeutic applications than their typically 
murine progenitors, by altering parts of the antibody molecule which are recognized 
as foreign by the human immune system. Although genetic engineering can be used to make almost any desired change in an 
antibody structure, it cannot as yet provide solutions to some of the most pressing 
problems in antibody generation. For example, a common goal is affinity maturation, 
the optimization of antibody-antigen interaction. In most cases, the three 
dimensional structure of the antigen is unknown, which makes rational design of the 
antibody binding site so as to increase affinity almost impossible. Therefore, the 
ability to alter antibody genes at will does not necessarily help in affinity maturation. 
Similarly, genetic engineering does not allow generation of human antibodies, which 
are desirable for therapeutic purposes, but which cannot, for ethical reasons, be 
generated by immunizing volunteers. Problems such as these demand a new 
approach to antibody generation. A promising approach relies on searching for antibodies having the desired 
properties within a large collection (library) of variants. Methods for generating such 
antibody libraries, and searching through them, have recently been developed (see, 
for example, (5) and (6) and references therein). This approach is attractive because:  It relies on strong binding of the antibody to a target antigen, and is therefore 
well-suited to affinity maturation. Antibodies which are not available by immunization (for example, human 
antibodies) can be accessed.  Currently, the most efficient approach to antibody affinity maturation uses the 
following technique. Antibody genes from a suitable source (such as,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for selecting a gene by artificially conferring on said gene a preferential 
ability to be replicated, by using an infectious replicable genetic package (RGP) to 

couple the replicability of the gene to the interaction between the protein encoded by 
the gene and a particular target ligand. 
A method for selecting genes encoding ligand or receptor binding peptides or 
proteins (LBPs) comprising the following steps: 


(a) modifying an RGP in such a way as to remove the ability of said RGP to infect a 

host cell, such modification being so as to allow infectivity to be restored according 
to (b) and (d) below; 
(b) inserting into the genome of said non-infectious RGP a set of DNA sequences 
encoding a genetically diverse collection of LBPs in such a way that said LBPs are 

displayed at the surface of said non-infectious RGP; 
(c) expressing in a recombinant host organism the genetic material so as to produce 
non-infectious RGPs displaying said LBPs; 
(d) combining host cells, non-infectious RGPs, and a substance referred to as an 
infectivity mediating complex (IMC), where the IMC selectively interacts with one or 

more of said LBPs, and confers on said non-infectious RGPs displaying said LBP(s) 
the ability to infect said host cells; 
(e) propagating host cells under conditions in which RGPs becoming associated with 
said IMC via LBPs displayed on their surface acquire the ability to infect said host 

cells and be replicated; 
(f) isolating from said host cells RGP carrying the gene or genes encoding the desired 
LBP, and, optionally; 
(g) using said RGP again in the same process from (c) above, an additional one or 
more times; 
(h) isolating said genes from said RGP. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein said RGP is a filamentous 
bacteriophage. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein said filamentous bacteriophage is one of 
the class I phages fd, M13, f1, If1, Ike, ZJ/2, Ff, and the class II phages Xf, Pf1, and 

Pf3. 
The method, according to any of claims 2-4, wherein said set of DNA sequences 
encoding a genetically diverse collection of LBPs replaces part of a gene encoding a 

surface protein which is required by said RGP for binding to, and infection of, a host 
cell. 
The method according to claim 5 wherein said surface protein gene is gene III of 
the filamentous bacteriophages. 
The method according to claim 6, wherein the N-terminal 169 amino acids of said 
gene III are replaced by said set of DNA sequences. 
The method according to any of claims 2-7, wherein said LBPs are 
immunoglobulins, or members of the immunoglobulin super-family, or any 

fragments thereof. 
The method according to any of claims 2-8, wherein said IMC is a single 
polypeptide chain comprising a first portion which, when closely associated with 

said non-infectious RGP(s), confers on it/them the ability to infect said host cells, 
and a second domain which is a ligand for one or more of said LBPs. 
The method according to any of claims 2-8, wherein said IMC comprises a non-peptidic 
ligand for one or more of said LBPs covalently linked to a polypeptide 

which, when closely associated with said non-infectious RGP(s), confers on it/them 
the ability to infect said host cells. 
The method according to either of claims 9 or 10 in which said IMC comprises, at 
least in part, the N-terminal 169 amino adds of the gene III protein of the filamentous 

bacteriophages, or is partially encoded by a DNA sequence hybridizing with said 
gene III, which encodes a peptide having the binding characteristics of the gene III 

protein. 
The method according to any of claims 2-11 which additionally comprises the 
step of subjecting said set of DNA sequences encoding a genetically diverse 

collection of LBPs to random or site-specific mutagenesis. 
The method according to claim 12 wherein said random or site-specific 
mutagenesis is achieved by DNA oligonucleotide cassette-based mutagenesis. 
The method according to claim 12 wherein said random mutagenesis is achieved 
by using, as host cells, mutator strains of bacteria. 
The method according to claim 14 wherein said mutator strains are any one of the 
mutD, mutH, mutL, mutS, or mutT strains of Escherichia coli. 
The method according to claim 12 wherein said random mutagenesis is achieved 
by adding, during the propagation of said host cells, a mutagen. 
The method according to claim 16, wherein said mutagen is one or more of 
formaldehyde, hydroxylamine, methoxyamine, nitrous acid, bisulfite, hydrazine, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, 

or N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. 
The method according to claim 12 wherein said random mutagenesis is achieved 
by subjecting said set of DNA sequences to an error-prone polymerase chain 

reaction. 
The method according to claim 12 wherein said random mutagenesis is achieved 
by any combination of DNA oligonucleotide cassette-based mutagenesis, the use of 

mutator strains of bacteria, addition of a mutagen during the propagation of host 
cells, and subjecting said set of DNA sequences to an error-prone polymerase chain 

reaction. 
A kit for the selection of genes encoding LBPs comprising: 

(a) a vector capable of being packaged as an infectious replicable genetic package 
(RGP), displaying the following features: 


(aa) a cloning site which enables the introduction of a set of DNA sequences 
encoding a genetically diverse collection of LBPs in such a way that said LBPs 

are displayed at the surface of said RGP when said vector is packaged; 
(ab) a modification which removes the ability of said RGP to infect a host cell, 
such modification being so as to allow infectivity to be restored by interaction 

between an LBP displayed on the surface of said RGP and a substance which 
can confer on said RGP the ability to bind to and infect host cells; 
 
and either or both of; 
(b) a polypeptide which can be used in the preparation of an IMC, and which 
comprises a portion of a protein which, when associated with said RGP can confer on 

it the ability to infect a host cell, and which is, or can be, derivatized in such a way as 
to allow covalent attachment of a ligand to which one or more of said LBPs is able to 

bind; 
and/or; 
(c) a vector displaying the following features: 

(ca) a first stretch of DNA encoding a portion of an infectivity polypeptide 
which, when associated with said RGP, can confer on it the ability to infect a 

host cell, 
(cb) a second stretch of DNA encoding a linker, 
(cc) a third stretch of DNA comprising a cloning site which allows introduction 
of a one or more DNA sequence(s) encoding (a) ligand(s) or receptor(s) to 

which one or more of said LBPs is able to bind to a greater or lesser extent. 
The kit according to claim 20, wherein said RGP is a filamentous bacteriophage. 
The kit according to any of claims 20 or 21, wherein said filamentous 
bacteriophage is one of the class I phages fd, M13, f1, If1, 1ke, ZJ/Z, Ff, and the class 

II phages Xf, Pf1, and Pf3. 
The kit according to any of claims 20-22, wherein said cloning site replaces part of 
a gene encoding a surface protein which is required by said RGP for binding to, and 

infection of, a host cell. 
The kit according to claim 23, wherein said surface protein gene is gene III of the 
filamentous bacteriophages. 
The kit according to claim 24, wherein the N-terminal 169 amino acids of said 
gene III are replaced by said cloning site. 
The kit according to claim 20, wherein said derivitization comprises reacting said 
polypeptide with a commonly used cross-linking reagent, such as SPDP, SMCC, 

MBS,SIAB,or EDC. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
