<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615828</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Joint seal retaining element.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4700	B29C4700	B29C4704	B29C4704	B29D3100	B29D3100	E01D1900	E01D1906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29D	B29D	E01D	E01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29D31	B29D31	E01D19	E01D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of manufacturing a retaining element (1) for an 
expansion joint seal comprises co-extruding, in a desired 

profile, a thermoplastic rubber body (2) with high density 
thermoplastic elastomer reinforcing plate (3) on the lower surface 

thereof. The reinforcing plate (3) includes at least one rib (6) 
extending into the thermoplastic rubber body (2). After the co-extruded 

body and reinforcing plate are permitted to cool and 
harden the lower surface of said co-extruded body and reinforcing 

plate is mechanically planed to obtain a retaining element (1) of 
said desired profile with a flat lower surface. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAERVELDT KONRAD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAERVELDT, KONRAD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAERVELDT KONRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAERVELDT, KONRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of expansion 
joints, such as those utilized in parking deck structures, 
elevated runways, bridges and the like. An expansion joint is a joint that is cut or formed in a 
surface, particularly a concrete surface, to allow for natural 
thermal expansion and other flexural movements of a structural 
or groundwork element, without causing cracking or disintegration 
of same. After the joint is cut or formed, to prevent it from 
filling up with dirt, debris, water, snow, ice, or other 
material, an expandable joint seal is anchored to each side of 
the joint, in channels known as `blockouts', that are specially 
cut or formed in the edges of the joint. The joint seal is 
anchored to the sides of the joint by a joint seal retaining 
element. Conventionally, these elements have been manufactured 
from moulded artificial rubber materials, such as polychloroprene 
NEOPRENE®. To provide rigidity and strength and more 
especially an ability to bolt down and torque or otherwise fasten 
these elements onto a concrete deck, steel or other metallic 
plates have been moulded directly into the retaining element. 
It will be understood that such a conventional retaining element 
is functional, but does have drawbacks. It must be moulded, not 
extruded, because of the metal plate inside it. Moreover, it is 
manufactured in predetermined sizes, and therefore it is 
difficult to custom fit for many installations. In some 
instances, then, joint dimensions, especially length, will be 
compromised by the availability of appropriate lengths of moulded 
retaining elements.  To overcome the drawbacks noted above, joint retaining 
elements have been developed by the applicant, such as those 
described in copending U.S. application No. 689,337 filed April 
22, 1991, in the name of the present inventor. Such an improved 
retaining element utilizes an extruded thermoplastic rubber body, 
co-extruded with a very high density polyethylene elastomer or 
polypropylene elastomer reinforcement plate along its lowermost 
surface. Moreover, the co-extruded retaining elements described 
in that application, which is incorporated herein by reference, 
may be custom cut and heat welded together, in the shop or field, 
whereby they have shown remarkable versatility of application. The joint retaining element of the present invention are 
similar in their general nature to those of the applicant's 
above-noted application, but are an improvement thereon. In particular, it was felt that there was a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a retaining element for an 
expansion joint seal comprising coextruding, in a desired 

profile, a thermoplastic rubber body with high density plastic 
reinforcing plate on the lower surface thereof, said reinforcing 

plate including at least one rib extending into said 
thermoplastic rubber body; permitting said coextruded body and 

reinforcing plate to cool and harden; and mechanically planing 
the lower surface of said co-extruded body and reinforcing plate 

to obtain a retaining element of said desired profile with a flat 
lower surface. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said reinforcing 
plate extends from near the front edge of said body to near the 

rear edge of said body. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said high density 
plastic is high density polyethylene or polypropylene, and said 

thermoplastic rubber is SANTOPRENE. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein between the 
rear edge of said plate and the rear edge of said body there is 

formed a narrow channel profiled to fit a bead formed on a joint 
seal. 
A method as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said reinforcing 
plate includes a plurality of said upwardly extending rib 

members, for stiffening said body and anchoring said body to said 
plate. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5, wherein after said lower 
surface is planed, a further layer of high density plastic 

material is heat welded thereto. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5 or 6, wherein a further layer 
of high density plastic is heat welded to the upper surface 

thereof. 
A joint seal retaining member when made in accordance with 
the method o
f any preceding claim. 
In combination, joint seal retaining members as claimed in 
Claim 8, and elongated extruded joint seals including joint 

spanning portions and base portions, said base portions being 
dimensioned and profiled to fit with said joint seal retaining 

members, and including upwardly projecting beads engageable with 
the narrow channels in said joint seal retaining members whereby 

secure emplacement of joint seal retaining member at the sides 
of a joint and over said bases of a joint seal will anchor a said 

joint seal in place, and against slippage into a joint. 
Apparatus for spanning and sealing an expansion joint 
between two load bearing surfaces, said joint being a gap between 

two said surfaces these being formed in said surfaces adjacent 
 

said gap substantially rectangular channel open upwardly and to 
said gap, said apparatus comprising: 


a) an elongated joint seal member having a central body 
portion dimensioned to span said gap, and a pair of 

side flap members extending therefrom of a width 
selected to lay flat in said channels; 
b) upwardly extending beads near the outermost edges of 
said flap members; 
c) a pair of joint seal retaining members, of a width 
selected to overlie said flap members, said retaining 

members being provided with elongate channels on their 
lower surface to accept said upwardly extending beads 

on said flap members. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 10, further including: 
   d) means to fasten said joint seal retaining members in 

said channels whereby said joint seal will be anchored 
in said joint. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 11, wherein said joint seal 
retaining members are composed of a co-extrusion of a 

thermoplastic rubber body and high density polyethylene elements. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 12, wherein said high density 
polyethylene elements include a reinforcing plate formed on the 

lower surface of said body, said reinforcing plate including a 
 

plurality of upwardly extending ribs, substantially parallel to 
the lengthwise direction of the joint. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 13, wherein said high density 
polyethylene elements include a reinforcing layer formed on the 

edge of said retaining member facing said gap. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 14, including one or more 
further layers of high density plastic material fused to the 

upper or lower surfaces of said body. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 14 or 15, wherein said central 
body of said seal member is profiled to fit with said joint seal 

retaining member to present a substantially smooth upper surface 
for traffic. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 16, wherein said means (d) 
comprises a plurality of anchor bolts anchored in said channel 

at regular intervals and presenting an upwardly extending 
threaded shaft; a plurality of bolt holes in the flaps of said 

seal member aligned with said anchor bolts; a plurality of wells 
formed in the upper surface of said joint seal retaining members 

and including bolt holes aligned with said anchor bolts; and a 
plurality of nuts and washers for fastening to said threaded 

shafts after said joint seal members and said joint seal 
retaining members have been placed in aligned relationship over 

said threaded shafts of said anchor bolts. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
