<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630269</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HARD COVER FOR PROTECTED INJECTION APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M500	A61M500	A61M531	A61M531	A61M532	A61M532	A61M550	A61M550	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INJECTIMED INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INJECTIMED, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURACINA THOMAS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHNEMUS RANDALL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH CRAIG W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURACINA, THOMAS, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHNEMUS, RANDALL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, CRAIG, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
IIARD COVER FOR PROTECTED INJECTION APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:This invention relates to medical devices for injecting living bodies and, more particularly, to covers for holding and protecting needles of medical devices prior to use. In United States Patent No. 4,998,922 by Thomas C. Kuracina entitled SAFETY SYRINGE CAP MINIMIZING NEEDLE-STICK PROBABILITY which issued 12 March 1991, a safety device for hypodermic needles and the like is shown. The inventions shown hereinafter are improvements thereto by inventors including and/or working with Mr. Kuracina. In the interest of simplicity herein, the teachings of that patent are incorporated herein by reference and the discussion of the background art will be kept to a minimum.A typical prior art hypodermic syringe 10 as shown in Figure 1 includes a barrel 12 having a moving plunger 14 therein. A needle 16 having a sharp beveled tip 18 extends from the end opposite the end of the barrel 12 into which the plunger 14 is inserted. The needle 16 is covered by a removeable cap 20 for safety purposes. The problem to be solved and avoided is the accidental sticking of users of the syringe 10 by the tip 18 after use where the tip 18 may carry body fluids containing agents of hepatitis B, AIDS, and the like. Accidental needle stick is a very common problem in the health care industry and besides the risk of serious illness or even death as a result thereof, the insurance industry spends over a billion dollars a year in the testing of individuals who have been subjected to post-use needle stick.The 1979 patent of Alvarez proposed a retractable plastic protective sleeve over the needle. The Alvarez sleeve has an inner hub which fits around the base of the needle and an outer 

 hub through which the tip of the needle passes. The inner and outer hubs are connected by curved slats. When the needle is to be inserted into the body of a patient, the force required to move the sleeve from its extended position to its retracted position can be depicted as a straight line beginning with very little required force to initiate movement. Thus, there is really no actually safety from a large variety of ways in which accidental needle stick takes place. Even if the sleeve fully extends after use, a slight blow against a user or observer in the * area will cause the sleeve to retract and the tip to stick the unfortunate person.With respect to the action of the basic protective sleeve of the above-referenced Kuracina patent by comparison, a high degree of force is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. In a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device, the improvement for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle comprising: a) the base having a plurality of radial longitudinal vanes; and, b) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and said plurality of radial longitudinal vanes, said. cover having a closed end and an inwardly tapering open end into which said plurality of radial longitudinal vanes wedgedly fit to hold the base and the needle in said cover, said cover further having at least one inward projection contacting a side surface of one of said plurality of radial longitudinal vanes whereby a user can twist the base to attach and disattach the needle by twisting said cover.
2. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 1 and additionally comprising: a cap for closing said open end, said cap having a tapered inner portion shaped to wedgedly fit into said open end.
3. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 2 wherein: said cap has a square shouldered outer portion abutting said tapered inner portion whereby said tapered inner portion can be twisted to remove it from said open end and said cap and said cover in combination are prevented from rolling off of flat surfaces. 


 4. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 2 wherein: a) said cap has a flat outer end surface opposite said tapered inner portion; and, b) said cover has a flat longitudinal outer sidewall aligned with a flat side of said square shouldered outer portion; and additionally comprising, c) a safety strip of a frangible material adhesively attached to and over said flat outer end surface, said flat side of said square shouldered outer portion, and said flat longitudinal outer sidewall when said cover and cap contain a sterile needle whereby breaking of said safety strip prior to use indicates possible lack of sterility of the needle.
5. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 1 and additionally comprising: an elastomeric material having the qualities of silicone rubber disposed within said closed end of said cover and in contact with a tip portion of a needle contained within said cover to seal said tip portion.
6. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 1 and additionally comprising: a pierceable capsule carried by an outer surface of said closed end of said cover and containing a needle- sealing material therein whereby a needle contained within said cover can be sealed against further use by inserting 


a tip portion thereof through said capsule into said needle-sealing material.
7. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 6 and additionally comprising: said closed end of said cover having funnel-. shaped sidewall means surrounding said pierceable capsule for guiding said tip portion of said needle into said pierceable capsule and said needle-sealing material contained therein.
8. The improvement to a medical . device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 6 wherein: a) said tip portion of said needle is disposed within a bell-shaped end of a protective sleeve; and, b) said pierceable capsule has a surface shaped to fit into said bell-shaped end whereby said tip portion of said needle can pierce said capsule without said protective sleeve being retracted.
9. The improvement to a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle of claim 1 wherein: a) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a bias spring and locking collar disposed over said retractable protective sleeve; and additionally comprising, 


 b) at least one vertical shoulder disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for holding said locking collar and said spring in a retracted position.
10. A security package for a medical device needle carried by a base comprising: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an inwardly tapering open end into which a mating portion of the base wedgedly fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; b) a cap for closing said open end, said cap having a tapered inner portion shaped to wedgedly fit into said open end, said cap having a square shouldered outer portion abutting said tapered inner portion whereby said tapered inner portion can be twisted to remove it from said open end and said cap and said cover in combination are prevented from rolling off of flat surfaces, said cap further having a flat outer end surface opposite said tapered inner portion, said cover having a flat longitudinal outer sidewall aligned with a flat side of said square shouldered outer portion; and, c) a safety strip of a frangible material adhesively attached to and over said flat outer end surface, said flat side of said square shouldered outer portion, and said flat longitudinal outer sidewall whereby breaking of said safety strip prior to use indicates possible lack of sterility of the needle.
11. In a medical device having a needle carried by a base attached to the medical device, a protective cover, comprising: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an open end into which the base wedgedly fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; wherein additionally, 


 b) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a locking collar and a bias spring disposed over said retractable protective sleeve; and, c) vertical shoulder means disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for contacting and holding said locking collar and said spring in a pre- cocked retracted position prior to use.
12. The leak-proofing security package for a pre- filled medical device having needle carried by a base of claim 11 and additionally comprising: a cap for closing said open end, said cap having a tapered inner portion shaped to wedgedly fit into said open end, said cap having a square shouldered outer portion abutting said tapered inner portion whereby said tapered inner portion can be twisted to remove it from said open end and said cap and said cover in combination are prevented from rolling off of flat surfaces.
13. A security package for disabling the needle of a medical device having needle carried by a base after use thereof comprising: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an open end into which a mating portion of the base fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; and, b) a pierceable capsule carried by an outer surface of said closed end of said cover and containing a needle-sealing material therein whereby after use the needle can be sealed against further use by inserting a tip portion thereof through said capsule into said needle- sealing material.
14. The security package for disabling the needle of a medical device having needle carried by a base after use thereof of claim 13 and additionally comprising: 


 said closed end of said cover having funnel- shaped sidewall means surrounding said pierceable capsule for guiding said tip portion of the needle into said pierceable capsule and said needle-sealing material contained therein.
15. The security package for disabling the needle of a medical device having needle carried by a base after use thereof of claim 13 and additionally comprising: a) said tip portion of the needle is disposed within a bell-shaped end of a protective sleeve; and, b) said pierceable capsule has a surface shaped to fit into said bell-shaped end whereby said tip portion of the needle can pierce said capsule without said protective sleeve being retracted.
16. The security package for disabling the needle of a medical device having needle carried by a base after use thereof of claim 13 wherein: a) the tip of the needle is disposed within a bell-shaped end of a protective sleeve; and, b) said pierceable capsule has a surface shaped to fit into said bell-shaped end whereby the needle can pierce said capsule without said protective sleeve being retracted.
17. In a medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device, a protective cover, comprising: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an open end into which the base wedgedly fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; wherein additionally, b) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a locking collar and a bias spring disposed over said retractable protective sleeve; and, 


 c) vertical shoulder means disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for holding said locking collar and said spring in a retracted position prior to use.
18. The protective cover of claim 17 wherein: said vertical shoulder means comprises vertical ends of a plurality of longitudinal vanes peripherally disposed about an inner surface of said hollow cover. 

AMEWDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 9 August 1993 (09.08.93); original claims 1-18 replaced by amended claims 1-18 (6 pages)]
1. A medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device, a needle capping arrangement characterized by: for protectively capping the needle and providing ease of attachment and disattachment of the needle comprising: a) the base having a plurality of radial longitudinal vanes; and, b) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and said plurality of radial longitudinal vanes, said cover having a closed end and an inwardly tapering open end into which said plurality of radial longitudinal vanes wedgedly fit to hold the base and the needle in said cover, said cover further having at least one inward projection contacting a side surface of one of said plurality of radial longitudinal vanes whereby a user can twist the base to attach and disattach the needle by twisting said cover; wherein additionally, c) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a bias spring and locking collar disposed over said retractable protective sleeve, said bias spring biasing said locking collar from a retracted position which allows the protective sleeve to retract, to an extended position which prevents the protective sleeve retraction; and additionally comprising, d) at least one vertical shoulder disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for holding said locking collar and said spring in a retracted position.
2. A medical device according to claim 1 characterized by: a cap for closing said open end, said cap having a tapered inner portion shaped to wedgedly fit into said open end.
3. A medical device according to claim 2 characterized in that: 


 said cap has a square shouldered outer portion abutting said tapered inner portion whereby said tapered inner portion can be twisted to remove it from said open end and said cap and said cover in combination are prevented from rolling off of flat surfaces.
4. A medical device according to claim 2 characterized in that: a) said cap has a flat outer end surface opposite said tapered inner portion; and, b) said cover has a flat longitudinal outer sidewall aligned with a flat side of said square shouldered outer portion; and additionally comprising, c) a safety strip of a frangible material adhesively attached to and over said flat outer end surface, said flat side of said square shouldered outer portion, and said flat longitudinal outer sidewall when said cover and cap contain a sterile needle whereby breaking of said safety strip prior to use indicates possible lack of sterility of the needle.
5. A medical device according to claim 1 characterized by: an elastomeric material having the qualities of silicone rubber disposed within said closed end of said cover and in contact with a tip portion of a needle contained within said cover to seal said tip portion.
6. A medical device according to claim 1 characterized by: a pierceable capsule carried by an outer surface of said closed end of said cover and containing a needle- sealing material therein whereby a needle contained within said cover can be sealed against further use by inserting a tip portion thereof through said capsule into said needle-sealing material. 


 7. A medical device according to claim 6 characterized by: said closed end of said cover having funnel- shaped sidewall means surrounding said pierceable capsule for guiding said tip portion of said needle into said pierceable capsule and said needle-sealing material contained therein.
8. A medical device according to claim 6 characterized in that: a) said tip portion of said needle is disposed within a bell-shaped end of a protective sleeve; and, b) said pierceable capsule has a surface shaped to fit into said bell-shaped end whereby said tip portion of said needle can pierce said capsule without said protective sleeve being retracted.
9. A medical device claim 1 characterized in that: a) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a bias spring and locking collar disposed over said retractable protective sleeve; and additionally comprising, b) at least one vertical shoulder disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for holding said locking collar and said spring in a retracted position.
10. A security package for a medical device needle carried by a base characterized by: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an inwardly tapering open end into which a mating portion of the base wedgedly fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; b) a cap for closing said open end, said cap having a tapered inner portion shaped to wedgedly fit into said open end, said cap having a square shouldered outer portion abutting said tapered inner portion whereby said 



tapered inner portion can be twisted to remove it from said open end and said cap and said cover in combination are prevented from rolling off of flat surfaces, said cap further havihg a flat outer end surface opposite said tapered inner portion, said cover having a flat longitudinal outer sidewall aligned with a flat side of said square shouldered outer portion; and, c) a safety strip of a frangible material adhesively attached to and over said flat outer end surface, said flat side of said square shouldered outer portion, and said flat longitudinal outer sidewall whereby breaking of said safety strip prior to use indicates possible lack of sterility of the needle.
11. A medical device having a needle carried by a base attached to the medical device, a protective cover, characterized by: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an open end into which the base wedgedly fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; wherein additionally, b) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a locking collar and a bias spring disposed over said retractable protective sleeve, said bias spring biasing said locking collar from a retracted position which allows the protective sleeve to retract, to an extended position which prevents the protective sleeve retraction; and, c) vertical shoulder means disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for contacting and holding said locking collar and said spring in a pre- cocked retracted position prior to use.
12. A medical device according to claim 11 characterized in that: said vertical shoulder means comprises vertical ends of a plurality of longitudinal vanes peripherally disposed about an inner surface of said hollow cover. 


 13. A security package for disabling the needle of a medical device having needle carried by a base after use thereof characterized by: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an open end into which a mating portion of the base fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; and, b) a pierceable capsule carried by an outer surface of said closed end of said cover and containing a needle-sealing material therein whereby after use the needle can be sealed against further use by inserting a tip portion thereof through said capsule into said needle- sealing material.
14. A security package according to claim 13 characterized by: said closed end of said cover having funnel- shaped sidewall means surrounding said pierceable capsule for guiding said tip portion of the needle into said pierceable capsule and said needle-sealing material contained therein.
15. A security package according to claim 13 characterized by: a) said tip portion of the needle is disposed within a bell-shaped end of a protective sleeve; and, b) said pierceable capsule has a surface shaped to fit into said bell-shaped end whereby said tip portion of the needle can pierce said capsule without said protective sleeve being retracted.
16. A security package according to claim 13 characterized in that: a) the tip of the needle is disposed within a bell-shaped end of a protective sleeve; and, b) said pierceable capsule has a surface shaped to fit into said bell-shaped end whereby the needle 


can pierce said capsule without said protective sleeve being retracted.
17. A medical device having a needle carried by a base twistedly attached to the medical device, a protective cover, characterized by: a) a hollow cover sized to fit over the needle and the base, said cover having a closed end and an open end into which the base wedgedly fits to hold the base and the needle in said cover; wherein additionally, b) the needle has a retractable protective sleeve disposed thereover with a locking collar and a bias spring disposed over said retractable protective sleeve, said bias spring biasing said locking collar from a retracted position which allows the protective sleeve to retract, to an extended position which prevents the protective sleeve retraction; and, c) vertical shoulder means disposed inside said cover adjacent said open end for holding said locking collar and said spring in a retracted position prior to use.
18. A medical device according to claim 17 characterized in that: - said vertical shoulder means comprises vertical ends of a plurality of longitudinal vanes peripherally disposed about an inner surface of said hollow cover. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
