<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635179</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SIGNAL TRANSFER AND POWER DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR A TELEVISION CAMERA STATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H6005	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H60	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A television production system (12) provides both signaling and power over a single coaxial cable (30) between a television control station (14) and a remote camera station (16). The control station (14) includes a power delivery unit (34) for coupling with the coaxial cable (30) for delivering D.C. voltage and current along with signaling over the coaxial cable (30). The camera station (16) includes a power receiving unit (76) which receives power from the coaxial cable (30) and delivers it to the television camera (18) and other camera station equipment (18, 20, 22, 24). The receiving unit (76) also monitors the received voltage and provides a power status signal representative thereof over the cable (30) to the power delivery unit (34). The delivery unit (34) controls the delivered voltage in accordance with the status signal in order to maintain the received voltage at the camera station (16) at a desired level in order to compensate for cable voltage drop.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SIGNAL TRANSFER AND POWER DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR A TELEVISION CAMERA STATIONBackground of the Invention 1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to the field of television production using remotely located cameras. More particularly, the invention concerns a system for providing both signaling and power over a single coaxial cable between a television control station and a remote camera station and for controlling the voltage delivered to the camera station.2. Description of the Prior Art On-location production of television programs typically involves the use of a production control center housed in a trailer or van connected with a number of remote camera stations by way of control and power cables. Each camera station typically includes a camera, camera operator headset, talent earpiece, and talent microphone. The control cables must have the capability of carrying a wide variety of signals including camera video and program audio signals from the camera station to the control facility, and two-way intercom audio between the control facility and the camera operator and talent. The cables also carry various control signals from the control center to the camera station such as system master reference signals including color black and a composite video signal (black burst) used as a synchronizing signal (gen-lock) , and an on-air tally signal which activates the tally light on the camera viewable by the talent as an on-air cue.In one prior art cabling technique, a plurality of coaxial cables are used for carrying signals and power is provided to the camera station by a portable power generator or conventional drop cords connected to the 

nearest A.C. outlet. The number of individual cables required for this technique can range rom two to a more common seven consisting of four audio twisted pairs and three coaxial cables plus a power cord. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, a seven-line bundle for one camera station weights about ninety pounds for a reach of three hundred fifty feet.Another cabling technique uses a multi-conductor cable containing several narrow diameter mini-coaxial cables and several wire pairs for audio and power. A more recent development uses a triaxial cable in which video and audio signals are modulated and multiplexed along the center conductor and the intermediate conductor with power provided over the center and outer conductors.As those skilled in the art appreciate, all of these prior art cabling techniques are expensive and the cabling is relatively
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. An apparatus for transferring signals such as video, audio and control signals between a control station and a remote station and for providing operating power to the remote station over a pair of conductors, said apparatus comprising: control station signal means including means for coupling with the control station and with the conductors for transferring signals therebet- ween; remote station means including means for coupling with the remote station and with the conductors for transferring signals therebetween; and power delivery means, including means for coupling with the conductors, for delivering power from a source thereof to the conductors, said remote station means including power reception means for receiving said power from the conductors and for delivering said power to the remote station, and for sensing the status of said power at said remote station means, for producing a power status signal representative of said status, and for transferring said status signal to the conductors, 


 said power delivery means including means for receiving said status signal and for control¬ ling the delivery of said power in accordance therewith.
2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, said conductors being configured as a coaxial cable.
3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 , said power delivery including means for delivering power in the form of D.C. voltage and current.
4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3, said power status signal being representative of the D.C. voltage received at said remote station means.
5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4, said power delivery means including means for varying the D.C. voltage delivered to the conductors in accordance with said status signal in order to maintain the D.C. voltage as received at said remote station.
6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3, said power reception means including means for producing said status signal as an A.C. signal which varies in frequency in accordance with said received D.C. voltage. 


 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 6, said status signal producing means including a voltage con¬ trolled oscillator.
8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, said power delivery means including means for delivering power at a first level and at a second reduced level, for ini¬ tially delivering said power at a reduced level, and for testing for excessive current flow in the conductors at said reduced level before delivering power at said first level.
9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 8, said power delivery means including means for detecting said status signal during delivery power at said reduced level and for preventing delivery of power at said first level in the absence of said status signal.
10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 8, said control station signal means including means for producing a station signal for delivering said station signal to said delivery means, said power delivery means including means for receiving said station signal and for preventing production at said first power level in the absence of said station signal. 


 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 8, said power delivery means including means for delivering said power in the form of D.C. voltage and current, said first and second levels being respective levels of D.C. voltage.
12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 11, said power reception means including means for preventing delivery of output power therefrom until the voltage received thereat exceeds said second reduced level.
13. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, the remote station including a television camera, said power receiving means including means for delivering operating power to the camera.
14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, said power delivery means including means for monitoring current flow delivered to said conductors and for limiting said current flow to a predetermined level. 

15. An apparatus for transferring signals such as video, audio and control signals between a control station and a television camera station and for providing operating power to the camera station by way of a coaxial cable, said apparatus comprising: a control station module including means for coupling with the control station and with the cable including control station signal means for transferring signals between the control station and the cable, power delivery means for delivering power in the form of D.C. voltage and current from a source thereof to the cable; and a camera station module including means for coupling with the cable and with the camera station in¬ cluding camera station signal means for transferring signals between the camera station and the cable; and power reception means for receiving said power from the cable and for delivering said power to the camera station, said power reception means including voltage sensing and signal means for sensing the voltage of said power delivered to said camera station, for producing a power status signal represen- 



 tative of said voltage, and for transferring said status signal to said cable, said power delivery means including voltage control means for receiving said status signal and for controlling said delivery of power in accor¬ dance therewith for maintaining said voltage delivered to said camera station at a predeter¬ mined level despite variations in power con¬ sumption by said camera station and losses in the cable.
16. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15, said power reception means including means for producing said status signal as an A.C. signal which varies in frequency in accordance with said received D.C. voltage.
17. The apparatus as set forth in claim 16, said status signal producing means including a voltage con¬ trolled oscillator.
18. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15, said power delivery means including means for delivering power at a first level and at a second reduced level, for ini¬ tially delivering said power at a reduced level, and for testing for excessive current flow in the cable at said reduced level before delivering power at said first level. 


 19. The apparatus as set forth in claim 18, said power delivery means including means for detecting said status signal during delivery power at said reduced level and for preventing delivery of power at said first level in the absence of said status signal.
20. The apparatus as set forth in claim 18, said control station signal means including means for producing a station signal for delivering said station signal to said delivery means, said power delivery means including means for receiving said station signal and for preventing production at said first power level in the absence of said station signal.
21. The apparatus as set forth in claim 18, said power delivery means including means for delivering said power in the form of D.C. voltage and current, said first and second levels being respective levels of D.C. voltage.
22. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, said power reception means including means for preventing delivery of output power therefrom until the voltage received thereat exceeds said second reduced level. 


 23. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15, said power delivery means including means for monitoring current flow delivered to the cable and for limiting said current flow to a predetermined level.
24. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15, said power delivery means including means,for delivering power at a first and at a second reduced level, for initially delivering said power at said reduced level, and for detecting said status signal during delivery power at said reduced level and for preventing delivery of power at said first level in the absence of said status signal. 

25. A method of transferring signals such as video, audio and control signals between a control station and a television camera station and for providing operating power to the camera station by way of a coaxial cable, said method comprising the steps of: transferring signals between the control station and the cable: using a power delivery unit for delivering power as delivered power in the form of D.C. voltage and current from a source thereof to the cable; transferring signals between the camera station and the cable; receiving said power as received power from the cable and delivering said power to the camera station, sensing the voltage of said received power as received voltage; producing a power status signal representative of said received voltage; transferring said status signal to the cable; and receiving said status signal from the cable into said power delivery unit and controlling said delivered voltage in accordance with said status signal for maintaining said received voltage at a predetermined level in order to compensate for voltage drop in said cable. 


 26. The method as set forth in claim 25 further including the steps of initially delivering power from said delivery unit at a reduced voltage, testing for reception of said status signal at said reduced voltage, and preventing delivery of power at an operational level of voltage higher than said reduced voltage in the absence of said status signal during delivery at said reduced voltage.
27. The method as set forth in claim 25 further including the steps of initially delivering power at said delivery unit at said reduced voltage, testing for excess current flow into said cable from said power delivery unit at said reduced voltage, and preventing delivery of power at an operational level of voltage higher than said reduced voltage upon the occurrence of said excess current flow. 


 28. The method as set forth in claim 27 further including the steps of testing for reception of said status signal at said reduce voltage, and preventing delivery of power at said operational level in the absence of said status signal. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
