<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630458</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REPAIRING CONDUITS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L55162	F16L5518	F16L55163	F16L5516	F16L5516	F16L5518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and apparatus for internal repair of conduit system. An inner sleeve (1) is employed which is configured to avoid undue pressure being applied to the inner surface of a damaged conduit section as it is expanded into position. A grouting area is defined between the outer surface (2) of the sleeve and the inner surface of the conduit section or sections being repaired. In one embodiment, a layer of opencelled material is placed around the coiled sleeve, which is thereafter impregnated with the quantity of grout. In this embodiment of the invention, each longitudinal end (3) of the sleeve is flared outwardly for contacting the inner surface of the damaged conduit section and for retaining the grout as it is squeezed out of the gasket upon the expansion of the inner sleeve to its expanded and locked position.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINK PIPE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINK-PIPE, INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAIMETS LEMBIT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAIMETS, LEMBIT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and apparatuses 
for repairing conduits. More particularly, the invention is 
directed to methods and apparatuses for repairing damaged, 
weakened, or leaking conduits that are located in areas to 
which it is difficult to gain access, for example, sewer pipes 
or other conduits that are located underground. Conduit systems for carrying water or wastewater, for 
example, and other liquid and fluid conveyance systems, as 
well as conduit systems that house communication lines, for 
example, are typically located underground and, in general, 
are not easily accessible after installation. Over a period 
of time, such conduit systems become damaged, weakened, or 
otherwise begin to deteriorate and leak at the joints between 
adjacent conduit sections, for example. Such deterioration 
is caused, for example, by the settling of the surrounding 
earth adjacent the conduit system, by deterioration of the 
joints themselves over time, and/or by the growth of roots 
from trees and other plants. In wastewater systems, wastewater can begin to leak from 
the damaged conduit and create problems of pollution, for 
example. In addition, damaged conduit sections invite the 
intrusion of rainwater into the system, adding to the volume 
of water carried to the treatment facility, thereby 
overburdening it. In conduits for communication systems, 
damage to the conduit can result in interruption of the 
service provided. Further, deteriorated conduits for liquid conveyance 
systems, including sewer systems, that result in leaks can 
soak the surrounding terrain, sometimes creating sinkholes and 
exacerbating drainage problems. Further, service lines for 
gas, electricity, communications and other services, which 
themselves are not initially in need of repair, become damaged 
due to the re-settling of the water-saturated terrain in which 
they are located, thereby disabling same. Still further,  
 
support for buildings and bridges, for example, provided by 
the terrain in which a leaking conduit is located, can become 
weakened, thereby risking additional property damage or more 
serious concerns including loss of life. A variety of solutions to the problem of repairing buried 
conduit sections have been proposed in the art. The most 
common solution, perhaps, involves excavation around the 
damaged conduit section and either the repair or replacement 
of the damaged section. However, excavation is time-intensive 
and, particularly in urban areas, it creates additional 
problems.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A conduit repair apparatus comprising:
 
a sleeve member comprising: 


a) sheet material having an outer surface and being moveable 
from a coiled pre-installation position, in which said sheet material generally 

surrounds a longitudinal axis, to an uncoiled installation position; and 
b) a first and second longitudinally spaced-apart stop members affixed to 
the outer surface of said sheet material, an annular area thereby being 

limited, in said uncoiled installation position, by 

1) said outer surface of said sheet material; 
2) said first and second stop members; and 
3) an inner surface of a conduit to be repaired, 
 
characterized in that said first and second longitudinally spaced-apart stop members are 

positioned at opposite end regions of said sheet material which are flared 
outwardly fran said outer surface of said sheet material for contacting 

the inner surface of the conduit to be repaired in the uncoiled 
installation position, said flared opposite end regions being radially 

flexible relative to the remainder of said sleeve member, 
A conduit repair apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said first and second 
longitudinally spaced-apart stop members are affixed to the outer surface of a single sheet of 

material, at opposite end regions thereof. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein 
said first stop member is affixed to the outer surface of a 

first sheet material proximate a longitudinal end of said 
sheet material, and said second stop member is affixed to 

the outer surface of a second sheet material, proximate a 
longitudinal end of said sheet material, wherein said first 

and second sheet material are adapted for length-wise 
attachment.  

 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any preceding 
claim, said apparatus further comprising at least one layer 

of tape over an outer surface of each of the flared opposite 
end regions of said stop members. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any preceding 
claim, further comprising a quantity of grout for placement 

into said annular area. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any preceding 
claim, said sheet material being made of stainless steel. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 5, said sheet material being made of plastic. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 5, said sheet material being made of metal. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 8, said 
metal sheet material having a coating of thermoplastic 

material. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any preceding 
claim, wherein each of said flared opposite end regions 

comprises a plurality of distinct flare elements projecting 
outwardly and longitudinally away from said outer surface of 

said sheet material. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to any preceding 
claim, wherein in both said coiled pre-installation position 

and said uncoiled installation position, said outer surface 
of said sheet material  

 
and said flare portions define a grouting area, and wherein said 

sleeve member further comprises a first longitudinal edge portion 

and a second longitudinal edge portion, said first longitudinal 
edge portion and said second longitudinal edge portion extending 

from one of said pair of opposite end portions to the other of said 
pair of opposite end portions, said first longitudinal edge portion 

and said second longitudinal edge portion overlapping at least in 
said coiled pre-installation position, and wherein said conduit 

repair apparatus further comprises a porous gasket for placement 
around said sleeve and for being infused with a quantity of grout. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, further 
comprising means for locking said first longitudinal edge portion 

and said second longitudinal edge portion of said sheet to form 
said sheet into a generally tubular configuration. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, further 
comprising a quantity of grout for being infused into said porous 

gasket. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 13, said 
porous gasket being placed around said sleeve member and being 

infused with said quantity of grout.  
 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, said 
porous gasket comprising an open-celled material, and said gasket 

having a strengthening covering on a side of said gasket to be 
placed adjacent said sleeve member. 
A conduit repair apparatus acccrding to claim 15, said 
open-celled material being cellulose. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 15, said 
strengthening layer being a member selected from the group 

consisting of a polyethylene sheet and a cellophane sheet. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, further 
comprising at least one elastic band encircling said porous gasket 

for retaining said porous gasket upon said sleeve member. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 13, said 
grout comprising a member selected from the group consisting of a 

water-reactive expanding polyurethane grout; a water-reactive gel-forming 
grout; an epoxy hardening grout; and a cementitious grout. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, further 
comprising a layer of thermoplastic material being placed upon said 

outer surface of said sleeve member.  
 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 20, further 
comprising resistance elements being embedded into said 

thermoplastic material for transferring heat to said thermoplastic 
material. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 21, further 
comprising a gasket located around said sleeve over said layer of 

thermoplastic material. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 22, further 
comprising a quantity of grout infused in said gasket. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, said 
sheet material being plastic and said apparatus further 

comprising a quantity of solvent for fusing said overlapping first 
longitudinal edge portion and said second longitudinal edge portion 

in said uncoiled installation position. 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 11, wherein 
each of said flare portions comprises a plurality of distinct flare 

elements projecting outwardly and longitudinally away from said 
outer surface of said sheet material.  

 
A conduit repair apparatus according to claim 1, claim 
2, or claim 3, further comprising a porous gasket for 

placement around said sleeve and for being infused with a 
quantity of grout.  

 
A method of repairing a conduit with the use of a 
grouting sleeve for placement within the conduit, said grouting 

sleeve having an outer surface, a pair of longitudinally extending 
edges and a pair of opposite end portions, said edges extending 

from one of said pair of end portions to the other of said end 
portions, each of said pair of opposite end portions having an 

outwardly projecting flexible flare, and said pair of 
longitudinally extending edges being overlapped in a coiled pre-installation 

position, said method comprising the steps of: 

(a) positioning said grouting sleeve within a conduit to 
be repaired in said coiled pre-installation position; and 
(b) forcing said grouting sleeve to expand from said  
 

coiled pre-installation position to an uncoiled installation 
position toward an inner surface of the conduit, whereby said 

outwardly projecting flares at each of said end portions contacts 
the inner surface of the conduit in said uncoiled installation 

position, thereby forming an annular space extending length-wise 
between said outwardly projecting flares on said pair of opposite 

end portions and extending thickness-wise between said 
grouting sleeve and said inner surface of the conduit, grout being 

located in said annular space. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising, 
before the step of positioning said grouting sleeve, the step of 

placing said grout around said grouting sleeve when said grouting 
sleeve is in said coiled pre-installation position. 
A method according to claim 28, said step of placing 
grout around said grouting sleeve comprising the steps of: 


placing a porous gasket around said grouting sleeve; 
and 
infusing grout into said porous gasket. 
A method according to claim 29, said step of infusing 
grout into said porous gasket comprising the step of placing said 

grouting sleeve having said porous gasket around it into a  
 

container of grout. 
A method according to claim 30, further comprising the 
step of securing said gasket to said grouting sleeve by means of an 

adhesive. 
A method according to claim 30, further comprising the 
step of securing said gasket to said grouting sleeve by means of a 

mechanical attachment device. 
A method according to claim 31, said step of infusing 
grout into said porous gasket comprising the steps of: 


affixing a roller assembly to each end of said 
grouting sleeve in said coiled pre-installation position of said 

grouting sleeve, each of said roller assemblies having a handle; 
placing said grouting sleeve having said porous 
gasket around it into a container of grout; and 
rotating said grouting sleeve and gasket about a 
longitudinal axis of said sleeve. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising the 
step of applying a timed catalyst to said grout. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising, after  
 

the step of positioning said grouting sleeve within a conduit, the 
step of applying water to said grout. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising, after 
the step of positioning said grouting sleeve within a conduit, the 

step of applying water to said grout during said step of forcing 
said grouting sleeve to expand from said coiled pre-installation 

position to an uncoiled installation position. 
A method according to claim 27, said sleeve being coated 

with a layer of thermoplastic material and, after the step of 
forcing said grouting sleeve to expand from said coiled pre-installation 

position to an uncoiled installation position, said 
method further comprising the step of heating said thermoplastic 

material. 
A method according to claim 27, said step of positioning 
said grouting sleeve within a conduit to be repaired comprising the 

steps of: 

placing said grouting sleeve upon a vehicle; and 
transporting said grouting sleeve to the conduit to 
be repaired by means of said vehicle. 
A method according to claim 27, said step of positioning  
 

said grouting sleeve within a conduit comprising the step of 
placing said grouting sleeve within a plurality of conduit 

sections, bridging a joint between two adjacent conduit sections. 
A method according to claim 39, each of said pair of 
longitudinally extending edges having a locking configuration for 

engagement with a complementary locking configuration on the other 
of said pair of longitudinally extending edges, said step of 

expanding said sleeve further comprising the step of expanding said 
sleeve until said locking configurations on said longitudinally 

extending edges become engaged, thereby locking said sleeve against 
recoil. 
A method according to claim 27, said step of expanding 
said sleeve further comprising the steps of: 


expanding said sleeve until said outwardly 
projecting flares contact the inner surface of said conduit, said 

sleeve exerting pressure on the inner surface of said conduit only 
through said outwardly projecting flares; and 
permitting said sleeve to recoil to said uncoiled 
installation position. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising, 
before said step of positioning said grouting sleeve within a  

 
conduit, the step of: 


placing at least one elastic band around said grouting 
sleeve; and 
said step of expanding said sleeve further comprising the 
steps of: 


expanding said sleeve until said outwardly 
projecting flares contact the inner surface of said conduit, said 

sleeve exerting pressure on the inner surface of said conduit only 
through said outwardly projecting flares; and 
permitting said sleeve to recoil to said uncoiled 
installation position with the assistance of said at least one 

elastic band. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising the 
step of placing a quantity of stop material adjacent an inside 

surface of each of said outwardly projecting flares. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising, after 
the step of forcing said grouting sleeve to expand from said coiled 

pre-installation position to an uncoiled installation position 
toward an inner surface of the conduit, the step of injecting grout 

into said annular space. 
A method according to claim 44, further comprising,  
 

before said step of positioning said grouting sleeve within a 
conduit, the step of attaching a syringe to said grouting sleeve 

when said grouting sleeve is in said coiled pre-installation 
position; and said step of injecting grout into said annular space 

comprising injecting grout through said syringe and into said 
annular space. 
A method according to claim 27, further comprising, 
before said step of positioning said grouting sleeve within a 

conduit, the step of placing at least one elastic band around said 
grouting sleeve. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
