<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636379</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disposable blood washing and apheresis device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M102	A61M102	A61M110	A61M110	A61M134	A61M134	A61M136	A61M136	F04B4306	F04B43073	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	F04B43	F04B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A blood processor (10) for separating blood into cellular blood 
components and blood fluids including means (20) for receiving a source 

(12) of blood whose components are to be separated; means (30), 
operatively associated with the means for receiving, for separating 

cellular blood components from blood fluids, the means (30) for 
separating including means for permitting passage therethrough of 

blood fluids but inhibiting the passage of blood components 
therethrough; a pulsating pump (22) for pumping blood from the means (20) 

for receiving into the means for separating and for agitating the blood 
within the means (30) for separating; and, wherein the cellular 

components 
in the blood are inhibited from blocking the means for permitting 

passage, thereby facilitating the movement of blood fluids through the 
means for permitting passage. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARD INC C R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
C.R. BARD, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UHOCH JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UHOCH, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the processing or washing 
of intraoperatively salvaged or post-operatively shed 
blood which may be reinfused into the patient as well as 
for apheresis or similar applications in which certain 
cellular blood components are separated from blood 
fluids or other cellular blood components. This invention relates to the field of blood 
processors which are routinely used during a medical 
operation to salvage blood shed by a patient and to 
reinfuse or store that blood after it has been filtered 
and cleaned. Apheresis refers to the procedure in which 
a portion of the blood (plasma, platelets, etc.) is 
separated and either returned or disposed of and the 
remainder (red blood cells, white blood cells, etc.) is 
reinfused into the patient or off-line stored. Blood 
transmitted diseases, such as AIDS and hepatitis, 
caution against utilizing blood from third parties 
unless absolutely necessary. Blood washers have been 
developed to collect, clean and filter the patient's 
blood and then return it to the patient.  Typically, during an operative procedure, varying 
amounts of blood will be shed by a patient. This blood 
must be removed from the operative site to allow the 
physician to work, usually by a suctioning wand which 
aspirates blood, particulates and other fluids (such as 
irrigating or wash fluid) from the operation site. The 
suctioned blood can be either discarded or else cleaned, 
filtered and returned to the patient. After an 
operation has been performed, blood may continue to be 
collected through an incision in the patient's body. 
This blood, referred to as post-operatively shed blood, 
may also be cleaned and filtered and returned to the 
patient. Products on the market today range from simple 
filtration devices which remove large particulate matter 
to relatively expensive hardware devices coupled to 
disposable components which collect, hold, and then 
clean and filter the blood. An example of such a device 
is the Cell Saver ™ device marketed by Haemonetics 
Corporation. The Haemonetics device is comprised of a 
blood collection chamber and a disposable component. 
The Haemonetics hardware is a relatively expensive 
apparatus and the disposable components moderately 
priced. The disposable is used for a single procedure. 
It is then discarded after the blood has been separated 
into blood fluids and cellular components and then is 
discarded, while the hardware is used for a number of 
procedures again and again. There are also many simple devices for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A blood processor for separating blood into cellular 
blood components and blood fluids comprising: 

   means for receiving a source of blood whose components are to 
be separated; 

   means, operatively associated with the means for receiving, for 
separating cellular blood components from blood fluids, the means 

for separating including means for permitting passage therethrough of 
blood fluids but inhibiting the passage of blood components 

therethrough; 
   a pulsating 
pump for pumping blood from the means for 
receiving into the means for separating and for agitating the blood 

within the means for separating; and, 
   wherein the cellular components in the blood are inhibited from 

blocking the means for permitting passage, thereby facilitating the 
movement of blood fluids through the means for permitting passage. 
The blood processor of claim 1, further comprising 
outlets disposed on the means for separating to permit removal of 

cellular blood components and blood fluids which have been 
separated in the means for separating. 
The blood processor of claims 1 or 2 wherein the means 
for receiving includes a means for connection to a source of blood. 
The blood processor of claim 3 further comprising a 
means for connection of a source of wash fluid to the means for 

receiving. 
The blood processor of claim 4 wherein the means for 
receiving further comprises an adjustable valve to adjustably control 

the volume of wash fluid introduced into the means for receiving, 
whereby the volume of wash fluid admixed with the blood may be 

adjustably controlled. 
The blood processor of claim 5 further comprising a 
pointer connected to the adjustable valve and a color chart having at 

least two color variations is operatively associated with the pointer, 
whereby the pointer may be manipulated to match with a color 

variation on the color chart. 
The blood processor of claims 4, 5 or 6 further 
comprising shutoff valves on the means for connection to sources of 

blood and wash fluid, whereby the flow of blood and wash fluid may 
be selectively interrupted. 
The blood processor of any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the means for receiving, the means for pumping and the 

means for separating are integrally formed as a unitary structure. 
The blood processor of any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the pulsating pump is suitable to be driven by a pneumatic 

source, the processor including means for connection of the pulsating 
pump to a pneumatic source. 
The blood processor of any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the means for separating is a hollow fiber cell separator. 
The blood processor of any one of the preceding claims, 
for processing cellular blood components comprising red blood cells, 

platelets, and white blood cells and blood fluid comprising plasma. 
The blood processor of claim 4 or any one of claims 5 to 
11 as dependent on claim 4, further comprising one-way valves on the 

means for connection to sources of blood and wash fluid, whereby the 
flow of blood and wash fluid is constrained to flow only to the means 

for receiving. 
In a blood processor having a receptacle for receiving 
blood to be processed, a pulsating pump for pumping blood to be 

processed and a separation apparatus, the separation apparatus having 
means for permitting passage therethrough of blood fluids but 

inhibiting the passage of blood components therethrough, a method 
for separating blood into cellular blood components and blood fluid 

comprising the steps of: 
   connecting a source of blood whose components are to be 

separated to the receptacle of the blood processor; 
   pumping blood with the pulstating pump from the receptacle 

into the separations apparatus and agitating the blood within the 
separation apparatus and agitating the blood within the separation 

apparatus so that the cellular components in the blood are inhibited 
from blocking the means for permitting passage, and so that blood 

fluids move through the means for permitting passage. 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of 
collecting the cellular components in a collection apparatus. 
The method of claim 13 or 14, further comprising the 
step of introducing wash fluid into the receptacle for admixing with 

the blood in the receptacle. 
The method of claim 15, wherein the receptacle includes 
an adjustable valve, and further comprising the step of controlling the 

adjustable valve to adjustably control the volume of wash fluid 
introduced into the receptacle to control the volume of wash fluid 

admixed with the blood. 
The method of claim 16, wherein a pointer is connected 
to the adjustable valve and a color chart having at least two color 

variations is operatively associated with the pointer, further 
comprising the step of manipulating the pointer to a match with the 

color chart closest in color to the blood to be received into the 
receptacle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
