<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PARASITIC LEAKAGE SLOTS IN POWER STEERING VALVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62D508	B62D5083	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62D5	B62D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to a hydro-mechanical or electro-hydromechanical control system utilized for positioning a mechanical device (212). The control system incorporates an improved closed-center control valve (500) for selectively controlling the differential pressure applied to the input ports of a power output transducer (212) and the differential flow therebetween in response to a mechanically applied rational input (210). The power output transducer is then utilized to position a mechanical device. The control system is a closed loop circuit adapted to supply hydraulic fluid at a desired supply pressure to the control valve. The improved closed-center control valve is a modified rotary valve wherein parasitic leakage slots (530) are formed for providing a leakage flow pathway through the control valve between the input ports (520a, 520b) of the power output transducer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECHCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECHCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS EDWARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS, EDWARD, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
PARASITIC LEAKAGE SLOTS IN POWER STEERING VALVECROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThe present application is a continuation- in-part of U.S. Serial Number 07/774,055 filed October 7, 1991 which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial Number 07/743,243 filed August 9, 1991 which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial Number 07/698,601 filed May 10, 1991.BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates generally to hydro-mechanical and electro-hydro-mechanical systems commonly utilized for positioning mechanical objects (which complete systems will hereinafter be called "control systems"). Most control systems typically utilize a control valve for selectively controlling the application of pressurized hydraulic fluid to the input ports of a power output transducer. The power output transducer is operable for positioning the mechanical objects in response to the pressurized hydraulic fluid acting thereon. In addition, control systems often include feedback elements which are used for establishing a "reference" position for the control valve in order to form a closed-loop servo system. Conventional control systems generally include a pumping apparatus for supplying the pressurized hydraulic fluid at either a substantially constant pressure (hereinafter called "constant pressure systems") or a substantially constant flow rate (hereinafter called "constant flow systems").Constant pressure systems are the most common. The control valves in constant pressure 

systems are utilized to control hydraulic fluid flow (hereinafter "load flow") to the input ports of the power output transducers. If the control valve of a constant pressure system is zero-lapped then only leakage amounts of hydraulic fluid will be consumed whenever the control valve is centered. Furthermore, if the constant pressure system includes a feedback element for establishing a reference position for the control valve, then the constant pressure system will achieve its final position, with respect to the reference position, substantially without error.Constant flow systems are typically utilized for vehicular power steering systems. Control valves utilized in such power steering systems are severely under-lapped (i.e., having an open-center configuration) in order to provide passage of the hydraulic fluid without generating an objectionable parasitic pressure loss. This permits the utilization of simple constant displacement pumps with concomitantly minimized average power consumption. However, this also typically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
-55-
CLAIMS
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method of providing tactile feedback for a power steering system in response to rotational inputs applied to a steering wheel, said method comprising the steps of: providing a source of hydraulic fluid; providing means for receiving said rotational inputs, said receiving means including a closed-center control valve assembly having first and second resiliently coupled valve members that are rotatable with respect to each other from a centered position in response to said rotational inputs; supplying said hydraulic fluid to an inlet port of said closed-centered control valve assembly; providing fluid communication between first. and second output ports of said closed-center control valve assembly and first and second ports of a power output transducer, respectively; controlling the differential output pressure applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer and the differential fluid flow therebetween in response to said rotational inputs, said differential output pressure defining a load pressure; providing a leakage flow path between said first and second output ports of said closed-center control valve assembly; and generating said tactile feedback as a function of both of said differential output pressure and said differential fluid flow.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said first valve member of said control valve assembly is a valve spool and said second valve member is a valve 


sleeve, said valve spool being positioned within said valve sleeve for rotation relative thereto, said valve sleeve having output slots formed therein which are in fluid communication with said first and second output ports, said valve spool having input and return slots operable for defining control orifices with respect to said output slots in response to valve deflection between said valve spool and said valve sleeve for regulating the passage of fluid between said input and return slots and said output slots, and wherein said step of providing a leakage flow path comprises forming leakage slots in said valve spool that are in fluid communication with said valve sleeve output slots and which function to regulate said leakage flow therebetween as a function of said valve deflection.
3. The method of Claim 2 wherein said leakage slots are parallel to at least one of said input and return slots and are symmetrical with respect to a center line thereof.
4. The method of Claim 3 further comprising the steps of: permitting leakage flow between said first and second output ports of said closed-center valve assembly when said valve spool is in said centered position; and inhibiting supply flow from said inlet port to one of said output ports when said valve spool is in said centered position.
5. The method of Claim 2 wherein said leakage slots are non-symmetrical with respect to said input and return slots.
6. The method of Claim 2 wherein said rotational inputs comprise both input torque and 


 -57-
rotational velocity as applied to said steering wheel such that said tactile feedback is substantially equal in value to said input torque.
7. A hydro-mechanical control system for a motor vehicle power steering system operable to selectively control the flow of hydraulic fluid to first and second input ports of a power output transducer for controlling the positioning of a mechanical device in response to rotational input applied to a steering wheel by a vehicle operator, said hydro-mechanical control system comprising: a fluid reservoir; a closed-center control valve assembly having an inlet port, a return port and first and second output ports, said control valve assembly further including a valve sleeve selectively rotatable within a valve housing, a valve spool selectably rotatable within a central bore of said valve sleeve, and leakage means for generating a fluid leakage flow path between said first and second output ports; pump means in fluid communication with said reservoir and operable for providing hydraulic fluid to said inlet port of said control valve assembly; supply line means for delivering said pressurized hydraulic fluid from said pump means to said inlet port of said control valve assembly; return line means for fluidly interconnecting said control valve return port to said fluid reservoir; and first and second load lines fluidly interconnecting said first and second output ports of said control valve assembly with said first and second input ports of said power output transducer respectively, said control valve assembly being operable to control the differential output pressure applied to said first and second ports of said power 


output transducer and the differential fluid flow therebetween in response to said rotational inputs, said differential output pressure defining a load pressure; said hydro-mechanical control system being operable for generating tactile feedback as a function of said differential output pressure and said differential fluid flow.
8. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 7 wherein said valve spool includes a plurality of alternating inlet and return slots formed therein, said valve sleeve including first and second output slots in fluid communication with said first and second output ports, respectively, said control valve assembly forming control orifices between said inlet and return slots and said first and second output slots which are configured to vary in size as a function of relative rotation between said valve spool and said valve sleeve, and wherein said control orifices are closed when said valve spool is in said centered position such that only said parasitic leakage flow between said first and second output slots is permitted.
9. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 8 wherein said leakage means includes leakage slots formed in said valve spool that function to generate first and second leakage orifices between said leakage slots and said output slots in said valve sleeve.
10. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots are symmetrical with respect to said inlet slots. 


 11. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots are symmetrical with respect to said return slots.
12. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots regulate leakage flow across said output ports of said control valve assembly as a function of tangential motion of said valve spool with respect to said valve sleeve.
13. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots are unsymmetrical with respect to said inlet slots or said return slots such that a first set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said first output slots and large leakage orifices with said second output slots, and a second set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said second output slots and large leakage orifices with said first output slots.
14. An electro-hydro-mechanical control system for a motor vehicle power steering system operable to selectively control the flow of hydraulic fluid to first and second input ports of a power output transducer for controlling the positioning of a mechanical device, said electro-hydro-mechanical control system comprising: a fluid reservoir; pump means in fluid communication with said reservoir; actuation means controllably driving said pump means for providing hydraulic fluid at a regulated fluid pressure; a closed-center control valve assembly having an inlet port, a return port and first and second output ports, said control valve assembly 



further including a valve sleeve selectively rotatable within a valve housing, a valve spool selectably rotatable within a central bore of said valve sleeve, and parasitic leakage means for providing a leakage flow path between said first and second output ports; supply line means for delivering said pressurized hydraulic fluid from said pump means to said inlet port of said control valve assembly; return line means for fluidly interconnecting said control valve return port to said fluid reservoir; first and second load lines fluidly interconnecting said first and second output ports of said control valve assembly with said first and second input ports of said power output transducer respectively, said control valve assembly being operable to control the differential output pressure applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer and the differential fluid flow therebetween in response to said rotational inputs, said differential output pressure defining a load pressure; valve means in fluid communication with each of said first and second load lines for fluidically coupling the one of said first and second load lines having the lower valued fluid pressure to means for generating an electrical signal indicative of said lower valued fluid pressure; and controller means for receiving said electrical signal and actuating said actuation means in response thereto; wherein said control system is operable for generating tactile feedback as a function of said differential output pressure and said differential fluid flow. 


 15. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 14 wherein said valve sleeve has output slots formed therein which are in fluid communication with said first and second output ports, said valve spool having input and return slots operable for defining control orifices with respect to said output slots in response to valve deflection between said valve spool and said valve sleeve for regulating the passage of fluid between said input and return slots and said output slots, and wherein said leakage means is in fluid communication with said valve sleeve output slots and function to regulate said leakage flow therebetween as a function of said valve deflection.
16. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 15 wherein said leakage means includes leakage slots formed in said valve spool that function to generate first and second leakage orifices between said leakage slots and said output slots in said valve sleeve.
17. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 16 wherein said leakage orifices are substantially equal in size relative to said valve sleeve output slots when said valve spool is in a centered position.
18. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 16 wherein said leakage slots regulate leakage flow across said output ports of said control valve assembly as a function of tangential motion of said valve spool with respect to said valve sleeve.
19. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 16 wherein said leakage slots are unsymmetrical with respect to said inlet slots or said return slots 


 -62-
such that a first set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said first output slots and large leakage orifices with said second output slots, and a second set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said second output slots and large leakage orifices with said first output slots. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 28 June 1993 (28.06.93) ; original claims 1, 2, 7, 14, 20 and 22 amended ; other claims unchanged (10 pages)3 1. A method of providing tactile feedback for a power steering system in response to rotational inputs applied to a steering wheel, said method comprising the steps of: providing a source of hydraulic fluid; providing means for receiving said rotational inputs, said receiving means including a closed-center control valve assembly having a valve spool and a valve sleeve that are rotatable and resiliently coupled with respect to each other from a centered position in response to said rotational inputs, said sleeve having at least one inlet port; supplying said hydraulic fluid to said at least one inlet port of said closed-centered control valve assembly; providing fluid communication between first and second output ports of said closed-center control valve assembly and first and second ports of a power output transducer, respectively; controlling a differential output pressure applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer and a differential output fluid flow therebetween in response to said rotational inputs, said differential output pressure defining a load pressure; providing a leakage flow path between said first and second output ports adjacent each said at least one inlet port of said closed-center control valve assembly; communicating a leakage flow in said flow path between said first and second output ports when said control valve is in a center position; and generating said tactile feedback as a function of both of said differential output pressure and said differential output fluid flow passing through said control valve assembly. 


 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said valve sleeve has output slots formed therein which are in fluid communication with said first and second output ports, said valve spool having input and return slots operable for defining control orifices with respect to said output slots in response to valve deflection between said valve spool and said valve sleeve for regulating the passage of fluid between said input and return slots and said output slots, and wherein said step of providing a leakage flow path comprises forming leakage orifices with respect to leakage slots in said valve spool that are in fluid communication with said valve sleeve output slots and which function to regulate said leakage flow therebetween as a function of said valve deflection.
3. The method of Claim 2 wherein said leakage slots are parallel to at least one of said input and return slots and are symmetrical with respect to a center line thereof.
4. The method of Claim 3 further comprising the steps of: permitting leakage flow between said first and second output ports of said closed-center valve assembly when said valve spool is in said centered position; and inhibiting supply flow from said inlet port to one of said output ports when said valve spool is in said centered position.
5. The method of Claim 2 wherein said leakage slots are non-symmetrical with respect to said input and return slots.
6. The method of Claim 2 wherein said rotational inputs comprise both input torque and rotational velocity as applied to said steering wheel such that 


said tactile feedback is substantially equal in value to said input torque.
7. A hydro-mechanical control system or a motor vehicle power steering system operable to selectively control the flow of hydraulic fluid to first and second input ports of a power output transducer for controlling the positioning of a mechanical device in response to rotational input applied to a steering wheel by a vehicle operator, said hydro-mechanical control system comprising: a fluid reservoir; a closed-center control valve assembly having at least one inlet port, a return port and first and second output ports, said control valve assembly further including a valve sleeve selectively rotatable within a valve housing, a valve spool selectably rotatable within a central bore of said valve sleeve, and leakage means for generating a fluid leakage flow path between said first and second output ports adjacent each said at least one inlet port; pump means in fluid communication with said reservoir and operable for providing hydraulic fluid to said inlet port of said control valve assembly; supply line means for delivering said pressurized hydraulic fluid from said pump means to said inlet port of said control valve assembly; return line means for fluidly interconnecting said control valve return port to said fluid reservoir; and first and second load lines fluidly interconnecting said first and second output ports of said control valve assembly with said first and second input ports of said power output transducer respectively, said control valve assembly being operable to control a differential output pressure applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer and a differential output fluid flow 



therebetween in response to said rotational inputs, said differential output pressure defining a load pressure; said hydro-mechanical control system being operable for generating tactile feedback as a function of said differential output pressure and said differential fluid flow passing through said control valve assembly.
8. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 7 wherein said valve spool includes a plurality of alternating inlet and return slots formed therein, said valve sleeve including first and second output slots in fluid communication with said first and second output ports, respectively, said control valve assembly forming control orifices between said inlet and return slots and said first and second output slots which are configured to vary in size as a function of relative rotation between said valve spool and said valve sleeve, and wherein said control orifices are closed when said valve spool is in said centered position such that only said parasitic leakage flow between said first and second output slots is permitted.
9. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 8 wherein said leakage means includes leakage slots formed in said valve spool that function to generate first and second leakage orifices between said leakage slots and said output slots in said valve sleeve.
10. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots are symmetrical with respect to said inlet slots.
11. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots are symmetrical with respect to said return slots. 


 12. The hydro-mechanicalcontrol system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots regulate leakage flow across said output ports of said control valve assembly as a function of tangential motion of said valve spool with respect to said valve sleeve.
13. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 9 wherein said leakage slots are unsymmetrical with respect to said inlet slots or said return slots such that a first set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said first output slots and large leakage orifices with said second output slots, and a second set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said second output slots and large leakage orifices with said first output slots.
14. An electro-hydro-mechanical control system for a motor vehicle power steering system operable to selectively control the flow of hydraulic fluid to first and second input ports of a power output transducer for controlling the positioning of a mechanical device, said electro-hydro-mechanical control system comprising: a fluid reservoir; pump means in fluid communication with said reservoir; actuation means controllably driving said pump means for providing hydraulic fluid at a regulated fluid pressure; a closed-center control valve assembly having at least one inlet port, a return port and first and second output ports, said control valve assembly further including a valve sleeve selectively rotatable within a valve housing, a valve spool selectably rotatable within a central bore of said valve sleeve, and parasitic leakage means for providing a leakage flow path between said first and second output ports 


adjacent each said at least one inlet port when said control valve is in a closed-center position; supply line means for delivering said pressurized hydraulic fluid from said pump means to said inlet port of said control valve assembly; return line means for fluidly interconnecting said control valve return port to said fluid reservoir; first and second load lines fluidly interconnecting said first and second output ports of said control valve assembly with said first and second input ports of said power output transducer respectively, said control valve assembly being operable to control a differential output pressure applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer and a differential output fluid flow therebetween in response to said rotational inputs, said differential output pressure defining a load pressure; valve means in fluid communication with each of said first and second load lines for fluidically coupling the one of said first and second load lines having the lower valued fluid pressure to means for generating an electrical signal indicative of said lower valued fluid pressure; and controller means for receiving said electrical signal and actuating said actuation means in response thereto; wherein said control system is operable for generating tactile feedback as a function of said differential output pressure and said differential fluid flow passing through said control valve assembly.
15. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 14 wherein said valve sleeve has output slots formed therein which are in fluid communication with said first and second output ports, said valve spool 


having input and return slots operable for defining control orifices with respect to said output slots in response to valve deflection between said valve spool and said valve sleeve for regulating the passage of fluid between said input and return slots and said output slots, and wherein said leakage means is in fluid communication with said valve sleeve output slots and function to regulate said leakage flow therebetween as a function of said valve deflection.
16. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 15 wherein said leakage means includes leakage slots formed in said valve spool that function to generate first and second leakage orifices between said leakage slots and said output slots in said valve sleeve.
17. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 16 wherein said leakage orifices are substantially equal in size relative to said valve sleeve output slots when said valve spool is in a centered position.
18. The electro-hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 16 wherein said leakage slots regulate leakage flow across said output ports of said control valve assembly as a function of tangential motion of said valve spool with respect to said valve sleeve.
19. The hydro-mechanical control system of Claim 16 wherein said leakage slots are unsymmetrical with respect to said inlet slots or said return slots such that a first set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said first output slots and large leakage orifices with said second output slots, and a second set of leakage slots form small leakage orifices with said second output slots and large leakage orifices with said first output slots. 


 20. A method of controlling the movement of a mechanical device in response to an external input, said method comprising the steps of: providing a source of hydraulic fluid including pressure regulating means for regulating the pressure of said hydraulic fluid at a specified pressure; proving means for receiving said external input, said receiving means including a closed center control valve; supplying said hydraulic fluid to at least one inlet port of said closed center control valve; providing fluid communication between first and second output ports of said closed center control valve and first and second ports of a power output transducer, respectively, said power output transducer operable for causing said movement of said mechanical device; controlling the output flow applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer in response to said external inputs, said power output transducer concurrently causing a differential output pressure being a difference in fluid pressure between said first and second load lines for defining a load pressure; generating a first signal indicative of said load pressure; generating a second signal indicative of a preselected supplemental pressure; and applying said first and second signals to said pressure regulating means to define said specified pressure; providing a leakage flow path between said first and second output ports adjacent each said at least one inlet port of said closed-center control valve; permitting a leakage flow of said closed-center valve when said valve supply is in a centered position; and 



 generating said tactile feedback as a function of said differential output pressure.
21. The method of Claim 20 further comprising the steps of: permitting leakage flow between said first and second output ports of said closed-center valve when said valve spool is in said centered position; and inhibiting supply flow from said inlet port to one of said output ports when said valve spool is in said centered position.
22. A method of providing tactile feedback for a control system for controlling the movement of a mechanical device in response to an external input, said method comprising the steps of: providing an electrically driven source of hydraulic fluid for regulating the flow of said hydraulic fluid at a supply pressure and a specified flow rate; providing means for receiving said external input, said receiving means including a closed center control valve; supplying said hydraulic fluid to at least one inlet port of said closed center control valve; providing fluid communication between first and second output ports of said closed center control valve and first and second ports of a power output transducer, respectively, said power output transducer operable for causing said movement of said mechanical device; controlling the output flow applied to said first and second ports of said power output transducer in response to said external inputs, said power output transducer concurrently causing a difference in fluid pressure between said first and second load lines for defining a load pressure; 


 generating a signal indicative of a difference between said supply pressure and said load pressure; applying said signal to a control means of said electrically driven source of hydraulic fluid such that said signal is maintained at a preselected value; providing a leakage flow path between said first and second output ports adjacent each said at least one inlet port of said closed-center control valve; permitting a leakage flow in said flow path of said closed-center valve when said valve spool is in said centered position; and generating said tactile feedback as a function of said load pressure. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
