<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630039</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
X-ray generation tube
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3506	H01J3508	H01J3504	H01J3500	H01J3516	H01J3502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J35	H01J35	H01J35	H01J35	H01J35	H01J35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An X-ray generation tube capable of providing gas 
ionization to ambient atmosphere in a wide area by 

radiating X-rays in various directions. The X-ray 
generation tube includes a container body (10) formed of an 

X-ray transmissible material. The container body (10) has 
one open end. A target membrane (40) is formed at an inner 

surface of the container body (10) for receiving electrons 
and emitting X-rays. A base (20) plugs the open end of the 

container body (10) and has terminal pins (24) extending 
through it. A cathode (30) is supported by the terminal 

pins (24) and is disposed at a central portion of the 
container body (10) for generating electrons. If the 

container body (10) is cylindrical the cathode extends 
along the central axis of the cylinder. If the container 

body is spherical, the cathode is positioned adjacent the 
centre. In this way, since the target membrane (40) is 

provided at the inner surface of the container body (10), 
and since all the target membrane (40) is equidistant from 

the cathode (30), X-rays are radiated from the extended 
area of the outer surface of the container body (10) and 

uniform radiation over a wide area results. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS K.K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a transmission type
X-ray generation tube having an X-ray window and a target,
and more particularly, to a type thereof capable of providing
ionization to ambient atmosphere.Recently, gas ionization to the ambient air or gas is
required for neutralization of a charged article, or for
providing a negative ion atmosphere for human comfort.
Further, positive gas ionization is also used for sterilization
to the ambient atmosphere.To this effect, Japanese Patent Application Kokai No.
Sho-62-44936 discloses an ion beam generation system
provided with a synchrotrons radiation device. However, no
proposals have yet been made in connection with the employment
of the transmission type X-ray generation tube
for this purpose.A transmission type X-ray generation tube has been
known which generates relatively weak X-ray having specific
wavelength for the purpose of analysis of a substance
or diagnosis. In this case, the image pick-up is made for
concentrating X-rays to a desired limited area. The conventional transmission type X-ray generation
tube includes a cathode which releases electrons, a grid
for controlling the orientation of the electrons, a transmission
type target which receives the electrons at one
surface thereof and emits X-rays from opposite surface,
and an X-ray transmission window for releasing the X-rays
outside. These are accommodated in a cylindrical hermetic
container body. Such conventional tube is disclosed in
Japanese Patent Application Kokoku No.Sho-37-5501 and
Japanese Patent Application Kokai No. Hei-2-297850.In such a conventional transmission type X-ray generation
tube, the X-rays are to be radiated to a limited
specific area for the image pick-up, and therefore, the
grid is used for directing the generated electrons to a
concentrated area in order to provide a point radiation
source. In this case, several electrons generated from the
cathode may not reach the target due to inaccuracy in
control by the grid.An X-ray generation
tube for providing ionization atmosphere
over an extended or wide area is described in
WO-A-92 09998 (preamble of claim 1). According to this invention, there is provided an X-ray generation tube
for radiating X-rays over a wide area to ionize an ambient
gas, comprising:
a container body formed of an X-ray transmissible
material and having an inner peripheral surface;first and second terminal pins;a cathode for generating electrons disposed in the
container body and being connected to the terminal pins;
and,a target membrane formed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An X-ray generation tube for radiating X-rays
to ionize an ambient gas, comprising:


a container body (10) formed of an X-ray transmissible
material and having an inner peripheral surface;
first and second terminal pins (24); and,
a cathode (30) for generating electrons disposed in
the container body (10) and being connected to the terminal

pins (24); and,
a target membrane (40) formed on the inner peripheral
surface of the container body (10) for emitting X-rays upon

receipt of the electrons emitted from the cathode, the
distance between the target membrane (40) and the cathode

(30) being substantially constant,

characterised in that the container body (10) has an open
end and is made from a material with

a high thermal conductivity selected from the group consisting
of beryllium, graphite, glassy carbon, polyimide, aluminum

and boron nitride, in that a base (20) having an outer body
(21) is provided said base including a central aperture in which a stem

portion (23) is provided, the outer body (21) being
connected to the open end and formed of

metal for applying a potential to the target
membrane (40), and in that the stem portion (23) plugs the

open end of the container body (10), the first and second
terminal pins (24) being implanted in the stem portion

(23).
An X-ray generation tube according to claim 1, in which
the stem portion (23) includes a hollow convex 

portion (26) at its centre around which the first and
second terminal pins (24) are arranged.
An X-ray generation tube according to claim 1 or 2, in
which the base (20) includes a projecting portion arranged

to fit in contact with the open end of the container body
(10).
An X-ray generation tube according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the container body (10)

comprises:

an elongate cylindrical portion having a central axis
extending in a lengthwise direction with a hemispherical

portion (12) integrally connected to its other end, the
target membrane (40) being formed on the inner surfaces of

the elongate cylindrical portion and the hemispherical
portion (12) and wherein the cathode (30) extends around

and along the central axis.
An X-ray generation tube according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the cathode (30) is in a helical

form, with its axis being co-axial with the central axis.
An X-ray generation tube according to any one of
claims 1 to 4, wherein the cathode (30) comprises a hollow

cylindrical member (30A) connected to the first and the
second pins (24), having an outer peripheral surface

coated with a cathodic oxide material (30B) and a heater
(62) located in an inner hollow space inside the hollow

cylindrical member (30A). 
An X-ray generation tube as claimed in claim 6,
wherein the hollow cylindrical member (30A) is formed of a

metal or ceramic.
An X-ray generation tube as claimed in claim 6 or 7,
further comprising a grid (81) helically wound around the

cathode (30), an axis of the grid (81) being coincident
with the central axis of the cathode (30).
An X-ray generation tube as claimed in claim 1,
wherein the container body (110) comprises:


a short cylindrical portion (112) having one end
provided with the open end and having another end; and
a substantially spherical portion (111) integrally
connected to the other end of the short cylindrical portion

(112), the spherical portion (111) having a spherical
centre, wherein the target membrane (40) is formed at

least on an inner surface of the spherical portion (111),
and wherein the cathode (30C) is positioned adjacent the

centre of the spherical portion (111).
An X-ray generation tube as claimed in any preceding
claim, wherein the wall of the container body (10, 110)

has a thickness ranging from 200 micrometres to 1 mm and/or
wherein the target membrane (40) has a thickness ranging

from 50 to 300 mm (500 to 3000 Angstroms).
An X-ray generation tube as claimed in any preceding
claim, wherein the cathode (30) is formed of tungsten,

barium-impregnated tungsten or a cold cathode material.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
