<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656798</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RUNNER SUPPORT FOR A SKATE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63C102	A63C100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63C	A63C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63C1	A63C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A blade support made of molded plastics including an elongated V-shaped beam with a hollow pedestal extending upwardly from the rear of the beam to meet the sole in the heel area of the skate boot. A second pedestal extends from the inner wing of the beam to be joined to the sole at the ball of the foot. A third pedestal extends from the outer wing of the beam to be joined to the sole of the boot coincident with the joint formed by the metatarsus and phalange of the fifth digit of the foot, and a fourth pedestal extends from the front end of the beam to be joined to the front end of the sole. A U-shaped sole plate joins the second, third, and fourth pedestals and provides a mounting flange for mounting the support to the boot.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPORT MASKA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPORT MASKA INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LABERGE RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LABERGE, RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a runner 
support for a skate, and more particularly, to a molded 
support for an ice skate blade. Almost all ice hockey skates used today 
include a molded plastics blade support. Previously, 
ice skate blade supports were made of sheet metal and 
included a longitudinally extending tube to which the 
blade was fixed and two or more pedestals extending 
upwardly from the tube to be fastened to the sole of a 
skate boot. The sheet metal support was replaced by 
the molded plastics skate support because of the lower 
cost, and the market perception that the molded support 
is more acceptable to contemporary taste. Examples of 
such molded supports are illustrated in Canadian Patent 
585,720, issued October 27, 1959 to John E. Kirkpatrick 
et al, and Canadian Patent 984,422, issued February 24, 
1976 to Hugh E. Baikie. However, the known molded plastics support 
is inferior to the sheet metal version in several 
respects. For instance, in order to maintain the 
support light, unobstrusive, and streamlined, the 
longitudinal tube was essentially eliminated. The support should lend lateral rigidity to 
the blade in order to minimize the absorption of energy 
during pronation and supination of the foot. The blade 
and the support are fixed relative to the sole of the 
skate boot; thus, the maximum reaction force should be 
transmitted to the body to propel the body forward. 
This is especially true in ice hockey where it is 
desirable to accomplish rapid acceleration and changes 
of direction. Thus, in order to improve the molded 
support, it is important to design a support which 
approaches the rigidity of a sheet metal tube support  
 
while not increasing the weight of the molded support 
relative to the sheet metal blade. Many molded plastics supports utilize more 
material than is required. The now well-known "Tuuk" 
blade, described in Canadian Patent 984,422 and U. S. 
Patent 4,074,909, issued February 21, 1978, to Hugh E. 
Baikie, comprises a shell defining two pedestals with 
the front pedestal covering most of the toe and forward 
metatarsal area of the sole while the rear pedestal 
covers all of the heel. A flange is required 
surrounding each pedestal to accommodate rivets in 
order to attach the blade support to the sole. 
Furthermore, a large "bridge" member extends 
longitudinally between the pedestals to substitute for 
the tube of a sheet metal support. Arches or cavities 
are provided to reduce the weight of this "bridge". Other patents, such as U. S.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a skate having a skate boot and a sole, a 
skate runner and a runner support for fixing and 

retaining the runner to the sole, wherein the support 
includes an elongated beam member extending the length 

of the runner, and means are provided for attaching the 
runner to the beam, the elongated beam having a V 

cross-section throughout its length, open upwardly 
relative to the runner, the beam having at least a pair 

of flared wings, each co-extensive with the runner and 
defining the open V, the pair of wings including an 

inner wing and an outer wing relative to each foot, a 
first hollow tubular pedestal extending upwardly from 

the rear portion of the elongated beam to be joined to 
the heel portion of the sole and at least a second 

hollow tubular pedestal extending from the inner wing 
of the elongated beam to the sole in the area of the 

ball of the foot which is generally at the joint of the 
metatarsus and phalange of the first digit, and a third 

hollow tubular pedestal extending from the outer wing 
to the sole of the boot in the area of the joint of the 

metatarsus and phalange of the fifth digit of the foot. 
A runner support for a hockey skate 
consisting of an elongated longitudinal beam member, a 

first tubular pedestal extending from the rear of the 
elongated beam member to the heel area of a sole of a 

hockey skate boot, a second tubular pedestal extending 
from the elongated beam member to the area of the sole 

coincident with the joint of the metatarsus and the 
phalange of the first digit of a foot, and a third 

tubular pedestal extending from the elongated beam 
member in the area in the sole of the boot coincident 

with the joint of the metatarsus and the phalange of 
the fifth digit, and a fourth pedestal which extends 

from the front end of the elongated beam member to the 
front end of the sole of the boot.  

 
A skate as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
skate is a hockey skate and the support is a molded 

plastics member, wherein the first hollow pedestal 
includes a flange about the upper edge of the pedestal 

to be fastened to the sole of the boot, and the second 
hollow pedestal extends from the inner wing of the beam 

and is integral with a sole plate defining a flange 
about the second pedestal to be fastened to the sole of 

the boot, the sole plate extending about the margin of 
the support coincident with the forward part of the 

sole and is integral with the third pedestal to form a 
flange about the third pedestal, the second and third 

pedestals being staggered in the longitudinal direction 
and including planar walls facing each other and spaced 

apart. 
A skate as defined in claim 3, wherein a 
longitudinal groove is provided in the beam to receive 

the blade, and nut and bolt arrangements are provided 
for fastening the blade to the support. 
In a skate having a skate boot and a sole, a 
skate runner and a runner support for fixing and 

retaining the runner to the sole, wherein the support 
includes an elongated beam member extending the length 

of the runner, and means are provided for attaching the 
runner to the elongated beam member, a first pedestal 

extends upwardly from the rear portion of the elongated 
beam member to be joined to the heel portion of the 

sole, and at least a second and third pedestal extend 
upwardly from the forward part of the elongated beam 

member to be joined to the forward part of the sole, 
the second pedestal extends from the elongated beam 

member to the sole in the area of the ball of the foot 
which is generally at the joint of the metatarsus and 

phalange of the first digit, and the third pedestal 
extends from the elongated beam to the sole of the boot  

 
in the area of the joint of the metatarsus and phalange 

of the fifth digit. 
In a skate as defined in claim 5, wherein 
the elongated beam member has a V cross-section open 

upwardly relative to the runner, the elongated beam 
member having a pair of flared wings, each coextensive 

with the runner and defining the open V, the pair of 
wings including an inner wing and an outer wing 

relative to each foot, and the second and third 
pedestals extending upwardly from the inner wing and 

the outer wing respectively of the elongated beam 
member. 
In a skate as defined in claim 5, wherein 
the pedestals are in the form of hollow tubes. 
In a skate as defined in claim 5, wherein a 
fourth pedestal extends from the front end of the 

elongated beam member to the front end of the sole of 
the boot. 
In a skate as defined in claim 7, wherein a 
fourth pedestal extends from the front end of the 

elongated beam member to the front end of the sole of 
the boot, and the fourth pedestal has a U shape cross-section 

open towards the rear. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
