<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619099</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical draping system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1900	A61B1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-part surgical draping system comprising a disposable 
drape (1) for adhesion to an operation site, and one or more 

reusable drapes (6) placed over the disposable drape (1). 
The disposable drape (1) comprises a window (2), an upper 

absorbent layer (5) and a lower impermeable layer, first 
adhesive means (3) for adhering the lower impermeable layer 

to the patient, and non-adhesive preferably oppositely 
disposed margins (7) which serve to facilitate handling of 

the disposable drape (1). For attachment of the one or more 
reusable drapes (6) to the disposable drape (1), either the 

upper or the lower surface of the disposable drape is 
provided with second adhesive means (4) which is adherable 

to the lower or upper side of the reusable drape 
respectively. After attachment, the one or more reusable 

drapes (6) leave an access opening to the operation site. 
Moreover, the adhesive means (3,4) are preferentially 

protected prior to use by respective removable coverings 
(3',4'). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROTECNO AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROTECNO AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCAN JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATEL SURESH R DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIEDNER GUENTER DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCAN, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATEL, SURESH R., DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIEDNER, GUENTER, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a surgical draping system for retaining
sterile and clean conditions at an operation site. Surgical drapes are
well known in the medical community and serve to prevent contamination
of the sterilised operation site by foreign bodies, in particular micro-organisms.
Two important potential sources of infection of the patient
are the transfer of bacteria originating from unsterilised areas of
his own body to the exposed tissue at the operation site, and the airborne
transfer of bacteria from other sources to the operation site, such
as lint or skin particles originating from the surgeon or other staff in the
operating theatre.In the prior art, a wide variety of draping systems have been employed
to improve sterility at the site of an operation. It is helpful to consider
the features of these diverse systems to gain an appreciation of the object
and subject of the present invention.There are two main classes of surgical drapes, reusable drapes and disposable
drapes. Before considering the action of drapes, it should at
first be appreciated that micro-organisms can only be transmitted in a
medium, they do not move freely on their own, i.e. they are transferred
by fluids, aerosol droplets, lint, dust particles, skin particles or the like.Historically cotton drapes were and still are used as they are absorbent
and soak up liquids. However, they provide no bacterial barrier. Even
when replaced by polyester cotton drapes treated with a liquid repellent
finish, the properties are limited and are lost after a few uses. Both 
cotton and polyester cotton drapes are lint producers from new and this
production increases with each use. Latter-day fabrics for reusable
drapes, such as ROTECNO (registered trade mark), which similarly present
a sterile barrier to prevent infection, have improved properties in a
number of respects. For instance the fabric is liquid repellent, thereby
still functioning as a sterile barrier when contacted by liquids, is non-particle
generating, and provided with a grid of crossed conductive fibres
to prevent the build-up of static electricity, which, when present,
can attract airborne particles and, on discharge, damage sensitive electrical
equipment.In use, such drapes are arranged around the operation site and held in
position with clips which grip through the fabric onto the flesh of the
patient. A single drape may be used, in which case there is an aperture
in the drape which is appropriately dimensioned to allow access to the
operation site. If a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical draping system comprising a disposable drape (1) for
adhesion at its lower surface, using first adhesive means (3), to an

operation site of a patient and a reusable drape or reusable drapes
(6) placed over said disposable drape (1) and defining an opening

providing access to the operation site through the disposable drape
(1), wherein the disposable drape (1) has a window (2) therein and

a layer
which constitutes an impermeable barrier to the passage of liquids therethrough,

and wherein the disposable drape (1) is provided
on its upper surface with second adhesive means (4)

surrounding said window (2)
for adhesion

to the lower side of said reusable drape or drapes (6),
characterised in that the disposable

drape (1) has an upper absorbent layer (5) defining an absorbent
surface; in that said second adhesive means (4) surrounds said absorbent

surface, in that said opening in said reusable drape or
drapes (6) exposes at least part of the absorbent surface and in

that the second adhesive means (4) of the disposable drape (1) is
contrived in such a way that it bonds substantially more weakly to

the reusable drape or drapes (6) than to the disposable drape (1).
A surgical draping system comprising a disposable drape (1) for
adhesion at its lower surface to an operation site of a patient, using

first adhesive means (3) provided on said lower surface, and a reusable
drape or reusable drapes disposed about said disposable

drape and defining an opening providing access to the operation
site through the disposable drape, wherein the disposable drape

(1) has a window (2) therein and a layer which constitutes an
impermeable barrier to the passage of liquids therethrough, 

characterised in that the disposable drape (1) has an upper absorbent
layer (5) which at least partly surrounds said window; in

that this disposable drape is provided on its lower surface with
second adhesive means (4) disposed outside of the periphery of

said first adhesive means and surrounding said first adhesive
means (3) for adhesion to the upper side of said reusable drape or

drapes(6); and in that the second adhesive means (4) of the disposable
drape (1) is contrived in such a way that it bonds substantially

more weakly to the reusable drape or drapes (6) than to the disposable
drape (1).
A surgical draping system in accordance with claim 1 or claim 2,
characterised in that a lower impermeable layer of the disposable

drape (1) constitutes a barrier to the passage of liquids and microorganisms

therethrough.
A surgical draping system in accordance with any one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the window (2) of the disposable

drape (1) is readily removable or rupturable to provide access
to the operation site.
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the window (2) is formed by an aperture

in the disposable drape, thereby defining an opening (2).
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the second adhesive means (4) is

contrived in such a way that it bonds substantially more weakly to
the reusable drape or drapes (6) than the first adhesive means (3)

bonds to the patient. 
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the first adhesive means (3) is protected

prior to use by a removable covering (3').
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the second adhesive means (4) is

protected prior to use by a removable covering (4').
A surgical draping system in accordance with claim 7 or 8, characterised
in that the removable coverings (3', 4') provided to protect

their respective adhesive means (3, 4) comprise siliconised paper.
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the disposable drape (1) is supplied in

a sterile pack.
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the disposable drape (1) is provided

with at least substantially oppositely disposed margins (7) which
are free from adhesive means and facilitate the deployment on and

removal of the disposable drape (1) from the patient.
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the reusable drape has an opening

matched in shape to the outer boundary of the absorbent surface of
said disposable drape (1) and a margin region surrounding said

opening, for adhesion to said disposable drape (1) by said second adhesive
means (4) provided on said disposable drape (1). 
A surgical draping system in accordance with at least one of the
preceding claims, characterised in that the reusable drape (6) is

made of non-wicking and/or non-absorbent material.
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the reusable drape (6) is made of a

material which forms a barrier to liquids and/or micro-organisms.
A surgical draping system in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that the reusable drape (6) is cleanable,

especially launderable, and sterilisable, in particular steam sterilisable;
and in that its material has preferably non particle-generating

and/or antistatic properties.
A disposable drape (1) adapted for use in a surgical draping system
in accordance with claim 1 for adhesion at its lower surface,

using first adhesive means,
to an

operation site of a patient, said disposable drape having a window (2)
and comprising a layer which constitutes an impermeable barrier

to the passage of liquids therethrough, wherein a second adhesive
means (4) is provided on the upper surface of the disposable drape

(1) for adhesion to the lower side of a reusable drape or drapes (6),
and surrounding said window

characterised in that an upper absorbent layer (5) which defines an
absorbent surface is provided; in that said second adhesive means (4)

surrounds said absorbent surface, and in that the second adhesive
means (4) of the disposable drape (1) is contrived in such a way

that it bonds substantially more weakly to the reusable drape or
drapes (6) than to the disposable drape (1). 
A surgical draping system in accordance with claim 2, characterised
in that the reusable drape has an opening matched in shape

to the outer boundary of said first adhesive means (3) of said disposable
drape (1) and a margin region surrounding said opening,

for adhesion to said disposable drape (1) by said second adhesive
means (4) which are provided on said disposable drape (1).
A disposable drape (1)
adapted for use in a surgical draping system in accordance with claim 2

for adhesion at its lower surface to an operation
site of a patient, said disposable drape (1) having a window (2)

and comprising a layer which constitutes an impermeable barrier
to the passage of liquids therethrough, a first adhesive means (3) provided

on a lower surface of said disposable drape for adhesion to a
patient, characterised in that said disposable drape has an upper

absorbent layer (5) which defines an absorbent surface, in that a second
adhesive means (4) disposed outside the periphery of said first

adhesive means surrounding said first adhesive means (3) is provided
on the lower surface of the disposable drape for adhesion to

the upper side of a reusable drape or drapes (6), and in that the
second adhesive means (4) of the disposable drape (1) is contrived

in such a way that it bonds substantially more weakly to the reusable
drape or drapes (6) than to the disposable drape (1).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
