<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622748</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method for generating artificial shadow.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T1550	G06T1560	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T15	G06T15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for generating artificial shadow including the 
steps of receiving an indication of a shadow unprotected area and 

a shadow protected area, together defining a total shadow area, 
computing shadow values for each location of the shadow unprotected 

area based on a shadow pattern which covers the total 
shadow area, and generating an image characterized in that the 

shadow values computed in the computing step are assigned only to 
the shadow unprotected area. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORPORATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARMONI SHIMON R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSEFI HANAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARMONI, SHIMON R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSEFI, HANAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and methods 
for generating an image of an object with shadow. It is often desirable to generate an artificial shadow 
for an image. Conventionally, one of two methods are often employed 
to generate an artificial shadow for an object. Using the first method, the following three steps may 
be performed: 
a. a control file is generated indicating the border or 
contours of the desired shadow area and the border or contour of 
the object. This step may be carried out using the MASK function 
on the Prisma workstation, commercially available from Scitex 
Corporation. b. A degrade' or vignette is generated in a separate file 
according to the contour defined by the control file. The step 
may be carried out using the INTERACTIVE CT CREATE function on 
the Prisma workstation. Typically, a dark color value is selected 
for the border of the shadow contour which is intended to be 
adjacent to the object and a light color value is selected for 
the portion of the border of the shadow contour which is not 
intended to be adjacent to the object. c. Finally, the degrade' file and the file containing the  
 
original object are merged into a single file. The second method involves use of an airbrush to draw 
the shadow by hand. This method requires considerable artistic 
ability and coordination. A third method employs a function called TPVN (two-point 
vignette) on Scitex's Imager workstation. The method is 
generally similar to the airbrush method in that artistic ability 
and coordination are required. The TPVN function allows a user to 
manually manipulate a vignette with two adjustable ends. Systems which provide shadowing for imaged three-dimensional 
objects, about which three-dimensional information is 
available, are commercially available from companies such as 
Pixer, Softimage and Renderman.  The present invention seeks to provide an improved 
integrated color electronic pre-press system having a customized 
capability to generate artificial shadowing for images. There is thus provided, in accordance with a preferred 
embodiment of the present invention, a method for generating 
artificial shadow including the steps of receiving an indication 
of a shadow unprotected area and a shadow protected area, together 
defining a total shadow area, computing shadow values for each 
location of the shadow unprotected area based on a shadow pattern 
which covers the total shadow area, and generating an image characterized 
in that the shadow values computed in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for generating artificial shadow comprising 
the steps of: 

   receiving an indication of a shadow unprotected area 
and a shadow protected area, together defining a total shadow 

area; 
   computing shadow values for each location of the shadow 

unprotected area based on a shadow pattern which covers the total 
shadow area; and 

   generating an image characterized in that the shadow 
values computed in said computing step are assigned only to the 

shadow unprotected area. 
A method for generating artificial shadow comprising 
the steps of: 

   receiving an indication of a plurality of objects 
within a single scene; and 

   generating an image including: 
      the plurality of objects, and 

      a corresponding plurality of shadow areas. 
A method for generating an artificially shadowed image, 
the method comprising the steps of: 

   prompting a user to provide an image of a scene including 
a two-dimensional representation of at least one object; 

   prompting a user to indicate at least one shadow characteristic; 
 

and 
   modifying the image of the scene so as to add a two-dimensional 

shadow, having the at least one shadow characteristic, 
for the at least one object. 
An integrated color electronic pre-press system comprising: 
   a plurality of differently formatted two-dimensional 

image manipulation modes including at least a first mode operative 
to store and manipulate image information represented in a 

first format and a second mode operative to store and manipulate 
image information represented in a second format; and 

   an artificially shadowed image-generating mode operative 
to prompt a user to provide, and to subsequently receive, 

an indication of a two-dimensionally represented object in a 
scene, 

   wherein the artificially shadowed image-generating 
mode interacts with both of the first and second modes in order 

to generate an image of the scene wherein the object is artificially 
shadowed. 
A method for introducing an artificial shadowing capability 
into an integrated color electronic pre-press system, the 

method comprising the steps of: 
   modifying a plurality of differently formatted image 

manipulation modes including at least a first mode operative to 
store and manipulate image information represented in a first 

 
format and a second mode operative to store and manipulate image 

information represented in a second format; and 
   providing an artificially shadowed image-generating 

unit interacting with both of the first and second modes in order 
to generate an image including at least one object and at least 

one shadow thereof. 
Apparatus for generating artificial shadow for an 
image, the apparatus comprising: 

   an automatic artificial shadow adding unit operative 
to automatically add an artificial shadow to an original image 

without having to receive an image of the artificial shadow; and 
   an image output unit operative to provide an output 

indication of the image generated by the automatic artificial 
shadow adding unit. 
A method for generating artificial shadow comprising 
the steps of: 

   receiving at least one user-selected characteristic of 
an artificial shadow for an imaged object; and 

   automatically providing a low resolution preview of the 
imaged object together with an artificial shadow having the at 

least one user-selected characteristic. 
A method for generating artificial shadow for an imaged 
object within an underlying image, the method comprising the 

steps of:
 

   receiving from a user, at least one color value for an 
artificial shadow, wherein the at least one color values are 

defined within at least one color separation; 
   receiving an indication of an object area and of a 

shadow area; 
   generating a mask image which is transparent, within 

the object area, to the color values in the underlying image, 
transparent, within the shadow area, to the at least one color 

separation within which the at least one color values are defined, 
and opaque, within the shadow area, to the remaining color 

separations. 
Apparatus for generating artificial shadow comprising: 
   a user input module operative to receive an indication 

of a shadow unprotected area and a shadow protected area, together 
defining a total shadow area; 

   a shadow computational unit operative to compute shadow 

values for each location of the shadow unprotected area based on 
a shadow pattern which covers the total shadow area; and 

   an artificially shadowed image generator operative to 
generate an image characterized in that the shadow values computed 

by said shadow computational unit are assigned only to the 
shadow unprotected area. 
Apparatus for generating artificial shadow comprising: 
   a user input module operative to receive an indication 

of a plurality of objects within a single scene; and
 

   an artificial shadow generator operative to generate an 
image including: 

      the plurality of objects, and 
      a corresponding plurality of shadow areas. 
Apparatus for generating an artificially shadowed 
image, the apparatus comprising: 

   a user prompting/user input receiving unit operative to 
prompt a user to provide an image of a scene including a two-dimensional 

representation of at least one object and to prompt a 
user to indicate at least one shadow characteristic; and 

   an artifical shadow generator operative to modify the 
image of the scene so as to add a two-dimensional shadow, having 

the at least one shadow characteristic, for the at least one 
object. 
A method for generating artificial shadow for an image, 
the method comprising the steps of: 

   automatically adding an artificial shadow to an original 
image without having to receive an image of the artificial 

shadow; and 
   providing an output indication of the image generated 

by the adding step. 
Apparatus for generating artificial shadow comprising: 
   a user input module operative to receive at least one 

user-selected characteristic of an artificial shadow for an 
 

imaged object; and 
   a low resolution preview generator operative to automatically 

provide a low resolution preview of the imaged object 
together with an artificial shadow having the at least one user-selected 

characteristic. 
Apparatus for generating artificial shadow for an 
imaged object within an underlying image, the apparatus 

comprising: 
   a mask image generator operative to generate a mask 

image which is transparent, within an object area, to the color 
values in the underlying image, transparent, within a shadow 

area, to at least one color separation within which at least one 
user-selected artificial shadow color values are defined, and 

opaque, within the shadow area, to the remaining color separations 
within which no user-selected artificial shadow color 

values are defined. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
