<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648139</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW PROFILE CATHETER AND GUIDEWIRE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EUTENEUER CHARLES L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EUTENEUER, CHARLES, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Low Profile Catheter and GuidewireBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to a low profile catheters such as balloon catheters used to increase the lumen size of a blood vessel, and to guide wires used with such catheters.Catheters such as balloon catheters have been used for some time to increase the lumen size of vessels such as coronary blood vessels. Typically, a flexible guide wire is inserted into a selected vessel, and the guide wire then guides the balloon catheter to the treatment site. Packard U.S. Patent 4,646,742 describes one prior art balloon catheter used in an angioplasty procedure. A coil spring guide wire passes through the catheter, beyond the distal end of the catheter and the balloon. Poαartv U.S. Patent 4,606,347 and Samson U.S. Patent 4,641,654 (Figure lb) show other balloon catheters which utilize such guide wires. In the catheter shown in the Foαartv patent a seal is provided near the distal, end of the catheter between the catheter and the guide wire.This prior art approach requires that the guide wire itself be sufficiently rotationally rigid to transmit rotation from its proximal to distal ends when it is rotated to steer the distal end of the guide wire into a desired vessel. As catheters and guide wires are designed for use with increasingly smaller diameter blood vessels, it may be difficult to ensure that the wire has an adequately small diameter yet is adequately torsionally rigid. 

 Another approach of the prior art is illustrated in the systems described in Mar U.S. Patent 4,771,778, Mar U.S. Patent 4,793,350, Samson U.S. Patent 4,582,181, and Samson U.S. Patent 4,641,654 (Figure la). In these catheters the guide wire is secured to the distal end of the catheter, distally of the balloon, such that a fixed length of the guide wire extends beyond the distal end of the catheter. With this approach, the guide wire is formed as a permanent part of the catheter, and it is therefore not possible to remove the catheter from the blood vessel without simultaneously removing the guide wire. In certain medical procedures it is preferred to leave the guide wire in place at the treatment site while a first catheter is removed from the guide wire. Then a second catheter, possibly different in shape or function from the first, can be guided by the guide wire back to the original treatment site quickly and reliably. Of course, such procedures cannot be performed with a catheter in which the guide wire is permanently affixed to the catheter.Horzewski U.S. Patent No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A low profile catheter for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel, comprising: a catheter shaft having proximal and distal ends and defining an axis extending therebetween; first means, carried by the distal end of the shaft, for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel in which the catheter shaft is positioned; a guide wire positioned in the catheter shaft, said guide wire having proximal and distal ends, said distal end extending beyond the distal end of the catheter shaft and the lumen size increasing means; and second means for automatically transmitting torque from the catheter shaft to the guide wire when the catheter shaft is rotated with respect to the guide wire and for automatically permitting relative axial movement therebetween when the guide wire is advanced with respect to the catheter shaft.
2. The invention of Claim 1 wherein the second means is carried by the catheter shaft near the distal end of the catheter shaft, proximally of the lumen size increasing means.
3. The invention of Claim 1 wherein the guide wire defines a keyed portion shaped to engage the second means.
4. The invention of Claim 3 wherein the second means comprises a keyed coupling member carried by the catheter shaft and shaped and positioned to receive the keyed portion of the guide wire.
5. The invention of Claim 1 wherein the first means comprises an inflatable balloon. 


 6. The invention of Claim 1 wherein the guide wire has a length, and wherein the second means is configured to transmit torque to the guide wire at a point spaced from the distal end of the guide wire by no more than 20% of the length.
7. The invention of Claim 6 wherein the catheter shaft comprises a solid wall tube formed of a ferrous metal alloy.
8. The invention of Claim 6 wherein the guide wire has a maximum diameter no greater than about 0.010 inches and a length no less than about 150 cm.
9. The invention of Claim 1 further comprising means, secured to the proximal end of the catheter shaft, for applying torque to the catheter shaft.
10. The invention of Claim 3 wherein the keyed portion extends over a length of at least 10 cm to permit at least 10 cm of relative axial movement between the guide wire and the catheter shaft while retaining torque transmitting engagement between the catheter shaft and the guide wire.
11. The invention of Claim 1 wherein a proximal portion of the guide wire is sized and shaped to pass through the second means to permit the catheter shaft and the first means to be removed from the proximal end of the guide wire.
12. The invention of Claim 1 wherein the second means comprises at least one coil spring carried by the catheter shaft and shaped and positioned to automatically seize the guide wire for rotation with the catheter shaft 


when the catheter shaft is rotated in a first direction with respect to the guide wire.
13. The invention of Claim 11A wherein the at least one coil spring comprises two coil springs, each shaped and positioned to automatically seize the guide wire for rotation with the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is rotated in a respective direction with respect to the guide wire.
14. A low profile dilation catheter comprising: a catheter shaft having proximal and distal ends and defining an axis extending therebetween; an inflatable balloon carried by the distal end of the catheter shaft; a guide wire positioned in the catheter shaft, said guide wire having proximal and distal ends, said distal end extending beyond the distal end of the catheter shaft and through the balloon, said guide wire defining a keyed portion having a cross sectional shape which is other than round; and a keyed coupling member carried by the catheter shaft and coupled to the keyed portion of the guide wire, said keyed coupling member operative to transmit torque from the catheter shaft to the guide wire while permitting relative axial movement between the catheter shaft and the guide wire.
15. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the coupling member is positioned at the distal end of the catheter shaft, proximal to the balloon.
16. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the keyed portion extends over a length of at least 10 cm to permit at least 10 cm of relative axial movement between the guide wire and the catheter shaft while retaining torque 


 transmitting engagement between the catheter shaft and the guide wire.
17. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the guide wire proximal to the keyed portion is sized and shaped to pass through the coupling member to permit the catheter shaft and balloon to be removed from the proximal end of the guide wire.
18. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the coupling member comprises: a plate extending radially inwardly from the distal end of the catheter shaft; and a sleeve positioned centrally at the distal end of the catheter shaft by the plate, said sleeve defining an other than round opening sized to receive the keyed portion of the guide wire to transmit torque to the guide wire while permitting relative axial movement between the sleeve and the guide wire.
19. The invention of Claim 18 wherein the plate is positioned proximally of the balloon, and wherein the plate defines at least one opening positioned to pass an inflating fluid between the catheter shaft and the balloon.
20. The invention of Claim 14 further comprising means, secured to the proximal end of the catheter shaft, for applying torque to the catheter shaft.
21. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the guide wire defines an enlarged portion located distally of the keyed portion and sized to prevent the enlarged portion from passing through the coupling member. 


 22. The invention of Claim 18 further comprising a tube secured to the sleeve to pass through the balloon, said tube receiving the guide wire and conducting the guide wire distally of the balloon.
23. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the catheter shaft is torsionally rigid.
24. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the catheter shaft comprises a solid wall tube formed of a ferrous metal alloy.
25. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the guide wire has a maximum diameter no greater than about 0.010 inches and a length no less than about 150 cm.
26. The invention of Claim 14 wherein the guide wire has a length, and wherein the coupling member is positioned to transmit torque to the guide at a point spaced from the distal end of the guide wire by no more than about 20% of the length.
27. A low profile dilation catheter comprising: a catheter shaft having proximal and distal ends and defining an axis extending therebetween; a sleeve carried by the catheter shaft and having an internal opening which is other than round; means, carried by the distal end of the catheter shaft, for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel in which the catheter shaft is positioned; said sleeve operative to receive a guide wire axially moveable in the sleeve and to transmit torgue thereto; said lumen size increasing means configured to pass the guide wire distally of the lumen size increasing means. 


 28. The invention of Claim 27 wherein the lumen size increasing means comprises an inflatable balloon.
29. The invention of Claim 27 wherein the sleeve is positioned at the distal end of the catheter shaft.
30. The invention of Claim 28 wherein the sleeve is positioned at the distal end of the catheter shaft, and wherein the sleeve is secured to the catheter shaft by a support member which is provided with at least one opening for passing an inflating fluid between the catheter shaft and the balloon.
31. The invention of Claim 27 further comprising means, secured to the proximal end of the catheter shaft, for applying torque to the catheter shaft.
32. The invention of Claim 28 further comprising a tube secured to the sleeve and passing through the balloon to conduct a guide wire distally of the balloon.
33. The invention of Claim 27 wherein the catheter shaft is torsionally rigid.
34. The invention of Claim 27 wherein the catheter shaft comprises a solid wall tube formed of a ferrous metal alloy.
35. A guide wire for a low profile catheter for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel, said guide wire comprising: a wire body having a proximal end and a distal end; a flexible end portion carried by the wire body at the distal end; 


 said wire body forming a keyed region near the distal end, said keyed region having a cross section which is other than round; said wire body having a maximum diameter less than 0.020 inches.
36. The invention of Claim 35 wherein the keyed region has a length greater than 10 cm.
37. The invention of Claim 35 wherein the maximum diameter is located distally of the keyed region.
38. The invention of Claim 35 wherein the wire body proximal to the keyed region is sized no larger than the keyed region.
39. The invention of Claim 38 wherein the wire body distal to the keyed region is at least in part larger in cross section than the keyed region.
40. The invention of Claim 35 wherein the keyed region is substantially constant in cross sectional shape over a distance of at least about 10 cm.
41. The invention of Claim 35 wherein the wire body has a maximum diameter no greater than about 0.010 inches and a length no less than about 150 cm.
42. The invention of Claim 41 wherein the keyed region extends to a point separated from the end portion by no more than about 20% of the length of the wire body.
43. A low profile catheter for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel, comprising: 


 a catheter shaft having proximal and distal ends and defining an axis extending therebetween; first means, carried by the distal end of the shaft, for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel in which the catheter shaft is positioned; a guide wire positioned in the catheter shaft, said guide wire having proximal and distal ends, said distal end extending beyond the distal end of the catheter shaft and the lumen size increasing means; and a first coil spring carried by the catheter shaft and positioned to surround the guide wire, said first coil spring operative to seize the guide wire for rotation with the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is rotated in a first direction with respect to the guide wire, and to release the guide wire for longitudinal movement with respect to the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is not rotated in the first direction with respect to the guide wire.
44. The invention of Claim 43 wherein the first coil spring is carried by the catheter shaft near the distal end of the catheter shaft, proximally of the lumen size increasing means.
45. The invention of Claim 43 wherein the first means comprises an inflatable balloon.
46. The invention of Claim 43 wherein the guide wire has a length, and wherein the coil spring is positioned in the catheter shaft to transmit torque to the guide wire at a point spaced from the distal end of the guide wire by no more than 20% of the length.
47. The invention of Claim 43 wherein the guide wire defines a cylindrical portion sized to engage the 


first coil spring, wherein the cylindrical portion has a length of at least about 10 cm.
48. The invention of Claim 43 wherein a proximal portion of the guide wire is sized and shaped to pass through the first coil spring to permit the catheter shaft and the first means to be removed from the proximal end of the guide wire.
49. The invention of Claim 43 further comprising a second coil spring carried by the catheter shaft and positioned to surround the guide wire, said second coil spring operative to seize the guide wire for rotation with the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is rotated in a second direction with respect to the guide wire, and to release the guide wire for longitudinal movement with respect to the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is not rotated in the second direction with respect to the guide wire, wherein the first and second directions are oppositely directed.
50. A low profile catheter for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel, comprising: a catheter shaft having proximal and distal ends and defining an axis extending therebetween; means, carried by the distal end of the shaft, for increasing lumen size of a blood vessel in which the catheter shaft is positioned; a first spring carried by the catheter shaft and wound in a selected direction, said first coil spring operative to receive a guide wire which is axially movable in the first coil spring in the absence of rotation of the catheter shaft in a first direction, and to seize the guide wire for rotation with the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is rotated in the first direction with respect to the guide wire. 


 51. The invention of Claim 50 wherein the guide wire has a length, and wherein the coupling member is positioned to transmit torque to the guide at a point spaced from the distal end of the guide wire by no more than about 20% of the length.
52. The invention of Claim 50 wherein the spring is positioned near the distal end of the catheter shaft.
53. The invention of Claim 50 further comprising a second coil spring carried by the catheter shaft and positioned to surround the guide wire, said second coil spring operative to seize the guide wire for rotation with the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is rotated in a second direction with respect to the guide wire, and to release the guide wire for longitudinal movement with respect to the catheter shaft when the catheter shaft is not rotated in the second direction with respect to the guide wire, wherein the first and second directions are oppositely directed. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
