<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620958</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A RADIO MODULE INCLUDED IN A PRIMARY RADIO STATION, AND A RADIO STRUCTURE CONTAINING SUCH MODULES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q2100	H01Q2100	H04B138	H04B138	H04B708	H04B708	H04B726	H04B726	H04W8800	H04W8808	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q21	H01Q21	H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04W88	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radio module (1) for a radio base station of a mobile radio system which transmits and receives radio signals from stationary or moving mobile radio stations over given frequencies. A module comprises an antenna part (2) and a transceiver part (3) of given mechanical construction. Each module of a base station transmits and receives over a given specific frequency which may be different when transmitting and receiving but which is not the same frequency as that used by any other module in the station. The construction of a module is described with reference to Figures 1-4. A radio base structure (Figure 6) is comprised of a plurality of modules, each having its own specific or individual transmitting and receiving frequency and being provided with suppression means (C1) which prevent a module from disturbing neighbouring modules. A radio base structure having diversity reception is described with reference to Figures 7-8.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A RADIO MODULE INCLUDED IN A PRIMARY RADIO STATION, AND A RADIO STRUCTURE CONTAINING SUCH MODULESTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to a radio module which is included in a primary radio station of a mobile radio system. The primary radio station may be a base station of a mobile telephone system for instance, although it may also form part of a mobile services switching centre having integrated transmitter-receiver units. The invention also relates to a primary radio station that is constructed from a number of such modules, said modules being mutually independent and functioning as separate autonomous base stations in the main primary station.BACKGROUND ARTA radio subsystem of a mobile radio system is generally comprised of one or more radio signal transceivers TRX, an antenna part which is common to several transceivers, and a control part. The transceivers include the radio technical units, such as modula¬ tor/demodulator, frequency synthesizer, amplifier units, while the control part includes those controlling and switching devices required to operate the transceivers, and to divert calls to/from the mobile services switching centre (MSC) of the system.Those digital TDMA-systems developed in recent times in Europe and North America also include units for channel coding (channel decoding) in conjunction with transmission and reception, and time-slot allocation (burst generators) and recovery of data from a given time-slot (symbol detector, possibly also equalizer) and speech coding and speech decoding units. In these digital systems, the aforesaid units are controlled by the control unit when transmitting and receiving signals on the basis of the- channels that have been allocated, among other things, meaning that both frequency and time slot allocation must be controlled in the transceiver units. For instance, the frequency synthesizer must 

 be tuned to the correct receiving frequency. Furthermore, it is necessary to be able to control the burst generator and the symbol detector in the receiver so as to enable the signal burst intended for a given channel to be recovered from the time-slot determined.The base station may contain several such transceiver units and one such given unit need not be allocated a given radio channel or other radio parameter (time-slot, frequency, power output, etc.), but can be controlled generally by the control unit to trans¬ mit/receive on all of the radio channels allocated to the base station.Each base station of a cellular system may be allocated a par¬
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A radio module included in a primary radio station of a mobile radio system in which radio communication is effected over a plurality of radio frequencies between the primary station (BS) and a number of secondary stations (MSI, MS2, ...) , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the module includes a) a transmitter unit (33) which includes transmitter devices (52-55) for transmitting radio signals in a known manner to a given secondary station at a given radio frequency which is individual to the module on a given occasion; b) an antenna unit (2) which is connected directly to said transmitter unit (33) for transmitting the transmission signals generated in said transmitter devices (52-55) to said secondary radio station; and c) control means (51) included in said transmitter unit (33) for delivering control signals to the transmitter means (52-55) in accordance with radio parameters which are delivered from the primary control unit (BSC) and which relate to a given radio frequency which is assigned exclusively to the module on a given occasion and to which associated transmitter means (53) shall be adjusted or set when communicating with said secondary radio unit.
2. A radio module according to Claim 1, ch a ra cte r i z e d in that the control means (51) is constructed to control level adjusting means (54) in the transmitter unit (33) so that the power output of the signals delivered from the transmitter unit (33) to the first antenna unit (2) is adapted to the antenna unit (3).
3. A radio module in a primary radio station of a mobile radio system in which communication takes place between the primary radio station and a secondary radio station over a given radio frequency, wherein the module includes an antenna part (2) and at least one transmitter part (3), c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the module is comprised of 


 a) a body (1) having a given cross-section profile such as to form a first and a second space; b) a circuit board (21) which forms the module antenna part (2) accommodated in the first space, said circuit board including a conductor pattern comprising a plurality of individual, mutually connected antenna elements (22-26) ; c) a component part (31) forming the transmitter part (3) and accommodated in the second space of said body (1) and on which a transmitter unit (33) of the radio module is mounted, wherein a first connection (35, 36) is provided for input signals to the transmitter unit (33) from the control unit of the primary station; and d) a second connection (4) for radio frequency signals which connects the conductor pattern (27) of the antenna part (2) directly to the component part (31) .
4. A radio module according to Claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i ¬ z e d in that the module body is an H-profile in which said first and said second spaces are formed, wherein each of said spaces is defined by the profile web (11) and its two side-walls (12, 13), and wherein the antenna part (2) is firmly clamped in the two side- walls on one side of the web (11) and the component part (31) is secured on the side-walls (12, 13) on the other side of the module web (11) .
5. A radio module according to Claim 4, c h a r a c t e r i - z e d in that the circuit board (21) is mounted so that the antenna elements (22-26) face inwardly towards the module web (11).
6. A radio base structure for a primary radio station of a mobile radio system in which radio communication takes place over a number of radio frequencies between the primary station and a number of secondary stations, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the structure is comprised of at least two modules (M1-M18, Figure 6) , wherein each module includes an antenna unit (2) connected directly to a transmitter unit (33) which transmits radio signals 


 at a given frequency (fl) determined for said module (Ml) on a given occasion, said frequency being different to the frequency used by any other module (M2-M18, Figure 6) , such that transmis¬ sion from the module (Ml) over said frequency (fl) and on a given occasion is individual to precisely this module and cannot be used by any other module on the same occasion; and in that each module is so arranged in relation to each other module in the structure that galvanic leakage and/or the influence of the radio field from one module to each other module in the structure is negligible.
7. A radio base structure according to Claim 6 when each module has a given profile and includes conductive walls which border on the walls of the nearest module profile in the structure, cha ¬ r a c t e r i z e d in that said leakage and influence from one module to each other module is suppressed by providing a conduc- tive connection (Cl) between said two neighbouring walls of each module in the structure.
8. A radio base structure according to claim 6, when each module has a given profile and includes conductive walls which border on the walls of the nearest module profile in the structure, char - a r a c t e r i z e d in that said leakage and/or influence from one module to another is suppressed by applying radiofrequently resistive material between two adjacent walls of said walls in each module of the structure.
9. A radio base structure according to claim 6, ch a ra cter - i z e d in that the transmitter output of each module is provided with one or more ferrite insulators.
10. A radio base structure for a primary radio station with diversity in a mobile radio system in which radio communication takes place over a number of radio frequencies between the primary station and a number of secondary stations, c h a r a c t e r i ¬ z e d in that the structure is comprised of a plurality of transceiver modules (M1-M9, M12-M20) and a module pair (MIO, Mil, Figure 7) of which each module includes solely one antenna unit 


 (Al, A2) , wherein a first connection (SIO) is provided for conducting a received antenna signal from one antenna module (MIO) to a first signal path in a transceiver module (Ml) , and a second connection (Sll) is provided for conducting a received antenna signal from the other antenna module (Mil) to a second signal path in said transceiver module (Ml) .
11. A radio base structure according to Claim 8, cha ra cte ¬ r i z e d in that one module (MIO) of said module pair is spaced from the other module (Mil) of said pair at a distance which is significantly greater than two mutually adjacent modules (Ml, M2) in the structure.
12. A radio base structure for a primary radio station with receiving diversity in a mobile radio system in which radio communication takes place over a plurality of radio frequencies between the primary station and a plurality of secondary stations, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the structure is comprised of a plurality of transceiver modules (M1-M9, M12-M20) and a module pair (MIO, Mil, Figure 7) comprising a first and a second module of which each includes solely one antenna unit (Al and A2 respec- tively) and a respective receiver distributor (MD1 and MD2 respec¬ tively) for received antenna signals, wherein the first module (MIO) of the pair is spaced from a given third module (Ml) and a given fourth module (M2) at a distance which is significantly greater than two mutually adjacent modules in the structure, and wherein a first connection (SIO) from the receiver distributor (MD1) of the first module is intended to conduct received antenna signals from the first module to a first signal path in the receiver unit of the third and the fourth module (Ml, M2) , and a second connection (Sll) from the receiver distributor (MD2) of the second module is intended to conduct antenna signals from the second module (Mil) to a second signal path in the receiver unit of the third and fourth modules (M20) . 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
