<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615248</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plasma addressing structure having a pliant dielectric layer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F1133	G02F11333	G11C1121	G11C1126	H01J1704	H01J1704	H01J1749	H01J1749	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G11C	G11C	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G11C11	G11C11	H01J17	H01J17	H01J17	H01J17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plasma addressing structure having data 
storage elements (16) uses an ionizable gas to store data 

in and read data out of the storage elements. The storage 
elements are defined by the overlapping areas of multiple 

column electrodes (18) extending in a common direction on 
a first substrate (22) and multiple channels (20) 

extending in a common direction on a second substrate 
(24). A layer of pliant dielectric material (26) 

separates the first and the second substrates, which are 
positioned face to face and spaced apart with the 

direction of the channels transverse to that of the column 
electrodes. Each of the channels is filled with an 

ionizable gas and includes two electrodes (46 and 48) 
electrically isolated from each other. The ionizable gas 

functions as an electrical switch. The storage element 
includes a layer (32) of liquid crystal material and 

receives incident image-carrying light. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEIN WILLIAM W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEIN, WILLIAM W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to dielectric 
layers in video cameras, memory devices, display screens, 
storage devices, and other systems constructed of data 
storage elements which employ an ionizable gas to address 
such storage elements. Plasma addressing structures may be employed in 
a variety of applications, including video cameras, memory 
devices, and flat panel displays, including flat panel 
liquid crystal displays. Such addressing structures and 
storage devices are described in U.S. Patent No. 4,896,149 
to Buzak et al. for "Addressing Structure Using Ionizable 
Gaseous Medium" and in U.S. Patent No. 5,077,553 to Buzak 
for "Apparatus and Method of Addressing Data Storage 
Elements," both assigned to the assignee of the present 
application. One embodiment of a conventional plasma 
addressing structure includes a display screen with first 
and second spaced-apart glass substrates positioned face 
to face with each other. A layer of dielectric material 
and a layer of, for example, liquid crystal material 
separate the first and second substrate faces. Multiple 
parallel electrical conductors extend generally in a first 
direction along the inner surface of the first substrate 
to form column data electrodes for receiving data drive  
 
signals. Multiple parallel channels inscribed into the 
inner surface of the second substrate extend along the 
inner surface in a second direction generally transverse 
to the first direction. Each of the channels is filled with ionizable 
gas. The gas is ionized by a gas ionizing structure that 
includes an electrical reference electrode or anode and a 
cathode that extend along the length of each channel. The 
gas in each channel is selectively ionized to address 
elements aligned with the channel. The addressable 
elements may include a row of display elements having 
electro-optical properties, such as the layer of liquid 
crystal material positioned between the inner surface of 
the first substrate and the dielectric layer. Sidewalls between adjacent channels define a 
plurality of support structures whose top surfaces 
(referred to as "land areas") support the layer of 
dielectric material. The layer of dielectric material 
functions as an isolating barrier between the ionizable 
gas contained within the channels and the addressable 
elements. The dielectric material prevents the 
addressable material from flowing into the channels and 
prevents the ionizable gas from contaminating the 
addressable material. The first and second substrates and the 
die
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plasma addressing structure, comprising: 
   a data electrode and a pliant dielectric layer 

having a first major surface and a second major surface, 
with the first major surface of the pliant dielectric 

layer in communication with the data electrode; 
   an ionizable gaseous medium in communication 

with the second major surface of the pliant dielectric 
layer and an electrical reference; and 

   an ionizing electrode in communication with the 
ionizable gaseous medium adapted to selectively ionize the 

ionizable gaseous medium to provide an interruptible 
electrical connection between the data electrode and the 

electrical reference. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 1 
in which a layer of material having electro-optic 

properties is disposed between the data electrode and the 
first major surface of the pliant dielectric layer so that 

a property of the layer of electro-optic material changes 
in response to a data signal appearing on the data 

electrode. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 1 
in which the pliant dielectric layer comprises a polymer 

film having greater than about 80 percent transmissive 
efficiency for wavelengths of light in the visible region. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 1 
in which the pliant dielectric layer comprises a polymer 

film having greater than about 70 percent transmissive 
efficiency for wavelengths of light in the visible region 

after being subjected to temperatures up to about 400°C 
for about 60 minutes. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 4 
in which the polymer film comprises a poly(ether ketone), 

a polyimide, a polyamide, a poly(imide-amide), a 
polyaromatic ether, or a fluorinated derivative thereof. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 4 
in which the polymer film is selected from the group 

consisting of poly(ether ketones), polyimides, polyamides, 
poly(imide-amides), polyaromatic ethers, or a fluorinated 

derivative thereof. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 3 
in which the polymer film comprises a polyimide or its 

fluorinated derivative. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 3 
in which the polymer film comprises a polyaromatic ether 

or its fluorinated derivative. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 1 
in which the pliant dielectric layer comprises a polymer 

film that includes 12F-PEK. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 1 
in which the pliant dielectric layer comprises a thin 

polymer film of substantially uniform thickness having a 
dielectric constant greater than about 2.0, a tensile 

strength greater than about 2,400 Kg/cm², a modulus of 
elasticity greater than about 1.0 x 10⁹ N/m², a TGA higher 

than about 450°C, the ability to bond with glass, and 
retention of the properties of substantial optical 

clarity, greater than about 80 percent transmissive 
efficiency for wavelengths of light in the visible region, 

an electrical resistivity of about 10¹³ to 10¹⁵ Ohm-cm, and 
the ability to resist about 155 volts without significant 

breakdown, after being subjected to temperatures up to 
about 435°C for about 60 minutes. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 3 
in which the polymer film comprises a poly(ether ketone), 

a polyimide, a polyamide, a poly(imide-amide), a 
polyaromatic ether, or a fluorinated derivative thereof. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 3 
in which the polymer film is selected from the group 

consisting of poly(ether ketones), polyimides, polyamides, 
 

poly(imide-amides), polyaromatic ethers, or a fluorinated 
derivative thereof. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 3 
in which the polymer film comprises a polyimide or its 

fluorinated derivative and the film has greater than about 
70 percent transmissive efficiency for wavelengths of 

light in the visible region after being subjected to 
temperatures up to about 400°C for about 60 minutes. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 3 
in which the polymer film comprises a polyaromatic ether 

or its fluorinated derivative and the film has greater 
than about 70 percent transmissive efficiency for 

wavelengths of light in the visible region after being 
subjected to temperatures up to about 400°C for about 60 

minutes. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 4 
in which the polymer film is able to bond directly to 

glass. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 2 
in which the pliant dielectric layer comprises a polymer 

film capable of aligning the direction of the molecules in 
a layer of electro-optic material. 
A plasma addressing structure, comprising: 
   a data electrode for transmitting variable data 

signals and a layer of pliant dielectric material having a 
first major surface and a second major surface, with the 

first major surface in communication with the data 
electrode; 

   an ionizable gaseous medium in communication 
with the second major surface of the layer of pliant 

dielectric material and an electrical reference; 
   an ionizing electrode in communication with the 

ionizable gaseous medium adapted to selectively ionize the 
ionizable gaseous medium to provide an interruptible 

electrical connection between the data electrode and the 
 

electrical reference; and 
   a layer of material having electro-optic 

properties disposed between the data electrode and the 
first major surface of the layer of pliant dielectric 

material so that a property of the layer of electro-optic 
material changes in response to a signal appearing on the 

data electrode. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 17 
in which the layer of pliant dielectric material comprises 

a polymer film having greater than about 80 percent 
transmissive efficiency for wavelengths of light in the 

visible region. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 17 
in which the layer of pliant dielectric material comprises 

a polymer film having greater than about 70 percent 
transmissive efficiency for wavelengths of light in the 

visible region after being subjected to temperatures up to 
about 400°C for about 60 minutes. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 18 
in which the polymer film comprises a poly(ether ketone), 

a polyimide, a polyamide, a poly(imide-amide), a 
polyaromatic ether, or a fluorinated derivative thereof. 
The plasma addressing structure of claim 18 
in which the polymer film is selected from the group 

consisting of poly(ether ketones), polyimides, polyamides, 
poly(imide-amides), polyaromatic ethers, or a fluorinated 

derivative thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
