<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616238</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Package for a semiconductor device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2302	H01L23057	H01L2310	H01L2316	G02B2608	H01L2326	G02B2608	H01L2304	H01L2302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	G02B	H01L	G02B	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	G02B26	H01L23	G02B26	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package (44) for a semiconductor device (10) includes a ceramic base 
(46) with a mounting surface (50) for supporting the device (10) and a light-transmissive 

cover (42). A refractory seal ring (70) is fused to the base (46) 
and to conductive paths (22) thereon. The upper surface (72) of the seal ring 

(70) is rendered optically flat with a selected angular relationship to the 
mounting surface (50). The upper and lower faces (76 
&
 78) of the cover (42) 
are rendered optically flat with a selected angular relationship to each other, 

so that with an outer portion of the lower face (78) resting on the upper 
surface (72) of the seal ring (70), the faces (76, 78) have a selected angular 

relationship with the mounting surface (50). The package (44) is expedient 
where the device (10) includes DMD's (30) having deflectable, light-reflective 

beams. The lower face (78) of the cover (42) includes an annular light-reflective 
coating (60) surrounding a window (80) overlying the device (10). 

In some embodiments, the reflective coating (60) is deposited on the walls 
(56, 58) of a groove (54) formed in the lower face (78) of the cover (42). 

Facilities (90) seal the cover (42) to the seal ring (70). The reflective coating 
(60) prevents any unmodulated light which is incident on the beams (32) 

from entering an optical system associated with the DMD-containing device 
(10). The sealing facilities (90) include adhesives (90), which may contain 

microspheres, soft metals (90), glass frits (90), fusion bonding of the cover 
(42) to the seal ring (70), and solder preforms. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKINLEY JOHN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORADISH FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKINLEY, JOHN T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORADISH, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a package for a semiconductor device,
and, more particularly, to a protective package for a spatial light modulator
("SLM") which includes an array of active sites, each of which in turn,
includes a deflectable, light-reflecting beam and address circuitry for
selectively deflecting the beam.Numerous processes are known for producing active sites on a first
surface of semiconductor wafers. The active sites may comprise one or more
transistors and may include an integrated circuit having a variety of other
circuit components. Wafers are ultimately separated into a plurality of
individual chips, also known as dies or bars, each of which includes an array
of active sites and a surface comprising a portion of what was formerly the
wafer's first surface. Each active site has associated therewith one or more
bond pads on the first surface. The bond pads are rendered electrically
continuous with the active site, typically by depositing or otherwise forming
the bond pads on top of, and in electrical contact with conductors formed on
the wafer. Often some of the same steps used to produce the active sites also
produce the conductors, which are themselves electrically continuous with
the active sites.The separation of the wafer into individual chips is produced by an
operation which may be referred to as "sawing." Sawing separates the wafer
along lines or paths extending between locations whereat adjacent active
sites reside or will ultimately reside.Wafers are often sawed into chips before effecting the processing which
produces the active sites. The resulting chips are maintained in a chip
matrix after sawing, and the chip matrix is processed to produce the active 
sites on each one thereof. The active sites may include or be associated with
a spatial light modulator ("SLM"), such as that known as a deflectable mirror
device or a digital micromirror device (collectively "DMD").A DMD includes a light-reflective beam or similar mechanical member,
which is associated with an active site and is so mounted to, or hinged from,
the material of the wafer and the resulting chip as to be deflectable or
movable between a normal position and one or more other positions.
Deflection of the beam is achieved by attracting the beam toward or to an
adjacent electrode which is at a different electrical potential from that of the
beam. Deflection of the beam stores energy in the mount or hinge, which
stored energy tends to return the beam to its normal position. Movement of
the beam, which may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A package (44) for a semiconductor device (10), the device being of the type
which includes a light reflecting beam (32) movable between one position,

in which light incident on the beam is modulated, and one or more
other positions, in which the incident light is not modulated, the

package comprising:

a base (46) having a mounting surface (50) for supporting the device;
a first metallic pattern on the base, the first pattern including first
metallic paths (22) extending from near the periphery of the base to near

the periphery of the mounting surface for electrical connection to the
mounted device;
a seal ring (70) constituted of an electrically insulative, refractory material,
the seal ring overlying the base and the first metallic paths between

the peripheries of the base and the mounting surface, having its lower
surface (74) fused to the underlying base and first metallic paths and

having an opposed upper surface (72) ground and polished so as to be
optically flat with a selected angular relationship relative to the

mounting surface;
a light-transmissive cover (42) arranged to overlie the device, which cover is
generally congruent with the outer periphery of the seal ring, upper (76)

and lower (78) faces of the cover being ground and polished to optical
flatness and having a selected angular relationship to each other so

that, with the outer portion of the lower face of the cover resting on the
seal ring, the upper and lower faces have a selected angular

relationship relative to the mounting surface;
a light reflective coating (60) on the lower face of the cover, the coating
defining a central uncoated window (80) arranged to be aligned with the device; and
means for sealing the outer portion ofthe lower face of the cover to the
seal ring.
The package of Claim 1, wherein the seal ring is generally planar and wherein the lower face of the cover is
generally circular and has formed therein an annular groove which

generally overlies the inner periphery of the seal ring 
and the periphery of the mounting

surface, the light reflective coating residing on the walls of the
groove.
The package of Claim 2, wherein the groove is generally triangular in
cross section and has an outer wall which is generally perpendicular to

the faces of the cover and an inner wall which slopes away from the
outer wall toward the lower face of the cover.
The package of any preceding claim, wherein the sealing means
comprises an agent at the interface of the seal ring and the lower face

of the cover.
The package of Claim 4, wherein the agent is a low outgassing
adhesive.
The package of Claim 4 or Claim 5, wherein the adhesive contains
microspheres which reside in the interface in a single tier to fix the

width of the interface.
The package of Claim 6, wherein the microspheres are made of plastic or glass.
The package of Claim 4, wherein the agent comprises a getter located
in the volume defined by the base, the seal ring and the cover for

preventing outgassing from the adhesive from adversely affecting the
device.
The package of Claim 4, wherein the agent comprises a soft metal.
The package of Claim 9, wherein the soft metal is selected from the
group consisting of indium and indium alloys.
The package of Claim 9 or Claim 10, wherein the cover and the seal
ring are sealed together by applying force generally to the interface 

therebetween to cause the soft metal to cold flow.
The package of Claim 11, wherein the force is vibratory.
The package of any of claims 4 to 12, wherein the sealing means
further comprises an adherent substance applie
d to the cover and the
seal ring at the outer periphery of the interface therebetween, the

adherent substance preventing shear forces applied parallel to the
interface from relatively moving the cover and the seal ring.
The package of any preceding claim, wherein the seal ring and lower
face of the cover comprise ground and polished portions which are

optically flat to about one fringe or less.
The package of Claim 1, wherein the sealing means comprises

a solder-wettable coating on the upper surface of the seal ring,
a solder-wettable coating on the outer portion of the lower face of the
cover, and
a solder layer sealing the coatings together.
The package of Claim 1, wherein the sealing means comprises a glass
frit layer at the interface of the cover and the seal ring.
The package of any preceding claim, wherein the first metallic pattern
is deposited on the base which is ceramic and when the ceramic

thereof is green, the base being thereafter fired to fuse the first pattern
to the base.
The package of claim 17, wherein the seal ring is placed on the base
when the seal ring is green, the seal ring being thereafter fired to fuse

the seal ring to the base and the first metallic pattern.
The package of any preceding claim, which further comprises:

a ground path in the first metallic pattern, the ground path and the 
light-reflective coating being electrically conductive, and
means for electrically interconnecting the ground path and the light-reflective
coating when the cover rests on the seal ring.
The package of Claim 19, wherein the electrical interconnecting means
comprises


a conductive surface feature located in the groove and being
electrically continuous with the light-reflective coating, and
compliant means attached to the ground path for resiliently
electrically engaging the surface feature when the cover rests on the

seal.
The package of Claim 19 or Claim 20, wherein the interconnection of
the ground path and the light-reflective coating is effective to obviate

the presence on the cover of a static electric charge sufficiently large to
adversely affect the movement of the beam.
The package of any of claims 19 to 21, wherein the portion of the cover
overlying the device is spaced sufficiently far therefrom to obviate any

static electric charge on the cover from adversely affecting the
movement of the beam.
The package of any preceding claim, wherein the base has a device-conformal,

device-receiving first cavity therein, and
the mounting surface is a floor of the cavity.
The package of claim (23), adapted to serve as a package for
the device and for one or more chips which are electrically associated

with the device, which package further comprises:

one or more second cavities in the base, each second cavity being
adapted to retain one of the chips therein, the size of the seal ring and

the cover being sufficient for the former to surround all of the cavities
and the latter to overlie all of the cavities. 
The package of Claim 24, wherein the first cavity is generally centrally
located with respect to the second cavities.
The package of Claim 24 or Claim 25, which further comprises second
metallic paths extending (i) from the first metallic paths to the second

cavities, (ii) among the second cavities and (iii) from the second
cavities to the periphery of the base, the seal ring being fused to the

base and to the underlying metallic paths which extend to the
periphery of the base.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
