<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614149</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Communication network with non-unique device identifiers and method of establishing connection paths in such a network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1516	G06F15173	H04L1218	H04L1218	H04L1250	H04L1250	H04Q352	H04Q352	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04Q3	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communication network having a service processor (TΦ), 
a plurality 

of terminal nodes (T1-T15), and a network of switch nodes (A-H) for 
switchably connecting the service processor to each terminal 

node by way of one or more connection paths. Each 
switch node in the communication network is connected to 

the service processor either directly or through one or 
more other switch nodes. Each terminal node of the communication 

network is connected to a switch node. Each 
switch node and each terminal node has a device identification. 

At least two nodes have the same device identification. 
Each target node having the same device 

identification as another node can preferably be connected 
to the service processor by way of at least one connection 

path which does not any other node having the same device 
identification as the target node. All switch nodes having 

the same minimum connection path length may, for example, 
have the same device identification. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENNEAU MONTY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOCHSCHILD PETER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUNKEL CRAIG B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENNEAU, MONTY M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOCHSCHILD, PETER H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUNKEL, CRAIG B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to communication networks, such as 
for parallel processing systems. Parallel processing systems are computer systems containing 
large numbers of terminal nodes. The terminal nodes may 
be, for example, processors, memory elements, input/output 
servers, or other computer devices. The terminal nodes in 
parallel systems are commonly connected by a network of 
switch nodes that transfer information signals between the 
terminal nodes. Terminal nodes and switch nodes may be 
referred to collectively as network devices. Message-passing networks typically route message packets by 
circuit-switching or by packet-switching. In circuit-switching, 
control packets create a source-to-destination 
message path through the network by configuring individual 
switches along the desired connection path or circuit. 
Once a circuit is configured, one or more message packets 
are transmitted from the source to the destination over the 
circuit. In contrast, for packet-switching, each message 
packet is self-routing. That is, each message packet contains 
its own routing information which controls the individual 
switches dynamically. A circuit-switched network can be subclassified according 
to the underlying method of circuit configuration used by 
the control packets. If the control packets also obey 
circuit-switching to configure the network, the network is 
referred to as totally circuit-switched. In contrast, it  
 
is possible to construct a network in which control packets 
are packet-switched, and other message packets are circuit-switched. Most message-passing networks have (1) message-passing 
activities in which the network transports messages from a 
source terminal node to a destination terminal node, and 
(2) service activities in which a service processor controls, 
initializes, interrogates, or otherwise services the 
communication network. These contrasting functions may be 
implemented by separate communication networks, each connecting 
all network devices. Alternatively, the message-passing 
and the service activities may be time-multiplexed 
in a single unified network. The requirements of network service differ in several 
respects from the standard message passing activities of 
the communication network. A service processor is highly 
likely to send or receive a number of service message 
packets to or from one particular network device before 
commencing communication with a different network device. 
That is, there exists a high degree of temporal locality in 
service
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A communication network comprising: 
a service processor; 

a plurality of terminal nodes; and 
a network of switch nodes for switchably connecting the 

service processor to each terminal node by way of one 
or more connection paths, each switch node being connected 

to the service processor either directly or 
through one or more other switch nodes, each terminal 

node being connected to a switch node; 
characterized in that each switch node and each terminal 

node has a device identification, at least two 
nodes having the same device identification. 
A communication network as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that each target node having the same 

device identification as another node can be connected 
to the service processor by way of at least one connection 

path which does not include any other node 
having the same device identification as the target 

node. 
A communication network as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that: 

each connection path from the service processor to a 
target switch node has a connection path length equal 

to the number of intermediate switch nodes along the 
connection path from the service processor to but not 

including the target switch node;
 

each switch node has a minimum connection path length 
to the service processor; and 

all switch nodes having the same minimum connection 
path length have the same device identification. 
A communication network as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that switch nodes having different 

minimum connection path lengths to the service 
processor have dif
ferent device identifications. 
A communication network as claimed in one of 
claims 1 to 4, characterized in that at least a first 

set of terminal nodes have a first terminal node device 
identification. 
A communication network as claimed in claim 5, 
characterized in that a second set of terminal nodes 

different from the first set of terminal nodes have a 
second terminal node device identification different 

from the first terminal node device identification. 
A communication network as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized in that the first set of terminal nodes 

comprises processor nodes, and the second set of terminal 
nodes comprises input/output nodes. 
A communication network as claimed in one of 
claims 1 to 7, characterized in that no terminal nodes 

have the same device identification as a switch node. 
A communication network as claimed in one of 
claims 1 to 8, characterized in that each switch node 

and each terminal node comprises:
 

an input for receiving electronic service instruction 
signals, each electronic service instruction signal 

containing a device identification signal; 
a device identification register containing the device 

identification of the node; and 
a comparison circuit for comparing the device identification 

signal of an electronic service instruction 
signal with the device identification stored in the 

device identification register. 
A communication network as claimed in one of 
claims 1 to 9, characterized in that each switch node 

and each terminal node comprises a password recognition 
circuit for receiving electronic service password 

signals, and for storing a device identification in the 
device identification register of the node when an 

electronic service password signal is recognized. 
A communication network as claimed in one of 
claims 1 to 10, characterized in that: 

the service processor outputs electronic service 
instruction signals into the network of switch nodes, 

each electronic service instruction signal containing a 
device identification signal; and 

each switch node and each terminal node receiving an 
electronic service instruction signal containing a 

device identification signal matching the device identification 
of the switch node or the terminal node executes 

the service instruction. 
A method of establishing a connection path from 
a source device to a target node in a communication 

network comprising:
 

a source device; 
a plurality of terminal nodes, each terminal node 

having a device identification; and 
a network of switch nodes for switchably connecting the 

source device to each terminal node by way of one or 
more connection paths, each switch node being connected 

to the source device either directly or through one or 
more other switch nodes, each terminal node being connected 

to a switch node, each switch node having a 
device identification, at least two nodes having the 

same device identification; 
said method comprising the steps of: 

identifying one or more intermediate switch nodes along 
a connection path from the source device to but not 

including the target node; 
sequentially forming a connection path from the source 

device to each identified intermediate switch node in 
an order from the identified intermediate switch node 

closest to the source device to the identified intermediate 
switch node farthest from the source device; and 

forming a connection path from the identified intermediate 
switch node farthest from the source device to 

the target node. 
A method of establishing a connection path from 
a source device to a plurality of target nodes in a 

communication network comprising: 
a source device;

 
a plurality of terminal nodes, each terminal node 

having a device identification; and 
a network of switch nodes for switchably connecting the 

source device to each terminal node by way of one or 
more connection paths, each switch node being connected 

to the source device either directly or through one or 
more other switch nodes, each terminal node being connected 

to a switch node, each switch node having a 
device identification, at least two nodes having the 

same device identification; 
said method comprising the steps of: 

identifying one or more intermediate switch nodes along 
a plurality of connection paths from the source device 

to but not including the target nodes; 
sequentially forming a connection path from each identified 

intermediate switch node to each target device 
in an order from the identified intermediate switch 

node farthest from the source device to the identified 
intermediate switch node closest to the source device. 
A method as claimed in claim 12 or 13, 
characterized in that the step of forming a connection 

path from a selected identified intermediate switch 
node to a target device comprises the steps of: 

forming a connection path from the source device to the 
selected identified intermediate switch node; and then 

forming a connection path from the selected identified 
intermediate switch node to the target device. 
A method as claimed in one of claims 12 to 14,
 

characterized in that each target node having the same 
device identification as another node can be connected 

to the service processor by way of at least one connection 
path which does not include any other node 

having the same device identification as the target 
node. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
