<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641458</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR THE LINEARIZATION OF THE SIGNAL TRANSFER OF AN INTEGRATED OPTICAL PHASE MODULATOR COMPRISING MODULATORS COUPLED IN CASCADE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F103	G02F129	G02F1313	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRYSTAL TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRYSTAL TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKEIE HALVOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKEIE, HALVOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Apparatus and method for the linearization of the signal transfer of an integrated optical phase modulator comprising modulators coupled in cascade.Related ApplicationThe present invention is related to Applicant's co- pending application Serial No 07/706,911, filed May 29, 1991, and entitled "APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR LINEARIZED CASCADE COUPLED INTEGRATED OPTICAL MODULATOR", which is incorporated herein by reference.Field Of The InventionThis invention relates generally to modulators, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for providing linearized signal transfer in integrated electro-optical phase 5 modulators.Background Of The InventionIntegrated electro-optical modulators are finding increasing use in state-of-the-art analog optical-fiber communication systems. Such systems are being developed as an-. 10 alternative to conventional electromagnetic transmission lines. Present optical-fiber communication systems may consist of a high power, low noise laser source in conjunction with a wide bandwidth external modulator, for example. Such external modulators may be used in conjunction with high power, low noise 

lasers, to provide analog signal transfer in optical fiber cable T.V. networks. A common problem in such systems is that the dynamic range thereof is limited by intermodulation distortion, and by harmonic distortion due to modulator nonlinearities. Many attempts have been made in the art to improve the linearity of the modulators.One method of improving the linearity of optical modulators is to provide electromagnetic predistortion of the input signal. A system for accomplishing this is reported in an article by R.P. Childs and D.A. 0'Byrne, that appeared in OFC 90, entitled "Predistortion Linearization of Directly Modulated DFB Lasers and External Modulators for AM Video Transmission."There are many examples of electro-optical modulators, demodulators, and modulating systems in the art. A number of such prior systems are briefly discussed below.Johnson U.S. Patents 5,015,053 and 5,002,355 refer to linearization of an interferometric modulator by coupling to transverse electric (TE) and transverse magnetic (TM) modes. A carrier wave derived from a light source is polarized by a polarizer for adjusting the power of the carrier wave in the TE and TM polarization modes.Hamilton et al. U.S. Patent 5,010,346 shows an electro- optical analog-to-digital converter. A laser light source is synchronized with a digital clock for producing pulses of light. The pulses of light are modulated by an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An integrated optical phase modulator for linearly modulating a light signal, comprising: a substrate; light signal receiving means for dividing a light signal into first and second light input signals of substantially equal power level; first optical phase modulator means for receiving said first and second light signals, and modulating the light signals by a first rf signal, thereby producing modulated first and second complementary secondary output signals; a first optical coupler having a pair of input ports for receiving said first and second secondary output signals, and a pair of output ports; second optical phase modulator means connected to said pair of output ports of said first optical coupler for receiving and then modulating said first and second secondary output signals by a second rf signal, thereby producing complementary third and fourth secondary output signals; a second optical coupler connected to said second optical phase modulator means for individually receiving said third and fourth secondary output signals; first and second light waveguide means each having an input port connected to first and second output ports, respectively, of said second optical coupler, said first and second light waveguide means each having an output port for providing complementary and linearized first and second modulated light output signals; and said light signal receiving means, first and second optical phase modulator means, first and second optical couplers, and first and second waveguide means, all being formed on said substrate. 


 2. The integrated optical phase modulator of claim 1, wherein said light signal receiving means consists of a Y-branch power splitter.
3. The integrated optical phase modulator of claim
1, wherein said light signal receiving means consists of a 3 dB coupler.
4. The integrated optical phase modulator of claim 1, further including means for compensating for asymmetric phase modulation in said phase modulator.
5. The integrated optical phase modulator of claim 4, wherein said means for compensating for asymmetric phase modulation includes dc bias electrode means in each one of said first and second optical phase modulator means, for receiving first and second dc bias voltages, respectively, whereby the levels of said first and second dc bias voltages are adjusted relative to one another for providing compensation for the asymmetric phase modulation.
6. The integrated optical phase modulator of claim 1, further including means for compensating for fabrication inaccuracies causing deviations of coupling angle values of said first and second fixed couplers, respectively, from predetermined values.
7. The integrated phase modulator of claim 6, wherein said compensating means for coupling angle errors includes means for individually adjusting at least one of the amplitudes of said first and second rf signals.
8. The integrated phase modulator of claim 7, wherein said coupling angle error adjusting means includes: 


 a power splitter for receiving an rf signal V(t) , and splitting V(t) into two substantially equal rf signals V,(t) and V
2
(t) ; and first and second variable attenuators for receiving said V,(t) and V
2
(t) rf signals, respectively, for selectively adjusting the amplitudes of these rf signals, thereby producing said first and second rf signals.
9. The integrated phase modulator of claim 6, wherein said coupling error adjusting means further includes: first and second matching circuitry means connected between individual output terminals of said compensating means and individual rf input terminals of said first and second optical phase modulator means, respectively, for ensuring a flat and equal frequency response by said first and second optical phase modulator means to said first and second rf signals.
10. In an integrated optical phase modulator provided on a substrate, a method for maximizing the linearity thereof comprising the steps of: forming a light splitting device, for splitting an input light signal into first and second input light signals; forming a first optical phase modulator in cascade with said light splitting device; forming a first optical coupler in cascade with said first optical phase modulator; forming a second optical phase modulator in cascade with said first optic _ coupler; forming a second opt,'
*
 J coupler in cascade with said second optical phase modulator; and applying first and second rf modulating signals to said first and second optical phase modulators, respectively, for modulating __ __ \ first and second input 


light signals, for producing first and second complementary output signals at output ports, respectively, of said second fixed coupler.
11. The method of claim 10, further including the step of adjusting the levels of at least one of said first and second rf modulating signals, for compensating for errors in the coupling angles of said first and second couplers.
12. The method of claim 10, further including the step of: forming dc bias electrodes on said first and second optical phase modulators; and applying and adjusting the levels of first and second dc bias voltages to said dc bias electrodes of said first and second phase modulators, respectively, for compensating for asymmetric phase modulation caused by fabrication inaccuracies in forming said integrated optical phase modulator.
13. A cascaded integrated optical phase modulator for linearly modulating a light signal, comprising: a substrate; receiving waveguide means for receiving a light input signal, and splitting said signal into first and second input light signals; a first optical phase modulator including a first waveguide segment having one end connected to said receiving waveguide means for receiving said first input light signal, a second waveguide segment parallel to said first waveguide segment having one end connected to said receiving waveguide means for receiving said second input light signal, first and second modulating electrode means in parallel with and spaced apart from a portion of each one of said first and second waveguide segments. 


respectively, said first and second modulating electrode means being connected in common for receiving a first rf modulating signal, and first and second dc bias electrode means in parallel with and spaced apart from another portion of each one of said first and second waveguide segments, respectively, said first and second dc bias electrode means being connected in common for receiving a first dc bias voltage; a first optical coupler including first and second parallel waveguide segments each having one end individually connected to another end of each one of said first and second waveguide segments, respectively, of said first optical phase modulator; a second optical phase modulator including a first waveguide segment having one end connected to another end of said first waveguide segment of said first optical coupler, a second waveguide segment parallel to said first waveguide segment having one end connected to another end of said second waveguide segment of said first optical coupler, said second optical phase modulator further including first and second modulating electrode means in parallel with and spaced apart from a portion of each one of said first and second modulating electrode means being connected in common for receiving a second rf modulating signal, and first and second dc bias electrode means in parallel with and spaced apart from another portion of each one of said first and second waveguide segments, respectively, said first and second dc bias electrode means being connected in common for receiving a second dc bias voltage; output waveguide means connected individually to another end of each one of said first and second waveguide segments, respectively, of said second optical phase modulator, for providing first and second complementary light output signals, whereby the levels of said first and second dc bias voltages, and the amplitudes of at least one 


of said first and second rf modulating signals, are adjusted for maximizing the linearization of said first and second output signals; and said receiving waveguide means, first and second optical phase modulators, first and second optical couplers, and output waveguide means all being formed on said substrate.
14. The cascaded integrated optical phase modulator of claim 13, wherein said first optical phase modulator further includes: first and second reference voltage electrodes in parallel with said first and second modulating electrodes, respectively, with said first and second waveguide segments lying therebetween, respectively; and third and fourth reference voltage electrodes in parallel with first and second dc bias electrode means, respectively, with said first and second waveguide segments lying therebetween, respectively, whereby said first through fourth reference voltage electrodes are each receptive of a source of reference voltage.
15. The cascaded integrated optical phase modulator of claim 14, wherein said second optical phase modulator further includes: first and second reference voltage electrodes in parallel with said first and second modulating electrodes, respectively, with said first and second waveguide segments lying therebetween, respectively; and third and fourth reference voltage electrodes in parallel with first and second dc bias electrode means, respectively, with said first and second waveguide segments lying therebetween, respectively, whereby said first through fourth reference voltage electrodes are each receptive of a source of reference voltage. 


 16. The cascaded integrated optical phase modulator of claim 13, further including an external source of adjustable first and second rf modulating voltages including: a splitter for receiving and splitting an rf voltage signal into first and second rf modulating signals; and at least one variable attenuator for selectively controlling the amplitude of at least one of said first and second rf modulating signals, for compensating for errors in the coupling angles of said first and second optical couplers.
17. The cascaded integrated optical phase modulator of claim 13, further including: an external source of first and second rf modulating voltages; first and second impedance matching means connected between individual output terminals of said external source of first and second rf modulating voltages,and said first and second optical phase modulators, respectively, for matching the impedance therebetween.
18. The cascaded integrated optical phase modulator of claim 13, wherein said receiving waveguide means consists of a Y-branch power splitter.
19. The cascaded integrated optical phase modulator of claim 13, wherein said receiving waveguide means consists of a 3 dB optical coupler.
20. A linearized cascaded optical phase modulator, comprising: 


 signal splitter waveguide means for receiving a light signal, and splitting the same into first and second light input signals; a first and second optical phase modulator stages each including first and second elongated, parallel and spaced apart waveguides, first through third juxtaposed radio-frequency-interference (RFI) electrodes each having an elongated rectangular configuration, each overlying and centered upon said first and second waveguides, first through third signal electrodes centrally located between and parallel with said first and second waveguides within said rectangular configured RFI electrodes, respectively, first through third electrical terminal pads located outside of said first through third RFI electrodes, respectively, and first through third connecting electrodes for connecting said first through third terminal pads to said first through third signal electrodes, respectively, through openings in side members of said first through third RFI electrodes, respectively; said first and second waveguides of said first phase modulator stage being connected for receiving said first and second light input signals; a first optical signal coupler located between said first and second optical phase modulator stages for connecting the two in cascade with one another; first and second spaced apart output waveguides each for providing at one end first and second complementary light output signals, respectively; a second optical coupler connected between output ends of said first and second waveguides of said second phase modulator stage, and the other ends of said first and second output waveguides; said RFI electrodes of said first and second phase modulator stages each being connected to a source of reference potential; 



 said first and second terminal pads of said first phase modulator stage each being adapted for receiving a first modulating signal; said first and second terminal pads of said second phase modulator stage each being adapted for receiving a second modulating signal; said third terminal pads of said first and second phase modulator stages being adapted for receiving first and second dc bias voltages respectively; and a substrate upon which said linearized cascaded optical phase modulator is formed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
