<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627878</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A TEDDER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01D7800	A01D7810	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01D	A01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01D78	A01D78	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tedder has a main frame (10) adapted for suspension from the three-point suspension of a tractor, a carrier beam (11) for a plurality of rake rotors (21) being pivotally suspended from said main frame in a manner such that the angle of the rotor axes with the vertical can be changed by rotation of a screw spindle (17) from the cab of the tractor, said screw spindle being engaged with a nut (16) on a bracket (15) on the beam. A height adjustment mechanism is activated by an angle lever (54, 67) which is pivotally arranged in the beam, or a member firmly connected therewith, one arm (67) of said angle lever being so connected with the stationary end of the screw spindle (17) that said spindle rotates when the inclination of the rotor shafts is changed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KVERNELAND TAARUP AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KVERNELAND TAARUP A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN JENS CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, JENS, CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a tedder of the type defined in the 
introductory portion of claim 1. In such a tedder the 
angle adjustment mechanism for pivoting the carrier beam 
makes it possible to change the inclination of the rake 
rotors with respect to the travelling direction to obtain 
optimum spreading of the mown grass crop. Height adjustment 
means for the travelling wheels make it possible to 
change the inclination of the rake rotors such that the 
desired height of the rake springs above the ground is 
maintained constantly in the direction of forward travel. In the known tedders of the present type the angle adjustment 
and the height adjustment are effected independently 
of each other, e.g. by means of hydraulic cylinders as 
shown and described in DE-B2-26 13 027, or by means of 
screw spindles and cord drives as shown and described e.g. 
in DE-C2-25 45 712. The object of the invention is to provide a tedder of the 
present type which is so adapted that adjustment of the 
angle of the rake rotors is automatically accompanied by a 
corresponding height adjustment of the travelling wheels. This object is achieved in that the tedder is constructed 
as stated in the characterizing portion of claim 1, since 
in this structure the axis of rotation of the angular 
lever is displaced when the carrier beam is pivoted to 
change the angle, and is rotated because of the connection 
of one arm with a point fixed with respect to the main 
frame such that the height adjustment means is displaced 
to change the wheel height. This adjustment can be performed 
from the cab of the tractor in the operation of the 
tedder.  
 The embodiment of the tedder defined in claim 4 entails 
that the height of the wheels can be adjusted independently 
of the angular position. Other expedient details in the tedder of the invention are 
defined in claims 5-9. Claim 10 defines an embodiment of the tedder in which the 
rake rotors are driven by a shaft extending through the 
carrier beam, while claim 11 defines an embodiment in 
which the drive shaft in the carrier beam is divided into 
sections between the rotor shafts. The invention will be explained more fully below with 
reference to the drawing, in which 
fig. 1 is a vertical, partially sectional view of an embodiment 
of the tedder of the invention with a divided 
drive shaft, fig. 2 is a corresponding vertical view of a second embodiment 
having a through-going drive shaft, and fig. 3 is a vertical section through an amended embodiment 
of a part of the tedder. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tedder having a main frame (10) intended for suspension 
from a tractor and a carrier beam (11) which is pivotally 

connected with said main frame (10) about a horizontal axis 
(13), a plurality of rake rotors (21), which are rotatable 

about their respective substantially vertical axes, being 
suspended from said carrier beam (11), each of said rake rotors 

being supported by a travelling wheel (34) whose height 
position with respect to the carrier beam (11) is adjustable by 

means of a height adjustment means slidable in parallel 
with the rotor axis, said tedder having an angle adjustment 

mechanism (15-20) preferably activatable from the 
driver's seat of the tractor to pivot the carrier beam (11) with 

respect to the main frame (10), 

characterized
 by an angle lever (39, 41; 54, 
67) which is rotatable about an axis (40; 53) stationary 

with respect to the carrier beam (11), one arm (41; 47) of 
said angle lever being connected with a member (17) 

to the main frame (10) so that movement 
of the carrier beam (11) with respect to the main frame (10) 

causes rotation of the angle lever with respect to the carrier beam 
(11), the other arm (39; 54) of said angle lever being 

so connected with the height adjustment means (36; 
55-63) that said means is displaced upon rotation of the 

angle lever. 
A tedder according to claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the connection between the first arm (67) 

of the angle lever (54, 67) and the member (17) 
is established by 

means of a link (68) arranged between the arm and the 
point. 
A tedder according to claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the connection between the first arm (41) 

of the angle lever (39, 41) and the member (17)  
 

is established in that the 
arm (41) is provided with a slot (42) receiving a pin (43) 

which is firmly connected with the member (17). 
A tedder according to claim 1, 2 or 3, 
characterized
 
in that the location of the point articulated 

to the first arm of the angle lever is adjustable by 
means of a height adjustment mechanism (70, 71) activatable 

from the driver's seat of the tractor. 
A tedder according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized
 in that the angle adjustment 
mechanism is formed by a screw spindle (70) which is rotatable 

from the cab of the tractor and cooperates with a 
nut (71) connected with the carrier beam. 
A tedder according to claim 5, 
characterized
 
in that the screw spindle (70) is blocked against 

displacement in its longitudinal direction, and that the 
end of said spindle forms the point articulated to the 

first arm of the angle lever. 
A tedder according to claim 5, 
characterized
 
in that the angle adjustment mechanism further 

includes a screw spindle (17) rotatable from the cab of 
the tractor, and that this second screw spindle cooperates 

with a nut (16) connected with the carrier beam such that 
said nut is displaced by rotation of the screw spindle, 

and that the end of said second spindle forms the point 
connected with the first arm (41; 67) of the angle lever. 
A tedder according to claim 7, 
characterized
 
in that the screw spindle (17) of the angle adjustment 

mechanism is hollow, and that the screw spindle 
(70) of the height adjustment mechanism is arranged inside 

and coaxially with the hollow spindle and cooperates with  
 

a nut (70) firmly mounted on the end of said spindle. 
A tedder according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized
 in that the carrier beam (11) 
is secured on one end of a first arm (12), whose other end 

is pivotally secured to the main frame (10, 14), and that 
a second upwardly extending arm (15) is additionally secured 

to the carrier beam, said arm (15) rotatably mounting 
the nut (16) cooperating with the screw spindle (17) 

of the angle adjustment mechanism. 
A tedder according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the carrier beam (11) contains a through shaft 

(52) for operating the rake rotors (21), 
characterized
 
in that the first arm (67) of the angle 

lever (54, 67) is firmly mounted on a control shaft (53), 
which is rotatably journalled in the carrier beam and 

extends in parallel with the drive shaft past all the 
rotor shafts and carries a second arm (54) opposite each 

of these, which is connected with a rod (55), which is 
preferably arranged on the exterior of the carrier beam 

and is slidable in parallel with the rotor axis, so that 
said rod (55) is displaced by rotation of the control 

shaft, said rod carrying a roller (58) which is in rolling 
contact with one or the other of two flanges (59) on a 

sleeve (48), which carries the rotor arms (24) and is 
slidable on, but fixed against rotation with respect to 

the rotor shaft (49), said flanges being located above a 
rotor hub disc (22), a second pair of flanges being provided 

below this disc on the sleeve, said second pair of 
flanges having interposed between them a second roller 

(60) whose shaft is connected with the height adjustment 
means (61). 
A tedder according to any of claims 1-9, wherein the 
drive shaft for the rake rotors (21) contained in the  

 
carrier beam (11) is divided into sections between the 

rotor shafts (26), 
characterized
 in that the 
rotor shafts (26) are hollow, and that the height adjustment 

means are formed by a slidable rod (36), which is 
arranged in each rotor shaft and whose upper end protrudes 

from the carrier beam (11), and are firmly connected with 
each other and articulated to the second arm (39) of the 

angle lever (39, 41), which is common to all rotors (21). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
