<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642179</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOLID STATE IMAGING DEVICE AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCTION THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L31113	H01L2184	H01L27146	H01L2712	H01L2170	H01L27146	H01L2712	H01L31101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L31	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An active layer (3') consisting of non-single-crystal silicon is formed by a thin-film technology on a substrate 
(1) coated with an insulation layer (2), and a gate electrode layer (5') is partially disposed on the active layer (3') 

through a gate insulation layer (4'). An imaging device having a MOS structure can be obtained by introducing a 
P- or N-type impurity into the active layer (3'). A bias voltage is applied to the gate electrode in such a manner 

that forward current flows between source and drain. When input light is applied to the active layer between the 
source and the drain through the gate electrode or the substrate, an electric output corresponding to the input light is 

obtained from the source or the drain. MOS transistors are provided on the substrate (1) to form switching devices 
and shift registers, which are necessary for the operation of the imaging device. The active layer (3') can be obtained 

by crystallizing an amorphous silicon layer by laser annealing or high temperature annealing with hydrogenation, and 
a trap density less than 5x10¹¹/cm² is realized. The light response time of the imaging device is several hundreds of 

microseconds (µsec), that is, 10 times or higher than the response of a conventional photosensor using amorphous 
silicon. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a solid state
imaging device and a method for producing such a device; in
particular, it relates to such a device which
it has a quick optical response time, and a method for its manufacture. A single common
substrate may mount both an imaging device and transistors
and/or switching elements for operating the imaging
device, and a plane operation is possible.Lately, following the development of facsimile
system, an imaging device or an image sensor is required to
be smaller in size, lighter in weight, and cheaper in
cost. An image sensor used in facsimile systems is
classified into three kinds, non-contact type, contact
type, and complete contact type.A non-contact type image sensor projects an image of a
document on a CCD (charge coupled device) which has a single
crystal PN junction through a lens system. It is produced by an
LSI process which has been established, and
therefore, it has high productivity and has advantage of
low cost. However, it has the problems in volume and
weight, as it must have a lens system. A contact type and a complete contact type are
superior to non-contact type in volume and weight.
However, they have problems in the producing process, and costs
for assembling are high. Further, a contact type has the problem that
it must use an expensive selfoc lens array. A complete
contact type does not use a selfoc lens array. A contact
type is cheaper as it uses a thin glass as a
substrate.As for a contact type image sensor which is used in a
facsimile system, a multi-chip type which mounts many
MOS-LSI chips on a substrate, and a thin film type which
uses a photo-diode made of amorphous silicon film as an
optical sensor have been known. Those use a selfoc lens
array.A multi-chip type has the advantage that it has high
producing yield rate and that stable supply is possible, as it
is produced through MOS-LSI process which is an established
technique. However, it has the disadvantage that the
characteristics are not uniform due to assembling errors.On the other hand, as for a thin film type which is
produced on an insulation substrate like glass or ceramics
through thin film process, it is possible to obtain an
image sensor with large area, and/or an image sensor
having a length equal to that of a manuscript. However, it
has the disadvantage that the producing cost is high
because it has many producing steps, and the producing
yield rate is low.As for an optical-electrical converter for an image
sensor, a photo conductor type and a photo diode type

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solid state image sensor comprising:

a substrate (1) having insulation surface (2),
an active layer (3) of non-single crystal silicon layer provided on said
insulation surface (2), having at least a source region (6) and a drain

region (6'),
a gate electrode layer (5') provided on light receiving region between said
source region (6) and said drain region (6') on said active layer through a

gate insulation layer (4'),
a source electrode layer (8) and a drain electrode layer (8) each provided
on said source region (6) and said drain region (6'), respectively,
electrical output of current between said source electrode layer (8) and said
drain electrode layer (8) being provided depending upon input light which

illuminates said light receiving region on said active layer (3),

characterized in that trap density at the border between the gate insulation layer (4') and
the active layer (3) is less than 5x10
11
/cm
2
.
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein said gate electrode layer
(5') is made of Indium-Tin-Oxide, ITO, layer, and said input light is introduced to said

light receiving region through said gate electrode layer (5').
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein said substrate (1) is
transparent for input light, and said input light is introduced to said light receiving region

through said substrate (1).
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein absolute value of said
bias potential is less than 7.5 V.
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein said substrate (1) is made
of non-single crystal silicon.
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein said substrate (1) is made
of glass.
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein said active layer (3) is
non-single crystal silicon layer which is obtained by crystallizing amorphous silicon layer 

through anneal process with a laser pulse and hydrogenate process.
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of said active
layer (3) is in the range between 20 nm and 1000 nm, the thickness of said gate insulation

layer (4') is in the range between 20 nm and 300 nm, and said active layer (3) is a
non-single crystal silicon layer obtained by crystallizing said amorphous silicon layer

through an anneal process at higher than 600°C, and hydrogenating the same.
A solid state image sensor according to claim 1, wherein said substrate (1) mounts
thin film MOS transistors for a switching element and a shift register for operating said

image sensor.
A method for producing a solid state image sensor having a thin film transistor
comprising the steps of:


providing a silicon oxide layer (2) on a substrate (1),
providing amorphous silicon layer (3) on the same,
providing crystallized non-single crystal silicon layer by annealing said
amorphous silicon layer (3) by illuminating said amorphous silicon layer

with a pulse having short duration generated by an Excimer laser,
providing an island of said crystallized non-single crystal silicon layer to
provide an active layer (3'),
providing a gate insulation layer (4') and a gate electrode layer (5') on the
same,
doping impurities in said active layer (3') to provide a source region (6)
and a drain region (6'),

characterized in that it comprises a step of:

heating the whole body in a hydrogen atmosphere to decrease trap density
at the border between the gate insulation layer (4') and the active layer (3')

less than 5x10
11
/cm
2
.
A method for producing a solid state image sensor according to claim 10, wherein
said substrate (1) is a multi-crystal silicon substrate.
A method for producing a solid state image sensor according to claim 10, wherein
said substrate (1) is a single-crystal silicon substrate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
