<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626568</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid gauging apparatus and remote sensor interrogation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F2330	G01F23296	G01F23296	G01F2300	G01F2300	G01F2372	G01F2304	G01F2374	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A liquid gauging system for a liquid container (10) 
comprises sensors (82) for producing a first 

electromagnetic signal that corresponds to liquid quantity 
in the container, and remote interrogation units (34) for 

receiving the first electromagnetic signal and producing a 
system output that corresponds to the liquid quantity. 

The sensors (12) are energized by a second electromagnetic 
signal transmitted by the remote interrogation unit (34). 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION PRODUCTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROWNE DAVID HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROWNE, DAVID HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to apparatus and methods for liquid gauging, and more
particularly to apparatus and methods for remotely interrogating liquid quantity
sensors.Many types of liquid quantity and level sensors are known, including capacitive
sensors, resistive sensors, acoustic sensors and so forth. Passive sensors generally
operate on the basis of a sensor element that exhibits a parameter, e.g. capacitance,
that varies with the liquid level. Active sensors such as acoustic sensors operate on
the basis of producing a signal, e.g. an acoustic pulse, that can be used to detect the
liquid level by parametric analysis such as echo ranging.Such systems further include an electronic circuit that detects the parametric
value of interest and converts that value to a signal that corresponds to the liquid
level.A common application for such liquid level sensors is for fuel level and
quantity detection in aircraft fuel tanks. However, due to the volatile nature of fuel,
it is desirable to minimize the connection of electrical energy to the sensors which
may be disposed in the fuel. It is further desirable to minimize the amount of
electrical energy stored in the sensors or used by the sensors.A known approach for minimizing the coupling of electrical energy into a fuel
tank is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,963,729, issued to Spillman et al., and commonly
owned by the assignee of the present invention. In this system, optical energy is
coupled to the sensors via optic fibers. This optical energy is then converted to
electrical energy for energizing the sensors. The sensors detect the liquid level and
then transmit another optical signal back to a detector via the optic fibers. The
detector then converts the second optical signal into an output that corresponds to
liquid level in the tank.For aircraft applications, on board readings often need to be verified by
ground crews, either during routine turn around or to confirm an error reading. The
optical fiber link to the internal sensor in the above system prevents as a practical 
matter interrogation of the sensor by ground crews, other than via the same optic
fiber link which may in fact be the cause of a fault reading.A commonly used fuel level sensor in commercial aircraft particularly is a
dripstick sensor, which is used as a backup fuel gauging apparatus to the on-board
electronic fuel level sensors. For example, dripstick verification may be needed when
a refueling truck gauge disagrees with the aircraft fuel gauge, if the on-board fuel
gauges appear to be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A backup liquid gauging system for use with a liquid container that includes
at least one primary sensor coupled to a primary liquid gauging system for determining

liquid quantity in said container, the backup gauging system having a secondary
sensor disposed at the container for producing an output based on liquid quantity in

the container, sensor means coupled to the secondary sensor for producing a first
electromagnetic signal related to liquid quantity in the container, receiving means

remotely located from the container and without physical connection to said sensor
means for receiving said first electromagnetic signal and producing a system output

related to the liquid quantity, and an interrogation means remotely located from said
container and without physical connection to said sensor means for transmitting a

second electromagnetic signal to energize said sensor means to produce said first
electromagnetic signal.
A system according to claim 1 wherein said receiving means comprises a hand
held unit.
A system according to claim 2 wherein the container is an aircraft fuel tank and
said secondary sensor comprises a dripstick.
A system according to claim 1 wherein said sensor means comprises a dripstick
having a magnetoresistive element that varies in relation to liquid level in the

container.
A system according to claim 4 wherein said sensor means further comprises
light source means for producing an electromagnetic signal encoded with liquid level

data.
A system according to claim 5 wherein said electromagnetic signal is produced 
by a light source means that modulates a light beam in relation to liquid level in the

container.
A system according to claim 6 wherein said modulated light beam is a pulsed

light signal having a series of pulses with a time displacement that corresponds to
liquid level in the container.
A system according to claim 5 wherein said encoded electromagnetic signal
includes aircraft and sensor identification data.
A system according to claim 7 wherein said remote interrogation means
comprises means for demodulating said light beam to produce a system output

corresponding to liquid level in the container.
A system according to claim 1 wherein said remote interrogation means
comprises means for transmitting said second electromagnetic signal to said sensor

means, said sensor means comprising transducer means for converting said second
electromagnetic signal into electrical energy.
A system according to claim 10 wherein said sensor means is substantially
deenergized prior to receiving said second electromagnetic signal.
A system according to claim 11 wherein said first and second electromagnetic
signals are transmitted concurrently.
A system according to claim 11 wherein said first electromagnetic signal is
transmitted to said receiving means after said second electromagnetic signal is

discontinued. 
A system according to claim 1 further comprising a plurality of said sensor
means disposed at different positions of the container, said plurality of sensor means

being individually accessible to said remote interrogation means.
A system according to claim 14 wherein the container is an aircraft fuel tank
and said remote interrogation means can be used by an operator from the ground to

interrogate said sensor means.
A system according to claim 1 wherein said sensor means comprises a dripstick
having a magnetoresistive element that changes electrical resistance in response to

movement of a float at the liquid surface.
A system according to claim 1 wherein said receiving means comprises means
for determining electrically relative immersion of a dripstick sensor in the liquid.
A system according to claim 17 wherein said dripstick is adapted for manual
reading in addition to electronic reading by said receiving means.
A gauging system according to claim 1 wherein the container includes a
housing containing a dripstick that can be manually withdrawn from the container

housing to obtain a visual reading of the liquid quantity based on the position of a
float on the liquid surface; the sensor means being disposed in the housing and

actuated by the float to produce an output related to the liquid quantity; and wherein
the interrogation means includes means for interrogating the sensor means from a

remote location.
A system according to claim 19 wherein said interrogation means comprises
a hand-held remote control device that interrogates the sensor means. 
A system according to claim 20 wherein said remote control device transmits
electromagnetic energy to the sensor means to energise the sensor means, and receives

electromagnetic energy from the sensor means related to the liquid quantity.
A system according to claim 21 wherein the apparatus is installed in an aircraft
fuel tank and said remote control device can interrogate the sensor means from a

ground location.
A method for verifying by remote detection liquid quantity and/or level in a
container which is measured by a primary liquid gauging system, said method

including the use of a secondary sensor at the container that produces an output based
on liquid quantity in the container, and comprising the steps of:


producing a first electromagnetic signal from a sensor circuit coupled to said
secondary sensor, said first electromagnetic signal being related to said output of said

secondary sensor,
transmitting said first electromagnetic signal to a remote device that is not
physically connected to said sensor circuit;
producing a second electromagnetic signal from an interrogating device
remotely located from the container and not physically connected to said sensor circuit

and transmitting said second electromagnetic signal to energise said sensor circuit to
produce and transmit said first electromagnetic signal; and
determining from said first electromagnetic signal in said remote device a
measure of liquid quantity in the container for comparison to the liquid quantity

measured by the primary liquid gauging system.
A method according to claim 23 wherein the step of producing the first
electromagnetic signal comprises the step of modulating a beam of light in relation to

liquid level in the container. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein the step of producing said second
electromagnetic signal and the step of detecting said first electromagnetic signal are

performed using a remote hand-held unit.
A method according to claim 24 as used for fuel gauging of aircraft fuel tanks
from a ground position.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
