<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0909198</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDICAL STENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2900	A61M2900	A61F206	A61F206	A61F290	A61F282	A61F284	A61F282	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M29	A61M29	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An expandable stent and stent graft having a small initial diameter, flexibility along its longitudinal axis prior to expansion and a large expanded and rigid Local strain on the stent material is minimized, as and after the balloon is expanded. More particularly, the stent has rotation joints having minimal strain during stent expansion. The stent is substantially the same length before and after expansion and being flexible longitudinally when constrained, it is easy to locate. A method of manufacturing stents is described comprising rotation of a tube beneath a moving fil, with light passing through the film onto the tube, at selected locations. A laser scanning system for stent manufacture is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an improved stent and stent graft for use in c.onstructed body tubes, and for widening a stenosis in a body cavity such as in an artery, in the bile duct, esophagus, and so forth.Intraluminal endovascular stenting is a method by which a prosthesis is inserted into a body tube and expanded so as to reopen a collapsed vessel wall and prevent the wall from recollapsing into the lumen. Endovascular stenting is particularly useful for arteries which are blocked or narrowed and is an alternative to surgical procedures that intend to bypass the occlusion.Previous structures used as stents or intraluminal vascular grafts have included coiled stainless steel springs; helical wound spring coil made from shape memory alloy; expanding metal stents formed in a zig-zag pattern; diamond shaped rectangular shaped, and other mesh and non-mesh designs. Some of the stents currently available employ a self expanding concept, whereby stent expansion is primarily achieved by removing a restraint mechanism holding the stent in a constricted configuration. Other stents in the prior art are delivered to the site by a balloon catheter system, and primarily employ balloon dilation to achieve proper stent expansion.Problems with this variety of stents is inadequate radial force to maintain expansion; inappropriate scaffolding of tissue to the wall; pre-dilated longitudinal rigidity which negatively impacts on stent delivery; and shortening of the stent as a consequence of radial expansion. Pre-dilation stent longitudinal rigidity is a significant shortcoming, and prevents the threading of the stent through long tortuous vessels and lesions. Shortening of the stent is also a problem, as it is important that the stent cover the entire lesion to minimize the risk of post-operative complications. Obviously, therefore, there is a need for a long yet flexible stent that will provide the appropriate scaffolding effect, will be able to track well in-curved vessels, will not shorten during radial expansion, and yet will have sufficient outward radial force to hold the artery open, even in the presence of hard calcified lesions. The stent disclosed herein overcomes these disadvantages. No stent having all of the desired features appears to exist, prior to this invention which achieves most of these properties.As is well known, a traditional alternative to conventional vascular surgery has been percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty. In this procedure, the angioplasty balloon is inflated within the stenosed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A medical stent (30), comprising:

at least two pairs of coaxial rings (1, 2, 33), each of said rings having windings (31) along its periphery, each of said rings having both a constricted state and an expanded state corresponding to the constricted and expanded state of said windings, and,
longitudinal connectors (22,35), said longitudinal connectors connecting said coaxial rings to form said stent in a hollow cylindrical shape, the constricted state of said stent allowing delivery of said stent on a catheter into a patient, and said expanded state of said stent causing said rings to rest against the walls of a body vessel into which said stent is placed, said rings being expandable from said constricted state to said expanded state, said stent being flexible along substantially its entire longitudinal axis when said stent is in said constricted state, said stent being more rigid when said stent is expanded to said expanded state, and said stent being substantially the same length independent of whether said rings or said stent are in said constricted or said expanded states; and 
characterised in that
the longitudinal connectors (22) between any one pair of adjacent rings (1, 2) are all of essentially the same length, and wherein
the number of longitudinal connectors of essentially the same length between one pair of adjacent rings is fewer than the number of longitudinal connectors of essentially the same length between at least one other pair of adjacent rings.
A medical stent as claimed in claim 1

wherein at least two adjacent rings form a pair in which the winding of a said second ring of said pair is the mirror image of the winding of said first ring of said pair.
A medical stent as claimed in claim 1 or 2

wherein all of said rings are not fully circular due to at least one segment
 of at least one of said rings being omitted.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim

wherein at least some of either said rings or said longitudinal connectors comprise undulating segments; and

wherein said undulating segments are opposed and offset U-shapes.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said stent is expandable by a balloon catheter.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said rings have points (4, 5, 6) on said windings, said points rotating forty-five (45) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
A medical stent as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said rings have points (4, 5, 6) on said windings, said points rotating ninety (90) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
A medical stent as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said rings have points (4, 5, 6) on said windings, said points rotating one hundred and eighty (180) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
A medical stent as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said rings have points on said windings, said points rotating three hundred and sixty (360) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
A medical stent as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said rings have
 at least two points (4, 5, 6) on said windings, at least one of said points rotating forty-five (45) degrees in a first direction and at least one of said points on said same ring rotating ninety (90) degrees in a direction opposite to said first direction.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said longitudinal connectors (22) are substantially straight when said stent is in said constricted state.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said longitudinal connectors (22) are substantially straight both when said stent is in said constricted state and when said stent is in said expanded state.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the shape of said stent in said expanded state is a hollow cylinder of substantially rigid rectangular mesh.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising rotatable joints (68, 69) on at least one of said rings.
A medical stent as claimed in claim 14, wherein said rotatable joints (68, 69) are circular.
A medical stent as claimed in claim 14 or 15, wherein said rotatable joints (68, 69) are points of connection between said rings and said longitudinal connectors.
A medical stent as claimed in claim 14, 15 or 16, wherein said rotatable
 joints are circular and hollow.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, in which at least part of said stent is comprised of tantalum.
A medical stent as claimed in claim 13, the connections between said rings and said longitudinal connectors being circular and rotatable joints at the corners of the rectangles of said mesh.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the radial expansion of said rings is enhanced, at least in part, by strain of said stent material.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said rings are expanded by both uncurling of said windings and strain of said stent material.
A medical stent as claimed in any preceding claim comprising a Y-shaped stent graft.
A medical stent according to any preceding claim comprising

a first coaxial ring (1), a second coaxial ring (2) and a third coaxial ring (3);

wherein a plurality of longitudinal connectors (22) connect the first ring and the second ring; and

wherein at least one longitudinal connector connects the second ring and the third ring such that no common junction is formed on the second ring with the plurality of longitudinal connectors connecting the first ring to the second ring.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
