<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644729</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOOTWEAR ACCESSORY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B500	A43B518	A43C1500	A43C1502	A43C1506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43C	A43C	A43C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B5	A43B5	A43C15	A43C15	A43C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An accessory to adapt footwear for use upon golf courses is disclosed. A thin, flexible, dish-shaped soleplate (5) is strapped to each sole of a footwear pair (15). The soleplate (5) contains tungsten tipped metal spikes (8) which extend from the lower surface of the soleplate (5). Each spike (8) has a broad base (9) embedded in within the soleplate (5) to firmly secure the spike (8) to the soleplate (5). At least one pair of straps (14A) passes over the top of the footwear (15), and at least one strap (14B) passes around the heel of the footwear (15) to secure the soleplate (5) to the footwear (15) using buckles (16), laces or other similar means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIDLER JAMES WILLIAM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIDLER, JAMES WILLIAM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIDLER JAMES WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIDLER, JAMES WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FOOTWEAR ACCESSORYThis invention relates to footwear, and more particularly to accessories for footwear somewhat of the nature of overshoes.Overshoes are accessories attached to items of footwear to modify footwear for specific tasks, for example strap-on skates and ice-spurs. Numerous advantages would accrue, for an individual owner, if an accessory of this nature were available for golfers. However, the requirements for such an application are stringent as the sole of the accessory must be spiked, it must be a firm fit, and must not interfere with a person's stance in the execution of a golf stroke. Previously known footwear accessories and overshoes, referred to above, usually incorporate a solid or heavy frame which underlies both the sole and heel of the user's footwear, and are unsuitable for the present application.It is therefore an object of the invention to provide an accessory for footwear which will effectively equip the wearer with spiked soles for use upon a golf course that will meet some or all of the abovementioned requirements.There is disclosed herein an accessory for footwear comprising: a thin, flexible soleplate of an elastic plastics material having an upper surface and a lower surface; a plurality of spikes protruding from the lower surface of the soleplate; and means for releasably attaching said soleplate to a shoe or other footwear piece.A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:Fig. 1 is a perspective view from above of a soleplate portion of a footwear accessory constructed according to the invention;Fig. 2 is a side elevation of the soleplate of Fig. 1;Fig. 3 shows an enlarged detail III shown in Fig. 2;Fig. 4 shows an embodiment of this invention fitted to a jogging shoe;Fig. 5 shows an alternative embodiment of the invention fitted to a running shoe with an upwardly curled toe portion;Fig. 6 is a rear elevation and partial section of the soleplate of Fig. 1 without any weight applied by, or being fastened to, a shoe;Fig. 7 is a rear elevation and partial section of the soleplate of Fig. 1 with the user's weight applied to the soleplate, and being correctly fastened to a shoe; 

 Fig. 8 is an under plan view of the invention showing the lower surface of the soleplate;Fig. 9 is a top view of another embodiment of the invention;Fig. 10 is a front elevation of the embodiment of Fig. 9;Fig. 11 is a rear elevation of the embodiment of Fig. 9;Fig. 12 is a perspective view of the embodiment
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. An accessory for footwear comprising: a thin, flexible soleplate of an elastic plastics material having an upper surface and a lower surface; a plurality of spikes protruding from the lower surface of the soleplate; and means for releasably attaching said soleplate to a shoe or other footwear piece.
2. The accessory of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of apertured protrusions around the periphery of said soleplate and projecting upwardly therefrom; and a plurality of straps passing through said apertures and secured to said protrusions for removably attaching said soleplate to said footwear.
3. The accessory of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of metal attachment members around the periphery of said soleplate and projecting upwardly therefrom; and a plurality of straps passing around said attachment members and secured to said attachment members for removably attaching said soleplate to said footwear.
4. The accessory of claim 3 wherein each metal attachment member has at least one thin, broad base, said base being embedded within the soleplate.
5. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 4, the soleplate being generally dish-shaped both longitudinally and transversely in its relaxed state with a concave upper surface, said soleplate being adapted to deflect resiliently to be generally flat when worn by the user.
6. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the soleplate further comprises an upper layer and a lower layer laminated thereto.
7. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the upper surface is rough or irregular to increase the grip between the upper surface and the sole of the footwear.
8. The accessory of claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the lower layer consists of a wear resistant material.
9. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein said spikes are of metal.
10. The accessory of claim 9, wherein each spike is disposed normally to the soleplate and comprises a thin, broad base normal to the axis of the shaft, said base being embedded within the soleplate. 


 11. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the thickness of the soleplate is increased in the region of each spike forming a boss around each spike.
12. The accessory of claim 11 in which each said boss has a substantially flat lower surface.
13. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 12 further comprising at least one pair of straps adapted to pass over the forward portion of the shoe or footwear and at least one strap adapted to pass around the heel of the shoe or footwear.
14. The accessory of claim 2 or any one of claims 5 to 13 further comprising one apertured protrusion located at the front of the soleplate, forming a toeplate for locating the toe of the footwear relative to the soleplate.
15. The accessory of any one of claims 3 to 13 further comprising one attachment member located at the front of the soleplate, forming a toeplate for locating the toe of the footwear relative to the soleplate.
16. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 15 in which the straps adapted to secure the soleplate to the footwear are removably attachable to one or more of the other straps by means selected from the group consisting of: a) buckle means attached to a first strap and a second strap attached to the first strap by engaging with said buckle means; or b) two or more straps each including a lacing aperture, and a lacing member passing through said lacing apertures and capable of being tied to secure said lacing apertured straps together; or c) a first strap having a region including a plurality of hook members and a second strap having a region including a plurality of loop members, said hook members being removably engageable with said loop members to retain the relative positions of said first and second straps; or d) a first strap having at least two rigid loop members attached thereto and a second strap passing through said loop members in a manner that will secure said second strap relative to said first strap.
17. The accessory of any one of claims 14 to 16 wherein said toeplate has a strap attached thereto, said toeplate strap being located longitudinally along the top of the front portion of the footwear, said toeplate strap having at least one aperture therein, with one or more of the other straps passing over the front portion of the footwear passing through said toe strap aperture(s), thereby locating said toeplate strap 


and said toeplate strap adapted to at least partially cover the footwear, thereby reducing the ingress of sand or dirt into the footwear.
18. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein the spikes are positioned in two curved rows, five spikes in each row, the rows being disposed along the length of the soleplate and being curved outwards, away from the centre of the soleplate.
19. The accessory of claim 18 further comprising an axis point located between and generally midway along the length of the rows, the spikes being paired and each spike of each said pair being located such that a straight line drawn through a pair of spikes also passes through the axis point, each of the pair of spikes being equidistant from the axis point.
20. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 19 with the soleplate being wider than the footwear to which the soleplate is attached.
21. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 20 in which the soleplate is constructed from injection moulded Nylon.
22. The accessory of any one of claims 1 to 21 where the thickness of the soleplate, excluding the bosses and any protrusions, is within the range of 1.25mm to 1.5mm.
23. The accessory substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 1 to 4 and Figures 6 to 8.
24. The accessory substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 1 to 3 and Figures 5 to 8.
25. The accessory substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 1 to 4 and Figures 6 to 12. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
