<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643609</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR FILTERING MINERAL SLURRIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2400	B01D2446	B01D2901	B01D2901	B01D2939	B01D2939	B01D2962	B01D2962	B01D2966	B01D2966	B01D3300	B01D3344	B01D3344	B01D3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D24	B01D24	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D33	B01D33	B01D33	B01D33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is disclosed for filtering slurries of minerals or other fine particles. The apparatus includes a ceramic filter plate (8) having a porous filtration layer with a filtration surface (14) overlying a support layer. The apparatus includes a device for drawing a partial vacuum across the filter plate (8) to form a filter cake (22) on said filter plate (8) at a cake forming station (Fig. 3a). The device further includes structure to move the filter plate (8) containing the cake to a drying station (Fig. 3b), a cake discharge station (Fig. 3c) and a cake cleaning station (Fig. 3d). At the cake discharge station a device for applying pulsed fluid to backwash the filter plate (8) is employed along with vibrations (26) to dislodge the filter cake (22) from the filter plate (8).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECC INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECC INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROXTON LAWRENCE EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COBB GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINN MICHAEL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC NEELY KELLY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROXTON, LAWRENCE, EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COBB, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINN, MICHAEL, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC NEELY, KELLY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS FOR FILTERING MINERAL SLURRIESBACKGROUND OF INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to apparatus for filtering fine particles from a liquid carrier and more specifically relates to an improved apparatus for dewatering aqueous slurries of very fine particle size minerals, including industrial minerals such as kaolin clays, calcium carbonates, and the like, as well as slurries of fine particle size coal, metaliferous ores, and the like.In the course of processing numerous minerals, a step of dewatering by filtration is commonly utilized. Such a requirement may be exemplified by considering the processing of crude industrial minerals such as kaolin clays and ground calcium carbonates, where the crude materials are commonly subjected to a series of steps intended to remove undesired impurities such as discolorants, so as to ultimately provide a refined product which is susceptible to the particular use for which it is intended. In the instance, for example, of kaolins, such beneficiation may in some instances be accomplished by dry processing techniques, as for example by air flotation. More commonly, however, especially where the impurities or contaminants to be removed are in some manner chemically combined or intimately associated with the mineral, wet processes of various types are employed. These include such well-known processes as froth flotation, reductive and oxidative bleaching, and high intensity magnetic separation. This is in addition to wet classification, which can also be regarded as a beneficiation step achieving some of the aforementioned objectives.Thus, in a typical procedure wherein the initial starting material is a crude sedimentary kaolin clay, including 

from about 1-2% titania, the said crude may be subjected to a separation process to reduce the titania content to below 0.8% by weight. More generally, the titania will be reduced to the range of from about 0.2 to 0.8. Where a froth flotation process is used for such purposes, the clay may be initially blunged and conditioned by forming an aqueous alkaline dispersion of the clay (pH adjusted to about 7-10 with ammonium hydroxide) . The dispersion may include as a deflocculating agent various compounds known to be useful for such purposes, such as sodium silicate. Other useful agents include a water-soluble salt of a polyacrylic acid or polymethacrylic acid preferably having an average molecular weight in the range of from about 500-10,000. Oleic acid or other collector agent is added during the conditioning process.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for filtering an aqueous mineral slurry comprising in combination:
(a) a ceramic filter plate having an interior porous support layer and a porous filtration layer overlying said support layer, the pore sizes in said filtration layer being substantially entirely 3 μm or less; and the side of said filtration layer non-adjacent said support layer constituting a filter surface for said mineral;
(b) fluid flow means connected to said plate for flowing fluids from and to said porous support layer;
(c) means connected to said fluid flow means, for selectively drawing a partial vacuum at said support layer to effect fluid flow inwardly through said filtration layer and porous support layer, and for providing one or more pulses of positive fluid pressure at said support layer to cause an outward fluid flow through said support layer and filtration layer;
(d) a mineral cake-forming station, including a container for receiving said mineral slurry, and means for positioning said filter plate within said slurry while drawing said partial vacuum, to cause said mineral to deposit on the external surface of said filtration layer as the aqueous phase of said slurry is withdrawn through said filtration layer and said support layer;
(e) a cake-drying station for permitting additional moisture to be removed from said cake by continued application of said partial vacuum with said plate removed from said container; 


 (f) a cake-discharge station downstream of said cake-drying station, whereat application of said one or more positive pressure pulses at the interior support layer of said plate causes a water film to form between said cake and said filter surface, thereby loosening said cake, causing said cake to be dislodged to facilitate removal from said filter plate; and
(g) control means connected to said fluid flow means for enabling said drawing of a partial vacuum at said cake-forming and cake-drying station, and for enabling said one or more positive water pressure pulses at said cake discharge station.
2. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the pore sizes in said filtration layer are in the range of 0.5 to 3 μm.
3. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said means (c) selectively provides constant or said pulses of said positive fluid pressure; and further including (h) a plate-cleaning station downstream of said cake-discharge station, whereat constant positive back pressure of water at the interior of said plate effects cleaning of said plate.
4. Apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said cake-discharge station is further provided with means for imparting vibrations or oscillations to said plate to facilitate the dislodging and release of the said filter cake.
5. Apparatus in accordance with claim 4, including means for applying said vibrations or oscillations immediately following application of said positive water pressure pulses. 


 6. Apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein said cake discharge station includes means for positioning said plates during oscillation with the cake- carrying filter surface in a substantially vertical plane, and wherein said vibrations or oscillations are imparted in a substantially vertical direction; whereby to facilitate said cake release function.
7. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, further including frame means for supporting elements (a) to (h) , and means for transporting said plate successively to said cake-forming, cake-drying, cake-discharging and plate-cleaning stations.
8. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein a plurality of said plates are mounted in a plate support sub-frame, and wherein said apparatus includes means for moving said plate support sub-frame successively to said stations (d) , (e) , (f) and (h) .
9. Apparatus for filtering a suspension of fine particles from a liquid carrier for same, comprising in combination:
(a) a ceramic filter plate having a luid-flow pervious support layer and an overlying porous filtration layer having an external filtration surface;
(b) fluid flow means connected to said plate for flowing fluids from and to said support layer;
(c) means connected to said fluid flow means, for selectively drawing a partial vacuum at said support layer to effect fluid flow inwardly through said filtration layer and support layer, and for providing constant level or one or more pulses of positive fluid pressure within said support layer to cause an outward 


fluid flow through said support layer and filter layer;
(d) a particle cake-forming station, including a container for receiving said suspension and means for positioning said filter plate within said suspension while drawing said partial vacuum, to cause said particles to deposit on the external surface of said plate;
(e) a cake-discharge station downstream of said cake-forming station, whereat application of said one or more positive fluid pressure pulses causes a fluid film to form between said cake and said filtration surface, thereby loosening said cake, causing said cake to be dislodged to facilitate removal from said filter plate; and
(f) control means connected to said fluid flow means for enabling said partial vacuum at said cake- forming and cake-drying station, and for enabling said positive fluid pressure pulses at said cake discharge station.
ιo. Apparatus in accordance with claim 9, wherein said cake-discharge station is further provided with means for imparting oscillations to said plate to facilitate the dislodging and release of the said filter cake.
ii. Apparatus in accordance with claim 10, wherein said cake discharge station includes means for positioning said plates during oscillation with the cake- carrying filter surface in a substantially vertical plane, and wherein said means imparting said oscillation effects the oscillations in a sustantially vertical direction, to facilitate said cake release function. 


 12. Apparatus in accordance with claim 9, further including a cake-washing station between said cake- forming and cake discharge stations, including a water reservoir for receiving therein said plates whereat continued application of said partial vacuum draws water through said cakes to remove water soluble impurities.
13. Apparatus in accordance with claim 11, further including frame means for supporting elements (a) to (f) , and means for transporting said plate from said cake- forming to cake discharge station.
14. Apparatus in accordance with claim 11, wherein the pores of said filtration layer are substantially all in the range of from about 0.5 to 3μm. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 9 June 1993 (09.06.93); original claims 4 and 10 cancelled; claim 1 amended; claims 5,6,7,8,9,11,13 and 14 renumbered as claims 4,5,6,7,8,9,10 and 11; other claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1 1. Apparatus for filtering an aqueous mineral
2 slurry comprising in combination: 3
4 (a) a ceramic filter plate having an interior
5 porous support layer and an external porous filtration
6 layer overlying said support layer, the pore sizes in
7 said filtration layer being substantially entirely 3 μm
8 or less; and the side of said filtration layer
9 nonadjacent said support layer constituting a filter 0 surface for said mineral; 1 2 (b) fluid flow means connected to said plate 3 for flowing fluids from and to said porous support layer; 4 5 (c) means connected to said fluid flow means, 6 for selectively drawing a partial vacuum at said support 7 layer to effect fluid flow inwardly through said 8 filtration layer and porous support layer, and for 9 providing one or more pulses of positive liquid pressure 0 at said support layer to cause an outward liquid flow 1 through said support layer and filtration layer; 2 3 (d) a mineral cake-forming station, including a 4 container for receiving said mineral slurry and means for 5 positioning said filter plate within said slurry while 6 drawing said partial vacuum, to cause said mineral to 7 deposit on the external filtration layer as the aqueous 8 phase of said slurry is withdrawn through said filtration 9 layer and said support layer thereby forming a cake on 0 said filtration layer; 1 2 (e) a cake-drying station for permitting 3 additional moisture to be removed from said cake by
SUBSTITUTE PAGE 


continued application of said partial vacuum, said cake- drying station comprising means to remove the plate having the cake thereon from said container;
(f) a cake-discharge station downstream of said cake-drying station, whereat application of said one or more positive liquid pressure pulses at the interior support layer of said plate causes a water film to form between said cake and said filter surface; said cake discharge station further comprising means for applying vibrations or oscillations to said plate, thereby loosening said cake, causing said cake to be dislodged to facilitate removal from said filter plate; and
(g) control means connected to said fluid flow means for enabling said drawing of a partial vacuum at said cake-forming and cake-drying station, and for enabling said one or more positive liquid pressure pulses at said cake discharge station.
2. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the pore sizes in said filtration layer are in the range of 0.5 to 3μm.
3. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said means (c) selectively, provides constant or said pulses of said positive liquid pressure; and further including (h) a plate-cleaning station downstream of said cake-discharge station, whereat means for applying constant positive back pressure of water at the interior of said plate effects cleaning of said plate.
4. Apparatus in accordance with claim 3, including means applying said vibrations or oscillations immediately following application of said positive liquid
SUBSTITUTE PAGE 


pressure pulses.
5. Apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said cake discharge station includes means for positioning said plates during oscillation with the cake- carrying filter surface in a substantially vertical plane, and wherein said vibrations or oscillations are imparted in a substantially vertical direction; whereby to facilitate said cake dislodging.
6. Apparatus in accordance with claim 5, further including frame means for supporting elements (a) to (h) , and means for transporting said plate successively to said cake-forming, cake-drying, cake-discharging and plate-cleaning stations.
7. Apparatus in accordance with claim 5, wherein a plurality of said plates are mounted in a plate support sub-frame, and wherein said apparatus includes means for moving said plate support sub-frame successively to said stations (d) , (e) , (f) and (h) .
8. Apparatus for filtering a suspension of fine particles from a liquid carrier for same, comprising in combination:
(a) a ceramic filter plate having a fluid-flow previous support layer and an overlying porous filtration layer having an external filtration surface;
(b) fluid flow means connected to said plate for flowing fluids from and to said support layer;
(c) means connected to said fluid flow means, for selectively drawing a partial vacuum at said support
SUBSTITUTE PAGE 


layer to effect fluid flow inwardly through said filtration layer and support layer, and for providing constant level or one or more pulses of positive liquid pressure within said support layer to cause an outward liquid flow through said support layer and filtration layer;
(d) a particle cake-forming station, including a container for receiving said suspension and means for positioning said filter plate within said suspension while drawing said partial vacuum, to cause said particles to deposit on the external filtration surface of said plate thereby forming a cake on said eternal filtration layer;
(e) a cake-discharge station downstream of said cake-forming station, whereat application of said one or more positive liquid pressure pulses causes a liquid film to form between said cake and said filtration surface, thereby loosening said cake; said cake-discharge station further comprising means for imparting oscillations to said plate, causing said cake to be dislodged to facilitate removal from said filter plate; and
(f) control means connected to said fluid flow means for enabling said partial vacuum at said cake- forming and cake-drying station, and for enabling said positive liquid pressure pulses at said cake discharge station.
9. Apparatus in accordance with claim 8, wherein said cake discharge station includes means for positioning said plates during oscillation with the cake- carrying filter surface in a substantially vertical plane, and wherein said means imparting said oscillation
SUBSTITUTE PAGE 


effects the oscillations in a substantially vertical direction, to facilitate said cake dislodging.
10. Apparatus in accordance with claim 9, further including frame means for supporting elements (a) to (f) , and means for transporting said plate from said cake- forming to cake discharge station.
11. Apparatus in accordance with claim 9, wherein the pores of said filtration layer are substantially all in the range of from about 0.5 to 3μm.
12. Apparatus in accordance with claim 8, further including a cake-washing station between said cake- forming and cake discharge stations, including a water reservoir for receiving therein said plates whereat continued application of said partial vacuum draws water through said cakes to remove water soluble impurities.
SUBSTITUTE PAGE 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
