<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621969</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEMORY-BASED METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COMPUTER GRAPHICS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T1570	G06T1300	G06T1570	G06T100	H04N715	G06T1300	G06T100	H04N715	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H04N	G06T	G06T	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T15	G06T13	G06T15	G06T1	H04N7	G06T13	G06T1	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A memory-based computer graphic animation system generates desired images and image sequences from 2-D views. The 2-D views provide sparse data from which intermediate views are generated based on a generalization and interpolation technique of the invention. This technique is called a Hyper Basis function network and provides a smooth mapping between the given set of 2-D views and a resulting image sequence for animating a subject in a desired movement. A multilayer network provides learning of such mappings and is based on Hyper Basis Functions (HBF's). A special case of the HBFs) is the radial basis function technique used in a preferred embodiment. The invention generalization/integration technique involves establishing working axes along which different views of the subject are taken. Different points along the working axes define different positions (geometrical and/or graphical) of the subject. For each of these points, control points for defining a view of the subject are either given or calculated by interpolation/generalization of the present invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IST TRENTINO DI CULTURA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASSACHUSETTS INST TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISTITUTO TRENTINO DI CULTURA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUNELLI ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POGGIO TOMASO A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUNELLI, ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POGGIO, TOMASO, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Computer technology has brought about a variety of 
graphics and image processing systems, from graphics 
animation systems to pattern recognition systems (such as 
neural networks). Important to such systems is the 
accuracy of generated (output) images and in particular 
image sequences. In general, graphic animation today is typically 
based on the three steps of (i) three dimensional modeling 
of surfaces of an object of interest, (ii) physically-based 
simulation of movements, and (iii) rendering or 
computer illumination of three dimensional images from 
calculated surfaces. The step of three dimensional 
modeling is typically based on a three dimensional 
description including x, y, z axis specifications and 
surface specifications. The resulting 3-D model is 
considered to be a physically-based model. To that end, 
every prospective view is computable. Movement such as 
rotation of the whole model or portions thereof, and 
illumination is then accomplished through computer aided 
design (CAD) systems and the like. While this 3-D 
modeling and physical simulation approach to graphic 
animation is clearly fundamentally correct and potentially 
powerful, current results are still far from obtaining 
general purpose, realistic image sequences. Before the use of three dimensional, physically-based 
models of objects for graphics animation, two dimensional 
images were used. In a two dimensional image of an object 
only a single perspective view is provided, i.e., is 
computable. Basically a series of 2-D images of an object 
in respective poses provides the illusion of whole object 
or object parts movement, and hence graphic animation.  
 
This 2-D serial image approach to graphic animation is 
cumbersome and often requires repetition in 
drawing/providing portions of views from one view to 
succeeding views, and is thus riddled with many 
inefficiencies. The 3-D model-based approach with 
computer support was developed with the advent of 
computer technology to improve on and preclude the 
inefficiencies of the 2-D image graphic animation 
approach. A technique for producing computer processed 
animation is discussed in International Patent 
Publication No. WO 89/09458. There, graphic movement 
sequences for a cartoon figure are produced by 
mimicking movement of an actor. Joints on the actor 
are associated with joints on the cartoon figure, which 
delineate segments of the figure. The segments are 
moveable in relation to one another at common joints. 
For each segment of the figure, a number of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for generating computer graphics animation of 
a subject having a display (78) for displaying an 

animated image sequence of the subject in a certain 
movement, the apparatus comprising: 


a source (69) for providing sample views (13) of a 
subject, each sample view (13) providing the subject in 

a different sample position along at least one working 
axis, each working axis being formed of a plurality of 

parameter values, each parameter value defining a 
different position of the subject along the working 

axis; 
a preprocessing member (65) coupled to receive 
from the source (69) the sample views (13), the preprocessing member 

165) having means for determining (i) a set of 
control points (15) of the subject in each sample view 

(13), and (ii) plane coordinates of the control points 
(15) in each sample view (13), and for each sample view 

(13), the preprocessing member (65) having means operable to associate 
the coordinates of the control points (15) with respective 

parameter values of the at least one working axis 
indicative of the sample position of the subject in 

that sample view (13); and 
an image processor (67) coupled to the preprocessing 
member (65) and having means responsive to the 

associations between the coordinates of the control 
points (15) and the parameter values of the sample 

positions of the subject, the image processor (67) 
including means operable to map the coordinates of the control points 

(15) for sample positions of the subject to provide control point (15) 
coordinates for desired intermediate positions along 

the at least one working axis to form intermediate  
 

views (17) of the subject, the image processor further including 
means operable to place both the sample views (13) and formed 

intermediate views (17) in a sequence to thereby form an image sequence, 
the image sequence defining a prototype for
 animation of any object in a 
class containing the subject. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the image 
processor (67) forms an image sequence from the sample 

views (13) and intermediate views (17) arranged in 
order according to sequence of the sample and 

intermediate positions for animating the subject in the 
certain movement. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 wherein: 

the source (69) subsequently provides at least one 
example view (37) of an object of the class; and 
the image processor (67) maps the coordinates of 
the control points (15) of the views (13,17) forming 

the image sequence to control points of the example 
view (37) to determine, for each parameter value of the 

at least one working axis, coordinates of the control 
point values for intermediate views of the object, to 

generate a respective image sequence for animating the 
object in the certain movement. 
Apparatus as claimed in 1, 2 or 3, wherein the display 
(78) includes a display unit networked to the image 

processor (67) for remote display of the image 
sequence.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein at least one 
working axis defines position of the subject as one of 

rotation about a longitudinal axis, tilt about an 
orthogonal axis, instance in time along a time axis, 

and facial expression along a respective axis. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the at least 
one working axis is a plurality of working axes. 
In a computer system, a method of generating computer 
graphic animation of a subject and displaying an 

animated image sequence of the subject in a certain 
movement through a display (78) of the computer system, 

the method comprising the steps of: 

providing sample views (13) of a subject, each 
sample view (13) providing the subject in a different 

sample position along at least one working axis, each 
working axis being formed of a plurality of parameter 

values, each parameter value defining a different 
position of the subject along the working axis, and a 

sequence of the sample positions together with 
intermediate positions animating the subject in a 

certain movement; 
determining a set of control points (15) of the 
subject in each sample view (13); 
for each sample view (13) (i) determining plane 
coordinate values of the control points (15), and (ii) 

establishing an association between the coordinates of 
the control points (15) and parameter values of the at 

least one working axis indicative of the sample 
position of the subject in that sample view (13);  

 
mapping the coordinates of the control points (15) 
for sample positions of the subject to the coordinates 

of the control points (15) for desired intermediate 
positions along the at least one working axis to form 

intermediate views (17) of the subject; and 
forming an image sequence from both the sample 
views (13) and formed intermediate views (17), the 

image sequence defining a prototype for animation of 
any object in a class containing the subject. 
A method as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the step of 
mapping control point (15) coordinates for sample 

positions of the subject to control point (15) 
coordinates for desired intermediate positions includes 

interpolating values of the control points (15) between 
parameter values of the sample positions and desired 

parameter values of the intermediate positions. 
A method as claimed in Claim 7 or 8 wherein the step of 
forming an image sequence includes arranging the sample 

views (13) and formed intermediate views (17) in order 
according to sequence of the sample and intermediate 

positions for animating the subject in the certain 
movement. 
A method as claimed in Claim 7, 8 or 9 further comprising the 
steps of: 


providing at least one example view (37) of an 
object of the class; and 
determining and mapping coordinates of the control 
points (15) of the views (13,17) forming the image 

sequence to control points of the example view (37) to 
determine, for each parameter value of the at least one  

 
working axis, coordinates of the control points for 

intermediate views of the object, to generate a 
respective image sequence for animating the object in 

the certain movement. 
A method as claimed in Claim 7, 8, 9 or 10 wherein the step of 
providing sample views (13) includes establishing at. 

least one working axis as one of a longitudinal axis 
about which the subject may be rotated in a view, an 

orthogonal axis about which the subject may be tilted 
in a view, a time axis, or an axis for indicating range 

of facial expressions of the subject. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 11 wherein the at least one 
working axis is a plurality of working axes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
