<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0431909</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in and relating to forming a passageway through the ground
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21D900	E21D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21D	E21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21D9	E21D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of forming a passageway P through the ground by 
inserting into the ground a structure 1 comprising a 

superstructure 3 and a substructure 2. The superstructure 
3 is inserted into position in the ground, and the 

substructure 2 is urged into the ground beneath the 
superstructure 3, the ground being excavated as the 

substructure is inserted so as to form the passageway P 
bounded by the superstructure and the substructure. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACKED STRUCTURES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACKED STRUCTURES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROPKINS JOHN WILFRED THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROPKINS, JOHN WILFRED THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to forming a passageway through 
the ground, and especially to inserting into the ground a 
structure that defines the boundaries of the passageway, the 
ground being excavated to accommodate the structure and 
provide the passageway. Such a method can be used in the 
construction of tunnels, culverts, underpasses, 
substructures for bridges and the like. It is often required to form a passageway underneath an 
existing installation such as a road or railway to provide, 
for example, either a pedestrian or vehicular underpass, and 
it is highly desirable that the normal functioning of such 
an installation be disrupted as little as possible during 
that process. It has previously been proposed to form such 
a passageway by inserting a tubular member axially into the 
ground in a substantially horizontal direction underneath 
the installation and removing ground material from the 
interior of the tubular member. Such a method has the 
advantage that the road or railway can be kept open to 
traffic throughout the process, albeit with a maximum speed 
limitation imposed while the process is being carried out 
and for a period of time thereafter in case significant 
ground settlement occurs. When such a method is used to provide a passageway 
under an existing installation at only shallow depths  
 
beneath it, however, problems can arise owing to instability 
of the ground. It has previously been proposed in the case of a 
railway installation to place a grillage of steel girders 
directly beneath the railway track before the tubular member 
is inserted. In order to form the grillage, each steel 
girder is inserted separately, and, while each such 
insertion is carried out, it is necessary to stop the normal 
functioning of the railway. Also, it is generally necessary 
for the grillage to extend over a considerably larger area 
of ground than the portion to be occupied by the tubular 
member in order to safeguard the installation during the 
subsequent insertion of the tubular member. After insertion 
of the tubular member, the grillage has to be removed by 
withdrawing the steel girders separately while the normal 
functioning of the railway is halted again. The process of 
inserting and removing the grillage can accordingly be an 
expensive, time-consuming and disruptive operation. In EP-A-0 309 739 a method of constructing a tunnel 
under a railway is disclosed in which, before beginning 
excavation for the tunnel itself, rails, sleepers and 
ballast of one section of the track are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a passageway through the ground 
by inserting into the ground a structure which defines a 

passageway, the ground being excavated to allow insertion of 
the structure and to form the passageway bounded by the 

structure, characterised in that the structure comprises a 
superstructure and a substructure, which, when the 

superstructure is supported on the substructure, together 
define the passageway, and the structure is inserted by 

moving the superstructure into position in the ground and 
urging the substructure to move into the ground beneath the 

superstructure so that the superstructure is supported on 
the substructure over a length which increases progressively 

as the substructure is inserted, the ground being excavated 
immediately ahead of the substructure as it is inserted so 

that a region bounded by the superstructure and the 
substructure is emptied and the passageway is formed. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the ground 
is excavated for the superstructure before the insertion of 

the superstructure commences. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the 
excavation is carried out from the surface to such a level, 

and over such an area, that the superstructure can then be 
moved into position without further substantial excavation. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein 
the superstructure is urged to move into position. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein  
 

the superstructure is lowered into position. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
superstructure is urged to move into the ground while the 

ground is being excavated immediately ahead of the 
superstructure to allow insertion of the superstructure. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, 
wherein the substructure is inserted after the superstructure 

is in position. 
A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
substructure is urged to move into the ground while the 

superstructure is being urged to move into the ground but 
with the superstructure ahead of the substructure. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, 
wherein the superstructure is arranged to form the roof of 

the passageway and the substructure is arranged to form the 
walls and floor of the passageway. 
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
superstructure is substantially flat and the substructure 

is substantially U-shaped in cross-section. 
A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the 
substructure has one or more further walls extending 

parallel to, and between, the two side walls of the U-shape. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, 
wherein the superstructure is of greater length (in the 

direction of insertion of the substructure) than the 
substructure. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the  
 

superstructure is provided with one or more extension 
members that extend forwardly or rearwardly (in the 

direction of insertion of the substructure) of the 
superstructure. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, 
wherein, at least during the insertion of the substructure 

into the ground beneath the superstructure, there is 
provided means for supporting the superstructure on the 

substructure, which supporting means allows relative 
longitudinal sliding movement between the substructure and 

the superstructure. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the 
supporting means is adjustable to vary the elevation of the 

superstructure. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, 
wherein a working pit, from which the superstructure can be 

inserted into the ground, is initially formed on one side 
of an installation so that its base is at the level at which 

the superstructure is to be inserted and, after insertion of 
the superstructure, the working pit is deepened to 

accommodate the substructure at the level at which it is to 
be inserted into the ground. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, 
wherein a working pit is initially formed on one side of an 

installation to accommodate the substructure and the 
superstructure supported on the substructure at the levels 

at which they are to be inserted into the ground.  
 
A method as claimed in claim 17, when dependent on 
claim 15, wherein the supporting means is used to maintain 

correct elevation of the superstructure as it is inserted. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18, 
wherein, when the superstructure is to be inserted while the 

ground is being excavated, one or more headings beneath the 
installation extending along and adjacent to the path of 

insertion are formed prior to, or during, insertion of the 
superstructure. 
A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein, during 
excavation for the superstructure, spoil is deposited into 

the headings and removed by conveyor means situated in the 
headings. 
A method as claimed in claim 19 or claim 20, 
wherein the headings are so positioned that they are removed 

during excavation for the substructure. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21, 
wherein one or more further structures, each comprising a 

superstructure and a substructure, are each inserted into 
the ground and the structures are inserted by inserting, in 

succession, each of the superstructures and then each of the 
substructures. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22, 
wherein the superstructure and/or substructure is provided 

before insertion with a series of flexible elongate members 
of round cross-section so arranged that a portion of each 

elongate member extends from a position at or in the  
 

vicinity of the leading end of the superstructure and/or 
substructure to an anchorage where it is fixed with respect 

to the ground, and as the superstructure and/or substructure 
is inserted, successive portions of each of the elongate 

members are drawn from the position at or in the vicinity of 
the leading end to extend along the surface of the 

superstructure and/or substructure between that surface and 
the ground and stationary with respect to the ground in such 

a manner that the elongate members lie adjacent, and 
substantially parallel, to one another. 
A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the 
superstructure comprises a substantially flat roof portion 

with cutting means at its leading end, and each of the 
flexible elongate members is arranged to extend from within 

the cutting means to the anchorage. 
A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the 
superstructure is formed with longitudinally-extending ducts 

within it to accommodate the elongate members before they 
are drawn to extend between the surface of the 

superstructure and the ground. 
A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the 
superstructure is urged into position after the ground has 

been excavated and the series of flexible elongate members 
rests on the upper surface of the superstructure and is 

drawn to lie between the lower surface and the ground as the 
superstructure is inserted. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
