<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639959</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROSTHETIC LIGAMENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61L2700	A61F200	A61F208	A61L2726	A61F208	A61L2724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61L	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61F	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61L27	A61F2	A61F2	A61L27	A61F2	A61L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a prosthetic ligament (10) comprising a plurality of substantially aligned, elongated filaments (12). Each filament (12) is a dry, porous, volume matrix of biocompatible and bioresorbable fibrils, at least some of which are crosslinked. The fibrils are short segments of longer fibers of polymeric connective tissue components, or analogs thereof. Each filament (12) establishes a bioresorbable scaffold adapted for ingrowth of ligament fibroblasts, the scaffold and the ingrown fibroblasts supporting natural ligament tensile forces. Also disclosed are methods of fabricating the prosthetic ligament (10), and methods of regenerating ligamentous tissue in vivo.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REGEN BIOLOG INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REGEN BIOLOGICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI SHU-TUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STONE KEVIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, SHU-TUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STONE, KEVIN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is in the field of
implantable medical devices and prostheses. More
particularly, this invention is directed to devices
useful as prosthetic ligaments and invivo scaffolds
for the regeneration of ligamentous tissue, and to
methods of their fabrication and use.Ligaments connect one bone to another
usually where the bones form articulating joints in
the human and animal species. The ligaments act in
the joint as a mechanism for maintenance of joint
stability, for guidance of joint motion, and for
resistance to joint distraction forces. Without
ligaments, the human and animal species would be
unable to maintain the erect form. Injury to the
ligaments results in either a normal physiological
repair process, which can lead to resumption of 
normal joint mechanics, or to inadequate repair with
loss of joint stability, abnormal joint motions, and
occasionally to painful arthritis as a result of
abnormal joint surface wear and tear. In general,
ligaments that are outside of joints, and bathed in a
rich vascular supply, have a good chance of healing
normally after injury. Ligaments that are inside of
joints, termed intra-articular ligaments, are
generally bathed in synovial fluid, have a relatively
poor blood supply, and heal poorly.In the prior art, treatment of injured
ligaments has generally been both by attempts to
protect the ligament from further deforming stress
and thereby to permit a normal physiological repair
process to occur or to attempt a surgical repair with
sutures, replacement, or excision (Johnson, R.J. et
al. (1992) J. BoneJointSurg. 74-A:140-151; Arnold
et al. (1979) Am, J.SportsMed.7:305; McDaniel et
al. (1983) Clin.Orthop. 172:158; Rovere et al.
(1983) Am. J. SportsMed.104:205). With
non-operative or operative repair, healing and
regeneration of ligamentous tissue may occur.
Generally, if the ligament is located
intra-articularly, the repaired tissue is usually
inferior to the original tissue and sometimes
inadequate to withstand the normal joint forces. In
view of the insufficiency of many primary repairs
several previous attempts have been made to replace
the ligamentous tissue with natural and artificial
materials. Unfortunately, this also has resulted in
significant problems related to those replacement
materials. In particular, replacement of ligaments in
the prior art has been by autografting (Friedman et
al. (1985) Clin.Orthop.196:9), allografting
(Webster (1983) Clin. Orthop.181:238), xenografting
(McMaster (1988) in "ProstheticLigament
ReconstructionoftheKnee"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A prosthetic ligament (10) comprising a plurality
of substantially aligned, elongated filaments (12),

   each of said filaments (12) being a dry, porous,
volume matrix formed by extrusion of biocompatible and

bioresorbable fibrils, said fibrils constituting 75 to
100% by dry weight of said matrix and being segments of

fibers of a polymeric connective tissue-type component,
said fibrils being crosslinked, and said matrix

including 0 to 25% by dry weight of polysaccharide
molecules

   wherein each of said filaments (12) establishes a
bioresorbable scaffold adapted for ingrowth of ligament

fibroblasts, and wherein said scaffold and said ingrown
fibroblasts support natural ligament tensile forces.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, wherein
said filaments (12) comprise low density filaments

having a density of about 0.05 to about 0.40 g/cm
3
.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 2, wherein
the density of said low density filaments is from about

0.07 to about 0.30 g/cm
3
.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1 further
comprising a high density filament having a density of

about 1.0 to about 1.3 g/cm
3
.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, wherein
each of said fibrils are segments of a polymeric

connective tissue-type component selected from the group
consisting of collagen, elastin, reticulin, cellulose,

alginic acid and chitosan.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 5, wherein
said fibrils comprise segments of collagen. 
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, wherein
said cross links are formed by a chemical cross linking

reagent.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 7 wherein
said cross linking reagent is selected from the group

consisting of glutaraldehyde, formaldehyde,
carbodiimides, hexamethylene diisocyanate, bisimidates,

polyglycerol polyglycidyl ether, glyoxal and adipyl
chloride.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 8, wherein
said crosslinking agent is formaldehyde.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, wherein
said filaments (12) comprise a plurality of

polysaccharide molecules interspersed with said fibrils.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 10, wherein
at least a portion of said polysaccharide molecules

provide crosslinks between ones of said fibrils.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 10, wherein
said polysaccharide molecules are selected from the

group consisting of chondroitin 4-sulfate, chondroitin
6-sulfate, keratan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, heparan

sulfate, heparin, alginic acid, chitosan and hyaluronic
acid.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 10, wherein
said polysaccharide molecules are dispersed

substantially uniformly throughout said matrix.
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 10, wherein
said polysaccharide molecules are dispersed

substantially non-uniformly throughout said matrix. 
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, wherein
said fibrils are oriented in a substantially random

fashion throughout said filament (12).
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, wherein
said fibrils are oriented in a substantially ordered

fashion throughout said filament (12).
The prosthetic ligament (10) of claim 1, further
comprising a mesh extending from a portion of the outer

surface of said filament (12), said mesh being
resorbable and biocompatible.
A method for fabricating a prosthetic ligament (10)
comprising the steps of:


(a) providing a plurality of essentially pure
fibers of a polymeric connective tissue-type component

selected from the group consisting of collagen, elastin,
reticulin, cellulose, alginic acid and chitosan;
(b) cutting said fibers into a plurality of
segments to form fibrils which are shorter than said

fibers;
(c) extruding and aggregating said fibrils into a

plurality of elongated filaments (12);
(d) crosslinking at least a portion of said
fibrils in said filaments (12),

   whereby each of said filaments (12) forms a dry,
porous, bioresorbable and biocompatible volume matrix

adapted for the ingrowth of ligament fibroblasts; and
(e) aligning a plurality of said filaments (12) in
a mutually adjacent relationship, said aligned filaments

(12) forming said prosthetic ligament (10).
The method of claim 18, wherein said providing step
(a) further comprises providing a polysaccharide

molecule. 
The method of claim 19, wherein said providing step
(a) further comprises providing a polysaccharide

molecule selected from the group consisting of
chondroitin 4-sulfate, chondroitin 6-sulfate, keratan

sulfate, dermatan sulfate, heparan sulfate, hyaluronic
acid, alginic acid and chitosan.
The method of claim 18 wherein said cutting step
(b) comprises mechanically disintegrating said polymeric

fibers into segments smaller than said fibers to form
said fibrils.
The method of claim 18, wherein said aggregating
step (c) comprises:


(i) providing a dispersion of said fibrils;
(ii) forming said fibril dispersion into a
filamentous shape; and
(iii) drying said filamentous-shaped
dispersion to form a filament (12).
The method of claim 22, wherein said forming step
(ii) comprises extruding said dispersion into a

coacervation bath from a syringe.
The method of claim 22, wherein said drying step
(iii) comprises freeze-drying said filament-shaped

dispersion to form a low density filament having a
density of about 0.05 to about 0.40 g/cm
3
.
The method of claim 22 wherein said drying step
comprises air-drying said filament-shaped dispersion to

form a high density filament having a density of about
1.0 to about 1.3 g/cm
3
.
The method of claim 18, wherein said cross linking
step (d) comprises contacting said filaments (12) with

chemical crosslinking reagent for a time sufficient to 
cross link said fibrils within said filaments (12).
The method of claim 26, wherein said crosslinking
step (d) comprises contacting said fibrils with a

chemical crosslinking reagent selected from the group
consisting of glutaraldehyde, formaldehyde,

biocompatible bifunctional aldehydes, carbodiimides,
hexamethylene diisocyanate, bis-imidates, polyglycerol

polyglycidyl ether and glyoxal.
The method of claim 27 wherein said crosslinking
step (d) comprises contacting said segments with

formaldehyde.
The method of claim 26 wherein said crosslinking
step (d) further comprises the additional step of

subjecting said chemically crosslinked filaments (12) to
a dehydrothermal crosslinking procedure involving heat

and vacuum.
The method of claim 18, wherein said aligning step
(e) comprises twisting or braiding a plurality of said

filaments (12) to form a prosthetic ligament (10).
Use of a plurality of substantially aligned,
elongated filaments (12) in a mutually adjacent

relationship,

   each of said filaments (12) being a dry, porous,
volume matrix formed by extrusion of biocompatible and

bioresorbable fibrils, said fibrils being short segments
of fibers of a polymeric connective tissue-type

component, said fibrils being crosslinked,

   wherein each of said filaments (12) establishes a
bioresorbable scaffold adapted for ingrowth of ligament

fibroblast

   for the manufacture of a prosthetic ligament (10)
for regenerating ligamentous tissue 
in vivo
 said 
implanted prosthetic ligament (10) and said ingrown

fibroblasts supporting normal ligament tensile forces.
Use as claimed in claim 31, wherein said prosthetic
ligament (10) includes a plurality of polysaccharide

molecules interspersed with said fibrils. 
Use as claimed in claim 31, wherein said prosthetic
ligament (10) comprises:


a plurality of essentially pure fibers of a
polymeric connective tissue-type component selected from

the group consisting of collagen, elastin, reticulin,
cellulose, alginic acid, chitosan,
said fibers being cut into segments shorter than
said fibers to form fibrils,
said fibrils being aggregated onto a plurality of
elongated filaments (12),
said filaments (12) being contacted with a
crosslinking reagent for a time sufficient to crosslink

said fibrils within said filaments, whereby each
filament (12) forms a dry, porous, volume matrix adapted

for the ingrowth of ligament fibroblasts, and
a plurality of said filaments being aligned in
mutually adjacent relationship, said aligned filaments

forming said prosthetic ligament (10).
Use as claimed in claim 32, wherein the elongated
filaments of said prosthetic ligament (10) further

comprise a plurality of polysaccharide molecules.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
