<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624618</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WATER ABSORPTIVE MATERIAL, WATER ABSORPTIVE ARTICLE AND THEIR PRODUCTION METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1302	A61F1302	A61F1315	A61F1315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A water absorptive material which is flexible, has high water absorptivity (water absorption rate and water absorption 
quantity), can be cut into an arbitrary size or shape and moreover, has high safety. This material is prepared by blending 15 to 150 

parts by weight of water to 100 parts by weight of a water absorptive resin particle, and is a sheet-like material having a thickness 
of about 0.3 to about 5 mm. This s
heet-like state results from mutual adhesion of the water absorptive resin particles. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON CATALYTIC CHEM IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON SHOKUBAI CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATSUDA TAKUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONISHI KAZUMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATSUDA, TAKUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONISHI, KAZUMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a novel absorbent material
and an absorbent article and a method for the production
thereof. More particularly, it relates to a flexible
sheetlike absorbent material possessing supple feeling and
an ideal ability to absorb water and a flexible sheetlike
absorbent material exhibiting a high speed of absorption and
possessing outstanding flexibility, specifically an
absorbent material composed of absorbent resin particles and
water and consequently allowed to be cut in a desired size
or shape and an absorbent article incorporating therein the
absorbent material mentioned above.As absorbent resins, cross-linked partially
neutralized polyacrylic acid, saponified acrylic ester-vinyl
acetate copolymers, modified cross-linked polyvinyl
alcohols, cross-linked isobutylene-maleic anhydride
copolymer, hydrolyzed starch-acrylonitrile graft polymer,
starch-acrylic acid graft polymer, and partially cross-linked
polyethylene oxide have been known to the art. These
absorbent resins are widely used as sanitary napkins,
disposable diapers, and other similar sanitary absorbent
agents and as water-retaining agents and dehydrators in the
field of agriculture and horticulture and the field of civil
engineering, for example.The absorbent resins are generally used in the form
of fine powder or minute particles. In many cases of actual
use, such an absorbent resin is converted preparatorily into
a composite in the form of a sheet or a film as by being
sandwiched with opposed sheets of paper, incorporated in
pulp and compressed together by the use of the embossing
technique, or melt sealed as with a thermoplastic resin. Various proposals have been heretofore made for the
purpose of realizing the use of the absorbent resin in the
form of a sheet by a general procedure of depositing the
absorbent resin on a substrate and subjecting the resultant
composite to a treatment of fixation. They can be broadly
divided into methods which comprise a first step of
producing an absorbent resin and a subsequent step of
molding the absorbent resin in the form of a sheet and
methods which comprise a single step of effecting
simultaneously the production of an absorbent resin and the
molding of this resin in the form of a sheet. The former
methods consist of (a) methods which comprise depositing an
absorbent resin powder on a sheetlike substrate and
subjecting the resultant composite to a treatment of
fixation and (b) methods which comprise molding absorbent
resin fibers in the form of a sheet. The methods of (b) are
not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An absorbent material comprising 100 parts by weight
of absorbent resin particles and 15 to 150 parts by

weight of water, the absorbent material being in the form
of a sheet having a thickness in the approximate range of

about 0.3 to 5 mm, the form of the sheet resulting from
mutual adhesion of the absorbent resin particles,

characterised in that the absorbent material, on contact
with an aqueous liquid, is substantially disintegrated

into individual absorbent resin particles.
An absorbent material as claimed in Claim 1,
characterised in that the tensile yield strength is not

less than 5 kg/cm
2
 and the tensile yield elongation is not
less than 20%.
An absorbent material as claimed in Claim 2,
characterised in that the absorbent resin particles have

a particle size distribution such that substantially none
of the particles has a diameter of not less than 1,000 µm

and not less than 20% by weight of the particles have
diameters of not more than 150 µm.
An absorbent material as claimed in any preceding
Claim, characterised in that the speed of absorption is

not more than 50 seconds and the flexibility is not less
than 90 degrees.
An absorbent material as claimed in any preceding
Claim, characterised in that the absorbent resin

particles are capable of absorbing at least 20 ml of an
aqueous 0.9 wt% sodium chloride solution per g thereof

under a load of at least 20 g/cm
2
. 
An absorbent material as claimed in any preceding
Claim, characterised in that the absorbent resin

particles have undergone a surface cross-linking
treatment.
An absorbent material as claimed in any preceding
Claim, characterised in that the absorbent resin

particles have a particle size distribution such that
substantially none of the particles has a diameter of not

less than 1,000 µm and not more than 10% by weight of the
particles have diameters of not more than 150 µm.
An absorbent material as claimed in any preceding
Claim, characterised by further inclusion of 0.1 to 10

parts by weight of at least one absorption auxiliary
selected from water-insoluble minute particles,

surfactants, and fibers.
An absorbent material as claimed in Claim 8,
characterised in that the speed of absorption is not more

than 30 seconds and the flexibility is not less than 90
degrees.
A laminated absorbent material, characterised in
that it has a
 water-pervious sheet superposed on at least
one surface of an absorbent material as claimed in any of

Claims 1 to 9.
A method for the production of an absorbent material
according to Claim 1, characterised by spreading 100

parts by weight of absorbent resin particles in the form
of a planar layer having a thickness regulated in the

approximate range of about 0.3 to 5 mm on a substrate and
bringing 15 to 150 parts by weight of water and/or steam 

into contact with the planar layer without disturbing the
constitution of the planar layer.
A method for the production of an absorbent material
according to Claim 8, characterised by spreading 100

parts by weight of absorbent resin particles and 0.1 to
10 parts by weight of at least one absorption auxiliary

selected from water-insoluble minute particles,
surfactants, and fibers together in the form of a planar

layer having a thickness regulated in the approximate
range of about 0.3 to 5 mm on a substrate and bringing 15

to 150 parts by weight of water and/or steam into contact
with the planar layer without disturbing the constitution

of the planar layer.
An absorbent article characterised in that it
contains an absorbent material as claimed in any of

Claims 1 to 10 in a bag having at least one surface side
thereof formed of a water-pervious sheet.
An absorbent material comprising 100 parts by weight
of absorbent resin particles, 0.1 to 10 parts by weight

of at least one absorption auxiliary selected from water-insoluble
minute particles, surfactants, and fibers, 3 to

30 parts by weight of water, and 5 to 50 parts by weight
of a polyhydric alcohol, the absorbent material being in

the form of a sheet having a thickness in the approximate
range of about 0.3 to 5 mm and the form of the sheet

results from mutual adhesion of the absorbent resin
particles, with the proviso that the absorbent material,

on contact with an aqueous liquid, is substantially
disintegrated into individual absorbent resin particles.
An absorbent material as claimed in Claim 14, 
characterised in that the speed of absorption with aging

is not more than 50 seconds and the flexibility with
aging is not less than 90 degrees.
An absorbent material as claimed in Claim 14 or
Claim 15, characterised in that the absorbent resin

particles are capable of absorbing at least 20 ml of an
aqueous 0.9 wt% sodium chloride solution per g thereof

under a load of at least 20 g/cm
2
.
An absorbent material as claimed in any of Claims 14
to 16, characterised in that the absorbent resin

particles have undergone a surface cross-linking
treatment.
An absorbent material as claimed in any of Claims 14
to 17, characterised in that the absorbent resin

particles have a particle size distribution such that
substantially none of the particles has a diameter of not

less than 1,000 µm and not less than 10% by weight of the
particles have diameters of not more than 150 µm.
An absorbent material as claimed in any of Claims 14
to 18, characterised in that the polyhydric alcohol is at

least one member selected from glycerol, polyglycerin,
ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol,

and trimethylene glycol.
An absorbent material as claimed in any of Claims 14
to 19, characterised in that the weight ratio of the

polyhydric alcohol to the water is not less than 1.
A laminated absorbent material characterised in that
it has a water-pervious sheet superposed on at least one 

surface of an absorbent material as claimed in any of
Claims 14 to 20.
A method for the production of an absorbent material
according to Claim 14, characterised by spreading 100

parts by weight of absorbent resin particles and 0.1 to
10 parts by weight of at least one absorption auxiliary

selected from water-insoluble minute particles,
surfactants, and fibers together in the form of a planar

layer having a thickness regulated in the approximate
range of about 0.3 to 5 mm on a substrate and bringing 3

to 30 parts by weight of water and 5 to 50 parts by
weight of a polyhydric alcohol into contact with the

planar layer without disturbing the constitution of the
planar layer.
An absorbent article characterised in that it
contains an absorbent material as claimed in any of

Claims 14 to 20, in a bag having at least one surface
side thereof formed of a water-pervious sheet.
An absorbent article having an absorbent material
according to Claims 1-10 or 14-20 contained in a bag

having at least one surface side thereof formed of a
water-pervious sheet, the absorbent article being a

sheetlike material comprising at least 60% by weight of
absorbent resin and being furnished with 3 to 15 point

fixtures per about 1,000 cm
2
 of surface area of the
sheetlike material.
An absorbent article as claimed in Claim 24,
characterised in that the numerical value (V/n) of the

ratio of the inner volume (v ml) of the bag to the number
(n) of the point fixtures is in the range of 100 to 

1,000.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
