<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0989719</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for remote telephone call origination
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M342	H04M342	H04W412	H04W414	H04W420	H04W420	H04W7600	H04W7604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04W4	H04W4	H04W4	H04W4	H04W76	H04W76	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and mobile telephone apparatus is disclosed for placing a
long distance call, the mobile telephone being of the type having a data

messaging device included therein for communicating with a data network
and using a Remote Telephone Call Origination (RTCO) to avoid

relatively high charges in one locale and to incur lower charges in a
second, lower-cost locale. The method and telephone apparatus place

calls by (a) capturing a telephone number dialed by a user of the mobile
telephone, (b) transmitting a data message to the data network using the

data message device, the data message including the dialed telephone
number and identifying the mobile telephone number, (c) relaying the

message from the data network to the RTCO platform, (d) placing a first
call from the callback platform to the mobile telephone, and (e) placing a

second call from the callback platform to the long distance telephone
number dialed in a manner to connect the first and second calls to each

other.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SELEX COMM LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SELEX COMMUNICATIONS LLC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LASTER MAURICE SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LASTER, MAURICE SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and an apparatus for use in making
a remote telephone call.Inbound vs. outbound telephone rates vary substantially from one
market to another around the world. Indeed, some markets have
extremely high outbound telephone rates in comparison to inbound rates,
due to the local communication companies having a monopoly in that
market. As an example, outbound calls from India to the USA can cost
four times as much as inbound calls to India from the USA. For several
years, so-called "callback" schemes have been offered as a means to
bypass the high outbound telephone rates of the various monopoly
telecommunication companies around the world. Callback services have
the potential of saving up to 50% or more on international long distance
calls. However, known callback services have been difficult for a
customer to use. This is so because the customer has had to dial extra
digits, requiring more time and introducing additional opportunities for
error. Because of this, callback services have met with only limited
market success and even then only when outbound telephone rates from
the monopoly telecommunication companies are so excessive as to
justify the extra effort by the customer to use the callback service.Known callback services work by assigning to each customer a
unique phone number that terminates at an international callback
platform. The international callback platform is a facility located in a
country (for example, the United States), which is inbound to the
customer's country and that has substantial competition for outbound
telephone rates and therefore has much lower long distance rates (often
as much as 80% lower than in some locales) than the outbound rates
from the customer's country. To use the service, the customer calls his
unique international phone number and then hangs up. This prompts the
international callback platform to make an inbound call to the user's
telephone. The user then answers the phone and gets a new (second)
dial tone from the international callback platform. Using the second dial 
tone, the customer dials the phone number of the destination party that he
wishes to reach. The international callback platform uses the new number
to call the desired number and then bridges the two calls together so that
the user can talk to the desired party. Effectively, an outbound call from
the customer's country is replaced by two calls: an inbound call to the
customer and an outbound call from a country with low outbound rates to
the destination
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of placing a long distance call using a mobile telephone of
the type having a data messaging device for communicating with a data

network and using an RTCO platform to avoid charges in one locale and
to incur charges in a second locale, the method including the steps of

capturing a telephone number dialed by a user of the mobile telephone,
transmitting a data message to the data network using the data

messaging device, the data message including the dialed telephone
number and identifying the mobile telephone, relaying the data message

from the data network to the RTCO platform, placing a first call from the
RTCO platform to the mobile telephone, and placing a second call from

the RTCO platform to the number dialed in a manner to connect the first
and second calls to each other.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the first call is automatically
answered by the mobile telephone.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the step of transmitting a data
message is carried out without requiring that the user do anything more

than dial the telephone number initially.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the message relayed from the
data network to the RTCO platform includes the telephone number of the

mobile telephone.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the mobile telephone uses
Short Messaging for the data network.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 further including the step of
comparing the telephone number dialed by the user with a look-up table

to determine if the telephone number dialed should be placed directly, or
should instead be placed using the RTCO platform.
A method as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the look-up table is
updated from time to time using data messages transmitted to the mobile

telephone.
A mobile telephone for use with a telephony network, for use with a
RTCO platform, and for use with a data messaging network configured to

relay messages to the RTCO platform, the mobile telephone including
circuitry for connecting the mobile telephone to the telephony network,

an internal data messaging device for communicating with the data
network, a user input interface for initiating telephone calls, including for

dialing telephone calls, and control means for monitoring a telephone
number dialed by the user and responsive to the dialing of certain

telephone numbers for transmitting a RTCO message from the internal
data messaging device to the data network to initiate an RTCO call from

the RTCO platform.
A mobile telephone as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the control
means is operative to answer a call automatically from the RTCO

platform.
A mobile telephone as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the control
means is operative for transmitting the RTCO message without requiring

that the user do anything more than dial the telephone number.
A mobile telephone as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the mobile
telephone is adapted for Short Messaging.
A mobile telephone as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the means for
monitoring is operative for monitoring a telephone number dialed by the

user to determine whether the telephone call should be placed directly or
instead the call should be placed using the RTCO platform.
A mobile telephone as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the control means

is operative for comparing the telephone number dialed by the user with a
look-up table to determine if the telephone number dialed should be

placed directly or should instead be placed using the RTCO platform.
A mobile telephone as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the look-up table
within the control means is updated from time to time using data

messages transmitted to the mobile telephone.
A mobile telephone of the type for use with a telephony network and
having an internal data messaging device and a keypad for dialing a

telephone number, characterised in that it includes control means for
monitoring the dialing of a telephone number by a user of the mobile

telephone and further that the internal data messaging device is operative
for communicating a message to a data messaging network for relaying

the message to an RTCO platform to complete the call using the RTCO
platform without requiring the user to dial any additional numbers.
A mobile telephone of the type for use with a telephony network and
having an internal data messaging device and a keypad for dialing a

telephone number, characterised in that it includes control means for
monitoring the dialing of a telephone number by a user of the mobile

telephone and wherein the internal data messaging device is operative for
communicating a message to a data messaging network for relaying the

message to an RTCO platform to complete the call using the RTCO
platform without requiring the user to dial any additional numbers, the

control means being operative for determining whether to place the call
directly, or to place the call using the RTCO based on the relative costs of

each.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
