<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617539</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Portable apparatus for printing an image on film and displaying the image on a screen
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N100	G03B2732	H04N100	G03B2732	H04N584	H04N584	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G03B	H04N	G03B	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	G03B27	H04N1	G03B27	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A portable apparatus for printing an image on a film or monitoring the image on 
a display screen. An image generator (1), such as a CRT, generates a viewable image. 

The display screen (52) is in optical communication with the image generator and 
defines a first optical path (A). A first reflector (4a) is selectively movable into the 

first optical path to intercept the generated image in order to reflect the image over a 
second folded optical path, defined by second and third reflectors (5,6), to the film. 

Along the second folded optical path is an optical filter (74) for filtering 
predetermined frequency components of the generated image. In a print mode, the 

first reflector (4a) is driven into the first optical path, such that the film is in optical 
communication with the image generator (1), for exposing the film to the generated 

image. In a monitor mode, the first reflector (4a) is driven out of the first optical path, 
such that the display screen (52) is in optical communication with the image generator 

(1) for displaying the generated image. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITOH TOSHIHIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITOH, TOSHIHIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a printing and monitoring apparatus and, more
particularly, to a portable self-contained apparatus capable of exposing film to an
optical image or displaying the optical image on a screen.Prior to producing a hard copy of an optical image, it is often desirable to view
the image in order to determine any visible errors or to simply discriminate against
printing a particular image. Viewing the image prior to producing a hard copy on film
may save time and expense by avoiding undesirable prints. However, conventional
image printing devices lack a monitor for viewing the image, or at best, provide a
separate large screen monitor for projecting the image.For example, a printing device as shown in Fig. 1, is described in Japanese laid-open
patent publication no. JP-A-3-102981. An image on a microfilm 101 is irradiated by
an illumination lamp 100 and is projected to a large screen 105 or a reader printer 112.
Specifically, the image from microfilm 101 is transmitted along a first optical path to a
scanning mirror 102 to either an optical path switching mirror 103 or a reflecting
mirror 107, along a second optical path. If optical path switching mirror 103 is in
position to intercept the second optical path (indicated by the solid line), the image is
reflected over third and fourth optical paths via mirror 103 and reflecting mirror 104 to
large screen 105 for displaying the image.If a hard copy of the image is required, then optical path switching mirror 103 is
adjusted out of the first optical path, as indicated by the broken-line, so that the image
is transmitted from scanning mirror 102 to reflecting mirror 107. The image is
reflected to reflecting mirror 108 along a third optical path and thereafter reflected to a
linear photosensor 106 along a fourth optical path. Linear photosensor 106 reads the
transmitted image and supplies image data for amplification and processing by an
amplifier 109 and an image processing circuit 110, respectively. The processed image
data is supplied to a printer 112, via an interface 111, for producing a hard copy of the
image. However, this conventional arrangement is undesirable since it requires a
significant amount of space. Further, the above apparatus is not portable since it
requires an optical system comprising a plurality of optical paths for displaying the
image on a large-size screen or a printer for producing hard copies.EP-A-0 395 806 describes a system for printing an image displayed on a cathode
ray tube (CRT). There is an optical path
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Portable apparatus operable in respective print and monitor modes for
printing or monitoring an image, comprising:


a light-proof housing (73);
image generating means (1) for generating a viewable image;
a display screen (52) in optical communication with said image generating
means (1) to define a first optical path (A) and to display said viewable image;
first reflecting means (4a; 145) adapted to intercept the image generated
by said image generating means (1) and reflect said image over a second folded optical

path (B,C,D); and
second and third reflecting means (5,6) disposed in said housing for
defining said second folded optical path;

   characterised in that:

said first optical path is not a folded optical path;
and in that there is further provided:
optically exposable film positioned to receive said image reflected over
said second folded optical path (B,C,D); and
optical filter means (74) disposed in said housing (73) for selectively
passing predetermined color components of the image transmitted to said optically

exposable film.
The portable apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first reflecting
means (4a) is selectively moveable into and out of said first optical path by drive

means (66; 142) coupled to said first reflecting means (4a) and said drive means
(66,142) drives the first reflecting means (4a) into said first optical path in said print

mode and out of said first optical path in said monitor mode.
The portable apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said first reflecting
means comprises an angularly movable reflecting mirror (4a).
The portable apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said drive
means comprises a manually rotatable knob (142) and an electrical motor (66) for 

selectively driving said first reflecting means (4a) either manually or electrically,
respectively.
The portable apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first
reflecting means (145) is interposed between said image generating means (1) and said

display screen (52) for selectively passing said image transmitted to said display screen
(52) or reflecting said image over the second folded optical path (B, C, D).
The portable apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said first reflecting
means comprises a half-silvered mirror (145).
The portable apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said first reflecting
means comprises a beam splitter (145).
The portable apparatus according to claim 5, 6 or 7, further comprising a
liquid crystal shutter (146) interposed between said first reflecting means (145) and

said display screen (52).
The portable apparatus according to any previous claim, wherein said
optically exposable film comprises a silver-salt composition.
The portable apparatus according to any previous claim, wherein said
image generating means is supplied with a composite color video signal for generating

said viewable image, said image generating means further comprising:

decoding means (120) for decoding said composite color video signal into
respective red, green and blue component signals;
memory means (122) for selectively storing each of said red, green and
blue component signals in respective memory units;
memory control means (128) for controlling said memory means to
selectively store each of said red, green and blue component signals in respective

memory units based on whether said first reflecting means (4a) is in or out of said first optical
path; 
encoding means (129) for encoding said red, green and blue component
signals from said decoding means (120) into a composite image signal; and
means (124,125) for supplying said composite image signal from said
encoding means to an image generator (1) to generate a viewable image therefrom.
The portable apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said means for
supplying said composite image signal from said encoding means includes switching

means (124) operable in said monitor mode for coupling said composite image signal
from said encoding means (129) to said image generator (1), and operable in said print

mode to couple said red, green and blue component signals stored in said memory
means (122) to said image generator.
The portable apparatus according to any previous claim, wherein said
image generator comprises a cathode ray tube (1).
The portable apparatus according to any previous claim, wherein said
optical filter means (74) comprises a rotatable optical filter (80) having separate red,

green and blue filter components (84R,84G,84B).
The portable apparatus according the claim 13, wherein said optical filter
means (74) further comprises second drive means (76) coupled to said rotatable

optical filter (80) for rotating only one of said red, green or blue filter components into
optical communication with said image generating means (1) at any one time.
The portable apparatus according to any previous claim, wherein said
display screen (52) comprises a Fresnel lens.
The portable apparatus according to any previous claim, wherein the
relative dispositions of the first, second and third reflecting means (4a/145, 5, 6) in

said print mode define a second, folded optical path whose folded portions do not all
lie in a common plane.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
