<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641159</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANIMAL FEEDING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K500	A01K502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K5	A01K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An animal feeder designed for use by pigs, having a circular feeding bowl (28) into the centre of which feed is dispensed in response to animal operation. A planar framework above the feeding bowl (28) supports a feed hopper (10) and obstructs the area immediately above the feeding tray to inhibit the rooting out of feed from the tray by the pigs snouts. Growth rates are improved by this competitive feeding arrangement. Alternatively, feedstuff can be supplied by an overhead supply tube.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRISBY IAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRISBY, IAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRISBY IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRISBY, IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to animal feeding apparatus 
for the feeding of pigs in the growing stage. In the commercial farming of pigs, the achievement of high 
growth rates at an economical cost is considered paramount. 
The cost and effect on growth of feedstuff, which must 
contain a mixture of dietary components to ensure healthy and 
vigorous growth, is such that an improvement in the means of 
supply of feedstuff can have considerable effect on overall 
cost of production. In one stage of the rearing of pigs, termed the growing 
stage, the pigs are provided with an unlimited supply of 
feed, the objective being to encourage the pigs to eat as 
much as possible, and at this stage considerable wastage of 
feed occurs in using for example filled feeding troughs, as 
much feed is rooted out of such a trough, and stale feed goes 
uneaten. Self-feeders for livestock are well known in the art. In 
U.S. Patent No. 1,695,597 a feeder includes a feed agitator 
with a chain having spaced bars thereon which is agitated by 
a hog. US Patent No. 2,153,455 discloses a feed hopper and 
a spoked wheel which are both rotatable with respect to a 
shaft mounted with agitators. Bars are arranged 
peripherally around the top of the wheel and extend to the 
hopper to define compartments. US Patent No. 3,951,107 on 
the other hand illustrates a linear type livestock feeder 
with a front partition adapted for agitating feed when 
abutted by an animal. European Patent Application No. 0,044,465 relates to a rotary  
 
self-feeder, wherein a feed wheel is movable by livestock to 
dispense feed to the outer periphery of a feed trough. The 
feed wheel increasingly resists movement in response to 
increasing quantities of feed on the trough, thereby reducing 
wastage. Apparatus used for the provision of unlimited supplies of 
feed now includes the single space feeder. In this feeder, 
a supply of feed is provided in a framework so that the feed 
is accessible by one animal only, and commonly the animal 
must operate a dispensing mechanism to cause feed to fall 
into a trough, wherefrom the pig feeds. Wastage is limited, 
in that feed is provided only when the pig desires to eat and 
operates the dispensing mechanism. It is commonly believed 
at present that single-space feeders are the most effective 
means of supply of feedstuff to growing pigs. It has however been discovered by the Applicant that such 
single space feeders are not the most effective apparatus for 
the encouragement of feeding for growth. In particular, a 
pig
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Feeding apparatus for animals comprising means defining an upright feed passage through which feedstuff is dispensed by falling therethrough, a feed collection means from which animals can feed and located to receive feedstuff falling from the feed passage, an animal operation means for causing the action of dispensation of feedstuff in response to operation by an animal, and a frame which supports the means defining the upright passage to enable a number of animals to feed at opposite sides of the feed collection means simultaneously, the means defining an upright passage being positioned in relation to the feed collection means so that feedstuff is dispensed into the centre of the feed collection means and the feed collection means being shaped to allow the feeding animals substantially equal access to the centre of the feed collection means, the animals when feeding being arranged radially of the means defining an upright feed passage.
2. Feeding apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the feed collection means is a circular bowl.
3. Feeding apparatus according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the base of the feed collection means is flat and undivided.
4. Feeding apparatus according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the said frame is of a generally planar construction.
5. Feeding apparatus according to Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the said frame is arranged in relation to the collection means so that the area immediately above the collection means is obstructed.
6. Feeding apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein check 


means are located adjacent the said animal operation means.
7. An animal feeder according to Claim 6, characterised in that said frame comprises two supports straddling the said collection means and a cross bar, the check means being L- shaped bars each extending between one of said supports and the said cross-bar.
8. An animal feeder according to any preceding claim, characterised in that the animal-operation means comprises a rockable member adapted upon rocking to displace accumulated feedstuff from a shelf means in the passage over an edge of the shelf means to fall through the passage.
9. A feeder according to claim 8 characterised in that the shelf means is a shelf fixed in the passage and extending from side to side thereof, the rockable member including a vane located above the shelf.
10. A feeder according to Claim 9, characterised in that said shelf comprises a shallow V-sectioned plate having two opposite edges and the vane is rockable by the animal to displace feedstuff to opposite sides of the shelf and over the opposite edges.
11. A feeder according to Claim 9 or 10, characterised in that the feeder includes upper baffle means in the passage and above the shelf and arranged to direct feedstuff passing through the passage towards the shelf to be directed onto the shelf by said upper baffle means.
12. A feeder according to Claim 9, 10 or 11, characterised in that the feeder includes lower baffle means in the passage below the shelf edge on each edge for deflecting feedstuff falling from such edge towards the centre of the passage to 


fall into the feed collection means.
13. A feeder according to any preceding claim, characterised in that the animal-operation means comprises an inverted U-shaped member of which the base passes through and is rockable relative to the passage and the arms hang freely outside the passage so as to be engageable by the animals.
14. A feeder according to any preceding claim, characterised in that the animal-operation means is also adapted to operate a liquid supply means whereby a quantity of liquid to moisten the feedstuff is supplied to the feed collection means along with the feedstuff.
15. A feeder according to claim 14, characterised in that there is a liquid feed pipe having an outlet above the feed collection means and said pipe embodies a valve operatively connected to said animal operation means to be operated thereby when the animal operation means is rocked by an animal.
16. Feeding apparatus for animals comprising means defining an upright feed passage through which feedstuff is dispensed by falling therethrough, a feed collection means from which animals can feed located to receive feedstuff from the feed passage, and a generally planar framework dividing the feed collection means in two so that a plurality of animals can feed at opposite sides of the feeding apparatus simultaneously, the apparatus being adapted to dispense feedstuff in response to operation by an animal.
17. Feeding apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the means defining an upright feed passage is a tube.
18. Feeding apparatus according to Claim 16 or 17, wherein 


feedstuff is dispensed into the centre of the feed collection means.
19. Feeding apparatus according to claim 16, 17 or 18, wherein the apparatus is adapted to dispense feedstuff in response to operation by an animal on either side of the said framework.
20. Feeding apparatus according to any of claims 16 to 19, wherein check means are located immediately above the feed collection means and adjacent the means defining an upright passage.
21. Feeding apparatus according to any of claims 16 to 20, wherein the dispensation of feed is caused by the feeding action of an animal.
22. Feeding apparatus according to any previous claim, adapted for use by pigs.
23. Apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
