<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A data processing system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1518	G06F1518	G06F1750	G06F1750	G06N300	G06N300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06N	G06N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	G06F17	G06F17	G06N3	G06N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a data processing system and 
method of operation, and in particular to a data processing system for 

creating drive signals to control an output device, wherein the drive 
signals created are dependent on the state of a model defined within the 

data processing system. The data processing system is characterised by 
the combination of several elements, including: a modelling application 

in which a model is defined, the model having a plurality of input 
variables associated therewith; a modification means to determine initial 

values for the input variables; and a model output means for generating 
the drive signals for the output device based on a state of the model, 

the state being dependent on the values of said input variables. The 
modification means is adapted to randomly adjust the values of the input 

variables within predetermined limits, and to insert the adjusted values 
into the modelling application to alter the state of the model. Further 

the data processing system is programmed to repeat a selected number of 
times, the generation of drive signals based on states of the model as 

altered by the modification means. The system also includes a comparison 
means for sending the successive drive signals generated by the data 

processing system to the output device. Once this has been done the 
modification means uses judgement information input by the user to 

determine a new set of initial values for the input variables, and the 
data processing system then repeats the generation of successive drive 

signals based on this new set of initial values. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD STEPHEN JAMES PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD STEPHEN JAMES PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a data processing system and 
method of operation, and in particular to a data processing system for 
creating drive signals to control an output device, wherein the drive 
signals created are dependent on the state of a model defined within the 
data processing system. Typically such a data processing system will run a software 
application in which a model can be defined by a number of equations, 
variables and constants. For example a spreadsheet application could be 
used to model the financial state of a company over a number of years. 
The state of the model might depend on a large number of variables, and 
typically the model will be responsive to information about those 
variables input into the model, such information being used to alter the 
state of the model. Likewise, running the modelling application might result in a 
number of financial and other predictions indicating the success or 
otherwise of the modelling process. The user will generally wish to 
change a number of the input variables to produce a good set of 
predictions. However this is not always a straightforward task for the 
user. The user's difficulty generally arises from the need to remember 
how the model variables were changed and the result of those changes, 
before the next set of changes can be made. Typically, graphs may be 
used to help in this visualisation process, eg. giving financial and 
market share results over a number of years. Even so, after a number of 
variable changes, the user's memory of the actual shape of the graphs 
will quickly fade, making it very difficult to choose the optimum 
direction to change the values of the input variables. Existing modelling applications have included various tools to help 
in this modelling control process. One example is that of the built-in 
"solver". If the user is trying to achieve a specific result, eg. 'X' UK 
pounds revenue, this type of tool can usually vary many input variables 
without user interaction in an attempt to achieve the desired result. 
Another type of tool called an "Optimizer" operates in a similar way, but  
 
in this instance it will aim to optimise on a single output value rather 
than attain any specific value. The above two techniques may work in simple situations, but are 
totally unable to deal with the need to look at a number of model output 
measurement values, perhaps constituting a time sequence. For example, 
the user may wish to balance profit, company capitalisation, dividend and 
the number of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data processing system for creating drive signals to control an 
output device, characterised by the combination of: 

a modelling application in which a model is defined, the model having a 
plurality of input variables associated therewith; 

a modification means to determine initial values for the input variables; 
a model output means for generating the drive signals for the output 

device based on a state of the model, the state being dependent on the 
values of said input variables; 

the modification means being adapted to randomly adjust the values of the 
input variables within predetermined limits, and to insert the adjusted 

values into the modelling application to alter the state of the model; 
the data processing system being programmed to repeat a selected number 

of times, the generation of drive signals based on states of the model as 
altered by the modification means; 

a comparison means for sending the successive drive signals generated by 
the data processing system to the output device; 

the modification means being responsive to judgement information input by 
the user to determine a new set of initial values for the input 

variables; 
the data processing system being further programmed to repeat the 

generation of successive drive signals based on this new set of initial 
values. 
A data processing system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the output 
device is a visual display apparatus. 
A data processing system as claimed in Claim 2, wherein the model 
output means is adapted to produce drive signals representing the state 

 
of the model in graphical form, the graphical form appearing on the 

visual display apparatus when the drive signals are sent thereto. 
A data processing system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein the comparison means sends the successive drive signals generated 

by the data processing system to tie output device one at a time as they 
are produced by the model output means. 
A data processing system as claimed in any of claims 2 to 4, 
wherein the modelling application is a software spreadsheet package. 
A data processing system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the modelling application, the modification means, the model output 

means, and the comparison means are incorporated in one package. 
A data processing system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the predetermined limits within which the values of the input variables 

are adjusted by the modification means are selected by the user. 
A data processing system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the values 
of the input variables are adjusted by a maximum amount between the 

generation of successive drive signals, this maximum amount being 
selected by the user. 
A data processing system as claimed in any preceeding claim, 
wherein the adjustment of the values by the modification means is not 

purely random but is influenced by the judgement of the user to determine 

the direction of adjustment. 
A method of operating a data processing system to create drive 
signals to control an output device, characterised by the combination of 

the steps of: 

(a) storing a model in a modelling application, the model having a 
plurality of input variables associated therewith; 
(b) employing a modification means to read initial values for the input 
variables from the modelling application; 
(c) generating, in a model output means, the drive signals for the 
output device based on a state of the model, the state being dependent on 

the values of said input variables; 
(d) employing the modification means to randomly adjust the values of 
the input variables within predetermined limits, and then to insert the 

adjusted values into the modelling application to alter the state of the 
model; 
(e) repeating steps (c) and (d) a selected number of times; 
(f) sending, via a comparison means, the successive drive signals 
generated by the repeated step (c) to the output device; 
(g) employing the modification means to determine, based on judgement 
information input by the user, a new set of initial values for the input 

variables; and 
(h) repeating steps (c) to (g). 
A method of operating a data processing system to create drive 
signals to control an output device, characterised by the combination of 

the steps of: 

(a) storing a model in a modelling application, the model having a 
plurality of input variables associated therewith; 
(b) employing a modification means to read initial values for the input 
variables from the modelling application; 
(c) generating, in a model output means, the drive signals for the 
output device based on a state of the model, the state being dependent on 

the values of said input variables; 
(d) sending, via a comparison means, the successive drive signals 
generated by the repeated step (c) to the output device; 
(e) determining within the modification means, based on judgement 
information input by the user, a new set of initial values for the input 

variables; 
(f) employing the modification means to randomly adjust the values of 
the input variables within predetermined limits, and to then insert the 

adjusted values into the modelling application to alter the state of the 
model; 
(g) repeating steps (c) to (f). 
A method as claimed in Claim 10 or Claim 11, wherein the output 
device is a visual display apparatus. 
A method as claimed in Claim 12, wherein the model output means is 
adapted to produce drive signals representing the state of the model in 

graphical form, the graphical form appearing on the visual display 
apparatus when the drive signals are sent thereto. 
A method as claimed in Claim 12 or Claim 13, wherein the modelling 
application is a software spreadsheet package. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 14, wherein the 
predetermined limits within which the values of the input variables are 

adjusted by the modification means are selected by the user. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 15, wherein the values 
of the input variables are adjusted by a maximum amount between the 

generation of successive drive signals, this maximum amount being 
selected by the user. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 16, wherein the 
adjustment of the values is not purely random but is influenced by the 

judgement of the user to determine the direction of adjustment. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 17, wherein the 
successive drive signals generated by the repeated step (c) are sent to 

the output device one at a time by the comparison means as they are 
produced by the model output means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
