<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0940929</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radio and communication method using a transmitted intermediate frequency
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03J702	H03J706	H04B126	H04B126	H04B169	H04B169	H04B1707	H04B1707	H04L27233	H04L27233	H04L2726	H04L2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03J	H03J	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03J7	H03J7	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a system and method for radio
communications wherein the transmitted signals include an intermediate

frequency in addition to a carrier frequency to aid in demodulation of data
modulated on the signals and regulate the local oscillator frequency at the

receiver. The invention greatly reduces the number of components required to
implement a radio, and in particular, a direct sequence spread spectrum radio,

reduces the frequency stability requirement at the transmitting and receiving ends
of the communication, automatically tracks changes in the transmission signal

after transmission, and permits the use of a single frequency reference to provide
all required frequencies to operate both the receiver and the transmitter in each

radio.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAN ATLANTIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAN ATLANTIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABBAT PIERRE HENRI MICHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMERY DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABBAT, PIERRE HENRI MICHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMERY, DAVID L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to radio receivers and transmitters, and, more
particularly, to a spread spectrum radio system in which an intermediate frequency
is transmitted along with data and used at the receiver to control a local oscillator.Radio systems using spread spectrum modulation techniques are becoming
increasingly popular for a variety of communication applications. In a spread
spectrum system, the transmitted signals spread over a frequency band that is
wider than the minimum bandwidth required to transmit the information being
sent. As a result of the signal spreading, spread spectrum systems have reduced
susceptibility to interference or jamming and enable high data integrity and
security. Moreover, by spreading transmission power across a broad bandwidth,
power levels at any given frequency within the bandwidth are significantly
reduced, thereby allowing such systems to operate outside of certain FCC
licensing requirements. Given these advantages, such communication systems are
becoming desirable for commercial data transmission.A common type of such communication system is a direct sequence spread
spectrum modulation system. In direct sequence spread spectrum, an RF carrier is
modulated by a digital code sequence having a bit rate much higher than that of
the information signal. Typically, the carrier is modulated by two data streams in
quadrature. Each stream includes one phase when the data code sequence
represents a logic one and a 180° phase shift when the data stream code sequence
represents a logic 0. Since the digital code sequence includes square-wave half
periods that vary in duration, the spectral power envelope of a direct sequence
modulated signal is represented by [(SIN x)/x]2. This quadrature modulation is 
commonly referred to as quadrature phase shift key (QPSK) modulation. Bi-polar
phase shift key modulation may also be used.During operation, the receiver recovers the signal using two separate
processes. First, the receive signal is down converted from the center frequency
(fc) of the signal's carrier to a fixed intermediate frequency to enable further
processing of the signal. Conventional signal processing techniques, such as those
used in heterodyne radios, can be applied to down convert the received signal.
Next, the spreading code modulation is removed or demodulated to reveal the
information carried in the signal. Demodulating the spread signal is accomplished
by multiplying the signal by a spreading code sequence identical in structure and
synchronization in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radio receiver for receiving a signal having a carrier frequency
modulated by a subcarrier frequency derived from the carrier frequency, said

receiver comprising:

a. a controllable frequency reference adapted to provide a local
oscillator frequency related to the carrier frequency of the signal to be

received;
b. frequency scaler circuitry associated with said frequency
reference and adapted to provide an intermediate frequency derived from

the local oscillator frequency and related to the subcarrier frequency;
c. mixing circuitry adapted to demodulate the signal using the
local oscillator frequency to provide the subcarrier frequency; and
d. signal comparison circuitry adapted to compare a function of
the intermediate frequency and a function of the subcarrier frequency to

provide a control signal to said controllable frequency reference
proportional to any difference between the function of the intermediate

frequency and the function of the subcarrier frequency;
e. said controllable frequency reference adapted to regulate the
local oscillator frequency according to the control signal to lock on the

carrier frequency of the received signal.
The radio receiver of claim 1 further comprising signal processing
circuitry adapted to receive the subcarrier frequency after demodulation and

provide a derivative of the subcarrier frequency for comparison by said signal
comparison circuitry with a function of said intermediate frequency thereof.
The radio receiver of claim 2 wherein said frequency scaler circuitry
includes a first division providing a first division output equal to the local

oscillator frequency divided by a number N, said first output being a derivative of
the intermediate frequency and compared with a function of the subcarrier

frequency.
The radio receiver of claim 3 wherein the signal processing circuitry
includes a multiplication section providing a multiplication output being a

multiple of the subcarrier frequency and related to the derivative of the
intermediate frequency, said comparison circuitry comparing the multiplication

output and the first division output to provide said control signal for said
controllable frequency reference.
The radio receiver of claim 1 further comprising a pseudo-noise
generator clocked by a function of the local oscillator frequency and adapted to

provide a spreading code with a chip rate derived from the local oscillator
frequency, wherein the signal to be received was spread using the spreading code

and said mixing circuitry is adapted to further demodulate the signal using the
spreading code from the pseudo-noise generator.
The radio receiver of claim 5 wherein the frequency scaler circuitry
provides a derivative of the local oscillator frequency to clock the pseudo-noise

generator.
The radio receiver of claim 1 wherein the signal to be received was
modulated with data and the mixing circuitry is adapted to demodulate the signal

to be received down to the data and a function of the intermediate frequency and
further demodulate the signal with a function of the intermediate frequency to

obtain the data.
The radio receiver of claim 1 further including a transmission
circuitry for transmitting signals, said mixing circuitry adapted to mix the local

oscillator frequency, a function of the intermediate frequency, and data to provide
a signal for transmission .
The radio receiver of claim 8 further comprising a pseudo-noise
generator clocked by a function of the local oscillator frequency and adapted to

provide a spreading code with a chip rate derived from the local oscillator
frequency and said mixing circuitry is adapted to spread the signal to be

transmitted using the spreading code.
The radio receiver of claim 8 wherein data is provided and said
mixing circuitry is adapted to mix the data in the signal to be transmitted.
The radio receiver of claim 1 wherein said controllable frequency
reference comprises a surface acoustic wave coupled resonator filter and a tunable

feedback means.
The radio receiver of claim 1 wherein said controllable frequency
reference comprises a voltage-controlled oscillator and a tunable crystal oscillator.
A radio for receiving signals having a carrier frequency and an
intermediate frequency subcarrier for controlling a frequency reference, said radio

comprising:

a. a frequency reference providing a local oscillator frequency
related to a carrier frequency of the received signal;
b. means for demodulating a received signal into an
intermediate frequency subcarrier using the local oscillator frequency; and
c. means for controlling the local oscillator frequency to lock on
the carrier frequency as a function of the intermediate frequency subcarrier.
The radio of claim 13 further including means for deriving an
intermediate frequency related to the intermediate frequency subcarrier from the

local oscillator frequency wherein said means for controlling the local oscillator
frequency controls the local oscillator frequency based on differences between a

function of the intermediate frequency and a function of the intermediate
frequency subcarrier from the received signal.
The radio of claim 13 further including means for generating
pseudo-noise codes for de-spreading the received signal and means for clocking

said means for generating pseudo-noise codes at a rate derived from the local
oscillator frequency wherein the means for demodulating the received signal uses

the pseudo-noise codes to de-spread the received signal.
The radio of claim 13 wherein the received signal includes data and
said means for demodulating the received signal uses a function of the

intermediate frequency to demodulate the signal to retrieve the data.
The radio of claim 13 further including:

a. means for deriving an intermediate frequency related to the
intermediate frequency subcarrier from the local oscillator frequency

wherein said means for controlling the local oscillator frequency controls
the local oscillator frequency based on differences between a function of

the intermediate frequency and a function of the intermediate frequency
subcarrier from the received signal; and
b. means for generating pseudo-noise codes for de-spreading the
received signal and means for clocking said means for generating pseudo-noise

codes at a rate derived from the local oscillator frequency wherein the
means for demodulating the received signal uses the pseudo-noise codes to

de-spread the received signal, wherein the received signal includes data and
said means for demodulating the received signal uses a function of the

intermediate frequency to demodulate the signal to retrieve the data.
The radio of claim 15 wherein the means for demodulating the
received signal includes:


a. first mixing circuitry adapted to receive the local oscillator
frequency and the spreading code to provide a first mixed signal;
b. second mixing circuitry adapted to receive the first mixed
output and the received signal to provide a first demodulated output

including the intermediate frequency subcarrier and data; and
c. third mixing circuitry adapted to receive an intermediate
frequency derived from the local oscillator frequency and the first

demodulated output to demodulate the data.
The radio of claim 18 wherein the means for clocking said means for
generating pseudo-noise codes includes signal processing circuitry adapted to:


a. derive a clock frequency from the frequency reference to
clock said means for generating pseudo-noise codes, and
b. derive the intermediate frequency from the local oscillator
frequency wherein intermediate frequency is different from the clock

frequency.
The radio of claim 19 wherein the local oscillator frequency is
divided by a number N to arrive at the clock frequency, and the clock frequency is

divided by a number M to arrive at the intermediate frequency.
The radio of claim 20 further including scaler circuitry adapted to
multiply the intermediate frequency subcarrier by M to provide a function of the

intermediate frequency subcarrier wherein said means for controlling the local
oscillator frequency controls the local oscillator frequency based on differences

between the function of the intermediate frequency and the function of the
intermediate frequency subcarrier derived from the received signal.
The radio of claim 13 adapted to transmit a signal having an
intermediate frequency subcarrier and including means for mixing the local

oscillator frequency, the intermediate frequency, and data, and transmitting the
modulated signal.
The radio of claim 22 further including code means for generating a
pseudo-noise code to spread the modulated signal, said code means clocked by a

frequency derived from the local oscillator frequency, and said modulating means
adapted to mix the pseudo-noise code with the local oscillator frequency, the

intermediate frequency and data to provide a spread spectrum signal for
transmission.
The radio of claim 13 wherein the signals to be received include two
carriers in quadrature and at least one of the carriers includes the intermediate

frequency subcarrier, said frequency reference means providing an in-phase
carrier frequency related to carrier frequency and a quadrature phase carrier

frequency related to the carrier frequency, said means for demodulating a received
signal including:


a. first mixing circuitry adapted to receive the received signal
and the in-phase carrier frequency from said frequency reference to provide

demodulated in-phase data; and
b. second mixing circuitry adapted to receive the received signal
and the quadrature phase carrier frequency from said frequency reference to

provide demodulated quadrature data, wherein the demodulated data signal
containing the intermediate frequency subcarrier is provided to:


i. the means for regulating the local oscillator frequency
to lock on the carrier frequency having the intermediate frequency

subcarrier, and
ii. third mixing circuitry adapted to receive an
intermediate frequency and the demodulated data signal containing

intermediate frequency subcarrier to provide demodulated data for
the respective demodulated data signal.
The radio of claim 13 wherein the signals to be received include two
carriers in quadrature, each carrier including the intermediate frequency

subcarrier, said frequency reference providing a local oscillator frequency, an in-phase
carrier frequency related to a first carrier frequency and a quadrature phase

carrier frequency related to a second carrier frequency, said means for
demodulating a received signal including:


a. first mixing circuitry adapted to receive the received signal
and the local oscillator frequency from said frequency reference to provide

initial demodulated signal, which includes an in-phase data signal
modulated by the intermediate frequency subcarrier and a quadrature phase

data signal modulated by the intermediate frequency subcarrier, wherein
the frequency reference is regulated as function of the intermediate

frequency subcarriers;
b. second mixing circuitry adapted to receive the initial
demodulated signal and an in- phase intermediate frequency derived from

said frequency reference to provide demodulated in-phase data; and
c. third mixing circuitry adapted to receive the initial
demodulated signal and a quadrature-phase intermediate frequency derived

from said frequency reference to provide demodulated quadrature data.
The radio of claim 24 wherein said received signal is a spread
spectrum signal spread with a spreading code and said radio further comprises a

means for generating the spreading code and said means for demodulating a
received signal is further adapted to de-spread the received signal using the spread

code, said means for generating said spreading code clocked by a signal derived
from the local oscillator frequency.
The radio of claim 25 wherein said received signal is a spread
spectrum signal spread with a spreading code or codes and said radio further

comprises a means for generating the spreading code or codes and said means for
demodulating a received signal is further adapted to de-spread the received signal

using the spread code, said means for generating said spreading code clocked by a
signal derived from the local oscillator frequency.
The radio of claim 13 wherein the received signal includes a carrier
and a frequency shift key modulated intermediate frequency subcarrier related to

the carrier and having keyed frequencies, fl and fl/N, and said means for
demodulating demodulates the received signal with the local oscillator frequency

to provide the frequency shift key modulated intermediate frequency subcarrier,
said radio further comprising a filter adapted to pass fl and an Nth harmonic of

fl/N to provide frequency shift keyed data for final demodulation.
The radio of claim 28 wherein N=3.
A radio adapted to receive and transmit signals modulated with an
intermediate frequency, said radio comprising:


a. means for generating a local oscillator frequency for
demodulating received signals and providing a carrier for transmitted

signals;
b. means for generating a local intermediate frequency adapted
to derive from the local oscillator frequency a local intermediate frequency

providing an intermediate frequency subcarrier for transmitted signals;
c. means for demodulating received signals into an intermediate
frequency subcarrier using the local oscillator frequency;
d. means for regulating the local oscillator frequency to lock on
the carrier frequency as a function of the intermediate frequency subcarrier

of the received signals; and
e. means for modulating the local oscillator frequency,
intermediate frequency and data to provide transmitted signals.
The radio of claim 30 wherein the means for regulating the local
oscillator frequency includes comparison circuitry providing an output

proportional to a difference between a function of the intermediate frequency
derived from the local oscillator frequency and a function of the intermediate

frequency of the received signals.
The radio of claim 30 further including:

a. means for generating pseudo-noise codes for spreading
transmitted signals and de-spreading received signals; and
b. means for clocking said means for generating pseudo-noise
codes at a rate derived from the local oscillator frequency, wherein the

means for demodulating the received signal uses the pseudo-noise codes to
de-spread the received signal and the means for modulating spreads the

local oscillator frequency, intermediate frequency and data to provide
spread transmitted signals.
A method of radio communications using a transmitted intermediate
frequency comprising:


a. transmitting a signal modulated by a subcarrier frequency
derived from a carrier frequency;
b. demodulating the signal using a local oscillator frequency
related to the carrier frequency;
c. retrieving the subcarrier from the demodulated signal; and
d. regulating the frequency reference as a function of the
intermediate frequency subcarrier from the demodulated signal.
The method of claim 33 further including deriving a local
intermediate signal from the local oscillator frequency and wherein the regulating

step includes comparing a function of the local oscillator frequency with a
function of the intermediate frequency subcarrier from the demodulated signal.
The method of claim 33 wherein the transmitted signal is spread
using a spreading code and further comprising generating the spreading code at a

rate derived from the local oscillator frequency.
A radio comprising a receiver for receiving transmitted signals
including a carrier modulated by a subcarrier proportional to the carrier, said

receiver including demodulating circuitry for retrieving the subcarrier using a
local frequency related to the carrier frequency and regulating circuitry for

controlling the local frequency as a function of the retrieved subcarrier.
The radio of claim 36 further including processing circuitry for
deriving a local intermediate frequency from the local frequency wherein the

local intermediate frequency is related to the subcarrier and the regulating
circuitry compares a function of the local intermediate frequency with a function

of the subcarrier to provide an output controlling the local frequency as a function
of the retrieved subcarrier.
The radio of claim 36 further comprising a transmitter for
transmitting signals including a carrier modulated by a local subcarrier

proportional to the carrier, said local subcarrier being derived from the local
frequency.
The radio of claim 38 wherein the local frequency provides the
carrier for signals transmitted from the transmitter.
A transmitter adapted to transmit signals modulated with an
intermediate frequency, said transmitter comprising:


a. means for generating a local oscillator frequency for
providing a carrier for transmitted signals;
b. means for generating a local intermediate frequency adapted
to derive from the local oscillator frequency a local intermediate frequency

providing an intermediate frequency subcarrier for transmitted signals; and
c. means for modulating the local oscillator frequency,
intermediate frequency and data to provide transmitted signals.
The radio receiver of claim 8 wherein the transmitter comprises a
frequency reference comprising a surface acoustic wave coupled resonator filter

and a feedback means.
The radio receiver of claim 8 wherein the transmitter comprises a
frequency reference comprising a voltage-controlled oscillator, a frequency scaler

means which may or may not be said frequency scaler means, and a crystal
oscillator.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
