<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625888</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NI-TI ORTHODONTIC PALATAL EXPANSION ARCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C700	A61C700	A61C710	A61C728	A61F200	A61F200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C7	A61C7	A61C7	A61C7	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An orthodontic expansion arch (140) and sheath insert (148), (149) are provided for expansion of the maxillary and mandibular dental arches. The sheath insert (148) permits use of appliances employing multiple wires (142), (144) composed of non-weldable metal alloys in a more convenient manner and in a greater variety of appliances.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARNDT WENDLL V
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARNDT WENDLL V
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNDT WENDLL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNDT WENDLL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NI-Η ORTHODONTIC PALATALEXPANSION ARCHField of the Invention The invention relates generally to the field of orthodontic appliances. More particularly, to an orthodontic appliance for spreading the palatal arch and an adapter for securing orthodontic appliances within the mouth and, with further particularity, appliances employing nickel-titanium alloys for moving and positioning teeth.Background of the InventionThe dental specialty orthodontics is concerned with the correction of alignment and positional abnormalities of the teeth. It is not uncommon for patients receiving such treatment to require a regimen which continues over many months and involves the use of various appliances affixed within the mouth to achieve repositioning of displaced teeth. The repositioning is accomplished, generally, by attachment of an orthodontic appliance to one or several of the teeth in order to provide forces on the affected teeth which accomplish the desired repositioning.Often it it. necessary for the orthodontic clinician to reposition a patient's maxillary and mandibular first permanent molars by de-rotating the molars or expanding the distance between the molars. This procedure, in the case of maxillary first permanent molars, is often accomplished during the course of generally expanding the palate to properly position the molars and reduce crowding of the upper arch interior teeth as well as to adjust the occlusion and bite.To achieve this expansion of the molars and the palatal arch it has been common practice to utilize various types of arch bars or jack screws which are positioned between the maxillary molars to achieve rotation of the molars and to accomplish the desired expansion of the palate.Typically these types of devices require a number of weeks or months of action on the teeth to accomplish the desired goal. In the case of stainless steel type arch wires the orthodontic appliance operates by simple mechanical pressure against the lingual side of the molars. The stainless steel 

steel's capacity to withstand compression before reaching its yield point. This limitation of stainless steel requires periodic return visits to the orthodontist so the appliance can be reformed. This periodic reforming of the appliance is necessary to restore the desired mo ent-of-force applied by the device and to realign the direction of force application with respect to the teeth. This is accomplished by modifying the shape of the appliance. This shape modification is necessary as often the stainless steel appliance
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 C l a i m s
What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is as follows:
1. A connector for use with an orthodontic appliance comprising: a sheath for attachment to a tooth, a post adapted for insertion into said sheath, an appliance securing member joined with said post and projecting transversely therefrom, and means on said securing member for attaching an at least one orthodontic appliance thereto, such that said appliance may be coupled to said sheath by insertion of said post within said sheath.
2. The connector as claimed in claim 1, wherein said post and said appliance securing member are of unitary construction.
3. The connector as claimed in claim 2, wherein said post and said appliance securing member are of cast stainless steel.
4. The connector as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means on said securing member for attaching comprises a cavity within said appliance securing member for insertion of an orthodontic appliance therein, said appliance being retained in said securing member by crimping said securing member and said cavity about said orthodontic appliance.
5. The connector as claimed in claim 4, wherein said cavity is selectably positioned by a clinician in said appliance securing member. 


 6. The connector as claimed in claim 19, wherein said means for releasably locking comprises registrable indents on said sheath and said post for releasably securing said post within said sheath.
7. The connector as claimed in claim 1, wherein said post is provided with a stop to halt insertion of said post at a predetermined position within said sheath.
8. An orthodontic sheath and sheath insert combination connector for securing an orthodontic appliance within the mouth comprising: a sheath for attachment to a tooth, a sheath insert adapted for complemental reception within said sheath, an appliance securing member on said insert, said securing member projecting transversely from said insert, an at least one cavity within said transversely projecting securing member for reception of an orthodontic appliance therein to allow said cavity and said securing member to be compressed about said appliance to secure said orthodontic appliance in said securing member, and means on said sheath and said sheath insert registrable with one another for releasable locking of said sheath insert within said sheath. 

9. An orthodontic appliance for expansion of the maxillary or mandibular arch comprising: at least two bilaterally extending arch wires composed of a near-stoichiometric alloy of nickel and titanium having memory-retaining shape characteristics, a first of said at least two bilaterally extending arch wires having a concave shape and terminating in a pair of ends, said ends being secured within means for connecting said ends to a tooth, and a second of said at least two bilaterally extending arch wires positioned generally above and behind said first arch wire said second wire having a concave shape and terminating in a pair of ends, said ends being secured within means for connecting said ends to a tooth such that as said appliance changes to its austenitic state a constant force is applied by said arch to said teeth.
10. The appliance as claimed in claim 9, wherein the inverse martensitic transformation of the nickel-titanium alloy terminates at a temperature below normal body temperature.
11. The appliance as claimed in claim 9, wherein the diameter of said arch wires is at least 0.036 inch.
12. The appliance as claimed in claim 9, wherein the composition of the nickel-titanium is at least 50.5 atomic nickel.
13. The appliance as claimed in claim 9, wherein the composition of the nickel-titanium alloy is at least 50.5 and not more than 51.0 atomic percent nickel with the remainder being titanium.
14. The appliance as claimed in claim 9, wherein at least one of said arch wires further comprises an anteriorly extending loop segment. 


 15. The appliance as claimed in claim 9, wherein at least one of said arch wires further comprises a posteriorly extending loop segment.
16. A connector for use in securing an orthodontic appliance within an orthodontic sheath attached to a tooth said connector comprising: a post adapted for insertion into said sheath, an appliance securing member joined with said post and projecting transversely of said post, and means on said appliance securing member for attaching an orthodontic appliance thereto, to permit coupling of said orthodontic appliance to said sheath by insertion of said post within said sheath.
17. The connector as claimed in claim 16, wherein said means on said securing member for attachment of an orthodontic appliance comprises a cavity within said securing member for insertion of said appliance therein, said appliance being retained in said securing member by crimping said securing member and said cavity about said orthodontic appliance.
18. The connector as claimed in claim 16, wherein said cavity is selectably positioned by a clinician in said appliance securing member.
19. The connector as claimed in claim 1, further comprising means on said sheath and said post for releasably locking said post within said sheath.
20. The connector as claimed in claim 8, wherein said means on said sheath and said sheath insert for releasably locking comprises a first indent on said sheath registerable with a second indent on said sheath insert such that upon registration of said indents said sheath and said sheath insert are locked together. 


 21. A method of expanding the mand: ιar or maxillary dental archs comprising the steps or forming an archwire composed of a temperature-affected material having a transition temperature below normal mouth temperature to a configuration larger than the unexpanded shape of the selected dental arch when said archwire is in its austenitic state, attaching said archwire to the lingual surfaces of opposed molars of the selected dental arch, and exerting with said archwire a continuous low-pressure expansive force against said molars to expand the dental arch.
22. The method as claimed in claim 21 wherein said temperature-affected material is an alloy comprised of nickel and titanium in sufficient proportions that memory-retaining shape characteristics are imparted to said alloy.
23. A method of adjusting malaligned teeth comprising the steps of: spanning the interior cavity of a dental arch with an archwire composed of a temperature-affected material having a transition temperature below mouth temperature, said archwire having for its austenitic state configuration the shape desired to be imparted to said malaligned teeth, connecting said archwire to a lingual surface of each of two opposed teeth, and exerting through the transition of said archwire from its martensitic configuration to its austenitic configuration a continuous low-pressure force against said teeth to provide corrective adjustments to said malaligned teeth.
24. The method as claimed in claim 23 wherein said temperature-affected material is an alloy comprised of nickel and titanium in sufficient proportions that memory-retaining shape characteristics are imparted to said alloy. 


 25. A method of rotating and distalizing the molars of a dental arch comprising the steps of: shaping an archwire composed of a temperature-affected material having a transition temperature below mouth temperature to a configuration to impart corrective rotating and distalizing forces to malaligned molars as said archwire shifts from its martensitic state configuration to its austenitic state configuration, attaching said archwire between the lingual surface of opposed malaligned molars, and applying a continuous low-pressure corrective force to said molars to correct the malallignment by said transition of said archwire from its martensitic state configuration to its austenitic state configuration.
26. The method as claimed in claim 25 wherein said temperature-affected material is an alloy comprised of nickel and titanium in sufficient proportions that memory-retaining shape characteristics are imparted to said alloy.
27. The method as claimed in claim 25 wherein said archwire is further comprised of an anterior vinyl pad for anchoring said archwire adjacent the incisors of the upper palate. 

28. An orthodontic archwire for repositioning teeth en masse using counter-force mechanics comprising: at least one generally M-shaped archwire composed of a near stoichiometric alloy of nickel and titanium having shape memory-retaining characteristics, said nickel-titanium alloy archwire follows the palatal concavity bilaterally extending and terminating in a pair of ends, and a pair of sheath inserts to receive said ends for connection of said pair of archwire ends with a pair of lingual sheaths attached to the teeth such that a continuous tooth repositioning force is applied to the teeth.
29. A method for treatment of a malaligned teeth in the mandibular or maxillary dental arch using an archwire composed of a temperature-affected material having a transition temperature below mouth temperature which comprises: step one: deforming the archwire in its austenitic phase to the specific configuration of a desired post-treatment palatal arch, step two: deforming the archwire in its martensitic state to the specific configuration of a patient's pre- treated malaligned palatal arch, step three: inserting the archwire into the patient's mouth and attaching the ends of the archwire into lingually projecting sheaths, and readjusting the forces imparted on the palate by removing the archwire from the patient's mouth, adjusting the archwire spread dimensions and heating the archwire at 1200
β
F while under 6 percent strain. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
