<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630508</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HORIZONTAL MAGNETORESISTIVE HEAD FOR DETECTING MAGNETIC DATA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K708	G06K708	G07D700	G07D700	G07D702	G07D704	G07D720	G11B502	G11B502	G11B539	G11B539	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G07D	G07D	G07D	G07D	G07D	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	G07D7	G07D7	G07D7	G07D7	G07D7	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for detecting magnetic data on media is disclosed which utilizes an array of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors. The present invention detects the pitch or separation of parallel magnetic transition data (12) on the magnetic medium (15) under test, and generates a signal that is independent of the velocity of the medium. In one embodiment, the magnetoresistive sensors (1) employed in an array are spaced apart a distance (d) of which corresponds to the separation of magnetic transition data of interest, and the output of each sensor (1) is connected to a voltage adder (8). The signal from the voltage adder (8) is at a maximum when the separation of the magnetic transition data corresponds to the sensor separation. A peak detector (10) is connected to the output of each voltage adder to indicate when a medium having a particular magnetic transition data pattern is detected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNES ELWOOD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRYDER MARK HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOUNTFIELD KEITH ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNES, ELWOOD E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRYDER, MARK HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOUNTFIELD, KEITH ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Horizontal Magnetoresistive Head For Detecting Magnetic DataField of the InventionThe present invention relates to an apparatus having an array of horizontal magnetoresistive heads which may be utilized for magnetic pattern sensing and reading. Such an array of sensors detects the pitch or separation of a series of spaced magnetic lines on a medium. An array could also be arranged to detect a magnetic pattern consisting of non-periodic spacing. More particularly, the array of the present invention may be utilized in a currency validator to sense magnetic data from U.S. banknotes to determine their denomination. In addition, the present invention may be employed in many other applications involving magnetic sensing or reading, such as credit card magnetic strip reading or the like.Background of the InventionA magnetoresistive head is a sensing or reading head which utilizes magnetoresistive elements to sense or read magnetic information inherent in a magnetic medium. A magnetoresistive element is one whose electrical resistance varies with varying incident magnetic fields.Prior art magnetic heads have been used for a great many applications including coin sensing, currency and bill validation, and sensing other forms of scrip.Typically, inductive type magnetic heads have been used, which require a rapidly changing magnetic field in order for magnetic information to be detected. Conversely, 

 agnetoresistive heads are capable of detecting and reading information inherent in a slowly moving or stationary magnetic field.A standard technique for determining the spatial relationship of signals from a magnetic medium involves using a single magnetic sensor to sense the signals while recording the time between each magnetic event as the medium moves at some velocity in relation to the sensor. In such a single magnetic sensor system, sometimes noise events cause data reduction problems. In addition, difficulties arise regarding determining the time between each magnetic event because the separation between the magnetic events on the medium is calculated by multiplying the recorded times by the detected velocity. A problem in implementing this technique is finding an accurate and inexpensive means to determine the velocity of the medium with respect to the sensor. One option is to control the speed of movement of the medium to ensure consistent and even movement of the medium under the sensor. Although speed control does ameliorate some of the problems associated with velocity changes, it adds cost, size and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We Claim:
1. An apparatus for identifying a magnetic medium, comprising: an array having a first horizontal magnetoresistive sensor spaced a predetermined distance apart from a second horizontal magnetoresistive sensor, wherein the predetermined distance is set to equal the separation of magnetic transition data which is characteristic of the medium type to be identified; a summing means connected to the first and second magnetoresistive sensors for adding together the outputs of the sensors, wherein the output of the summing circuit is at a maximum value when both sensors simultaneously sense magnetic transition data; and a comparator means connected to the output of the summing means, for comparing the summing means output to a predetermined minimum threshold value, wherein the medium is identified as being of a certain type if the summing means output is greater than the threshold value.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: means for normalizing the output generated from each sensor with respect to one another.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are unshielded.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array comprises: three or more magnetoresistive sensors spaced the same predetermined distance apart from one another, wherein the output of each of the sensors is connected to the summing circuit. 


 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the threshold value is derived from one or more signals in the apparatus.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the threshold value is adjusted at the time of manufacture of the apparatus.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein plurality of arrays are used to identify a magnetic medium, and wherein the sensors of a first array are spaced apart to identify one type of magnetic data pattern, and the magnetoresistive sensors of subsequent arrays are spaced apart to identify other types of magnetoresistive data patterns.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein a reference sensor comprises one of the sensors of each array.
9. An apparatus for identifying a magnetic medium, comprising: an array having a first horizontal magnetoresistive sensor spaced a predetermined distance apart from a second horizontal magnetoresistive sensor, wherein the predetermined distance is set to equal the separation of magnetic transition data which is characteristic of the medium type to be identified; and a logic means connected to the outputs of the first and second magnetoresistive sensors for generating an output signal, wherein the logic means generates an output when both magnetresistive sensors simultaneously sense magnetic transition data.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are unshielded.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the logic means is an AND gate. 


 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the logic means comprises a digital circuit.
13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the array comprises: three magnetoresistive sensors or more spaced the same predetermined distance apart from one another, and wherein the output of each of the sensors is connected to the logic means.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a plurality of arrays are used to identify a magnetic medium, wherein the sensors of a first array are spaced apart to identify one type of magnetic data pattern, and the magnetoresistive sensors of subsequent arrays are spaced apart to identify other types of magnetic data patterns.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein a reference sensor comprises one of the sensors of each array.
16. An apparatus for detecting magnetic patterns for use in a currency validator, comprising: a plurality of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors arranged to form arrays, each array containing at least two sensors, wherein each array is characterized by a preset distance separating the sensors; a plurality of summing means for summing the output of each array; and a plurality of a threshold detectors connected to the plurality of summing means, wherein each threshold detector corresponds to a denomination type and wherein a particular threshold detector generates an output when characteristic magnetic data corresponding to a particular denomination type is sensed. 


 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein a reference sensor comprises one of the sensors of each array.
18. An apparatus for detecting magnetic patterns for use in a currency validator, comprising: a plurality of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors arranged to form arrays, each array containing at least two sensors, wherein each array is characterized by a preset distance separating the sensors; and a plurality of logic means, wherein each logic means is connected to an array, and wherein each logic means corresponds to a denomination type and generates an output when characteristic magnetic data corresponding to a particular denomination type is sensed.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein a reference sensor comprises one of the sensors of each array.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein a plurality of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are spaced the same predetermined distance apart from one another to form the array, and wherein the outputs of each of the plurality of sensors is connected to the logic means.
21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein a plurality of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are spaced at a periodic or non-periodic, repeating or non-repeating predetermined distance apart from each other to form the array, wherein the array detects a portion or an entire magnetic pattern or medium, and wherein the outputs of each of the plurality of sensors is connected to the logic means.
22. An apparatus for denominating banknotes containing magnetic transition data, comprising: a first horizontal magnetoresistive sensor spaced a predetermined distance apart from a second magnetoresistive 


sensor to form an array, wherein the predetermined distance corresponds to the separation of the magnetic transition data on a banknote type to be denominated; a summing circuit connected to the outputs of the first and second horizontal magnetoresistive sensors, wherein the output of the summing circuit is at a maximum voltage when magnetic transition data is sensed simultaneously by both the first and second sensors; and a comparator circuit connected to the output of the summing circuit and to a predetermined threshold voltage, wherein the output of the comparator circuit indicates that a banknote of a certain type was tested if the output voltage of the summing circuit is greater than the predetermined threshold voltage.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein a plurality of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are spaced the same predetermined distance apart from one another to form the array, and wherein the outputs of each of the plurality of sensors is connected to the summing circuit.
24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein a plurality of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are spaced at a periodic or non-periodic, repeating or non-repeating predetermined distance apart from each other to form the array, wherein the array detects a portion or an entire magnetic pattern or medium, and wherein the outputs of each of the plurality of sensors is connected to the summing circuit.
25. A method for identifying a magnetic medium by detecting magnetic data on the medium comprising the steps of: arranging horizontal magnetoresistive sensors, connected in groups of two or more, to be spaced apart a predetermined distance from one another; transporting the medium past the sensors; 


 sensing magnetic transitions on the medium; generating a signal for each sensed magnetic transition; summing the generated signals as they occur for each group of sensors; and comparing the summed signals to one or more predetermined threshold values to determine if a pattern of interest indicative of medium type has been detected.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: normalizing, setting to one or otherwise adjusting to a constant each generated signal for the sensed magnetic transitions.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the predetermined threshold value is set to be between the maximum summed value when a magnetic transition is sensed at each sensing position, and the summed value when a magnetic transition is sensed at each sensing position less a constant.
28. The method of claim 25, further comprising: generating an output if the summed signal is at approximately that maximum value produced by an ideal signal under all the sensing elements of the array to indicate that the pattern of interest has been detected.
29. A method for identifying a magnetic medium by detecting magnetic data on the medium, comprising the steps of: arranging an array or arrays of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors, connected in groups of two or more, to be spaced apart a predetermined distance from one another; connecting a logic circuit to each array; transporting the medium past the sensors; sensing magnetic transitions on the medium; 


 generating a signal for each sensed magnetic transition; processing the generated signals as they occur for each group of sensors; and identifying the magnetic medium as being of a particular type if at least one logic circuit indicates that a pattern of interest was sensed.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising: identifying the magnetic medium as being of a particular type if two or more logic circuits generated outputs at predetermined times.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the magnetoresistive sensors are arranged in a single line, and wherein one sensor is utilized as a common reference sensor in each array.
32. The method of claim 29, where the magnetic pattern of interest consists of non-equally spaced magnetic transitions, which may or may not be periodic, and wherein said pattern is detected by an array of sensors that reflect the same spacial relation as the pattern to be detected.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein an output signal is generated identifying the medium as being of a particular type only if all the sensors of said array generated an output signal.
34. The method of claim 29, wherein the sensing system consists of more than one array of sensors for detecting magnetic signals with equal or unequal spacing, wherein the magnetic signals are either periodic or non-periodic in nature. 


 35. A method of identifying magnetic media having parallel equally spaced magnetic transitions using arrays of horizontal magnetoresistive sensors, comprising the steps of: arranging the magnetoresistive sensors to form arrays, each array containing at least a pair of sensors, wherein each array is characterized by the sensors being separated by a predetermined distance which corresponds to the separation of magnetic data of interest; transporting a medium containing parallel lines or patterns with magnetic components which are parallel to the sensor gap which are parallel or otherwise spaced past the sensor arrays; sensing the magnetic data; generating a normalized signal, or setting to one or otherwise adjusting a constant value for each magnetic transition sensed at each of the array sensing positions; summing the generated signals within each array; detecting whether any of the summed signals is close to the approximate value produced by the presence of the desired magnetic pattern beneath each of the sensors of the array; and generating an output signal identifying the medium as being of particular type if any one summed signal is at an approximately maximum value.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the step of detecting whether any of the summed signals is at an approximately maximum value comprises: comparing the summed signal to a predetermined threshold value.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the predetermined threshold value is set to be between a maximum summed signal that occurs when magnetic transitions are sensed at all the array sensing positions, and a predetermined value equal to 


that of a summed signal that would occur if magnetic transitions were sensed at less than all of the array sensing positions.
38. The method of claim 35, wherein the horizontal magnetoresistive sensors are arranged in a single line, and wherein one sensor is utilized as a common reference sensor in each array.
39. The method of claim 35, wherein the pattern consists of non-equally spaced magnetic transitions, which may or may not be periodic, and wherein said pattern is detected by an array of sensors that reflect the same spacial relation as the pattern to be detected.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein an output signal is generated identifying the medium as being of a particular type only if the summed signal of all the sensors of said array are at an approximately maximum value.
41. The method of claim 35, wherein the sensing system consists of more than one array of sensors for detecting magnetic signals with equal or unequal spacing, wherein the magnetic signals are either periodic or non-periodic in nature. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
