<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LAMINATES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G800	G03G800	G03C1100	B32B2708	B41M700	G03C1108	B41M700	B32B2708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03C	B32B	B41M	G03C	B41M	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G8	G03G8	G03C11	B32B27	B41M7	G03C11	B41M7	B32B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laminate comprises: a first layer of polymeric film material having an image deposited on a first surface thereof by an electrostatic deposition process, a second layer of optically transparent or translucent material, the first surface of the first layer being bonded to the second layer by a layer of optically transparent adhesive material, the arrangement being such that the image on the first layer can be viewed through the second layer and the layer of optically transparent adhesive material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURRAY NICHOLAS JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURRAY, NICHOLAS JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURRAY NICHOLAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURRAY, NICHOLAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to laminates, and more particularly
laminates for use in the production of display systems and a
process for the production of such laminates.Display systems of the type used, for example, in signs
and placards, posters, pictures, stickers, illuminated and
reflective signs, are produced by a wide variety of techniques.
A typical display system comprises a laminate of an optically
transparent protective cover surface and a sheet of paper
carrying the required information printed thereon. In general
the printing process is expensive, particularly where colour
printing is required, and for outdoor applications the paper
must be protected against ingress of water.It is known to laminate the printed paper sheet to the
optically transparent cover surface using an optically
transparent adhesive, and if necessary to apply a protective
backing surface which may also be adhered to the paper.Such laminates are widely used for advertising and display
purposes, but because of the printing process are relatively
expensive, particularly when only small numbers of prints are
required. Attempts have been made to produce laminates for
advertising and display purposes by the use of heat transfer
processes, but these are also relatively expensive and of
limited application. Photographic processes have also been
used, but only to a limited extent again because of the high
costs involved.Further difficulties have been introduced by prior art
lamination processes which often require elevated temperatures
and specialised lamination equipment unsuitable for single jobs
or small customised runs.WO-A-9012694 discloses deposition of an image on a
substrate by an electrostatic process.GB-A-2119310 discloses a laminated body, and method for
making it, comprising a pre-printed polyester film adhered to
a glass substrate.There is therefore a need for a laminate comprising a
protective optically transparent cover surface and a sheet
carrying information to be displayed, which is both versatile
and can be inexpensively produced in small or large quantities
on relatively inexpensive equipment. In the present invention there is provided a laminate,
suitable for use as a display system, which comprises a
polymeric film material having an image electrostatically
deposited thereon, and a process for the production of such a
laminate.According to one aspect of the present invention there is
provided a laminate comprising:
a first layer of polymeric film material having an image
deposited on a first surface thereof by an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laminate characterised in that it comprises:

a first layer of polymeric film material having
an image deposited on a first surface thereof by an

electrostatic deposition process, the polymeric film
material being capable of withstanding a temperature

of at least 150°C without substantial instantaneous
degradation, structural change, dimensional change

or colour change , and having been treated in order
to improve its image adhesion characteristics,
a second layer of optically transparent or
translucent material, a first surface of the first

layer being bonded to the second layer by a layer
of optically transparent adhesive material,
the arrangement being such that the image on
the first layer can be viewed through the second

layer and the layer of optically transparent
adhesive material.
A laminate according to Claim 1, in which the first
layer of polymeric film material comprises a

polyester.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the first layer of polymeric film material

is transparent.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the first layer of polymeric film material

is opaque or has an opaque coating applied thereto.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the image has been deposited by a

xerographic process. 
A laminate according to Claim 5, in which the image
has been deposited by a xerographic colour

photocopier.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the image is substantially devoid of

adhesion-inhibiting silicone materials.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the second layer of optically transparent

or translucent material comprises a polyester, an
acrylic polymer, a polyethylene terephthalate, or a

polycarbonate.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the optically transparent adhesive material

comprises an acrylic-based resin adhesive, a
synthetic rubber-based adhesive, an ethylene-propylene

copolymer, a propylene polymer, or an
ionomer resin-based adhesive.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
in which the adhesive is one capable of bonding at

ambient temperatures.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
that is provided with a backing sheet adhered

thereto.
A laminate according to Claim 11, wherein the
backing sheet comprises a metal, cardboard, plastic

or woodblock layer.
A laminate according to Claim 11, which comprises a
first layer of transparent polymeric film material

on which the image is deposited, the first layer 
being laminated to a backing sheet of translucent

material.
A laminate according to Claim 11 or 12, in which the
image is deposited on a first layer of transparent

polymeric film material and the backing sheet
comprises a layer of a reflective material.
A laminate according to any of Claims 11 to 14, in
which the backing sheet comprises a magnetic sheet

material.
A laminate according to any of the preceding Claims,
which comprises a first layer of transparent

polymeric film material on which the image is
deposited, the first layer being laminated to a

protective cover sheet of translucent material.
A laminate according to any of the preceding claims,
in which the deposited image is a composite

comprising an image produced by electrostatic
deposition and an image produced by a different

process.
A laminate according to Claim 17, in which the
different process is pressure transfer or heat

transfer.
Use of a laminate according to any of the preceding
claims, in the manufacture of a display system, a

decorative or artistic picture or design, an
advertising sign or display, a lampshade or diffuser

light, an illuminated or reflective sign, or a
magnetic sign.
A laminate according to any of Claims 1 to 18, in
which the second layer of optically transparent or 

translucent material has a surface which can adhere
to glass.
A method of making a laminate which is characterised
in that it comprises:


depositing an image on a first surface of a
first layer of polymeric film material by an

electrostatic deposition process, the polymeric film
material being capable of withstanding a temperature

of at least 150°C without substantial instantaneous
degradation, structural change, dimensional change

or colour change and having been treated to improve
its image adhesion characteristics,
removing adhesion inhibiting materials
associated with the electrostatic deposition process

from the film material surface whilst leaving the
image undisturbed and
bonding a second layer of optically transparent
or translucent material to the first surface of the

first layer using an optically transparent adhesive
material,
such that the image on the first layer can be
viewed through the second layer and the optically

transparent adhesive material.
A method according to Claim 21, in which the image
is deposited by a xerographic process.
A method according to Claim 22, in which the image
is deposited by a xerographic colour photocopier.
A method according to Claim 21, which comprises
washing or wiping the film which a cleaning liquid

or solution. 
A method according to Claim 24, in which the
cleaning liquid or solution comprises an aqueous or

non-aqueous detergent solution.
A method according to Claim 24 or 25 in which the
film is dipped or immersed in a bath of the liquid

or solution, of the film is sprayed with the liquid
or solution.
A method according to any of Claims 21 to 26, in
which the optically transparent adhesive material is

in the form of an adhesive film, optionally with a
protective overlay on one or both surfaces.
A method according to Claim 27, in which the
adhesive film is a curing acrylic film.
A method according to any of Claims 21 to 28 that is
carried out at ambient temperature
A method according to any of Claims 21 to 29, in
which the optically transparent adhesive material is

applied to the second layer of optically transparent
or translucent material in a first stage, and the

adhesive coated optically transparent or translucent
material laminated to the first surface of the

polymeric film material carrying the image in a
second stage.
A method according to any of Claims 21 to 30, in
which the polymeric film material carrying the image

has a backing applied thereto.
A method according to Claim 31, in which the backing
is applied by means of a double-sided adhesive film. 
A method according to any of Claims 21 to 32, in
which the image is deposited in a composite process

comprising electrostatic deposition and a further
process..
A method according to Claim 33, in which the further
process is pressure transfer or heat transfer.
A method of making an adhesive laminate which
comprises:


depositing an image on a first surface of a
first layer of polymeric film material by an

electrostatic deposition process, the polymeric film
material being capable of withstanding a temperature

of at least 150°C without substantial instantaneous
degradation, structural change, dimensional change

or colour change , and having been treated in order
to improve its image adhesion characteristics,
removing adhesion inhibiting materials
associated with the electrostatic deposition process

from the film material surface whilst leaving the
image undisturbed, and
applying a layer of optically transparent
adhesive material to the first surface of the film

material carrying the deposited image.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
