<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635189</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSMISSION OF TELETEXT PAGES TO SELECTED RECEIVERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N100	H04N100	H04N7087	H04N7088	H04N716	H04N716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for transmitting teletext signals from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers wherein a plurality of successive and numbered teletext pages are transmitted currently. In addition to the teletext pages determined for all the receivers, it is possible to transmit a plurality of pages which are determined to be received only by one or more selected receivers. Each of these receivers has been allocated a digital address and comprises a store for storing teletext pages. Control signals are transmitted to the selected receiver or receivers on a given teletext page, said control signals comprising addresses of the selected receiver or receivers as well as information on the point or points of time at which teletext pages determined for said receivers will subsequently be transmitted. Then the pages determined for said receivers are transmitted, and said pages are received by said receivers and stored in the store of each receiver.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JENSEN ERIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIND ERIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
2M ELECTRONIC A/S JENSEN, ERIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIND ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN, ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIND, ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Transmission of teletext pages to selected receiversThe invention concerns a method of transmitting teletext signals from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers, wherein a plurality of successive and numbered teletext pages are transmitted continuously. In addition to the teletext pages determined for all receivers, it is pos¬ sible to transmit a plurality of pages which are deter¬ mined to be received only by one or more selected re¬ ceivers. A digital address is allocated to each of these receivers which comprises a store for storing teletext pages. The invention moreover concerns a sequence of a plurality of such successive and numbered teletext pages as well as an apparatus for receiving such teletext sig¬ nals. Finally, the invention concerns the use of teletext signals for transmitting pages determined to be received only by one or more selected users.It is generally known to broadcast text via existing tele¬ vision transmitters in the form of so-called teletext. There is an international protocol for transmission of teletext signals. It is possible to transmit text pages, each of which can contain up to 32 rows of text of 40 characters each. Generally and therefore also below, the text lines are called "rows" to distinguish them from the lines of the usual television image. Only 24 of the 32 rows of text are intended to be displayed on the screen of the television receiver. A plurality (generally 2) of rows are modulated in a binary coded form into their respective ones of the lines of the television image within the so- called image blanking interval. This interval substanti- 

ally comprises the top 25 lines of the television image.This television signal, which also contains teletext in¬ formation in addition to the ordinary image information, is transmitted from a television transmitter and can then be received by television receivers. However, the teletext information is only accessible to the television receivers which contain a teletext decoder capable of capturing and storing the row of text concerned for each line of tele- text information. Such a decoder is usually adapted to store and capture one page of teletext information at a time. This page can then be displayed on the screen of the television receiver, either on a self-coloured background or with the normal television image as the background.The teletext information is usually transmitted continu¬ ously as a constantly repeated sequence, which is also called a teletext loop. The loop can maximally comprise 8 so-called
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
P a t e n t C l a i m s :
1. A method of transmitting teletext signals from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers, wherein a plura¬ lity of consecutive and numbered teletext pages are trans¬ mitted currently, and wherein, in addition to teletext pages determined for all the receivers, it is possible to transmit a plurality of pages which are determined to be received only by one or more selected receivers, a digital address being allocated to each of said receivers which comprises a store for storing teletext pages, c h a ¬ r a c t e r i z e d in that control signals are transmit¬ ted to the selected receiver or receivers on a given tele- text page, said control signals comprising addresses on the selected receiver or receivers as well as information on the point or points of time at which teletext pages determined for said receivers will subsequently be trans¬ mitted; that the pages determined for said receivers are then transmitted, and that said pages are received by said receivers and stored in the store of each receiver.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the teletext signals contain information on the colour which the cha- racters of a given teletext page and its background, res¬ pectively, are to have when displayed on said receivers, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the teletext pages determined to be received only by one or more selected receivers are transmitted with the information that the characters and background of the pages are to be displayed with the same colour, and that said control signals com¬ prise messages to the selected receivers to change the colour of characters and/or background, and that the re¬ ceiver then changes the colour accordingly when displaying said pages so that the characters become visible. 


 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d in that the information on the teletext pages determined to be received only by one or more se¬ lected receivers are encrypted prior to transmission in an otherwise known manner; that said control signals for the selected receivers contain information on how to recreate the information, and that when received in the selected receivers the information is recreated by decryption.
4. A method according to claims 1-3, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e d in that a request is transmitted from a receiver via a modem and a telephone connection to the transmitter to transmit one or more given teletext pages, and that 
"
 these are then transmitted to the receiver concerned.
5. A method according to claim 4, wherein at least some of the selected receivers are provided with a magnetic card reader, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that prior to transmission of a given teletext page the transmitter re- quests proof of the right of the receiver to receive the information concerned by means of said control signals; that the receiver then transmits said proof to the trans¬ mitter via said modem and telephone connection after a correct magnetic card has been entered into the magnetic card reader, and that the transmitter then transmits the teletext page to the receiver concerned.
6. A method according to claims 1-5, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e d in that the teletext pages stored in the store of one or more receivers are transmitted as teletext signals via a further TV transmitter or a closed network connected to the receiver concerned.
7. A sequence of a plurality of successive and numbered teletext pages for transmission from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers, wherein, in addition to the tele- 


text pages determined for all the receivers, it is pos¬ sible to transmit pages determined to be received only by one or more selected receivers, a digital address being allocated to each of these receivers, c h a r a c t e r - i z e d in that at least one of the pages in the sequence comprises control signals for the selected receiver or re¬ ceivers, said control signals comprising addresses of the receiver or receivers as well as information on the page number or numbers of the sequence or one or more subse- quent sequences on which teletext pages determined for said receivers will be transmitted.
8. A sequence according to claim 7, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e d in that all the pages of the sequence are deter- mined to be received only by one or more selected re¬ ceivers.
9. A sequence according to claim 8, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e d in that it just comprises a single page, that it is transmitted a plurality of successive times, and that it contains new information at each transmission so that a large number of pages can rapidly be transmitted to one or more selected receivers.
10. An apparatus for receiving teletext signals from a transmitter transmitting sequences of successive and num¬ bered teletext pages, a digital address being allocated to said apparatus which is adapted to store a plurality of the received pages, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the apparatus is adapted to receive control signals comprising the address of the apparatus and, in response to these control signals, to receive and store a plurality of tele¬ text pages determined to be received by said apparatus.
11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the tele¬ text signals contain information on the colour which the 


characters of a given teletext page and its background, respectively, are to have when being displayed, c h a ¬ r a c t e r i z e d in that it is adapted to change the colour of either characters or background of the pages determined to be received by said apparatus in response to received control signals.
12. An apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the information on the pages determined to be received by se- lected receivers is encrypted, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it comprises means to recreate the transmitted information by decryption in response to received control signals.
13. An apparatus according to claims 10-12, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d in that it moreover comprises a modem de¬ signed to transmit a request to the transmitter via a telephone connection to transmit one or more given tele¬ text pages.
14. An apparatus according to claim 13, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d in that it moreover comprises a magnetic card reader, and that it is adapted to transmit a signal to the transmitter via said modem and telephone connection after entry of a correct magnetic card into the magnetic card reader.
15. An apparatus according to claims 10-14, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d in that it is adapted to output a random one of the stored teletext pages, and that the output can at least take place in the form of a normal TV signal.
16. Use of teletext signals transmitted from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers, wherein a plurality of suc- cessive and numbered teletext pages are transmitted cur¬ rently, and wherein each of some receivers has been allo- 


cated a digital address and comprises a store for storing teletext pages, for transmitting pages determined to be received only by one or more selected receivers in addi¬ tion to the teletext pages determined for all the re- ceivers, control signals being transmitted on a given teletext page to the selected receiver or receivers, said control signals comprising addresses of the receiver or receivers as well as information on the point or points of time at which teletext pages determined for said receivers will subsequently be transmitted, following which the pages determined for said receivers are transmitted from the transmitter to said receivers and stored in the store of each receiver. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
