<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647388</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A POWER CONTROLLER, FOR EXAMPLE A DIMMER FOR ELECTRIC LAMPS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M502	G05F110	H02M5257	G05F1455	H05B3900	H05B3908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	G05F	H02M	G05F	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M5	G05F1	H02M5	G05F1	H05B39	H05B39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic dimmer, for controlling electric lamps, has a microprocessor (10) which controls the firing angle of a pair of back to back SCRs (66, 68). These supply a chopped AC signal to the lamps to be controlled. The current supplied to the lamps is measured by a current transformer (74), and this is provided as a feedback signal to the microprocessor. Further feedback is provided by means of a temperature sensor (40). Knowledge of the feedback signals enables the microprocessor to maintain operation of the dimmer within specific tolerances, so enabling power devices of reduced ratings to be used.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROSONIC LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROSONIC LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORREST TREVOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEATH NICHOLAS CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORREST, TREVOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEATH, NICHOLAS CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a power controller, 
and more specifically although not exclusively to a 
dimmer for controlling electric lamps. It is increasingly common for large buildings or 
architectural complexes, such as shopping malls, offices 
and entertainment complexes to include a very large 
number of lights controlled by a complex control system 
including a number of dimmers which are arranged to 
control different lights. In turn, the dimmers 
themselves are controlled by a master control unit which 
determines the relative intensity of the various lights 
in accordance with a number of selectable predetermined 
light intensity programs, or in accordance with some 
external stimuli such as ambient light levels. The 
specific embodiments herein described relate both to the 
individual dimmers, and also to the overall control 
system. Conventional dimmers tend to have problems with 
unexpected load conditions, for example where a user has 
inadvertently connected too many lamps to the same 
dimmer, or where one of the lamps has shorted, or where 
because of the nature of the lamps high transient 
currents are created on start up. Unless such problems 
are properly dealt with, such unexpected conditions can 
damage the devices used within the dimmer, and to avoid 
this the general practice in the past has been to try to 
achieve robustness by over-specifying the devices. For 
example, a dimmer with a nominal full load rating of.20 
amps RMS might employ devices rated at perhaps four or 
five times this value. This does reduce device failures  
 
due to load faults and the like, but of course 
significantly increases product costs. One method of trying to reduce the overrating is to 
use very fast close-rated protection in the form of fuses 
or fast-response miniature circuit breakers. While such 
methods can reduce overrating to some extent, and keep 
device failures within acceptable bands, they do tend to 
introduce unexpected or "nuisance" tripping particularly 
in response to load transients. Such load transients are 
extremely common with transformer-fed tungsten, 
fluorescent, electronic ballast lamps and other similarly 
complex loads. Specifically, transients tend to occur on 
start up, where the user tries to switch on a large 
number of lamps to maximum intensity instantaneously or 
nearly so. Because certain lamps act effectively as 
short circuits before any current starts flowing, the 
transient currents are very much higher than the final 
steady state currents. Unless the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power controller comprising waveform-altering 
means (64) arranged selectively to alter a power waveform 

at an output (56) of the controller, the waveform 
altering means (64) operating under control of control 

means (10), and feedback means (74,40) arranged to 
provide a feedback signal to the control means (10) in 

dependence upon a characteristic of the controller in 
use, characterised in that the feedback means (74,40) 

includes a temperature sensor (40) providing a feedback 
signal to alter the power waveform at the output (56) of 

the controller continuously in response to the 
temperature of the waveform altering means (64). 
A controller as claimed in Claim 1 in which the 
temperature sensor (40) is in thermal contact with a heat 

sink of the controller. 
A controller as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the feedback means (74,40) provides a 

feedback signal in dependence upon the current or power 
supplied, in use, at the output. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 3 in which the 
feedback means includes a current transformer (74) 

connected to detect a current representative of the 
current passing, in use, at the output (56). 
A controller as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the feedback signal is repeatedly samples 

and integrated over time, the integrated sample value 
being supplied to the control means (10).  

 
A controller as claimed in Claim 5 in which aliasing 
techniques are used for the sampling. 
A controller as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the waveform altering means (64) comprise 

chopper means arranged to supply a chopped AC waveform at 
the output (56), power control being achieved by varying 

the chopping phase. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 7 in which the 
waveform altering means comprises an inverse pair of 

phase-controllable unidirectional devices (66,68). 
A controller as claimed in Claim 8 in which the 
unidirectional devices are SCRs (66,68). 
A controller as claimed in Claim 8 or Claim 9 in 
which the control means (10) separately controls the 

devices (66,68) for the respective half cycles. 
A controller as claimed in any one of Claims 8 to 10 
in which the control means (10) turns each respective 

device off towards the end of its respective half cycle, 
before the zero crossing point. 
A controller as claimed in any one of Claims 8 to 11 
in which the control means (10) includes means for 

detecting a fault in one of the unidirectional devices 
(66,68), and means for controlling the other accordingly 

in dependence upon the existence of such a fault. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 3 in which the 
waveform altering means (64) shuts off the power at the 

output if the control means (10) determines that a short  
 

circuit is present at the output (56). 
A controller as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 13 in 
which the control means (10) limits the rate of power or 

current increase at the output (56) to ensure that 
transients within the controller always remain within 

acceptable limits. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 13 or 
Claim 14 in which the control means include voltage 

stabilisation means arranged to maintain power or current 
at the output substantially constant in spite of changes 

in voltage to a mains supply to the controller. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 15 when dependent 
upon Claims 3 and 7 in which the voltage stabilisation 

means is arranged to vary the chopping phase to 
compensate for changes in the supply voltage. 
A controller as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims having a plurality of outputs (56,76) which are 

controlled by the control means as separate channels. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 17 in which the 
outputs (56,76) are connectable together to provide a 

single channel having a higher rating, the waveform 
altering means still being arranged to operate under 

control of the control means (10), and the feedback means 
still being arranged to provide a feedback signal, when 

the outputs are connected as aforesaid. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 17 or Claim 18 in 
which one channel is operable under the control of the 

control means (10) as a switch channel, whereby the  
 

switch channel and another channel can together be used 
to drive a three-wire-control lamp. 
A controller as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the control means comprises a 

microprocessor (10), the memory of the microprocessor 
being arranged to store a table representative of the 

operating characteristics of a load to be controlled by 

the controller, and the microprocessor (10) being 
arranged to control the waveform altering means in 

dependence upon the table. 
A controller as claimed in Claim 20 in which 
manually operable switch means (26) are provided to 

enable a user of the power controller to select between 
a plurality of said tables stored in memory. 
A controller as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the power controller is a 

controllable dimmer for electric lamps. 
An electric lamp control system comprising a 
plurality of dimmers (86,88,90,92), each as claimed in 

any one of Claims 1 to 22, connected to a master control 
unit (84), the master control unit being arranged to 

control the said plurality of dimmers in accordance with 
a pre-defined program and/or external stimuli. 
A control system as claimed in Claim 23 in which the 
master control unit (84) is in two-way communication with 

the individual dimmers (86,88,90,92) . 
A control system as claimed in Claim 23 or Claim 24 
in which the master control unit (84) includes a modem  

 
link whereby it can be reprogrammed and/or interrogated 

from a remote location. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
