<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620948</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAFETY SWITCH ASSEMBLIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H2700	H01H2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H27	H01H27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A safety switch assembly for fitting to a safety enclosure. The switch comprises a rotatable cam which operates electrical contacts. An actuator is insertable into the switch housing through either of two apertures to engage locking members. The locking members move in a rectilinear direction perpendicular to the cam axis away from the actuator and out of locking engagement with the cam. Ears on the actuator then engage in pockets in the cam and rotate the cam which causes movement of the electrical contacts to the ON position. Each locking member comprises a pair of locking components one of which is slidable on the other and both of which define elongate slots through which a cam shaft extends. The slots are inclined such that when the actuator pushes either one of the components away from a first aperture the other component is forced to move away from the other aperture.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EJA ENG PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.J.A. ENGINEERING PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOHTASHAM MEHDI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOHTASHAM, MEHDI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to safety switch assemblies used 
especially but not exclusively in machinery guards enclosing kinetic 
machinery. A safety switch assembly known from US-A-4,963,706 comprises a safety switch adapted 
to be fitted to an enclosure and an actuator adapted to be fitted to 
a door, gate or protective cover of the enclosure and insertable into 
the safety switch to turn ON the electrical power supply when the 
enclosure is closed by the door, gate or protective cover. The known safety switch comprises within a housing normally-open 
contacts, one set fixed, and the other movable and carried by an 
axially-movable push rod spring-loaded to maintain the sets of 
contacts apart and the power supply consequently OFF. The axially-movable push rod is connected to a rotatable cam of 
a cam arrangement normally disposed to prevent cam rotation and 
consequently to secure the push rod in a power supply OFF position 
but which is operable by the actuator to cause cam rotation and axial 
movement of the push rod to a power supply ON position. 
The rotatable cam is 
prevented from rotating by a releasable connection between the cam 
and a non-rotatable locking element, rotation of the cam and 
consequent axial movement of the push rod from the OFF position to 
the ON position being effected by the actuator engaging the rotatable 
cam either to move the cam axially along its axis of rotation to 
release the connection between the rotatable cam and non-rotatable 
locking element, or to move the latter axially along a shaft defining 
the axis of rotation of the cam to release the connection with the 
cam. Similar safety switches are known from WO-A-90/08396 and WO-A-91/10247. These known cam arrangements are vulnerable to loss of free 
axial movement of the cam or the locking element along the cam shaft 
due to the accumulation of dust and grease between the latter and the 
cam or the locking element which may inhibit their axial displacement 
by the actuator or their return to the locked position upon withdrawal 
of the actuator. Another safety switch is known from a catalogue 
"Grenztaster-Systeme AT0, AT4" of the company "Klöchner-Möller" residing in Bonn, Germany which catalogue is considered as closest prior art and forms the base for the preamble of claim 1. 
The catalogue has been 
published in December 1988. The safety switch shown on page 8 
thereof comprises locking members for preventing undesired 
rotation of an actuating cam, the latter being provided for 
actuating the electrical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A safety switch comprising a housing (10) 
containing electrical contacts (23, 24, 25, 26) movable from 

a power supply OFF position to a power supply ON position by 
rotation of an actuating cam (45) also contained within the 

housing (10) and adapted to be rotated about a predetermined 
axis (46) by an actuator (80) of a predetermined shape 

insertable into the housing, wherein at least one locking 
member (58, 74) is mounted within the housing (10) for a 

movement in a direction perpendicular to the axis (46) of 
rotation of the actuating cam (45), and the or each locking 

member (58, 74) is resiliently (65) urged towards engagement 
with the actuating cam (45) to prevent rotation thereof and 

consequent movement of the electrical contacts (23 - 26) to 
the power supply ON position 


characterized in that 
the housing defines two apertures (78, 79) through which the 
actuator (80) is insertable, the two apertures (78, 79) 

opening in mutually perpendicular directions, 
wherein the actuator (80) when inserted into each of said 
apertures (78, 79) engages the or each locking member (58, 

74) and by its shape displaces the or each locking member 
(58, 74) away from the path of movement of the actuator and 

out of engagement with the actuating cam (45), and engages 
and rotates the cam to cause movement of the electrical 

contacts to the power supply ON position, and wherein the or 
each locking member (58, 74) comprises first and second 

slidably interengaged components (58, 74), the first and 
second components define interengaging surfaces (66, 75
, 61, 
77a) arranged such that displacement of the first component 

(58) in a first direction causes the second component (74) to 
be displaced in a second direction, and such that  

 
displacement of the second component (74) in the second 

direction causes the first component (58) to be displaced in 
the first direction, 
and wherein the actuator (80) is shaped such that when 
inserted through one of the two apertures (78, 79) it pushes 

the first component (58) in the first direction and when 
inserted through the other aperture it pushes the second 

component (74) in the second direction. 
A safety switch according to claim 1, wherein the 
or each locking member (58) is slidably mounted on tracks 

defined by the housing. 
A safety switch according to claim 1, wherein the 
actuating cam (45) is caused to rotate in the same direction 

by insertion of the actuator through either aperture (78, 
79). 
A safety switch according to claim 1, wherein each 
locking member component defines an elongate slot (61, 77a) 

through which a shaft (46) mounted on the housing (10) 
extends, the slots (61, 77a) being mutually inclined and 

defining the relative directions in which the respective 
components (58, 74) are forced to move relative to the 

housing (10). 
A safety switch according to claim 4, wherein the 
second locking member component (74) is slidable relative to 

the first component (58) in a direction perpendicular to the 
direction in which the first component (58) is slidable 

relative to the housing (10), and the slots (61, 77a) are 
inclined at an angle of 45° to each other. 
A safety switch according to claim 1, 4 or 5, 
wherein the first locking member component (58) is spring 

biased by a compression spring (65) bearing against a wall of 
the housing (10) towards a position in which it engages and 

locks the actuating cam (45) against rotation. 
A safety switch according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the actuating cam defines at least one abutment 

surface (53) which is engageable by the or each locking 
member (58) and acts on a plunger (31) which is movable to 

control the electrical contacts (23-26).  
 
A safety switch according to claim 7, wherein the 
actuating cam (45) defines an arcuate slot (50) in which a 

pin (49) mounted on the plunger (31) is received, rotation of 
the cam (45) causing the pin (49) to slide along the arcuate 

slot (50) thereby to cause the displacement of the plunger 
(31). 
A safety switch according to claim 7, wherein the 
actuating cam (45) defines a peripheral cam surface against 

which the plunger is spring biased. 
A safety switch according to claim 7, 8 or 9, 
wherein the actuating cam (40) defines cut-outs (56, 57) in 

its peripheral surface adjacent each aperture through which 
the actuator (80) may be inserted into the housing (10), the 

actuator (80) engaging in a cut-out (56, 57) when inserted 
into the housing (10) to thereby cause rotation of the cam 

(45) from an initial position, and the cut-outs (56, 57) 
being shaped such that withdrawal of the actuating member 

(80) from the housing (10) returns the cam (45) to the 
initial position. 
A safety switch according to claim 10, wherein each 
cut-out (56, 57) is divided by a partition wall extending to 

the periphery of the cam (45) to prevent an actuator (80) 
being engaged in a cut-out unless that actuator is provided 

with a slot to receive the partition wall. 
A safety switch according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the actuating cam (45) and the or each locking member 

(58, 74) are supported in a first part of the housing which 
is mounted on a second part of the housing that receives the 

electrical contacts (23-26), the first part of the housing 
being mountable in a plurality of positions on the second 

part to enable the selective positioning of the aperture 
relative to the second part of the housing. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
