<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624808</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B640	G02B636	G02B636	G02B638	G02B638	G02B640	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical connector in which the deformation of the 
connector caused by the shrinkage of an adhesive at the time of 

adhering and fixing an optical fiber and a ferrule is small, 
and the increment of loss in connection is suppressed. 
The optical connector in which different adhesives (A and B) are 
used in an optical fiber insertion hole (2) portion and an adhesive 

injection opening portion (4) respectively. 

(1) Adhesives different in Young's modulus are used for an optical 
fiber insertion hole portion (2) and an adhesive injection opening (4) 

portion respectively. 
(2) Adhesives different in linear expansion coefficient are used for 
the optical fiber insertion hole portion (2) and the adhesive injection 

opening (4) portion respectively. 
(3) A thermosetting adhesive is used for the optical fiber insertion 
hole portion (2) and an ordinary-temperature-setting adhesive is used 

for the adhesive injection opening portion (4) respectively. 
(4) Adhesives different in coefficient of hardening shrinkage is 
used for the optical fiber insertion hole portion (2) and 

the adhesive injection opening portion (4) respectively. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical connector
for optical communication, in which an optical fiber is adhered
and fixed to a ferrule so as to realize coupling.Fig. 3 is a perspective view of an example of a ferrule
constituting an optical connector. A ferrule 1 is obtained by
forming epoxy-system resin containing silica as filler. In the
longitudinal direction of the ferrule 1, a plurality of optical
fiber insertion holes 2 are formed, and fitting pin insertion
holes 3 are formed in both outsides of the fiber insertion
holes 2. In the upper surface, an adhesive injection opening
4 for adhering and fixing optical fibers is formed.An optical fiber 11 in which the coating of the top end
portion of a coated multi-optical fiber 10 is teared off is
inserted into the optical fiber insertion hole 2 of the ferrule
having such a configuration from a ferrule rear 1a, as shown in
Fig. 2. Then a thermosetting epoxy-system adhesive 7 is
injected between the ferrule 1 and the optical fiber 11 from
the adhesive injection opening 4, and the adhesive is hardened
at the temperature of about 80 째C so as to adhere and fix the
optical fiber 11. After that, the coupled end surface is
ground so as to form an optical connector. The above-mentioned adhesive used for adhering and
fixing an optical fiber needs to have so low viscosity as to be
charged quite up to the optical fiber insertion hole, and needs
to have so high hardness as to fix the optical fiber firmly not
to move at the time of grinding. In addition, with reliability
such as chemicals durability and the like taken into
consideration, a thermosetting epoxy-system adhesive has been
used conventionally. DE-A 3441300 teaches the use of two different adhesives at different locations within the
fibre receiving bore of a connector. JP-A-59-49510 discloses an optical connector
with fibre through holes and grooves that are filled with adhesive agents to
connect the optical fibres with the connector.Using a thermosetting epoxy-system adhesive for
adhering and fixing an optical fiber and a ferrule, a
conventional optical connector has a problem in that the
ferrule is tensed so as to be deformed, or the optical fiber is
given stress so as to increase the loss in connection of the
connector, because of the hardening shrinkage which occurs when
the adhesive is hardened at a high temperature, the shrinkage
which occurs when the adhesive is cooled down into ordinary
temperature after the hardening, and the like.Although this problem can be solved by using an
adhesive which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical connector comprising:

a ferrule (1) having a plurality of optical fibre insertion holes (2) receiving optical
fibres (11) adhered and fixed thereinto

and terminating at an end face of the ferrule,
an adhesive injection opening (4) for

injecting an adhesive to adhere and fix the optical fibres (11) to the ferrule (1) and
an optical fibre insertion opening (4) for inserting a multi-optical fibre (10) into the

ferrule (1); the multi-optical fibre (10) including the plurality of optical fibres (11),
being adhered and fixed to the ferrule (1); wherein different adhesives are used in

the optical fibre insertion holes (2) and the adhesive injection opening (4)
respectively,
characterised in that
the Young's modulus of the adhesive used in the portion of the optical fibre
insertion holes (2) is higher than the Young's modulus of the adhesive used in

the portion of the adhesive injection opening (4);
the Young's modulus of the adhesive used in the portion of the optical fiber
insertion hole (2) is from 500 to 2000 kg/mm
2
;
the Young's modulus of the adhesive used in the portion of the adhesive injection
opening (4) is from 0.01 to 400 kg/mm
2
; and
the end face of the ferrule is ground,

wherein the adhesives are arranged so that the ferrule is not
stressed or deformed during hardening of the adhesives.
An optical connector according to claim 1 wherein adhesives different in
linear expansion coefficient are used for the portion of the optical fibre insertion

hole (2) and the portion of the adhesive injection opening (4), respectively. 
An optical connector according to claim 2,
wherein the linear expansion coefficient of the adhesive used

for the portion of the adhesive injection opening is from
1.0x10
-5
 to 4.0x10
-5
 (째C
-1
).
An optical connector according to claim 2,
wherein the content of filler included in the adhesive used for

the portion of the optical fiber insertion hole is equal to or
less than 30 weight %.
An optical connector according to claim 2,
wherein the content
 of filler included in the adhesive used for 
the portion of the adhesive injection opening is equal to or

more than 40 weight %.
An optical connector according to claim 2,
wherein the viscosities of the adhesives are from 50 cps to 2000

cps. 
An optical connector according to claim 1 wherein a thermosetting adhesive is
used for the portion of the optical fibre insertion hole (2), and an ordinary-temperature-setting

adhesive is used for the portion of the adhesive injection
opening (4).
An optical connector according to claim 1 wherein adhesives different in
coefficient of hardening shrinkage are used for the portion of the optical fibre

insertion hole (2) and the portion of the adhesive injection opening, respectively
(9). 
An optical connector according to claim 8,
wherein the coefficient of hardening shrinkage of the adhesive

used for the portion of the adhesive injection opening is from
0.2 to 1.0 %.
An optical connector according to claim 8,
wherein the coefficient of hardening shrinkage of the adhesive

used for the portion of the optical fiber injection hole is
from 1.0 to 10.0%. 
An optical fiber according to claim 1, wherein
the adhesives different in Young's modulus, linear expansion

coefficient and coefficient of hardening shrinkage, are used
for the portion of the optical fiber insertion hole and the

portion of the adhesive injection opening, respectively.
An optical connector according to claim 11,

wherein the adhesive used for an optical fiber
insertion hole has Young's modulus from 500 to 2000 kg/mm
2
,
linear expansion coefficient from 4.0x10
-5
 to 5.0x10
-4
 (째C
-1
),
and coefficient of hardening shrinkage from 1.0 to 10.0 %; and


the adhesive used for an adhesive injection opening has
Young's modulus from 0.01 to 400 kg/mm
2
, linear expansion
coefficient from 1.0x10
-5
 to 4.0x10
-5
 (째C
-1
), and coefficient of
hardening shrinkage from 0.2 to 1.0 %.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
