<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630098</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composite magnet stepper/torquer motor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K114	H02K114	H02K127	H02K127	H02K328	H02K328	H02K346	H02K352	H02K3702	H02K3708	H02K3712	H02K3712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K1	H02K1	H02K1	H02K1	H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K37	H02K37	H02K37	H02K37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stepper motor is provided that is compact, easily 
manufactured, and provides high torque. The stepper motor 

comprises a multi-pole composite magnet (64) which functions as 
a rotor, at least one stator member (65A,65B) which determines the 

angular position of this rotor, and means for positioning 
the rotor and the stator members on a common axis. The 

composite magnet comprises two pieces, each piece having a 
mating member and an arc-shaped member integrally formed 

with the mating member. To form the composite magnet, the 
mating members of both pieces are aligned on an axis and 

the arc-shaped members of both pieces are juxtaposed. The 
first and second pieces are magnetized in opposite axial 

directions which results in two advantages. First, the 
composite magnet provides a high area of energy conversion 

per unit volume, thereby significantly reducing the size 
of the stepper motor in comparison to prior art stepper 

motors. Second, because the projections and apertures are 
magnetized in opposite axial directions, the magnetic 

poles are extremely well-defined thereby ensuring that the 
composite magnet provides both accuracy and high torque 

capability. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLWINE ELMER C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLWINE ELMER C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLWINE ELMER C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLWINE ELMER C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to stepper motors, and in 
particular to a stepper motor which uses a composite magnet. The invention is related to U.S. Patent No. 5,218,251, 
issued June 8, 1993, entitled, "Composite Magnet Stepper 
Motor" and U.S. Patent No. 5,258,735, issued November 2, 
1993, entitled, "Multi-Pole Composite Magnet". U.S. Patent 4,207,483, issued to Baer, discloses an 
electric stepper motor using a rotor having embedded 
permanent magnets which are polarized in an axial 
direction. Energizing one of two coils associated with 
two stator members causes the rotor to move one detent 
position. One major drawback in this motor is the difficulty in 
manufacturing the rotor. Baer teaches that twelve 
permanent magnet regions are equally spaced around the 
circumference of a ceramic ring which is affixed to the 
hub of the motor. For optimal performance, the centers of 
the permanent magnet regions are located at the same 
radial position from the motor axis as the radial centers 
of the stator pole teeth. For these conditions to be met, 
precise tooling of all twelve permanent magnet regions, as 
well as the ceramic ring, is required. Moreover, assembly  
 
of the permanent magnet regions into the ceramic ring is 
time and labor intensive. Therefore, a need arises for a stepper motor having a 
rotor which provides well-definced poles as well as ease 
of manufacture at a reasonable cost. In accordance with the present invention, a stepper 
motor is compact, easily manufactured, and provides high 
torque. The stepper motor comprises a multi-pole 
composite magnet which functions as a rotor, at least one 
stator member which determines the angular position of 
this rotor, and means for positioning the rotor and the 
stator member on a common axis. The composite magnet comprises two pieces, each piece 
having a mating member and an arc-shaped member integrally 
formed with the mating member. To form the composite 
magnet, the mating member of both pieces are aligned on an 
axis and the arc-shaped member of both pieces are 
juxtaposed. The first and second pieces are magnetized in 
opposite axial directions which results in two advantages. 
First, the composite magnet provides a high area of energy 
conversion per unit volume, thereby significantly reducing 
the size of the stepper motor in comparison to prior art 
stepper motors. Second, because the projections and 
apertures are magnetized in opposite axial directions, the 
magnetic poles are extremely well-defined and, in fact, 
are magnetized to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A stepper motor (66) comprising: 
   a multi-pole composite magnet (64) having a 

first piece (30) and a second piece (40), each piece 
having a mating member (31,41) and an arc-shaped member 

(32,42), wherein said first and said second pieces are 
magnetized in opposite axial directions, wherein the 

mating members of said first piece and said second 
piece are aligned to a common axis and the arc-shaped 

members of said first piece and said second piece are 
juxtaposed; 

   at least one stator member (65A,65B) placed in 
operative relation to said multi-pole composite magnet; 

and 
   means (60) for positioning said composite 

magnet and said at least one stator member on said 
common axis. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
mating member (31,41) protrudes from the arc-shaped member. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
mating member has one-half the thickness of the arc-shaped 

member. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein 
the first piece (30) and the second piece (40) form a disc-shaped 

member or a half disc-shaped member. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 
wherein at least one stator member (65A,65B) includes at 

least one pole piece (67) or at least two pole pieces. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the or 
each pole piece (67) has an associated coil (68), current 

through the coil determining the magnetic polarity of the 
pole piece. 
A stepper motor as claimed in any preceding claim 
including at least one pole shoe coupled to the at least one 

stator member (65A,65B). 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 5 or 6 having two 
of the pole pieces (67) and including two pole shoes, one 

pole shoe being coupled to each pole piece. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 7 or 8 wherein the 
or each pole shoe is aligned with a pole on the composite 

magnet. 
A stepper motor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the means for positioning (60) comprises a shaft. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 10 including a 
mechanical stop positioned in operative relation to the 

shaft. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 10 or 11 comprising 
means (63A,63B) for preventing an axial wobble of the multi-pole 

composite magnet, the means for preventing being 
positioned on the shaft (60). 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 12 wherein the 
means (63A,63B) for preventing comprises at least one press 

assembly. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 13 wherein the at 
 

least one press assembly includes means for preventing 
slippage of the composite magnet on the shaft. 
A stepper motor as claimed in claim 14 wherein the 
means for preventing slippage includes a shaped member (60C) 

which mates with a hole (64A) in said composite magnet. 
A stepper motor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the means for positioning comprises a housing. 
A composite magnet comprising: 
   a first piece (30) including a first mating 

member (31) and a first arc-shaped member (32) 
integrally formed with the first mating member, the 

first mating member protruding from the first arc-shaped 
member; and 

   a second piece (40) including a second mating 
member (41) and a second arc-shaped member (42) 

integrally formed with the second mating member, the 
second mating member protruding from the second arc-shaped 

member; 
   wherein the first piece and the second piece 

are magnetized in opposite axial directions, wherein 
the first mating member and the second mating member 

are aligned to an axis, and wherein the first arc-shaped 
member and the second arc-shaped member are 

juxtaposed. 
A method of providing a stepper motor comprising the 
steps of: 

   forming a first piece (30) including a first 
mating member (31) and a first arc-shaped member (32) 

integrally formed with the first mating member, the 
first mating member protruding from the first arc-shaped 

 
member; 

   forming a second piece (40) including a second 
mating (41) member and a second arc-shaped member (42) 

integrally formed with the second mating member, the 
second mating member protruding from the second arc-shaped 

member; 
   magnitizing the first piece and the second 

piece in opposite axial directions; 
   forming a composite magnet (64) by joining the 

first piece and the second piece, wherein the first 
mating member and the second mating member are aligned 

to an axis, and wherein the first arc-shaped member and 

the second arc-shaped member are juxtaposed; and 
   positioning at least one stator member 

(65A,65B) in operative relation to the composite 
magnet. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
