<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623218</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR NON-DESTRUCTIVE TESTING ELECTRIC INSULATION BY MEASURING ITS VOLTAGE RESPONSE SIGNAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3112	G01R3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method for non-destructive testing electric insulations by measuring the direct voltage response by connecting to the insulation direct voltage and measuring the decay voltage and the recovery voltage. In the sense of the invention in the first step the measuring direct voltage (Uo) will be connected on the terminals of the insulation to be tested for a charging time period (tt) depending on the time constant of the polarization processes in the said insulation, after expiration of the charging time period (tt) in the second step the measuring direct voltage (Uo) will be switched off and the initial slope (Mk) of the decay voltage (Uk) will be determined, in the third step said insulation will be short-circuited for a discharge time period (trz) depending on the time constant of the polarization range to be investigated, following the discharge time period (trz) the short circuit will be interrupted and the initial slope (Mv) of the recovery voltage (Uv) will be determined. The invention relates to furthermore an apparatus for non-destructive testing electric insulations by charging the insulation to be tested to direct voltage and subsequent discharging said insulation, wherein to the insulation to be tested the voltage source producing the measuring direct voltage is connected through the series connected switch element. According to the invention between the insulation to be tested, i.e. the sample tested (Pr) and the direct voltage source (G) a first controlled switch element (K1) is series connected, to its outlet connected to the sample tested (Pr) one outlet of the second controlled switch element (K2) coupled parallel with the sample tested (Pr) is connected, while parallel with the sample tested (Pr) a non-consumption voltmeter (F) and/or recorder is connected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUDAPESTI MUESZAKI EGYETEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUDAPESTI MUESZAKI EGYETEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
N METH ENDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
N METH, ENDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Method and apparatus for non-destructive testing electric insulation by measuring its voltage response signal.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the inventionThe invention relates to method and apparatus for no destructive testing electric insulation by measuring t total voltage response signal. The invention should be us advantageously for testing high voltage insulations well.The testing and measuring system according to the inventi has been based on measuring the total voltage respon signal, i.e. on measuring the decay voltage diagram and t recovery voltage diagram as the function of the time and measuring the initial slope of said diagrams referring the unit charge voltage .These ' data measured are used f characterizing and testing the condition of the insulationsThe portable apparatus operating on the basis of the metho according to the invention can be used for diagnosti testing insulation system in the low voltage and high vol tage equipments on the site and without destroying sai system.The task of an electric insulation is alwyas to separat electrically the metal elements of an equipment bein connected to different voltages. However the insulation ca fulfil reliably the task set only if the electric strengt of said insulation has been made safety higher than th electric stress occuring in operation.The electric strength of the insulating materials used i the insulations can not be regarded to be constant. Th 

 value of the electric strength is being continous decreasing from its initial value referring to the n insulation on the effect of the chemical and physic deteriorating processes, ageing etc., occuring during t operation.The decrease of the electric strength effects decrease of the electric safety of the operation of sa insulation system.Progressing the deterioration processes to preset conditio the safety operation of said insulation and such that of th apparatus comprising said insulation becomes unsafe, whi results in sudden increase of the probability e.g. t frequency of punctures or breakdowns.The puncture and breakdown during the operation of an ap paratus or machine causes unexpected operating troubles fo example longer or shorter failure or absence of the main supply voltage, which causes troubles and inconvenience no only to the civilien population, but the working machine will stop too, decreasing the production or casusing troubl for example in the traffic on the streets.Such absence of the mains voltage could have seriou consequences for example in the metallurgical or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Method for non-destructive testing electric insulations measuring the direct voltage response by connecting to t insulation direct voltage and measuring the decay volta and the recovery voltage, characterized by that in the fir step the measuring direct voltage (U
0
) will be connected the terminals of the insulation to be tested for a chargi time period (t-t) depending on the time constant of t polarization processes in the said insulation, afte expiration of the charging time period (t-^) in the secon step the measuring direct voltage (U
0
) will be switched of and the initial slope (M^) of the decay voltage (Uj) will b determined, in the third step said insulation will be short circuited for a discharge time period (t
rz
) depending on th time constant of the polarization range to be investigated following the discharge time period (t
rz
) the short circui will be interrupted and the initial slope (M
v
) of th recovery voltage (U
v
) will be determined.
2. Method according to Claim 1 characterized in that th discharge will be continued until the measured decay voltag (Uj) decreases to the abt. 90% of the measuring direc voltage (U
0
) .
3. Method according to the Claims 1 or 2, characterized in tha the measuring direct voltage (U
0
) is lower than th operational voltage of the insulation, optinonally th measuring voltage range is 1 kV...5 kV.
4. Method according to any of the Claims 1 to 3, characterize in that the conduction and polarization in the insulation, i.e the character of the condition of the insulation will b characterized by the initial slopes (Mjς,M
v
) measured. 


 5. Method according to any of the Claims l to 4, characterize in that the whole measuring process will be repeate regularly or irregularly, the measured values will b registrated, and the condition and state of the insulatio will be watched and controlled on the basis of the dat measured.
6. Method according to any of the Claims 1 to 2 and 4 to 5, characterizedin that the measuring direct voltage (U
0
) is lower than the voltage being dangerous for the insulation.
7.Apparatus for non-destructive testing electric insulations by charging the insulation to be tested to direct voltage and subsequent discharging said insulation, wherein to the insulation to be tested the voltage source producing the measuring direct voltage is connected through the serious connected switch element, characterized in that between the insulation to be tested, i.e. the sample tested (Pr) and the direct voltage source (G) a first controlled switch element (Kl) is seriously connected, to its outlet connected to the sample tested (Pr) one outlet of the second controlled switch element (K2) coupled parallel with the sample tested (Pr) is connected, while parallel with the sample tested (Pr) a non-consumption voltmeter (F) and/or recorder is connected.
8. Apparatus according to the Claim 7, characterized in that the control input of the first switching element (Kl) is connected to the element producing the charging time period t-t) , while the control input of the second switching element (K2) is joined to the element producing the discharge time period (t
rz
) , which are arranged in the control unit (V) realizing the requested, in itself known, timed operation of the first and second switching elements (Kl, K2) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
