<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0929359</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MIXER SPARGING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F	B01F304	B01F304	B01F700	B01F700	B01F716	B01F716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F	B01F3	B01F3	B01F7	B01F7	B01F7	B01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Sparging apparatus and method of use including a tank (10) with internal baffles (20), an axial flow impeller (12) which creates a downward flow path for liquid, a plurality of gas outlet pipes (30) which discharge gas against flow distribution fins on the lower surfaces of plates on which an air trapping ring (32) is mounted.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN SIGNAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL SIGNAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWK RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWK, RICHARD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MIXER SPARGING APPARATUS The application claims the priority benefit of provisional application Serial No. 60/025,497 filed October 4, 1996.The present invention relates to systems for gas dispersion in liquids or liquid suspensions as the suspensions are circulated, and particularly to an improved mass transfer mixing system, which may also be called mixer sparging apparatus, with enhanced gas to liquid mass transfer efficiency (the rate at which the mass of the gas is dissolved into the liquid).The invention provides a gas outlet arrangement wherein gas at low pressure (for example, within about 10% of the pressure of the liquid at the outlets) is released between a pair of fins and below a plate in a flow path which may be provided by an axial flow impeller. The arrangement turbilizes the liquid flow for enhanced gas to liquid mass transfer and enables the use of a pipe or pipes which release the gas having outlets which are sufficiently large to be cleaned easily of any accumulated debris. In addition, a ring may be disposed such that the outlets are arranged below the ring and the plates are between each of the outlets and the ring. The ring enhances the distribution of the gas in the path of the axial discharge (flow) from the impeller. The ring may be circular in cross-section to provide a reduced pressure on the side thereof which is downstream of the flow so as to further enhance the distribution of the flow, due to the Bernoulli effect. The ring may then be called the Bernoulli air trapping ring.The sparging device including the pipes, plates, fins and, ring (if the ring is used) is disposed in the vicinity of the bottom of the mixing tank, for example between .25 and .5D (where D is the diameter of the impeller). This locates the sparging apparatus above the region of the tank where solids may accumulate and also enhances the turbilization of the flow of the liquid and the distribution of the gas. Thus, the invention provides an improved fluid (gas or liquid) sparging system, which utilizes the discharge of an axial flow impeller to minimize gas droplet size by improving turbulence of the liquid flow and, therefore, the dispersion of the gas thereby enhancing gas to liquid mass transfer. The invention can provide multiple gas outlets and multiple turbulence enhancing elements for increased turbulence and residence time of the gas without flooding of 

the impeller. As noted above, the sparges may use sparging pipes with effectively open pipes to provide cleanliness and reduce plugging and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A l M S
1. Sparging apparatus which comprises an impeller for generating a discharge flow of liquid and a mechanism for releasing a fluid in the flow, the mechanism being disposed between the impeller and the bottom of a tank; the mechanism comprising at least one open pipe through which said fluid is discharged at low pressure; fins for distributing the fluid; and a plate, for turbulizing the discharge flow, disposed in the discharge flow above the outlet of the pipe and the fins.
2. Sparging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said impeller has an axis of rotation and further comprising a ring concentric with the axis of rotation of the impeller connected in assembled relationship with the plate and the pipe and the fins upstream of the plate in the discharge flow from the impeller.
3. An apparatus for dispersion of gas into a liquid medium, comprising: a tank formed by a wall and side closing said tank at an end thereof said side and along said walls towards said impeller, an axial flow impeller within said tank producing flow in opposite directions toward said side and along said wall, said impeller being spaced from said base, a pipe between said side and said impeller, having an outlet to discharge gas into said tank, a pair of fins disposed downstream of said outlet, said fins defining a slit therebetween and adapted to disperse the gas within said tank, and a plate disposed adjacent said outlet, between said pipe and said impeller, and encompassing an area greater than the area encompassed by said fins and said outlet.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, further including a ring disposed downstream of said outlet of said pipe.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said outlet of said pipe defines a plane and said fins form an angle of approximately 40 degrees from said plane. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said ring is circular in cross section. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said ring is in the form of a band. 


8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said ring is disposed between about 0.25D and 0.5D from said side of said tank.
9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said outlet is located at about 0.7D to 0.8D from said side of said tank. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said ring has a diameter of between 0.7D and 0.8D.
11. An apparatus for dispersion of gas in a liquid medium tank having a wall and a bottom at an end thereof comprising: an axial flow impeller within said tank, said impeller having a diameter D and an axis of rotation, three pipes, each pipe having an outlet adapted to discharge gas into said tank, said pipes spaced 120 degrees from each other around said axis of rotation of said impeller, a pair of fins disposed downstream of each said outlet, said fins adapted to disperse the gas within said tank, and a plate disposed adjacent each said outlet, between each said pipe and said impeller, and encompassing an area greater than the area encompassed by each pair of said fins and each said outlet.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, further including a ring disposed downstream of each of said outlets of said pipes.
13. The apparatus of claim 11 , wherein said outlets of said pipes define planes and said pairs of fins form an angle of approximately 40 degrees from each of said planes.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said ring is circular in cross section.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said ring is disposed between about 0.25D and 0.5D from the bottom of said tank.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each of said outlets is located at about 0.7D to 0.8D from the bottom of said tank. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said ring has a diameter of between 0.7D and 0.8D. 18. A method of dispersing gas in a tank containing liquid, comprising 


the steps of: rotating an axial flow impeller within said tank to cause the liquid to move within the tank, discharging gas into said tank through an outlet, dispersing the gas within said tank by flowing said gas past a pair of fins disposed downstream of said outlet, and turbilizing the flow of liquid in the vicinity of said outlet by providing a plate adjacent said outlet, said plate encompassing an area greater than the area encompassed by said fins and said outlet. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein said discharging step is carved out with said gas at low discharge pressure about sufficient only to overcome the pressure of the liquid at said outlet.
20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a first region extends between said impeller and said side and record region extends between said first region and said wall, said outlet being in said first region.
21. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein a first region extends between said impeller and said side and record region extends between said first region and said wall, said outlet being in said second region or in said wall adjacent to said second region. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tank contains said medium to a level creating a pressure at said outlet, and wherein said gas in pressure thereby being discharged at low velocity. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
