<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614228</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOS-controlled thyristor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L29749	H01L29745	H01L2966	H01L2974	H01L2910	H01L2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A P type source region (1) is formed in a grid 
mesh-like pattern in one major surface portion of an 

N⁻ type semiconductor substrate (2). A P type base 
region (3) and P⁻ type base region (20) are each formed 

in the one major surface portion of the N⁻ type semiconductor 
substrate at an area between those grid mesh-like 

portions of the P type source region (1). An N type 
emitter region (4) is formed in the P type base region 

(3). An N type emitter region (21) is formed in the 
P⁻ type base region (20). A gate electrode (5) is 

formed over the P type source region (1), N⁻ type 
semiconductor substrate (2), P type base region (3) and 

P⁻ type base region (20). The gate electrode (5) is 
formed in a grid mesh-like pattern as viewed from above 

the N⁻ type semiconductor substrate (2). A cathode 
electrode (8) is contacted with the P type source region 

(1), P⁻ type base region (20) and N type emitter regions 
(4) and (21). A P⁺ type emitter layer (10) is formed on 

an other major surface side of the N⁻ type semiconductor 
substrate (2). An N⁺ type buffer layer (9) is formed 

between the N⁻ type semiconductor substrate (2) and the 
P⁺ type emitter layer (10). An anode electrode (11) is 

contacted with the P⁺ type emitter layer (10). A cell 
(β) acts as a switch at a turn-on time and a resultant 

MCT is rapidly turned on. Those cells α and β have 
such an arrangement as to improve the turn-off 

characteristic. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improvement in 
an MOS controlled thyristor (hereinafter referred to as 
an MCT) for turning on an MOS gate. FIG. 1 shows a conventional MCT, such as an MCT 
disclosed in JPN PAT APPLN KOKAI Publication 4-99384 (corresponding to the preamble of claim 1) 
(published on March 31, 1992). FIG. 2 is a plan view 
showing diffusion layers formed in a substrate surface 
of an MCT of FIG. 1. The arrangement of the MCT as shown in FIGS. 1 and 
2 will be explained below. A P type source region 1 is formed in a grid 
mesh-like pattern in a one-side surface of an N- type 
semiconductor substrate 2. P type base regions 3 are 
each formed in the one-side surface portion of the N- 
type semiconductor substrate 2 at an area between the 
P type source portions 3. An N type emitter region 4 is 
formed in the P type base region 3. A polysilicon gate electrode 5 is formed over the 
N- type semiconductor substrate 2 with a gate insulating 
film 6 provided therebetween. One end of the 
polysilicon gate electrode 5 is situated in an overlying 
relation to the end of the emitter region 4 and the 
other end of the polysilicon gate electrode 5 is situated 
in an overlying relation to the P type source 
region 1. An insulating film 7 covers the polysilicon  
 
electrode 5. A cathode electrode 8 is formed over the 
N- type semiconductor substrate 2 and connected to the 
P type source region 1 and N type emitter region 4. An N+ buffer layer 9 is provided on the other surface 
side of the N- type semiconductor substrate 2. 
A P+ type emitter layer 10 is formed adjacent to the N+ 
buffer layer 9 and an anode electrode 11 is formed on 
the other surface of the P+ type emitter layer 10. FIGS. 3 and 4 show an operation (turn ON/turn OFF) 
principle for MCT in FIGS. 1 and 2. Referring to FIG. 3, the operation of MCT at a 
turn-on time will be explained below. When the anode A and cathode K are biased positive 
and negative, respectively, with a gate G biased 
positive, an N channel inversion layer 12 is created at 
the surface of the P type base region 3. Electrons 13 
are injected from the N type emitter region 4 through 
the N channel inversion layer 12 into the N- type base 
region (substrate) 2. When this occurs, holes are 
induced in the P+ type emitter layer 10 and injected 
into the N- type base region 2. As a result, a conductivity 
modulation occurs in the N- type base region 2 
and electrons 15 pass from the N type emitter region 4 
into the N- type base region 2 via the P type base 
region 3.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An MOS controlled thyristor device comprising: 

a first semiconductor region (2, 21) of a first 
conductivity type; 
a second semiconductor region (1, 34) of a second 
conductivity type formed in a specific pattern in a 

first major surface portion of the first semiconductor 
region; 
a third semiconductor region (3, 35) of the second 
conductivity type formed in the first major surface portion 

of the first semiconductor region at an area 
between the pattern portions of the second semiconductor 

region; 
a fourth semiconductor region (4, 39) of the first 
conductivity type formed in a first major surface portion of the third semiconductor 

region; 
a seventh semiconductor region (10, 23) of the second 

conductivity type formed on a second major surface portion of the first semiconductor region; and 
a second electrode (11, 44) formed on the seventh 
semiconductor region characterized by: 
a fifth semiconductor region (20, 36) of the second 
conductivity type formed in the first major surface 

portion of the first semiconductor region at an area 
between the pattern portions of the second semiconductor 

region and having an impurity concentration at least lower than 
that of the third semiconductor region; 
a sixth semiconductor region (21, 40) of the first conductivity type 
formed in a first major surface portion of the fifth semiconductor region, 

the fifth and sixth regions and neighbouring portions of the second region 
forming a cell (β); 
a gate electrode (5, 27) formed over the first 
semiconductor region, second semiconductor region, third 

semiconductor region and fifth semiconductor region, 
with an insulating film therebetween; and 
a first electrode (8, 45) formed over the first 
major surface of the first semiconductor region and connected 

at least to the second, fourth, fifth and sixth 
semiconductor regions. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the second semiconductor region is 

formed in a grid mesh-like pattern as viewed from above 
the first major surface of the first semiconductor 

region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the second semiconductor region is 

formed in a hexagonal mesh-like pattern as viewed from 
above the first major surface of the first semiconductor 

region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the gate electrode is formed in a 

grid mesh-like pattern over the first major surface of 
the first semiconductor region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the gate electrode is formed in 

a hexagonal mesh-like pattern over the first major surface 
of the first semiconductor region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the third and fifth semiconductor 

regions are each formed as a square contour as viewed 
from above the first major surface of the first semiconductor 

region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 6, 
characterized in that one of said cells (β) including the fifth and sixth 

semiconductor regions is surrounded with eight cells (α) which include the 
third and fourth semiconductor regions and neighbouring portions of the 

second region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 6, 
characterized in that said cells (β) including the fifth and sixth 

semiconductor regions are situated in a staggered relation to cells (α) 
which include the third and fourth semiconductor regions and neighbouring 

portions of the second region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1,
  
 

characterized in that the third and fifth semiconductor 
regions are each formed as a hexagonal outline as viewed 

from above the first major surface of the first semiconductor 
region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 9, 
characterized in that one of said cells (β) including the fifth and sixth 

semiconductor regions is surrounded with six cells (α) which include the 
third and fourth semiconductor regions and neighbouring portions of the 

second region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the second and third semiconductor regions are in 

contact with each other at the first major surface of the first semiconductor 
region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized by further comprising a buffer layer (9) of 

the first conductivity type formed between the first 
semiconductor region and the seventh semiconductor 

region. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the second electrode is contacted 

with both the first semiconductor region and the seventh 
semiconductor region. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
