<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658248</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONDUCTIVE PARTICULATE FORCE TRANSDUCER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L120	G01L120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L1	G01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pressure transducer includes a base ply (12), a resistance ply (14) disposed on the base ply and at least two spaced apart contacts (26, 28) juxtaposed in relation to the resistance ply whereby at least one of the contacts may be pressed against the surface of the resistance ply. The resistance ply is made by spraying or silk screening a mixture of resin (18) resistive to electrical conduction and a conductive particulate (16) and then curing the composition to form a thin resistance ply having a surface with a multiplicity of micro-protrusions (34) formed by the conductive particulate. The ratio of conductive particulate to resin is such that the mean distance (21) between microprotrusions is greater than about five times the size of the conductive particles (16). The particles are in the range of about .5 to 10 microns and the resin layer is about .4 to .8 microns thick.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERLINK ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERLINK ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANIGER STUART I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANIGER, STUART, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to pressure 
transducers and compositions for making pressure 
transducers and in particular to transducers having a 
variable resistance layer made from a composition of 
conductive particulate intermixed with a continuous 
matrix resistive resin which is applied in a thin layer 
to a surface and thereafter cured to form the resistance 
layer. Pressure responsive transducers are known. For 
example, U.S. Patent No. 3,806,471 to Mitchell describes 
a typical pressure transducer wherein conduction paths 
through a volume of a thick compressible layer would be 
increased thereby decreasing the resistance through the 
layer in response to application of an external force. 
These volume type pressure transducers are subject to 
many disadvantages including the size of the transducer 
and the relatively rapid degeneration in performance 
with time and use. An improved pressure transducer relying on 
variable contacts across the surface of a thin layer is 
disclosed in Eventoff U.S. Patent Nos. 4,489,302 and 
4,314,227. However, the Eventoff patents taught that 
the particulate was an insulative or semiconductor 
particulate which was believed necessary to insure there 
would be a resistance across the layer and that the 
resistance would vary in response to pressure. As such, 
the Eventoff patents taught away from the use of a 
conductive particulate. FR-A-1 039 832 discloses a similar type of pressure 
transducer using a conductive particulate. It has been discovered 
that a conductive particulate such as iron spheres or 
germanium can be used to form an effective pressure 
transducer when the particulate size and spacing in the 
resistive resin layer is selected, relative to the 
thickness of the resin layer, to be within certain 
ranges.  
 Accordingly, the pressure transducer of the 
present invention is made by applying a composition 
comprising a mixture of a resistive resin and a 
conductive particulate such as iron spheres or 
germanium. The resistive resin may be a carbon filled 
resin which conducts but has a resistance to 
conductance. The composition is disposed on a base ply 
to form a resistance layer where the mean spacing 
between conductive particles creating microprotrusion 
across the surface of the resistance layer, is greater 
than about five times the diameter of the particulate 
and the particle diameter is about 1.3 to three times 
the thickness of the resultant layer of resistive resin. The present invention results in a pressure 
transducer which has
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transducer having a resistance which varies 
in response to the amount of applied force comprising: 


a base ply; 
a resistance ply disposed on the base ply and having a 
resistance ply surface, the resistance ply comprising: 


a 
thin
 resin resistive to electrical current passing 
therethrough, the resin forming a layer on the base ply, 

the resin layer having a first thickness and defining a 
resin surface; and 
a conductive particulate interspersed in the resistive 
resin for forming a plurality of microprotrusions of the 

conductive particulate extending from the resin surface 

to provide electrical contact points through the particulate
, 
wherein the ratio of resin to particulate is such that 


either (a)
 the mean distance between microprotrusions 
along the resistance ply surface is greater than about 

five times the particulate size 
or (b) the particulate 
has a size of greater thickness than the resin layer
; 
at least two spaced apart contacts electrically interconnected 
across the resistance ply to enable electrical conduction 

through the resistance ply, at least one of the contacts 
juxtaposed opposite the surface of the resistance ply for 

being pressed theretoward 
for engaging the electrical contact 
points
, the resistance to electrical current conducting 
through the resistance ply varying in response to the amount 

of force applied to press the at least one contact toward the 
resistance ply surface. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein there are two contacts, both 
contacts being juxtaposed opposite the surface of the resistance 

ply, the resistance ply being electrically interconnected in shunt 
orientation across the two contacts.  

 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein there are two contacts, one 
positioned on each side of the resistance ply whereby electrical 

current is conducted through the resistance ply. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the resistive resin further 
comprises a non-conductive resin base and molecular sized carbon 

particulate mixed therein. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the conductive particulate 
has a particle size in the range of about 0.5 to 10 microns. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the ratio of resistive resin 
to conductive particulate is in the range of about 20 parts resin 

to 1 part conductive particulate to 2 parts resin to 1 part 
conductive particulate. 
The transducer of claim 4 wherein weight ratio of carbon to 
non-conductive resin is in the range of one part carbon to one 

hundred parts non-conductive resin base to one part carbon to four 
parts non-conductive resin base. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the particle size is in the 
range of 1.3 to 3 times the thickness of the resin layer. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the thickness of the resin 
layer is in the range of about .4 to .8 microns. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the particulate is iron 
spheres. 
The transducer of claim 11 wherein the weight ratio of 
particulate to resin is about one to ten. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the particulate is 
germanium.  

 
The transducer of claim 12 wherein the weight ratio of 
particulate to resin is about one to seven. 
A composition of matter for being disposed in a thin layer for 
forming a resistance ply juxtaposed between at least two contacts, 

the thin layer defining a surface against which at least one of the 
contacts may be pressed, the resistance ply having a resistance 

which varies in response to the amount of force with which the at 
least one contact is pressed against the surface of the resistance 

ply, the composition of matter comprising: 

a resin which when applied in the thin layer is resistive to 
current passing therethrough; and 
a conductive particulate interspersed through the resin to 
form a multiplicity of microprotrusions extending from the surface 

of the thin resin layer, wherein the ratio of particulate in the 
resin for forming the thin layer is such that 
either (a)
 the mean 
distance between microprotrusions in the thin layer is greater than 

about five times the size of the particulate
; or (b) the particle 
size is such as to be in the range of 1,3 to 3 times the thickness 

of the thin resin layer
. 
The composition of matter of claim 14 wherein the conductive 
particulate has a particulate size in the range of about 0.5 to 10 

microns. 
The composition of matter of claim 14 wherein the ratio of 
resistive resin to conductive particulate is in the range of about 

20 parts resin to 1 part conductive particulate to 2 parts resin to 
1 part conductive particulate. 
The composition of matter of claim 14 wherein the particle 
size is such as to be in the range of 1.3 to 3 times the thickness 

of the thin layer. 
The composition of matter of claim 14 wherein the particulate 
is iron spheres.  

 
The composition of matter of claim 18 wherein the weight ratio 
of particulate to resin is about one to ten. 
The composition of matter of claim 14 wherein the particulate 
is germanium. 
The composition of matter of claim 20 wherein the weight of 
particulate to resin is about one to seven. 
A transducer having a resistance which varies in response to 
the amount of applied force comprising: 


a first base ply; 
a first contact disposed on the first base ply; 
a second base ply in facing relationship to the first base 
ply; 
a second contact disposed on the second base ply; 
a first resistance ply disposed on the first contact and a 
second resistance ply disposed on the second contact and the first 

and second resistance plies comprising: 

a resin resistive to electrical current passing 
therethrough, the resin forming a layer on the base ply, the 

resin layer having a first thickness and defining a resin 
surface; and 
a conductive particulate interspersed in the resistive 
resin for forming a plurality of microprotrusions of the 

conductive particulate extending from the resin surface, 
wherein the ratio of resin to particulate is such that the 

mean distance between microprotrusions along the resistance 
ply surface is greater than about five times the particulate 

size; 
 
the two contacts positioned to enable electrical conduction 

through the first and second resistance plies, the first and 
second resistance plies juxtaposed opposite each other for 

being pressed together, the resistance to electrical current 
conducting through the first and second resistance plies 

varying in response to the amount of force applied to press  
 

the surfaces of the first and second resistance plies 
together. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
