<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636999</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High speed image preprocessing system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T900	G06T900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T9	G06T9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high speed digital image preprocessing system for use in image 
recognition applications in which compressed image data is transmitted 

over a Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) for storage in a Multi-Purpose 
Buffer. The data may decompressed, byte-swapped, byte-flipped, 

or may be passed through the system unmodified as directed by 
the Host Computer. A Video Compression-Expansion Processor can 

handle a variety of data compression formats and receives data from the 
Multi-Purpose Buffer. Processed data which matches preprogrammed 

sets of window coordinates can be selectively cropped and stored in 
multiple First-In-First-Out (FIFO) buffers by Cropper Controller 

circuitry. The processed and cropped data is then sent to the Host 
Computer through a Micro-Channel Architecture (MCA) Interface 

Controller for further recognition processing by the Host Computer. A 
high data throughput rate is achieved by synchronizing data transfer 

among the components of the preprocessing system by use of the Multi-Purpose 
Buffer and a data window storage mechanism. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T GLOBAL INF SOLUTION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T GLOBAL INFORMATION SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUK-MIN HO BENEDICT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAIG THOMAS SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUK-MIN HO, BENEDICT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAIG, THOMAS SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of digital image data 
processing and, more particularly, to a high speed image preprocessing 
system capable of processing a stream of digital data so that the 
workload of an associated host computer is reduced. Image recognition technology is becoming widely used in 
manufacturing, commercial, and business applications. Such 
applications include: verification of objects on assembly lines, locating 
bonding pads on integrated circuits, visual robotic control systems, 
optical character recognition, and document verification and 
classification devices. Typical image recognition systems known in the art receive data 
through a data communications link and transmit the data to various 
recognition boards for processing by a host computer. Typically, in 
optical character recognition systems, image data files are captured and 
compressed by image capture platforms and devices. The image data 
files are then sent to a recognition system to decompress the data and 
perform image recognition within a pre-defined subset or window of the 
image. Image data recognition is a computation intensive task and 
presents a formidable challenge to the host computer. The limited 
success of prior art systems that use general purpose computers to 
perform pattern analysis and image recognition is due to the extremely 
long processing times required to process images with a large number 
of data points. The massive amount of data to be analyzed and 
processed cause many computer systems to be slow and incapable of 
meeting the data throughput requirements. These complex real time 
processing demands call for computational throughputs that exceed 
those of devices used in the prior art. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an 
improved means of preprocessing digital image data. According to the present invention there is provided a high speed 
digital image preprocessing system connected between a data link and a 
host computer interface bus, in the system comprising a digital multipurpose 
buffer for storing digital image data where the image data is 
comprised of digital image words; a video processor connected to  
 
receive the digital image data from the digital multi-purpose buffer; a 
data link interface controller to direct the flow of digital image data to 
and from the data link; a multi-purpose buffer controller for providing 
signals to control the flow of digital image data between the digital 
multi-purpose buffer, data link, video
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A high speed digital image preprocessing system (20) 
connected between a data link (10) and a host computer interface bus 

(11), said high speed digital image preprocessing system (20) 
comprising: a digital multi-purpose buffer (12) for storing digital image 

data, said digital image data being comprised of a plurality of digital 
image words; a video processor (300) connected to receive said digital 

image data from said digital multi-purpose buffer (12); a data link 
interface controller (700) to direct the flow of said digital image data to 

and from said data link; a multi-purpose buffer controller (400) for 
providing signals to control the flow of said digital image data between 

said digital multi-purpose buffer (12), said data link (10), said video 
processor (300), and said host computer interface bus (11); a data 

cropping controller (500) connected to receive a plurality of 
preprogrammed window coordinates such that said digital image data 

processed by said video processor (300) which matches the 
preprogrammed window coordinates is identified; a host computer 

interface means (200) to direct the flow of said digital image data to and 
from said host computer interface bus (11); and a window data storage 

means (600) connected to receive said identified digital image data from 
said video processor (300) and connected to send said identified digital 

image data to said host computer interface means (200). 
2. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that said 
digital multi-purpose buffer (12) is connected between said data link 

(10) and said video processor (300) such that said multi-purpose buffer 
(10) stores the digital image data received from said data link (10) and 

supplies the digital image data to the video processor (300) as requested 
by the video processor (300), thus allowing for a continuous processing 

of said image data by the video processor (300). 
3. A system according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in 
that said mutli-purpose buffer controller (400) provides a first shared 

direct memory access (DMA) data channel (13) to transfer said digital 
image data between said multi-purpose buffer (12) and said data link 

(10) and between said multi-purpose buffer (12) and said host computer 
 

interface bus (11), and additionally provides a second DMA data 
channel (13) to transfer said digital image data between said multipurpose 

buffer (12) and said video processor (300) simultaneously with 
the transfer of said digital image data between said multi-purpose buffer 

(12) and said data link (10). 
4. A system according to claim 3, characterized in that said 
video processor (300) provides a third direct memory access data 

channel (15) to transfer said digital image data from said video 
processor (300) to said window data storage means (600). 
5. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said multi-purpose buffer controller (400) includes 

means for byte ordering said digital image words to reduce the 
processing load of the host computer by juxtaposing the high byte with 

the low byte of said digital image word as required by the host 
computer. 
6. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said multi-purpose buffer (12) includes means for 

byte flipping said digital image words to reduce the processing load of 
the host computer by juxtaposing the bits of each byte of said digital 

image word about the center of each said byte as required by the host 
computer. 
7. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said multi-purpose buffer controller (400) includes 

means for generating signals to said host computer interface means to 
indicate when said digital image buffer is empty and when the digital 

image buffer is full. 
8. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said window data storage means (600) includes 

means for generating signals to said data cropping control means (500) 
to indicate when said window data storage means (600) is empty, full, 

and half full. 
9. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said data cropping control means (500) is capable 

of receiving said preprogrammed window coordinates, which may 
overlap in area. 
10. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said window data storage means (600) is connected 

to receive said digital image data cropped by said data cropping control 
means (500), said window data storage means (600) further comprising 

a plurality of independent first-in first-out buffers (FIFO). 
11. A system according to claim 10, characterized by further 
comprising a forth and fifth direct memory access data channel to 

transfer said digital image data from each said independent FIFO to said 
host computer interface means respectively. 
13. A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said multi-purpose buffer controller (400) provides 

signals to control the flow of said digital image data between said 
digital multi-purpose buffer (12), said data link (10), said video 

processor (300), and said host computer interface bus (11) to facilitate 
bi-directional data flow to and from said multi-purpose buffer (12) at 

rates supporting maximum transfer rates of said data link (10) and video 
processor (300). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
