<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mounting laminate having recessed adhesive areas
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D2716	C09J702	B65D2712	B42F500	B42F500	C09J702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	C09J	B65D	B42F	B42F	C09J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D27	C09J7	B65D27	B42F5	B42F5	C09J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mounting laminate can be used as a mounting 
sheet on which undersize items can be mounted for 

processing in devices equipped with stacked sheet feed 
mechanisms. The mounting laminate has three primary 

layers: (a) a masking layer (11), preferably paper, formed 
with discrete openings (13), preferably circles, (b) a back 

layer (14), preferably a thin plastic film, and (c) a 
pressure-sensitive adhesive layer (16) adhering the masking 

layer to the back layer and extending across each of 
the openings. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AADLAND LYNETTE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYGARD JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON DORMAN N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AADLAND, LYNETTE M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYGARD, JAMES C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, DORMAN N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to mounting laminates to 
which pieces of paper can be adhered by contact, either 
temporarily or permanently. One aspect of the 
invention is concerned with mounting laminates that can 
be used to collect documents, including such mounting 
laminates that are used as a carrier sheet for such 
documents while they are read, copied or otherwise 
processed by devices equipped with stacked sheet feed 
mechanisms. Another aspect of the invention is 
concerned with such mounting laminates in the form of 
sheets or strips that can be used to attach documents 
to substrates in a desired location, or can be 
incorporated into envelopes and used to seal the 
envelopes. Optical scanners are widely used to convert 
printed data into electrical pulses that can be stored 
and processed by electronic computers. The printed 
data may be on small pieces of paper (such as receipts, 
vouchers, credit card memoranda, or ticket stubs). 
Because of their small and varied sizes and 
thicknesses, it has been necessary to tape those pieces 
to larger standardized carrier sheets for use in a 
stacked sheet feed mechanism. The taping process has 
been time-consuming and expensive and, when individual 
memoranda need to be recovered after being processed, 
attempts at separating them from the tape sometimes 
cause damage. Other types of devices that are equipped with 
stacked sheet feed mechanisms are sometimes used to 
process other types of items that are too small to be 
handled directly. For example, for processing by a  
 
microfilm or a photocopy device, undersize photographs 
and bank checks or other negotiable instruments, etc. 
typically are taped to larger carrier sheets that can 
be stacked for automated microfilming or photocopying. 
It also has been necessary in some instances to tape 
undersize items such as rolodex cards, checks, labels, 
and name tags to advance them through a computer 
printer. U.S. Pat. No 4,822,017 (Griesmyer) primarily 
concerns the problem of advancing small, odd-sized 
items into a computer printer that has a sheet feed 
mechanism. Figures. 1-3 show a carrier sheet (12) 
that is formed with a plurality of openings. A strip 
of pressure-sensitive adhesive tape (32) is adhered to 
the back of the carrier sheet with a portion of its 
adhesive layer exposed through each of the openings. 
Vertical retaining strips (36) and (38) are so adhered 
to the face of the carrier sheet that their edges can 
be lifted to hold a card (50) flat. However, the 
patent says in connection
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mounting laminate comprising: 

a rectangular masking layer having an imperforate 
border portion and a perforate portion bounded on at 

least one side by the border portion having discrete 
openings that (a) extend substantially uniformly over 

the entire area of the perforate portion of the masking 
layer, (b) occupy at least 25% of the area of the 

perforate portion of the masking layer, (c) each have 
an area generally in the range of 0.316 to 3.88 square 

centimeters, (d) are each of a size such that a circle 
of from 6.35 to 20 millimeters in diameter fits within 

the opening, and (e) are spaced apart by not more than 
15 millimeters, 
a back layer, and 
a tacky pressure-sensitive adhesive layer that (a) 
adheres the masking layer to the back layer and (b) 

extends across each of the openings, which adhesive has 
a 90° Adhesion Value of at least 2 Newtons per 

100 millimeters of width, 
said laminate having a thickness of from 0.05 to 
0.5 millimeter and a Tabor stiffness of from 7.0 to 

0.02 Tabor Stiffness Units. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the spacing between adjacent openings is from 4 

to 10 millimeters. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 and 
having an overall thickness of from 0.1 to 0.2 

millimeter. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 3 
wherein the masking layer provides at least 35% of the 

thickness of the laminate.  
 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the back layer has a Tabor stiffness of less 

than 3.0 Tabor Stiffness Units. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the imperforate border portion is at least 13 

millimeter in width. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the exposed face of the back layer bears an 

external adhesive layer. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 7 
wherein the external adhesive layer is located only in 

areas of the back layer that are not aligned with said 
openings. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 8 
wherein the external adhesive layer extends only around 

the border portion of the masking sheet. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the back layer comprises a plastic film 

selected from cellulose acetate, polyethylene, 
polypropylene, and bi-axially oriented 

polyethyleneterephthalate. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the back layer at each opening can be pushed 

without breaking until the face of said pressure-sensitive 
adhesive layer reaches the plane of the 

surface of the masking layer opposite said adhesive 
layer. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the back layer at each opening can be pushed  

 
without breaking until at least 80% of the area of the 

face of said pressure-sensitive adhesive layer at the 
opening reaches the plane of the surface of the masking 

layer opposite the adhesive layer. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein the 90° Adhesion Value of the pressure-sensitive 

adhesive layer is at least 4 Newtons per 100 
millimeters of width. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein said pressure-sensitive adhesive layer is 

repositionable. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 14 
wherein said pressure-sensitive adhesive layer 

comprises solid, inherently tacky, elastomeric 
microspheres. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
wherein said masking layer has a thickness of at least 

0.08 millimeters. 
A mounting laminate comprising: 

a rectangular masking layer having a thickness of 
at least 0.08 millimeter, including an imperforate 

border portion that is at least 13 millimeter in width 
and a perforate portion bounded on at least one side by 

the border portion that has discrete through openings 
that (a) extend substantially uniformly over the entire 

perforate portion of the masking layer, (b) occupy at 
least 25% of the perforate portion of the masking 

layer, (c) each have an area generally in the range of 
0.316 to 3.88 square centimeters, (d) are each of a 

size such that a circle of from 6.35 to 20 millimeters  
 

in diameter fits within the opening, and (d) are spaced 
apart by from 4 to 10 millimeter, 
a back layer which is a plastic film and has a 
Tabor stiffness of less than 3.0 Tabor Stiffness Units, 

and 
a tacky, repositionable pressure-sensitive 
adhesive layer that (a) is substantially coextensive 

with the masking layer and back layer, (b) adheres the 
masking layer to the back layer, and (c) extends across 

each of the openings, which adhesive has a 90° Adhesion 
Value of at least 2 Newtons per 100 millimeters of 

width, 
said backing layer being able to be pushed with 
ones fingertips without breaking until at least 80% of 

the area of the face of said pressure-sensitive 
adhesive layer at the openings reaches the plane of the 

surface of the masking layer opposite the adhesive 
layer, 
said laminate having a uniform thickness of from 
0.1 to 0.2 millimeters and a Tabor stiffness of from 

0.02 to 7.0 Tabor Stiffness Units. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 17 
wherein said pressure-sensitive adhesive layer 

comprises solid, inherently tacky, elastomeric 
microspheres. 
A mounting laminate as defined in claim 1 
incorporated in a mailing envelope having a flap that 

is said back layer to which said pressure-sensitive 
adhesive layer is adhered to enable the flaps to be 

sealed to the body of the envelope. 
A mailing envelope comprising 

a sheet of paper folded to form a compartment part 
of the envelope and a flap part of the envelope which  

 
is moveable between an open and a closed position with 

respect to said compartment part, one of said parts 
serving as a masking layer having a row of discrete 

through openings that (a) are each of a size such that 

a circle of from 6.35 to 20 millimeters in diameter fits 
within the opening, (b) each have an area generally in 

the range of 0.316 to 3.88 square centimeters, and (c) 
are spaced apart by not more than 15 millimeters, 
a back layer adapted to extend across all of the 
openings, and 
a tacky pressure-sensitive adhesive layer that 
adheres the back layer to the masking layer with the 

back layer extending across all of the openings, said 
adhesive layer extending across each of the openings 

and having a 90° Adhesion Value of at least 2 Newtons 
per 100 millimeters of width. 
A mailing envelope according to claim 20 
wherein the adhesive has a 90° Adhesion Value of at 

least 8 Newtons per 100 millimeters of width. 
A mailing envelope according to claim 20 
wherein said flap part of the envelope serves as the 

masking layer and the row of discrete through openings 
are formed along the distal edge of the flap part. 
A mailing envelope according to claim 20 
wherein said compartment part of the envelope serves as 

the masking layer and the row of discrete through 
openings are formed along said compartment part in a 

position where the flap part will overlay the openings 
when the flap part is in said closed position. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
