<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HOLOGRAPHIC IMAGING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03H100	G03H104	G03H122	G03H100	G03H104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for holographic imaging consists of a pulsed laser beam source (1) and an optical assembly which splits the beam into an object beam (3, 3') and a reference beam (4, 4'). The object beam (3') is directed to illuminate an object and the reference beam (4') is directed onto a photorefractive crystal (8). The photorefractive crystal (8) and the object (7) are located so that light reflected from the object forms an interferogram in a plane in which the crystal (8) is located. A CCD camera (9) is disposed to view the crystal (8) and thus to transform the interferogram which is temporarily recorded on the crystal (8) into electrical signals which can then be recorded for subsequent processing in the electronic memory of a data processing system (11). The camera (9) and crystal (8) can be mounted on a carriage (10) so that the crystal (8) can be scanned through the interferogram and the elements of an interferogram larger than the crystal (8) recorded electronically as a sequence of frames.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLOSCAN UK LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLOSCAN (UK) LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRENCH PAUL MICHAEL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRENCH, PAUL MICHAEL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention provides apparatus for
generating real time or near real time 2-D and/or 3-D images
of objects, particularly objects obscured by diffusing
media.The apparatus according to the invention is
expected to have applications in medical diagnostic
equipment for imaging internal tissues in human, animal or
plant bodies in-vivo, in micro-fabrication, microscopy and
various engineering applications.Various techniques for producing 3-D holographic
images are well known but a brief explanation is included
for the sake of completeness and to assist in the readers
understanding of the present invention. Briefly, an object
is illuminated by an object beam of coherent light from a
laser source. An image recording medium, commonly a
photographic plate is exposed to the object light reflected
from the object. Simultaneously, a reference beam derived
from the source, is directed on to the surface of the
photographic plate. By careful arrangement of the apparatus
the coincidence of the object beam and the reference beam
generates a pattern of interference fringes which record the
intensity and phase of the wavefront of the object light.
By developing the plate and illuminating the resulting
interferogram using a reconstruction beam similar to the
reference beam, a virtual or a real image of the object can 
be created.The closeness of the fringes in a conventional
hologram means that the recording will be very sensitive to
movement of the object during exposure, causing severe
degradation of the hologram record. When photographic
plates are used for recordal exposure times of seconds are
required for the light levels commonly used.In a recent experiment conducted by Abramson N.H.
and Spears K.G. entitled "Single pulse light-in-flight
recording by holography" published in Applied Optics/Vol 28,
No.10/15:05:89, Abramson and Spears disclose apparatus and a
method whereby light-in-flight techniques allow temporal
information to be encoded into the hologram as position
along the holographic plate. To achieve this a pulsed laser
source is used and the reference beam illuminates the
holographic plate at oblique incidence so that interference
occurs for different relative delays between the object and
reference beam. Once the hologram is recorded the
holographic plate can be developed and illuminated with a
reconstruction beam (which may be similar to the reference
beam although this beam can be a continuous wave and of a
different wavelength). For a three dimensional object
different views (two dimensional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A holographic arrangement, comprising an object obscured by a diffusing
medium, and an apparatus for imaging the object, the apparatus comprising:


a pulsed laser light source to generate an object beam (3') and a reference
beam (4'), and arranged to illuminate the object (7) with the object beam (3');
an interferogram recording medium arranged to be exposed to, and to record
an interferogram formed by the coincidence of light from the object (7) and the

reference beam (4');
means for reconstructing an image from the interferogram;
means for recording the image; and
reference beam path means arranged to guide the reference beam so that a
pulse of the reference beam arrives at the real time interferogram recording medium

so as to be coincident with the unscattered light from the object, thereby causing the
interferogram recorded to represent the information content contained within the

unscattered light from the object (7);
the arrangement being characterised in that the interferogram recording
medium is a real time interferogram recording medium (8) comprising a

photorefractive medium.
An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein the recording means comprises
an electronic camera (9) arranged to view the interferogram recording medium (8)

and thus to electronically encode the image for recordal in a memory device.
An arrangement according to claim 2 wherein the image is reconstructed and
the electronic camera (9) records the image, as it is recorded on the interferogram

recording medium (8).
An arrangement according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the reference
beam (4) impinges on the interferogram plane at a slanting angle so that the range and

time of the image viewed correlate with position on the interferogram.
An arrangement according to any preceding claim wherein means is provided
to scan the recording medium (8) through the plane of the interferogram.
An arrangement according to claim 5 wherein said means comprises a carriage 
(11) arranged to scan the recording medium through the plane of the interferogram.
An arrangement according to claim 6 wherein the camera (9) is moved
synchronously with the recording medium (8) by the carriage (11).
An arrangement according to claim 6 wherein the camera (9) is held stationary
and the field of view of the camera (9) is scanned to by an optical assembly to keep

the image in view.
An arrangement according to any of claims 5 to 7 wherein the reconstruction
beam is scanned to follow the recording medium (8).
An arrangement according to claim 5 wherein the interferogram is scanned by
optical means across the recording medium (8).
An arrangement according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the object and
reference beams (3, 3'), (4, 4') impinge upon The recording medium (8) close to

parallel and the reference beam (4, 4') passes through an adjustable delay line
assembly (14) whereby the length of the path followed by the reference beam (4, 4')

can be adjusted.
An arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims whereby a series
of holographic images, each corresponding to a particular time-of-flight, or relative

delay between the object and reference beams, can be combined to form a complex
image of the object.
An arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a series
of holographic images, each corresponding to a different time-of-flight, or relative

delay between the object and reference beams, can be combined to form a 3-D image
of the object.
An arrangement according to any one of the claims 1 to 11 whereby a series
of holographic images, each corresponding to the same time-of-flight, or relative

delay between the object and reference beams, can be combined to form a 2-D image
of the object. 
An arrangement according to one of claims 2 or 3 wherein a series of
holographic images are stored and processed electronically.
An arrangement according to claim 15 wherein averaging of multiple
holographic images is used to improve the quality of the reconstructed images.
An arrangement according to claim 16 wherein the averaging of multiple
holographic images is used to improve the quality of the reconstructed images by

reducing the deleterious effects of speckle.
An arrangement according to claim 17 wherein the averaging of multiple
holographic images is used to improve the quality of the reconstructed images by

reducing the deleterious effects of random or quasi-random processes occurring on
time scales faster than the time between holographic exposures but slower than the

recording time of the holographic exposure.
An arrangement according to any one of the claims 1 to 11 whereby a series
of holographic images, each corresponding to a particular time-of-flight, or relative

delay between the object and reference beams, can be viewed in real time.
An arrangement according to claim 19 whereby a series of holographic
images, each corresponding to a particular time-of-flight, or relative delay between

the object and reference beams, can be viewed in real time with the time-of-flight,
or relative delay between the object and reference beams, being adjustable.
An arrangement according to claim 19 and 20 whereby the series of
holographic images viewed in real time benefit from the average or otherwise

processing of multiple holographic exposures.
An arrangement according to any one of the claims 1 to 10 whereby a
holographic exposure or series of holographic exposures, corresponding to a

particular time-of-flight, or relative delay between the object and reference beams,
is used to discriminate in favour of a particular temporal portion of an optical signa
l.
An arrangement according to claim 22 whereby a holographic exposure or 
series of holographic exposures, corresponding to a particular time-of-flight, or

relative delay between the object and reference beams, is used to discriminate in
favour of the temporal portion of the optical signal which carries the image

information.
An arrangement according to claim 22 whereby a holographic exposure or
series of holographic exposures, corresponding to a particular time-of-flight, or

relative delay between the object and reference beams, is used to discriminate in
favour of the early-arriving temporal portion of the optical signal which corresponds

to the unscattered part of the optical signal.
An arrangement according to any of claims 22 to 24 whereby the resulting
holographic image or images benefit from the averaging or otherwise processing of

multiple holographic exposures.
A method of imaging an object obscured by a diffusing medium, the method
comprising the steps of:


(a) employing a pulsed laser light source to generate an object beam (3') and a
reference beam (4'), and illuminating said object (7) with the object beam (3');
(b) recording on an interferogram recording medium (8) an interferogram formed
by the coincidence of light from the object (7) and the reference beam (4');
(c) guiding the reference beam so that a pulse of the reference beam arrives at the
real time interferogram recording medium so as to be coincident with the unscattered

light from the object, thereby causing the interferogram recorded to represent the
information content contained within the unscattered light from the object (7);
(d) reconstructing an image from the interferogram; and
(e) recording the image;

   the method being characterised in that said step (b) comprises recording the
interferogram on a real time interferogram recording medium (8) comprising a

photorefractive medium.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
