<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629489</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Inductive welding of thermoplastic pipe.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6534	B29C6536	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C65	B29C65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A double containment polymeric piping assembly (10) 
is formed by interfitting slidably interfittable 

polymeric inner pipe components (14), including a first 
induction responsive layer (56,56') therebetween, and 

slidably interfittable polymeric outer pipe components 
(12), preferably including a second induction responsive 

layer (26,26') therebetween, to form an inner connection 
and an outer connection, while causing the inner 

connection to be axially offset from the outer 
connection, applying an electrical induction force (C) 

around the periphery of the outer pipe components, 
axially aligned with the inner connection but not with 

said outer connection, and thereby fusing the inner pipe 
components and the first polymeric layer together, and 

moving the components relative to said electrical 
induction force, axially away from the inner connection, 

and axially aligned with the outer connection, applying 
an inductive force around the periphery of the outer pipe 

components, and thereby fusing the outer pipe components 
and the second polymeric layer together. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIBCO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIBCO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCATAMNEY DENNIS EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLATUSICH BRUCE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCATAMNEY, DENNIS EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLATUSICH, BRUCE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to double containment piping, 
and more particularly to fabrication of double 
containment polymeric piping components and systems. Double containment piping systems are used for a 
variety of purposes, one of which is for safety reasons, 
the outer conduit serving as a container for any leakage 
of fluid, e.g., chemicals, from the inner conduit. The 
outer conduit is typically substantially larger than the 
inner conduit, so that there is a significant space 
between them. This space is typically maintained by 
annular spacers. Although double containment piping 
systems are highly useful, a substantial difficulty with 
such systems is that of assembly. The inner conduit 
components, including elbows, nipples, couplings and 
pipe, must be assembled inside the outer conduit 
components, hoping that all connections on the inside are 
sealed so as to be leakproof. Making assembly 
connections and sealed joints is particularly complex and 
labor intensive. Labor intensive operations involve 
three particular concomitant disadvantages, the first 
being increased percentage of human error, the second 
being significantly higher cost, and the third being the 
tediousness of the labor. The connections can be bonded 
together by a solvent-type adhesive, or by fusion bonding 
or welding. The former releases solvent fumes while the 
latter requires manual labor to make blind joints. An object of this invention is to provide a method 
of assembling double containment piping systems in a 
manner enabling rapid simple assembly to produce 
effectively sealed joints on both the inner and outer 
conduits. This object is achieved by the present 
invention which provides methods and products as set out  
 
in the accompanying independent claims. Tests have shown 
that the methods assuredly seal all of the joints and 
markedly reduces tedious manual labor. In fact, no leaky 
joints have been found to occur in all of the tests 
performed. Moreover, labor can be reduced by as much as 
90% over conventional methods. This eliminates most of 
the labor tedium and substantially lowers cost. The invention provides novel methods of assembling 
polymeric double containment piping systems easily, 
rapidly and reliably, even with peculiar piping 
configurations and use of unusual combinations of piping 
components. The invention can be used for both pressure 
and drainage-type conduits. In its preferred forms, the method employs the steps 
of providing an inner annular layer of induction 
responsive polymer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of bonding joints of a double containment 
polymeric piping assembly (10) comprising: providing 

slidably interfittable polymeric inner pipe components 
(14), including a first induction responsive polymeric 

layer (56,56') therebetween; providing slidably 
interfittable polymeric outer pipe components (12); 

interfitting said inner pipe components, preferably in a 
slight or a tight sliding press fit, with each other to 

form an inner connection, and said outer pipe components 
in a sliding fit with each other to form an outer 

connection; applying an electrical induction force (C) 
around the periphery of said outer pipe components, 

axially aligned with said inner connection and thereby 
bonding said inner pipe components and said first 

polymeric layer together; and bonding said outer pipe 
components together. 
A method according to claim 1 which includes 
applying said first induction responsive polymeric layer 

(56,56') to said inner pipe components prior to said step 
of interfitting said inner pipe components. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 in which 
said polymeric layer comprises a polymeric strip 

containing inductively responsive particles. 
A method of bonding joints of a double containment 
polymeric piping assembly (10) comprising: providing 

slidably interfittable polymeric inner pipe components 
(14) including a first induction responsive polymeric 

layer (56,56') therebetween; providing slidably 
interfittable polymeric outer pipe components (12), 

including a second induction responsive polymeric layer 
 

(26,26') therebetween; interfitting said inner pipe 
components in a sliding fit with each other to form an 

inner connection, and said outer pipe components in a 
sliding fit with each other to form an outer connection, 

while causing said inner connection to be axially offset 
from said outer connection; applying an electrical 

induction force (C) around the periphery of said outer 
pipe components, axially aligned with said inner 

connection and offset from said outer connection, and 
thereby bonding said inner pipe components and said first 

polymeric layer together; moving said components relative 
to said force, axially offset from said inner connection, 

and axially aligned with said outer connection, applying 
an electrical induction force around the periphery of 

said outer pipe components and thereby fusing said outer 
pipe components and said second polymeric layer together. 
A method according to claim 4 which includes 
applying said first electrically conductive polymeric 

layer (56,56') to said inner pipe components prior to 
said step of interfitting said inner pipe components; and 

applying said second electrically conductive polymeric 
layer (26,26') to said outer pipe components prior to 

said step of interfitting said outer pipe components. 
A method according to claim 4 or claim 5 in which 
said first and second polymeric layers comprise polymeric 

strips containing inductively responsive particles or 
comprise electrically conductive polymeric strips. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 6 in which 
said inner pipe components have a first annular gap 

(54,54') therebetween filled with said first layer, said 
first annular gap having a first peripheral wall surface, 

 
and said first layer having a tacky surface adhered to 

said first annular gap peripheral wall surface. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 7 in which 
said outer pipe components have a second annular gap (24) 

therebetween filled with said second layer, said second 
annular gap having a second peripheral wall surface, and 

said second layer having a tacky surface adhered to said 
second annular gap peripheral wall surface. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 8 in which 
said inner pipe components and said first polymeric layer 

have a slight press fit together to form said inner 
connection, and said outer pipe components and second 

polymeric layer have a slight press fit together to form 
said outer connection. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 9 which 
includes placing a spacer (70,
72) between at least one of 
said inner pipe components and said outer pipe 

components. 
A double containment piping assembly (10) 
comprising: an inner polymeric conduit subassembly (14) 

having at least two inner conduit connections, each said 
inner conduit connection comprising telescopically 

interfitting inner polymeric elements having a first 
intermediate layer (56,56') of induction responsive 

polymer bondable to said inner polymeric elements; an 
outer polymeric conduit assembly (12) having at least two 

connections, each said outer conduit connection 
comprising telescopically interfitting outer polymeric 

elements; said inner conduit connections being axially 
offset from said outer conduit connections; and said 

 
inner conduit connections being induction sealed 

together; and said outer conduit connections being sealed 
together. 
A double containment piping assembly according to 
claim 11 in which the telescopically interfitting outer 

polymeric elements have a second intermediate layer 
(26,26') of induction responsive polymer bondable to said 

inner polymeric elements and said outer conduit 
connections are induction sealed together. 
A double containment piping assembly according to 
claim 11 or claim 12 in which said first intermediate 

layer (56,56') for said inner polymeric elements is of 
the same polymer as said inner polymeric elements. 
A double containment piping assembly according to 
any of claims 11 to 13 in which the or each intermediate 

layer (56,56',26,26') contains metal particles or is 
electrically conductive. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
