<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0498839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VISUAL IMAGE TRANSMISSION BY FIBRE OPTIC CABLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N722	H04N1195	G02B604	H04B1000	H04N1195	G02B604	H04N5225	G02B606	H04N722	G02B606	H04N5225	H04B1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	G02B	H04B	H04N	G02B	H04N	G02B	H04N	G02B	H04N	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N1	G02B6	H04B10	H04N1	G02B6	H04N5	G02B6	H04N7	G02B6	H04N5	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the transmission of visual images along optical 
fibre bundles. Two types of optical fibre bundle are used: coherent fibre bundles and 
incoherent fibre bundles. Coherent fibre bundles are assembled in such a way that the spatial 
relationships between fibres are maintained, ie there is an exact 
positional correspondence between the two ends of each fibre in the bundle. 
Any image transmitted along the fibre therefore remains in its original 
orientation and is not corrupted. 
Incoherent fibres are primarily used as flexible light sources and as such 
have no requirement for maintaining the orientation of the images 
transmitted along the fibre. Such light guides are manufactured by 
assembling the fibres at one end and clamping them, then stretching them 
out and clamping them at the other end. This process does not require the 
high levels of accuracy necessary in the manufacture of coherent optical 
fibres and therefore results in much lower costs. Light guides can also 
be made in very long lengths (tens of metres) whereas it is difficult to 
manufacture coherent fibres in such lengths. It is consequently desirable to be able to calibrate incoherent optical 
fibre bundles so that they can be used as coherent bundles for the 
transmission of images. 
In this respect various techniques have been proposed. UK Patent 
Application No. 2082012 concerns a system for a non-coherent fibre-optic 
bundle image decoder wherein the information on the relative input to  
 
output position of each optical fibre is stored, and a computer uses this 
information to reconstruct an image which has become jumbled in 
transmission along the fibres. However the relative input to output 
position for each fibre is determined by interrogating each fibre input 
with a spot of light, identifying its output position and storing the 
information. As the number of fibres necessary to produce a reasonably 
detailed output image has to be large, typically several tens of thousands, 
this approach is very time consuming. UK Patent Applications Nos. 2092859 
& 2124054 also discuss devices using calibrated incoherent optical fibre 
bundles but as with UK 2082012 calibration is achieved by interrogating 
single fibres so that determining and storing the fibres positional 
information is again very time consuming. UK Patent Application No. 
2128839 concerns an image display apparatus which uses incoherent optical 
fibre bundles. In this case the relevant positional information about the 
fibres is determined
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle (2) for use 
as a pseudo-coherent optical fibre bundle for the transmission of visual 

images, characterised in that it comprises the steps of:
 
determining the position at each end of the bundle (2) of individual 

pixels in a pixel array and corresponding to to a predetermined image 
resolution by means of an 

address array;
 
transmitting a series of test images (6) into the optical fibre bundle (2), 

each test image (6) illuminating between a quarter and three quarters of 
the fibres in the bundle (2), the test images (6) being such that they
 can 
be added and/or subtracted so as to determine the illumination of any 

predetermined pixel of the input pixel array;
 
analysing the output pixel pattern of the fibre bundle (2) with reference 

to the input transmitted images (6) to produce a reference table of input 
to output pixels for the fibre bundle (2);
 
the reference table then being able to be used to de-convolve an image 

produced at the output end of the fibre bundle (2). 
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle (2) as 
claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the address array produces an 

image resolution so that the position of individual pixels correspond to 
the position of individual optical fibres in the bundle (2). 
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle (2) as 
claimed in claim 2 characterised in that each fibre position in the bundle 

of fibres (2) is mapped by a unique address.  
 
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle (2) as 
claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the addresses in the address 

array are determined by binary code. 
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle (2) as 
claimed in claim 1 characterised in that each of the test images (6) 

transmitted illuminate half the fibres of the bundle (2).  
 
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle as claimed in 
claim 1 wherein the address array is an orthogonal array in which individual 

addresses are defined by a binary code and wherein the total number of bits 
making up an address corresponds to the total number of test images needed to 

locate the position of each pixel when each test image illuminates half of the fibres. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundle as claimed in claim 
6 characterised in that each test image 

is such that the binary code address bits of each pixel 
that is illuminated has a bit pattern in which 

all the bits except one set to 0 (not illuminated) and the other to 1 
(illuminated). 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that the test image is provided by patterns displayed 

on a monitor of appropriate resolution. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that the test images have areas which provide 

an image of maximum brightness that is white areas whilst the rest of the 
screen is set to black. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 9 characterised in that the dimensions of the areas which are white 

or black are defined by the address bits in an array. 
A method of calibrating an incoherent optical fibre bundle as claimed in 
claim 6 characterised in that each test image is in the 

form of stripes extending in either of the array's orthogonal directions. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that by means of addition and/or subtraction of 

the received images, the output corresponding to illumination of a 
single input pixel can be obtained. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that a lens system is used to focus 

the test images onto the input end of the bundle.  
 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that a solid state charge coupled device (CCD) camera 

is used to detect the output of the fibre in the bundle. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 14 characterised in that the output end of the fibre bundle is magnified so that 

the image received by the camera is as large as desirable. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that the fibre bundle ends are mounted in holders. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that a frame store is used to capture the output 

image. 
A method of calibrating incoherent: optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 1 characterised in that a computer is used to analyse the output 

positions of the fibre ends with regard to the transmitted test images 
to correlate the output 

to input positions of the individual fibres to create the reference table by 
which an input image can be reconstructed from the output light signals. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 18 characterised in that the reference table is constructed as a Look-Up 

Tabler peculiar to each fibre, which is used to correlate the output signals 
with the input image and de-convolve the output signals to give the input 

image. 
A method of calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles as claimed in 
claim 19 characterised in that the Look-Up Table is programmed into a 

programmable device such as a PROM or an EPROM. 
A pseudo-coherent fibre optic viewing system characterised in that it 
comprises:
 
   an incoherent fibre optic bundle calibrated as claimed in claim 1 and 

having an input end for receiving an image and an output end;
 
   a camera to detect signals from the output end of the fibre optic 

bundle;
  
 

   a frame store to capture images from the camera;
 
   a translator to de-convolve the image output from the fibre optic 

bundle and produce a reconstructed picture of the input image and 
including a replaceable EPROM programmed with a reference table specific to the 

fibre optic bundle in use 
whereby the appropriate reference table can be inserted 

in the translator for a particular fibre bundle; and
 
   display means to display the reconstructed image. 
An apparatus for calibrating incoherent optical fibre bundles for use as 
pseudo-coherent optical fibre bundles for the transmission of visual images, 

characterised in that it comprises:
 
   means arranged to use an address array system capable of defining for 

a said optical bundle the 
position of individual pixels in a pixel array 

at the input and output ends of the bundle;
 
   means arranged to produce a series of test images for transmission into one end of the optical 

fibre bundle each test image producing a different illumination 
pattern and each illuminating 

between a quarter and three quarters of the fibres in the bundle 
the test images being such that the can be added and/or subtracted 

so as to determine the illumination of any predetermined pixel 
of the input array;
 
   means to analyse the image outputs of the fibre bundle with reference to the 

transmitted images; and
 
   means to produce a reference table of input to output position for 

each pixel based on the information provided by the test images to 
enable an image transmitted along the fibre to be deconvolved. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
