<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655929</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERTUSSIS TOXIN USED AS A CARRIER PROTEIN WITH NON-CHARGED SACCHARIDES IN CONJUGATE VACCINES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K39116	A61K39116	A61K4748	A61K4748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61K39	A61K47	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medically important and useful conjugate comprising pertussis toxin (PT), or another antigen having similar physico-chemical properties, as the carrier protein component, coupled to a neutral or non-charged saccharide, particularly, the capsular polysaccharide of (Streptococcus pneumoniae) type 14 (Pn14), for use as an effective, non-toxic, and highly immunogenic vaccine is described. The invention is directed to a novel synthetic scheme wherein PT and like proteins, and a derivative of Pn14, and the like, were coupled at acidic pH via carbodiimide-mediated condensation to produce an immunogenic conjugate. The coupling procedure yielded a Pn14-PT conjugate in which the PT component was rendered non-toxic and both the PT and Pn14 components were immunogenic, as determined by the production of protective levels of both type-specific and neutralizing antibodies in mammals. The Pn14-PT conjugate was used as an immunogen at levels estimated to be protective in humans and stands to provide an effective, safe, and potent human vaccine.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US HEALTH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVI LILY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBBINS JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEERSON RACHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVI, LILY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBBINS, JOHN B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEERSON, RACHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PERTUSSIS TOXIN USED AS A C ARRIER PROTEIN WITH NON-CHARGED SACCHARIDES IN CONJUGATE VACCINESFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the production of clinically acceptable carrier protein-saccharide (e.g. polysaccharide and oligosaccharide) conjugates which are useful as effective vaccines, especially in infants and young children, for the induction of protective levels of antibodies against medically important pathogens, particularly, for example, the capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (hereinafter also referred to as pneumococcus type 14 or Pn 14), and pertussis toxin (hereinafter also referred to as PT) produced by the Bordetella pertussis bacterium.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe development of safe and effective vaccines is essential to prevent systemic infections, which continue to cause high rates of morbidity and mortality throughout the world. To prevent and ultimately eradicate a wide variety of systemic infections caused by bacterial pathogens or microorganisms with neutral polysaccharides, universal immunization of infants and adults with suitable vaccines, which are capable of eliciting safe, effective, and long-lasting immunity, is needed. Because the incidence of diseases caused by invasive bacterial pathogens is highest in children under two years of age, effective immunization must begin early and optimally be completed within the first half year of life. Subsequent booster immunizations at about fifteen months and five years may also be advocated. Surface polysaccharides serve as essential virulence factors and protective antigens for invasive bacteria which infect the bloodstream as their primary pathogenic event (39, 41). These surface antigens include capsular polysaccharides of both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria and the lipopolysaccharides of Gram-negative bacteria. Although most of these purified polysaccharides elicit protective levels of antibodies in healthy adults, both capsula polysaccharides and lipopolysaccharides have immunologic properties or 

pharmacologic activities that limit their use as vaccines. Capsular polysaccharides are known in the medical literature and are polymers of sugars, sugar acids, amino sugars, polyhydric alcohols, and sugar phosphates. The capsular polymers may contain linkages other than glycosidic linkages and constituents other than the abovementioned sugars.The immunologic properties of capsular polysaccharides which limit their use in infants and children, the age group with the highest attack
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for preparing a pertussis toxin carrier protein and polysaccharide conjugate compound, comprising the steps of: (a) providing:
(i) said pertussis toxin carrier protein, and (ii) a neutral or non-charged polysaccharide; (b) solubilizing said pertussis toxin protein and said polysaccharide at a pH of about 3.5 to about 4; (c) coupling said pertussis toxin protein and said polysaccharide from step (b) at a reaction pH of about 3.5 to about 4, resulting in the covalent coupling of said pertussis toxin protein and said polysaccharide to form said carrier protein and polysaccharide conjugate compound.
2. The method according to Claim 1 , wherein the pH in steps (b) and (c) is about 3.9.
3. The method according to Claim 1 , wherein said neutral or non- charged polysaccharide of step (a)(ii) is selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram- negative bacteria.
4. The method according to Claim 3, wherein said neutral or non- charged polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
5. A method for preparing a pertussis toxin carrier protein and polysaccharide conjugate compound, comprising the steps of: 


 (a) providing:
(i) said pertussis toxin carrier protein, and (ii) a neutral or non-charged polysaccharide;
(b) solubilizing said pertussis toxin protein and said polysaccharide at a pH of about 3.5 to about 4;
(c) coupling said pertussis toxin protein and said polysaccharide from step (b) with carbodiimide at a reaction pH of about 3.5 to about 4, resulting in the covalent coupling of said pertussis toxin protein and said polysaccharide to form said carrier protein and polysaccharide conjugate compound.
6. The method according to Claim 5, wherein the pH in steps (b) and
(c) is about 3.9.
7. The method according to Claim 5, wherein said neutral or non- charged polysaccharide of step (a)(ii) is selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram- negative bacteria.
8. The method according to Claim 7, wherein said polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
9. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 1.
10. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 2. 


11. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 3.
12. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 4.
13. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 5.
14. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 6.
15. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 7.
16. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate produced by the method according to Claim 8.
17. A pharmaceutical composition comprising said conjugate according to Claim 12 in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient.
18. A pharmaceutical composition comprising said conjugate according to Claim 16 in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient.
19. A vaccine comprising said pharmaceutical composition according to
Claim 17.
20. A vaccine comprising said pharmaceutical composition according to
Claim 18.
21. A method of eliciting protective antibodies in a mammal against both 


pertussis toxin and a microorganism containing neutral or non-charged capsular polysaccharides of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), comprising immunizing said mammal with said conjugate vaccine according to Claim 19.
22. A method of eliciting protective antibodies in a mammal against both pertussis toxin and a microorganism containing neutral or non-charged capsular polysaccharides of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14, comprising immunizing said mammal with said conjugate vaccine according to Claim 20.
23. An immunogenic conjugate comprising pertussis toxin carrier protein covalently coupled at a reaction pH of about 3.9 to about 4.0 to a neutral or non- charged polysaccharide selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram-negative bacteria.
24. The conjugate according to Claim 23, wherein said coupling reaction pH is about 3.9.
25. The conjugate according to Claim 23, wherein said neutral or non- charged polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
26. The conjugate according to Claim 24, wherein said neutral or non- charged polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of
Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
27. A vaccine producing protective levels of neutralizing antibodies to pertussis toxin and antibodies to a neutral polysaccharide, comprising an immunogenic amount of said conjugate according to Claim 23 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent, or carrier. 


28. A vaccine producing protective levels of neutralizing antibodies to pertussis toxin and antibodies to a neutral polysaccharide, comprising an immunogenic amount of said conjugate according to Claim 24 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent, or carrier.
29. A vaccine producing protective levels of neutralizing antibodies to pertussis toxin and antibodies to a neutral polysaccharide, comprising an immunogenic amount of said conjugate according to Claim 25 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent, or carrier.
30. A vaccine producing protective levels of neutralizing antibodies to pertussis toxin and antibodies to a neutral polysaccharide, comprising an immunogenic amount of said conjugate according to Claim 26 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent, or carrier.
31. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound comprising pertussis toxin coupled to a neutral or non-charged polysaccharide at a coupling reaction pH of about 3.9 to about 4.0.
32. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 31, wherein said coupling reaction is by carbodiimide condensation.
33. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 31 , wherein said coupling reaction pH is about 3.9.
34. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 31, wherein said neutral polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side 


chains of Gram-negative bacteria.
35. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 33, wherein said neutral polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram-negative bacteria.
36. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 34, wherein said neutral polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 antigen of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
37. Pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 75, wherein said polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 antigen of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
38. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, carrier, or excipient, and said pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 31 in an amount effective to elicit antibodies against Bordetella pertussis and against a microorganism having capsular polysaccharide surface antigens selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram- negative bacteria.
39. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, carrier, or excipient, and said pertussis toxin and neutral polysaccharide conjugate compound according to Claim 33 in an amount effective to elicit antibodies against Bordetella pertussis and against a microorganism having 



capsular polysaccharide surface antigens selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram- negative bacteria.
40. The composition according to Claim 38, wherein said neutral polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
41. The composition according to Claim 39, wherein said neutral polysaccharide is pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
42. A pertussis toxin and neutral or non-charged saccharide conjugate, wherein said saccharide is a capsular polysaccharide selected from the group consisting of pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4), pneumococcus type 7 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 7 (Pn7), and O-specific lipopolysaccharide side chains of Gram-negative bacteria.
43. The conjugate according to Claim 42, wherein said saccharide is pneumococcus type 14 capsular polysaccharide of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 (Pnl4).
44. An immunogenic preparation comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, carrier, or excipient, and said conjugate according to Claim 42 in an amount effective to elicit antibodies against Bordetella pertussis and against said capsular polysaccharides of microorganisms containing said polysaccharides.
45. An immunogenic preparation comprising a pharmaceutically 


acceptable diluent, carrier, or excipient and said conjugate according to Claim 43 in an amount effective to elicit antibodies against Bordetella pertussis and against said capsular polysaccharide of microorganisms containing said polysaccharides. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
