<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622149</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A capillary for a wire bonding apparatus and a method for forming an electric connection bump using the capillary
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21603	B23K2000	H01L2160	B23K2000	H01L2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	B23K	H01L	B23K	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	B23K20	H01L21	B23K20	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The capillary for ball bonding for forming a 
bump on the electrode pad of a semiconductor device 

includes a pressing member having a bore therein for 
supplying a metal wire, and a leveling member. The 

pressing member presses the ball-like end of the metal 
wire against the electrode pad in order to secure the 

ball-like end to the electrode pad under pressure. The 
leveling member makes the bump formed on the electrode 

pad to a predetermined height. According to the method 
of forming a bump using the capillary, first, a ball is 

formed at the end of the metal wire supplied from the 
bore. A first portion of the bump is formed by moving 

the capillary downwards and by securing the ball-like 
end to the electrode pad under pressure by the pressing 

member. A second portion of the bump is formed on the 
first portion by supplying the metal wire while the 

capillary is moved. When the capillary is moved downwards, 
a portion of the metal wire constituting the 

second portion is cut from the remaining portion of the 
metal wire in the bore by an edge of the pressing 

member, and simultaneously the bump is leveled by the 
leveling member. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus 
and a method for mounting a semiconductor device onto a 
circuit board, and more particularly to a capillary 
provided for a wire bonding apparatus and a method of 
forming electric connection contacts (bumps) which 
electrically connect electrode pads of the semiconductor 
device to terminal electrodes of the circuit board. Recently, the number of electrode pads per 
LSI chip has been increased, and the pitch of the 
connecting terminals has been shortened, thereby making 
conventional soldering methods difficult to use for 
mounting a semiconductor device. In order to solve this problem, recently, 
improved methods have been proposed in which a semiconductor 
device such as an LSI chip, is directly mounted 
on input/output terminal electrodes of a circuit board. 
Among these improved methods, a flip chip bonding 
method in which a semiconductor device is mounted 
facedown on a circuit board is known to be effective 
because the semiconductor device is electrically connected 
to a large number of terminal electrodes of the 
circuit board at one time with the resulting connections 
having good mechanical strength. Bumps (projecting 
electrodes) which electrically connect the semiconductor 
device with electrode pads of the circuit board 
are formed by electrolytic plating, solder bath immersion, 
vapor deposition, ball bonding using wire bonding  
 
method, and the like. For example, conventional typical capillaries 
for wire bonding apparatus are shown in the Bonding 
Handbook and the Capillary Catalog by MICRO-SWISS Co. Figure 19 shows an exemplary conventional 
capillary 100 for a wire bonding apparatus, and Figure 
20A is a schematic cross-sectional view showing a tip 
portion 110 of the capillary 100. Figure 20B shows the 
shape of the tip portion 110 of the capillary 100 in 
more detail. As is shown in Figure 20A, in the cylindrical 
capillary 100, there is provided a bore 102 into which 
a metal wire for bonding is inserted. The diameter of 
the bore 102 is in the range of about 25 µm to 50 µm. 
The tip portion 110 of the capillary 100 has a cone 
shape with an angle α of about 30°, in view of the 
bonding pitch, and the shape and size of the metal wire 
(or a bump) after the bonding. Figure 20B, for example, shows the shape of 
the tip portion 110 of the capillary 100 when a metal 
wire having a diameter of about 25 µm is used. In this 
case, the bore diameter (hole diameter) H is 38 µm, the 
tip diameter T is 203 µm, and the chamfer diameter CD 
is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A capillary (1, 41, 51, 61) for ball bonding for forming a bump (7) on 
an electrode pad (13) of a semiconductor device (501, 600, 800), said capillary 

comprising: 

a pressing member for pressing a ball-like 
end of a metal wire against said electrode pad to 

secure said ball-like end to said electrode pad under 
pressure; 
a bore (2), provided in said pressing member, for 
supplying said metal wire; and characterised by 
a leveling member (3, 43, 53, 63) for making said bump formed 
on said electrode pad to a predetermined height. 
A capillary according to claim 1, wherein said 
leveling member is a protrusion projected from an outer 

circumference of said capillary. 
A capillary according to claim 1, wherein said 
leveling member is provided along an outer circumference 

of said capillary. 
A capillary according to claim 1, wherein said 
leveling member is provided in a portion of an outer 

circumference of said capillary. 
A capillary according to claim 1, wherein said 
pressing member includes a tip face of said capillary, 

and said leveling member includes a bottom face for 
pressing said bump.  

 
A capillary according to claim 5, wherein said 
leveling member is provided so that said bottom face is 

positioned at a predetermined height measured from said 
tip face. 
A capillary according to claim 5, wherein said 
bottom face has a rugged side. 
A capillary according to claim 5, wherein said 
leveling member includes a guiding portion adjacent to 

said bottom face, said guiding portion being projected 
downwards from said bottom face. 
A capillary according to claim 1, wherein said 
pressing member has an edge for cutting said metal 

wire. 
A capillary according to claim 1, wherein said 
capillary is made of a material selected from the group 

consisting of ceramic and artificial ruby. 
A capillary according to claim 5, wherein said 
bottom face is substantially parallel to a stage of a 

bonding apparatus to which said capillary is attached. 
A method of forming a bump (7) on an electrode pad (13) of a 
semiconductor device (501, 600, 800) using a capillary (1, 41, 51, 61) for ball bonding 

comprising: a pressing member including a tip face of 
said capillary; a bore (2), provided in said pressing 

member, for supplying said metal wire; and a leveling 
member (3, 43, 53, 63) provided on an outer circumference of said 

capillary, said method comprising the steps of:  
 


(a) forming a ball at an end of said metal 
wire supplied from said bore; 
(b) forming a first portion of said bump by 
moving said capillary downwards and by securing said 

ball-like end to said electrode pad under pressure by 
said pressing member; 
(c) forming a second portion of said bump on 
said first portion by supplying said metal wire while 

said capillary is moved; and characterised by 
(d) when said capillary is moved downwards, 
cutting a portion of said metal wire constituting said 

second portion from the remaining portion of said metal 
wire in said bore by an edge of said pressing member, 

and simultaneously leveling said bump by said leveling 
member. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein in said 
step (c), said capillary is moved in a loop above said 

first portion, and said portion of said metal wire 
constituting said second portion of said bump is formed 

in a ring-shape or a reversed U-shape on said first 
portion. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein said leveling 
member includes a bottom face positioned at a 

predetermined height measured from said tip face, and 
in said step (d), said bump is formed to have said 

predetermined height by pressing said bump by said 
bottom face.  

 
A method according to claim 14, wherein in said 
step (d), said capillary is moved downwards until said 

tip face abuts against said electrode pad. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein said bottom 
face has a rugged side, and in said step (d), said 

second portion of said bump is formed to have a rugged 
top face. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein said leveling 
member includes a guiding portion adjacent to said 

bottom face, said guiding portion being projected 
downwards from said bottom face, and in said step (d), 

said second portion of said bump is supported by said 
guiding portion. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein in said 
step (b), said first portion is formed by thermo-compression 

bonding. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein in said 
step (b), said first portion is formed by ultrasonic 

vibration. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein in said 
step (b), said first portion is formed by a combination 

of thermo-compression bonding and ultrasonic vibration. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein said metal 
wire is made of a material selected from the group 

consisting of Au, Cu, Al, and solder. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
