<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629298</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL CABLE AND PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B644	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Supporting elements (SE1 - SEn) are provided between chamber elements (KE1 - KEn) of an optical cable (OC1) arranged in at least one annular layer. The supporting elements substantially extend in the radial direction and their radial extension is at least equal to the radial extension of the chamber elements (KE1 - KEn).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PASCHER HELMUT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PASCHER, HELMUT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Optical cable (OC1) having independent chamber 
elements (KE1 to KEn) which are disposed annularly in at 

least one layer around the cable axis and which serve to 
receive optical waveguides (LW1 to LW3), characterized in 

that supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) are provided 
between the independent chamber elements (KE1 to KEn), in 

that the supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) are disposed to 
extend substantially radially with respect to the cable 

axis, and in that the radial extent of the supporting 
elements (SE1 to SEn) is selected to be at least equal to 

the radial extent of the independent chamber elements 
(KE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to Claim 1, characterized 
in that the layer of chamber elements (KE1 to KEn) and 

the supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) are disposed 
annularly about a core member element (ZKE). 
Optical cable according to Claim 2, characterized 
in that the core member element (ZKE) exhibits at least 

one tensile element (CE). 
Optical cable according to Claim 3, characterized 
in that a thickening layer (AS) is applied to the tensile 

element (CE). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
Claims 2-4, characterized in that the core member element 

is designed as a tube (ZKR). 
Optical cable according to Claim 5, characterized 
in that at least one optical waveguide (LWL1 - LWLn) is 

disposed in the tube (ZKR). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the chamber elements (KE1  

 
to KEn) exhibit a U-shaped profile in cross-section. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the chamber elements (KE1 

to KEn) exhibit approximately rectangular chamber 
openings to receive the optical waveguides (LW1 - LW3). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the sides of the chamber 

elements (KE1 - KEn) which are open and form the chamber 
openings are directed radially outwardly with respect to 

the cable axis. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that at least one optical 

waveguide strip line (BD1 - BD3) is inserted into the 
chamber elements (KE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to Claim 10, characterized 
in that a stack (BS1 to BSn) of a plurality of 

optical waveguide strip lines (BD1 - BD3) is inserted 
into the chamber elements (KE1 - KEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that for the chamber elements 

(KE1 to KEn) a radial extent, with respect to the cable 
axis, of at least 1 mm, preferably between 3 and 10 mm, 

is selected and an extent along the circumference of at 
least 2 mm, preferably between 3 and 10 mm, is selected. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the wall thickness of the 

chamber elements (KE1 - KEn) is selected to be between 
0.3 mm and 1 mm. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radial extent of the 

supporting elements (SE1 to SEn), with respect to the 
cable axis, is selected to be substantially greater than 

their wall thickness. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the supporting elements 

(SE1 to SEn) exhibit a substantially smaller wall width 
than the extent of the chamber elements (KE1 to KEn) in 

the circumferential direction.  
 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radial extent of the 

supporting elements (SE1 to SEn), with respect to the 
cable axis, is selected to be greater than the radial 

extent of the chamber elements (KE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the wall thickness of the 

supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) is selected to be 
between 0.5 mm and 2 mm. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the outer walls of the 

supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) touch the outer walls of 
the adjacent chamber elements (RE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to Claim 18, characterized 
in that the outer walls of the supporting elements 

(SE1 to SEn) rest against the outer walls of the 
adjacent chamber elements (KE1 to KEn) in their full 

length. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the wall thickness of the 

supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) increases in an outward 
direction. 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 19 or 
20, characterized in that the supporting elements (SE1 to 

SEn) fill out to a large extent the fillers between the 
chamber elements (KE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 1 to 17, 
characterized in that the supporting elements (SE1 - SEn) 

fill out only partially the fillers between the chamber 
elements (KE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that for the supporting elements 

(SE1 to SEn) a harder material is used than for the 
chamber elements (KE1 to KEn). 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that at the supporting elements 

(SE1 to SEn) in each instance at least one transversely 
extending projection (ASL1 - ASRn) is provided.  

 
Optical cable according to Claim 24, characterized 
in that at the supporting elements (SE1 to SEn) 

in each instance two projections (ASL1 - ASRn) extending 

in opposite directions are provided. 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 24 or 
25, characterized in that the projections (ASL1 - ASRn) 

are disposed symmetrically with respect to the radial 
extent, as regards the cable axis, of the supporting 

elements (SE1 - SEn). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 24 to 
26, characterized in that the extent of the projections 

(ASL1 - ASRn) is selected such that the openings of the 
chamber elements (KE1 to KEn) are covered over. 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 24 to 
27, characterized in that at least two projections 

(ASR31, ASL32) form a continuous bridge component (ASG) 
(Figure 3). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 24 to 
28, characterized in that the projections (ASL1 - ASRn) 

abut one another, seen in the circumferential direction. 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 24 to 
29, characterized in that the wall thickness of the 

projections (ASL1 - ASRn) is selected to be between 
0.5 mm and 2 mm. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a plurality of layers (LA1, 

LA2) of chamber elements (KE1 to KEn, KEI* to KEn*) and 
supporting elements (SET to SEn, SET* to SEn*) are 

provided (Figure 5). 
Optical cable according to Claim 31, 
characterized in that an intermediate layer is applied in 

each instance on a layer (LA1, LA2) of chamber elements 
(KE1 to KEn, KE1* to KEn*) and supporting elements (SE1 

to SEn, SE1* to SEn*). 
Optical cable according to one of Claims 31 or 
32, characterized in that the supporting elements (SE1 to 

SEn) are designed differently in the various layers (LA1, 
LA2).  

 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that externally at least one 

outer jacket (AH) and/or at least one armoring (BW) is 
provided. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the, with respect to the 

cable axis, radially extending middle parts of the 
supporting elements (SE1 - SEn) and/or the projections 

(ASL1 - ASRn) exhibit differing mechanical properties 
within their cross-section or with respect to one 

another. 
Optical cable according to one of the preceding 
Claims 2-35, characterized in that the supporting 

elements (SE1 - SEn) exhibit a fixing with the core 
member element (ZKE) in their foot regions. 
Process for the manufacture of an optical cable 
(OC1) according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 

in that the independent chamber elements (KE1 to 
KEn) are disposed annularly in at least one stranding 

layer around the cable axis, and in that the supporting 
elements (SE1 to SEn) are inserted from outside extending 

radially, with respect to the cable axis, between the 
chamber elements (KE1 to KEn). 
Process according to Claim 37, characterized in 
that at least one outer jacket (AH) and/or an armoring 

(BW) is applied externally by extrusion. 
Process according to one of Claims 37 or 38, 
characterized in that after the arranging of the chamber 

elements (KE1 to KEn) the optical waveguide strip lines 
(BD1 to BD3) are inserted into the latter as a stack (BS1 

- BSn), and in that subsequently the chamber elements 
(KE1 to KEn) are closed by application of the supporting 

elements (SE1 - SEn) provided with projections (ASL1 - 
ASRn). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
