<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656629</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gate power supply.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C1156	G11C1156	G11C1602	G11C1602	G11C1606	G11C1606	G11C1608	G11C1630	G11C1700	G11C1700	H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L2704	H01L2704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	G11C16	G11C16	G11C16	G11C16	G11C16	G11C16	G11C17	G11C17	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gate power supply for supplying power to the gates
of flash EEPROM memory cells in a multi-density or low

voltage supply memory array to determine the states
stored by the memory cells. The gate power supply

includes a multi-phase voltage pump to increase voltage
supplied to the gates of the memory cells above a system

voltage supply, V
CC
 to increase the working margin
between memory cell states. The gate power supply

further includes a low power supply standby pump to
maintain the boosted voltage during an inactive mode.

The wordline decoder for the memory is divided into
sections with a large n-well parasitic capacitance of

each decoder section acting as a reservoir to store the
charge supplied by the low power standby pump. In an

active mode, the parasitic capacitance in unselected
decoder sections supplies power to the input of the

selected decoder section while the multi-phase pump is
turning on. Zener regulation diodes are coupled to the

inputs of each decoder section to regulate the voltage
supplied to each section. A reference supply feeds back

power from the input of the selected decoder section to
the input of a reference array. The reference supply

further provides circuitry to reduce mismatches between
the memory array and the reference array.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEVELAND LEE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLMER SHANE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEVELAND LEE E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLMER, SHANE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to gate power 
supplies for memory arrays, such as 
circuitry for supplying power to the gate of flash 
electrically erasable programmable read-only memory 
(EEPROM) cells utilized in multi-density and low voltage 
supply memory arrays. Because memory arrays in the past included array 
cells with threshold values programmed to represent two 
or more states separated by a wide margin, a power 
supply signal for the memory array, VSUPP, also typically 
referred to as VCC or VDD, was adequate to supply power 
directly to the gate of the array cell to determine the 
state stored. Fig. 1 shows circuitry utilized for providing VSUPP to 
the gates of multi-density flash EEPROM cells in a 
memory array 102. Further details for providing a 
multi-density memory array can be found in U.S. Patent 
No. 5,218,569 by Banks entitled "Electrically Alterable 
Non-Volatile Memory With N-Bits Per Memory Cell", 
incorporated herein by reference. Fig. 1 further 
includes a reference array 104 with reference cell gates 
powered directly by VSUPP. Details for providing a 
programmable reference array such as reference array 104 
can be found in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08 /160582 entitled "Programmed Reference" by the present 
inventors filed on December 1, 1993, incorporated herein 
by reference (our reference HRW/BEP/A938). Along with the memory array 102 and reference array 
104, Fig. 1 includes a reading power supply 105 and a 
programming power supply 106 which provide power to a 
wordline decoder 108. During application of a READ 
signal, reading power supply 105 supplies VSUPP to 
wordline decoder 108 as a signal VPX. During 
application of a program signal (PGM), a boosted signal 
greater than VSUPP is supplied by programming power supply 
106 to wordline decoder 108 as a signal VPX. The 
program signal PGM is applied to increase electrons 
stored on the floating gate of a memory cell. During 
application of an erase signal, a large negative voltage 
is applied by circuitry (not shown) to the gates of the 
array cells of memory array 102. The erase voltage is 
applied to remove electrons from the floating gate of a 
memory cell. The wordline decoder 108 decodes the 
wordline address to select VPX to one of wordlines WL0-WLN. 
Each wordline WL0-WLN is connected to the gates of 
a row of array cells in memory array 102. Bitlines of 
cells in a row are connected to corresponding array 
cells in the remaining rows to provide a memory array 
output to sense amplifiers 112.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gate power supply for supplying power to a 
gate of an array cell in a memory array to determine a 

state in a plurality of possible states stored by the 
array cell, the gate power supply comprising: 

   a power supply for providing a first power supply 
signal, VSUPP, wherein if the first power supply signal 

was provided to the gate of the array cell, a working 
margin would exist between the plurality of possible 

states; and 
   means for providing the first power supply signal to 

the gate of the array cell so that the working margin is 
increased. 
The gate power supply of Claim 1 wherein the 
means for providing the first power supply signal 

comprises a multi-phase pump for boosting a magnitude of 
the first power supply signal and providing the boosted 

signal to the gate of the array cell. 
The gate power supply of Claim 2 wherein the 
multi-phase pump comprises: 

   a clock for generating a plurality of staggered 
clock signals; and 

   a plurality of charge pump sections, each having an 
input connected to receive a respective one of the 

plurality of staggered clock signals and an output 
connected to a VPGX output line. 
The gate power supply of Claim 3 wherein the 
clock comprises: 

   a clock driver for generating a clock phase signal; 
and

 
   a delay means responsive to the clock phase signal 

for generating the plurality of staggered clock signals 
in which each is delayed relative to the previous one. 
The gate power supply of Claim 4 wherein the 
delay means comprises: 

   a plurality of inverters; and 
   a plurality of delay elements, each of the plurality 

of delay elements including an RC delay circuit and a 
Schmitt trigger circuit, said RC delay circuit having 

its input connected to an input signal and an output, 
the Schmitt trigger having its input connected to the 

output of the RC delay circuit and its output providing 
an output signal which is inverted and delayed with 

respect to the input signal. 
The gate power supply of Claim 3 wherein each of 
the plurality of charge pump sections comprises: 

   a first n-channel pass transistor having a drain 
connected to the system power supply, a source connected 

to a pre-charge node, and a gate connected to a second 
internal node; 

   a pump capacitor having one side connected to the 
pre-charge node and another side connected to receive a 

first internal clock phase; and 
   a second n-channel pass transistor having a drain 

connected to the pre-charge node, a source connected to 
an output node, and a gate connected to a second 

internal node. 
The gate power supply of Claim 6 wherein the 
plurality of charge pump sections further comprise: 

   a back charging transistor coupled between the 
system power supply and said second internal node; and

 
   a booster diode connected transistor coupled between 

the precharge node and the second internal node. 
The gate power supply of Claim 2 wherein the 
means for providing the first power supply signal 

further comprises a zener regulation diode coupled 
between the gate of the array cell and a second memory 

array power supply signal. 
The gate power supply of Claim 1 further 
comprising: 

   a reference supply having an input coupled to the 
gate of the array cell and an output connected to the 

gates of reference cells of a reference array, the 
reference supply providing an RC delay approximately 

equal to 1/2 of an RC delay of a wordline connected 
between the multi-phase pump and the gate of the array 

cell. 
The gate power supply of Claim 1 wherein the 
means for providing the first power supply signal 

comprises a zener regulation diode coupled between the 
gate of the array cell and a second power supply signal. 
A gate power supply for supplying power to 
wordlines of a flash EEPROM memory array to determine 

thresholds of the array cells, the gate power supply 
comprising: 

   a multi-phase pump for boosting the magnitude of the 
first memory array power supply signal to provide to a 

VPGX line when a read mode is active; 
   a low power standby pump for boosting the magnitude 

of the first memory array power supply signal to provide 
to the VPGX line when the read mode is inactive;

 
   a wordline predecoder for decoding a portion of a 

wordline address signal to provide a multibit select 
signal; and 

   a plurality of wordline decoder sections, each 
decoder section connected to a respective select bit of 

the multibit select signal, each decoder section 
decoding a portion of the wordline address signal to 

direct power from a VPX input connected to the VPGX line 
to a given wordline in the wordlines of the memory array 

when selected by its respective select bit being active, 
each decoder section providing a large parasitic 

capacitance at its VPX input which is charged by the low 
power standby pump when the read mode is inactive so 

that unselected decoder sections provide power on the 
VPGX line to the VPX input of the selected section when 

the multi-phase pump is turning on. 
The gate power supply of Claim 11 further 
comprising: 

   a plurality of zener regulation diodes each 
connected on a first end to the VPX input of a 

respective decoder section; and 
   a plurality of select transistors, each select 

transistor having a current path coupling the second end 
of a respective one of the zener regulation diodes to a 

second memory array power supply signal and a gate 
connected to the select bit connected to the decoder 

section to which the zener regulation diode to which it 
is connected is connected, wherein when active the 

select bit couples the VPX input of the selected section 
to the second memory array power supply signal. 
The gate power supply of Claim 11 further 
comprising a reference supply comprising:

 
   an RC delay means having an output connected to the 

gates of reference cells of a reference array, the RC 
delay means providing an RC delay approximately equal to 

1/2 of an RC delay of a wordline in the wordlines of the 
memory array; and 

   a plurality of pullup transistors, each pullup 
transistor having a current path connected between a 

respective VPX input of a decoder section and an input 
of the RC delay means, each pullup transistor having 

characteristics of a pullup transistor of the decoder 
section to which it is connected, each pullup transistor 

further having a gate connected to receive the select 
bit of the decoder section to which it is connected. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
