<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629958</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for processing a document
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1722	G06K900	G06F1730	G06F1724	G06K920	G06T1160	G06T1160	G06F1722	G06K920	G06F1724	G06K900	G06F1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06K	G06F	G06F	G06K	G06T	G06T	G06F	G06K	G06F	G06K	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06K9	G06F17	G06F17	G06K9	G06T11	G06T11	G06F17	G06K9	G06F17	G06K9	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A document processor edits non-coded image data and coded 
text data, and stores the data in a memory. If writing to a 

document being edited is requested by a user, a determination 
is made as to whether or not character recognition of a 

stored image is required. If character recognition is 
required, the stored image is cut out of the memory to obtain 

character images. The character images are provided to a 
character recognition unit which generates corresponding 

character codes which are written in the document being 
edited. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKEDA HIROAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKEDA, HIROAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of and
apparatus for processing a document. More specifically, the
present invention relates to an apparatus that can be used
for editing non-coded image data as well as coded text data.As word processors and computers have become popular, it
has also become popular to convert documents into coded data
and process them with a word processor or a computer. As a
result, it has become easy to perform tasks such as editing,
reediting, retrieving and reusing of documents. The capacity
of an external storage device has become large, and the cost
thereof has become low, and thus, it has become possible to
store a large number of documents in the form of an image
file by using a photoelectric conversion system such as an
image scanner.Documents that are stored in the form of an image file
can be retrieved easily and quickly by using key words.
Furthermore, as a result of advancements in character 
recognition techniques, it is also possible to easily convert
an image of a document into coded data. In a representative
technique of recognizing image characters of a stored
document, the input image data is displayed on a screen, and
an area desired to be recognized is specified. If recognition
errors are observed after the character recognition, then
correction is made.In conventional document processing apparatus, a keyboard
is used to input or delete characters. The location at which
a character is to be inserted is also specified by a
keyboard. A pointing device such as a mouse is used to
specify an area of a document to be processed, or to select
some processing from options indicated in a menu. The
optional functions that can be selected from the menu include
"Copy" , which is used to store character strings within a
specified portion of the document into a memory area; "Cut",
which is used to store character strings within a specified
portion of the document into a memory area and further remove
that portion from the document being edited;and "Paste",
which is used to write character strings stored in the memory
area into the document being edited at a location at which
the strings are specified to be inserted. These functions
make editing tasks easy and effective. The processing
described above can be performed not only for the same one
document, but also for existing different documents as long 
as there are characters.These processing functions, "Copy", "Cut" and "Paste" can
be performed not only in editing of documents, but also in
editing of images or drawings.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of processing a document, characterised by
comprising:


an acquisition step of acquiring from a display of
data at least a part of the displayed data;
a point specifying step of specifying a point on
another display of data to which the acquired data is to

be added;
a character recognition determination step of
determining whether character recognition should be

performed on the basis of the acquired data;
a conversion step of recognizing the acquired data
and converting it into character code information if it

is determined in said character recognition determination
step that character recognition should be performed; and
an addition step of adding the converted character
code information to the specified point.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the displayed
data is image data that is input through an image

scanner. 
A method according to either of claims 1 or 2,

   further comprising:

   a displaying step of displaying the data on one of
the following: a CRT or a liquid crystal display device.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein the data, that is acquired in said acquisition

step is designated by a location that is designated using
a pointing device.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein it is determined in said character recognition

determination step that character recognition should be
performed if the acquired data includes character image

data.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
wherein the acquired data is added to the specified point

unconverted in said addition step if it is determined in
said character recognition determination step that

character recognition should not be performed. 
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein
the data that is acquired in said acquisition step is

data in an area surrounded by a rectangular frame.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein the data that is acquired in said acquisition

step is a plurality of character image data.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
further comprising:


a dividing step of dividing the acquired data into
a plurality of character image data if it is determined

in said character recognition determination step that
character recognition should be performed;
wherein the plurality of character image data is
recognised and converted into character code information

in said conversion step.
Apparatus for processing a document comprising:

means for acquiring from a display of data at least
a part of the displayed data; and
means for specifying on another display of data a 
point to which the acquired data is to be added and

characterised by;

calculating means (CPU11) for determining whether
character recognition should be performed on the basis of

the acquired data;
means (CPU11) for analysing the acquired data and
converting it into character code information if it is

determined that character recognition should be
performed;
and means for adding the converted character code
information to the specified point of the other display.
Apparatus according to claim 10, and adapted to
display image data that has been input through an image

scanner.
Apparatus according to either of claims 10 or 11,
including display means for displaying the data selected

from one of the following: a CRT or a liquid crystal
display device.
Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the display 
means are adapted to display both displays of data

simultaneously.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 13,
including a pointing device for acquiring data and

designating where the data is to be added.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 14,
wherein the calculating means is adapted to add the

acquired data to the specified point unconverted if the
calculating means has determined that the acquired data

is not character data.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 15,
wherein said calculating means is adapted to divide the

acquired data into a plurality of character image data if
it has been determined that character recognition should

be performed;

   wherein the plurality of character image data is
recognised and converted into character code information

in said conversion step. 
A ROM storage medium storing processor implementable
instructions for controlling a processor to carry out the

method of any one of claims 1 to 9.
An electrical signal carrying processor
implementable instructions for controlling a processor from a ROM storage medium to said processor to

carry out the method of any one of claims 1 to 9.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
