<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615668</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REGULATOR FOR PUMPED VOLTAGE GENERATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M304	H02M307	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
According to the invention, a regulated voltage pump is provided which uses a chain of diodes (D61, D62, D63, D64) between each of which is attached one plate of a capacitor (C65, C64, C63) for which the other plate is driven by a clock signal (VCLK). The regulated voltage pump of the present invention uses feedback from the output signal (Vpp) to determine how many capacitors to pump. A comparator (U61) compares a signal (VIN) related to the pumped output signal to a reference voltage (VREF) (which may be the power supply voltage) and controls how many intermediate pumping capacitors receive a switching clock signal. Thus a regulated pumped voltage is provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER ROGER D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARLOUR DAVID B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER ROGER D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARLOUR DAVID B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REGULATOR FOR PUMPED VOLTAGE GENERATORFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to integrated circuits, and to power supplies for driving portions of an integrated circuit structure.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThere are a number of applications in integrated circuits where an on-chip voltage which exceeds the value supplied by an external power supply is useful. Two such applications, shown in Figs. 1 and 2 respectively, are(1) controlling pass transistors in field programmable gate array structures, and(2) controlling isolation transistors in antifuse- programmable gate array structures. Fig. 1 shows a circuit in which N-channel pass transistor Ml interconnects two logic units Ll and L2, the gate of pass transistor Ml being controlled by SRAM memory cell Ul, which is in turn powered by memory cell power supply Vmem. Transistor Ml is used to form a user programmable connection between interconnect lines (nets) Nl and N2. If the power supply voltage to memory cell Ul is the same as the power supply voltage for the logic units Ll and L2, transistor Ml will not pass the full voltage level between the two nets Nl and N2. However, raising the logic high voltage to the gate of transistor Ml by an amount greater than the threshold voltage drop of transistor Ml will avoid the logic-high threshold drop and consequent loss of voltage swing. Pig. 2 shows an antifuse circuit which can benefit from a pumped voltage supply. Transistors M2 through M5 control transmission of logic signals between logic units L3 and L4. By applying a low isolation voltage V-ISO to gates of transistors M2 through M5, these transistors are held off while programming voltage control 

 units Pi and P2 program selected ones of antifuses Fl through F4. During operation, transistors M2 through M5 are turned on through a high signal provided by V-ISO. The interconnection of logic units L3 and L4 is determined by the states of antifuses Fl through F4. Use of a high V-ISO voltage assures high performance by providing full voltage swings (no threshold drop) across transistors M2 through M5. Further, maintaining the full voltage swing simplifies the receiving logic. For example, the logic circuit can be a typical 5-volt CMOS circuit using 5-volt logic signals. Further, the reduced resistance of transistor Ml in its on- state greatly increases the speed of passing logic signals between logic units Ll and L2. Thus, certain transistors in a circuit such as shown in Figs. 1 and 2 can benefit from a high voltage at their control terminals.In order to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We claim: 1. A voltage regulator comprising: means for providing a supply voltage; means for pumping said supply voltage and thereby generating an output voltage; feedback means connected to said output voltage for controlling said means for pumping.
2. A voltage regulator as in Claim 1 in which said feedback means causes said means for pumping to pump said output voltage toward a first higher voltage when said output voltage is below a selected level, and said feedback means causes said means for pumping to pump said output voltage toward a second lower voltage when said output voltage is above said selected level.
3. A voltage regulator as in Claim 2 in which said means for pumping comprises: a plurality of diodes connected in series, a first diode of said plurality receiving said supply voltage and a last diode of said plurality providing said output voltage; at least one capacitor, one fewer than said plurality of diodes, each capacitor having a first plate connected to a node between a corresponding pair of said diodes; and means for applying switching signals to a second plate of each of said at least one capacitor, such that switching signals are inverted for each successive capacitor.
4. A voltage regulator as in Claim 3 in which said plurality of diodes connected in series comprises first, second, third, and fourth diodes connected in series, said fourth diode supplying said output voltage, 


 said at least one capacitor comprises first, second, and third capacitors said first capacitor having its first plate connected to a node between said first and second diodes, and said means for applying switching signals to a second plate of each of said at least one capacitor comprises a clock signal source connected to a second plate of said third capacitor, and connected through said feedback means for controlling pumping to said first and second capacitors.
5. A voltage regulator as in Claim 2 in which said feedback means for controlling said means for pumping comprises: a comparator having first and second input ports and an output port; a reference voltage supply connected to said first input port of said comparator; means for generating a signal related to said output voltage, said means for generating being connected to said second input port of said comparator; and means connected to said output port of said comparator for controlling said means for applying switching signals.
6. A voltage regulator as in Claim 5 in which said means connected to said output port of said comparator for controlling said means for applying switching signals comprises: a NAND gate having first and second inputs terminals and an output terminal; a first inverter (161) which receives a clock signal on its input terminal and provides on its output terminal a signal to said first input terminal of said NAND gate; a second inverter (162) which receives on its 
"
input terminal an output signal from said output port 


 of said comparator and generates an inverted buffered output signal; a latch (L61) having an input terminal, an enable terminal, and an output terminal, said latch receiving on its input terminal said buffered output signal from said second inverter, on its enable terminal said clock signal, and provides on its output terminal the signal present on its input terminal when said clock signal last was high, said signal on its output terminal being applied to said second input terminal of said NAND gate.
7. A voltage regulator as in Claim 5 in which said means for generating a signal related to said output voltage comprises: a P-channel transistor having a first current carrying terminal connected to receive said output voltage, and a gate connected to an input terminal of said last diode; a pair of capacitors connected in series between a second current carrying terminal of said P-channel transistor and ground; and means for discharging said pair of capacitors at a time when said P-channel transistor is off and not discharging said pair of capacitors at a time when said
P-channel transistor is on.
8. A voltage regulator as in Claim 1 in which said feedback means connected to said output voltage for controlling said means for pumping (C82) comprises: a reference voltage supply (VREF) ; a transistor (TP81) having a first current carrying terminal connected to receive said output voltage (Vpp) and a second current carrying terminal; a comparator circuit (U81, inverters) having a first input node (VIN) connected to said second current carrying ter ial and a second input node (VREF) connected to a 


reference voltage supply, and an output node (D) connected to a second means for pumping means (VCLK, 181, C83, N82) for pumping voltage at said second current carrying terminal to a high level while said transistor is turned off and to a low level while said transistor is turned on.
9. A voltage regulator as in Claim 1 further comprising: a first logic circuit (Ll) ; a second logic circuit (L2); an interconnect transistor (Ml) for interconnecting said first and second logic circuits, said interconnect transistor having a gate controlled by said output voltage.
10. A voltage regulator as in Claim 1 further comprising: a first logic circuit (L3); a second logic circuit (L4); means (Fl, F2, F3, F4) for interconnecting said first and second logic circuits; means (M2,M3) for connecting said first logic circuit to said means for interconnecting; means (M4,M5) for connecting said second logic circuit to said means for interconnecting; said means for connecting said first and second logic circuits (M2-M5) to said means for interconnecting being controlled by said output voltage (Vpp) .
11. A programmable logic circuit comprising: a first logic circuit (L3); a second logic circuit (L2); fuse means (F1-F4) for interconnecting said first and second logic circuits, each of said fuse means having a first terminal and a second terminal; 


 means (M2,M3) for connecting said first logic circuit (L3) to a first terminal of said fuse means for interconnecting; means (M4,M5) for connecting said second logic circuit (L4) to a second terminal of said fuse means for interconnecting; means for connecting a first programming voltage (Pi) to a first terminal of said fuse means for interconnecting,- means for connecting a second programming voltage
(P2) to a second terminal of said fuse means for interconnecting; said means for connecting said first and second logic circuits (M2-M5) to said fuse means for interconnecting being controlled by a pumped voltage (Vpp) . 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
