<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639818</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for monitoring the sensitivity of a system for reading a radiation image stored in a photostimulable phosphor screen
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B4202	G03B4202	G06T500	G06T100	G06T100	H04N104	G06T500	H04N104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G06T	G06T	G06T	H04N	G06T	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B42	G03B42	G06T5	G06T1	G06T1	H04N1	G06T5	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of monitoring the sensitivity of a system for reading a 
radiation image of an object that has been exposed to irradiation, 

said radiation image having been stored in a photostimulable 
phosphor screen, comprising the steps of scanning said screen with 

stimulating irradiation, detecting the light emitted upon 
stimulation, converting the detected light into an electric 

representation, compressing said electric representation through 
square root amplification, and digitizing the compressed electric 

representation.
 

For a sensitivity class that was set when said radiation image was 
generated a corresponding expected noise variance value σ
e
² is 
retrieved from a predefined table. Then the ratio σ
y
²/σ
e
² is 
calculated and thresholded. A warning is generated when said ratio 

exceeds a threshold value T+ or when said ratio is smaller than some 
threshold value T₋. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA GEVAERT NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA-GEVAERT NAAMLOZE VENNOOTSCHAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VUYLSTEKE PIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VUYLSTEKE, PIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is in the field of digital radiography. The 
invention more specifically relates to a method of monitoring the 
sensitivity of a system for reading a radiation image that has been 
stored in a photostimulable phosphor screen. In digital radiography a technique has been developed wherein a 
radiation image of an object is obtained by using a screen 
comprising a photostimulable phosphor such as described in European 
patent application EP-A-0 503 702 published on 16.09.92 and in US ser. 
07/842,603. Upon exposure to penetrating radiation such as x-rays emitted by 
a radiation source, a photostimulable phosphor screen of the kind 
described in the above patent applications stores energy. The 
stored energy can be released by scanning the screen with 
stimulating radiation, e.g. laser light of the appropriate 
wavelength. The light emitted upon stimulation which is 
proportional to the original incident radiation absorption in the 
screen can then be detected and converted into an electric 
representation by a detector such as a photomultiplier. 
The read out signal is then digitized. Preferably the analog image signal is compressed by means of a 
square root amplifier before being fed to an analog to digital 
convertor. Compression according to a square root characteristic is 
advantageous in that it provides optimal use of the dynamic range of 
the A/D convertor. The result of a compression according to square 
root characteristic has a constant noise level throughout the 
compressed signal range. Since the quantisation error is also 
constant, the ratio of quantisation noise to signal noise is also 
constant resulting in an optimal distribution of the bits throughout 
the dynamic range of the A/D convertor. After A/D conversion one disposes of an N-bit 'raw' image  
 
signal, that can be subjected to image processing before hard copy 
recording or display so that for each type of examination the 
diagnostically relevant information can be reproduced in optimal 
conditions. Among the image processing algorithms a so-called autowindowing 
algorithm can be applied to determine the diagnostically relevant 
signal range out of the entire read out signal range. The latitude and position of this relevant range can be 
determined automatically using significant points (minima, 
maxima...) of the image histogram. A method of determining such 
significant points has been described in our European application EP 
-A-0 546 600 and in US 07/978,786. The data within the selected window are then mapped
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of monitoring the sensitivity of a system for reading a 
radiation image of an object that has been exposed to irradiation, 

said radiation image having been stored in a photostimulable 
phosphor screen, comprising the steps of 


scanning said screen with stimulating irradiation, 
detecting the light emitted upon stimulation, 
converting the detected light into an electric representation, 
compressing said electric representation through square root 
amplification, 
and digitizing the compressed electric representation, the method being characterised by the further steps of: 
selecting, for a sensitivity class that was set when said radiation 

image was generated, a corresponding expected noise variance value 
σ
e
2
 from a table which comprises for a number of predefined 
sensitivity classes corresponding noise variance values, each of 

said corresponding noise variance values representing the average 
variance of noise present in an image read out with said system 

being calibrated for the corresponding sensitivity class, 
computing for the read out image the effective noise variance σ
y
2
, 
calculating the ratio σ
y
2
/σ
e
2
, 
defining threshold values T
+
 and T
-
 for said ratio, and 
generating a warning in at least one of the cases wherein said 
ratio exceeds said threshold value T
+
 and wherein said ratio is smaller 
than said threshold value T
-
. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein an output is generated of 
at least one of the result of said thresholding and said ratio. 
A method according to claim 1 modified in that for a number of 
successively read out images said ratio is determined and that the 

average value is calculated of said ratios and that the thresholding 
step is performed on said average value. 
A method according to claim 1 modified in that for a number of N 
successively read out images said ratio is calculated and that a 

regression line is computed on these ratios, and that in case the 
absolute value of the slope of said regression line is exceeding a 

threshold value T
r
, a warning is generated.  
 
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein said 
noise variance value is computed by 


a) establishing a compact neighbourhood centrally around each pixel 
of said image, computing the local image variance at each center 

pixel based on the statistics within said neighbourhood, and using 
said local variance at every pixel to update the corresponding entry 

of a local variance histogram associated with said image; 
b) designating the noise variance of said image as the local 
variance value that corresponds to the highest number of occurrences 

within said histogram. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein said local variance is 
computed as the average squared value of all pixels within said 

neighbourhood minus the square average signal value in said same 
neighbourhood. 
A method according to claim 6 wherein said neighbourhood has an 
extent of 5x5 pixels. 
A method according to claim 5 modified in that each sample of 
local variance is accounted for updating the histogram only if the 

pixel value of the read out image at the corresponding position is 
below a threshold value. 
A method according to claim 8 wherein said threshold value is 
equal to half the maximum of the read out signal values and wherein 

the irradiation amount to which said object was exposed expressed as 
a sensitivity class is within the range of 25 to 800. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein the read out image is 
decomposed into a set of detail images at multiple resolution levels 

and a residual image at a resolution level lower than said multiple 
resolution levels, and wherein said local variance is computed as 

the average of squared detail amplitudes obtained by said 
decomposition. 
An apparatus for monitoring the sensitivity of a system for reading a radiation image of an object that has been exposed to radiation, said radiation image having been stored 
in a photostimulable phosphor screen, said apparatus comprising 


means for scanning said screen with stimulating irradiation, 
read out means for detecting light emitted upon stimulation and for 
converting said light into an electric signal representation,  

 
amplifying means having a square root characteristic for compressing 
said signal representation, 
and means for digitising the compressed electric representation, the apparatus being characterised by: 
means for storing a table which comprises for a number of 
predefined sensitivity class settings corresponding noise variance values 

σ
2
e,i
, each of said noise variance values representing the average 
variance of noise present in an image read out with said read out means 

being calibrated for the corresponding sensitivity class, 
means for retrieving from said table for a given sensitivity class 
the corresponding noise variance value σ
2
e
, 
means for calibrating said read out means for a specific 
sensitivity class, 
means for reading an image stored in a screen, 
means for computing for said read out image the effective noise 
variance σ
2
y
, 
means for calculating the ratio σ
2
y
/σ
2
e
, 
means for defining threshold values T
+
 and T
-
 for said ratio, and 
means for generating a warning in at least one of the cases wherein 
said ratio exceeds said threshold value T
+
 and wherein said ratio is 
smaller than said threshold value T
-
. 
An apparatus according to claim 11 provided with means for 
outputting at least one of said ratio and the result of said 

thresholding. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
