<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614348</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ABSORBENT ARTICLE HAVING ELASTICIZED SIDE FLAPS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F13494	A61F1356	A61F1315	A61F1356	A61F13514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An absorbent article having a liquid permeable topsheet (2), a liquid impermeable backsheet (3) and a liquid absorbent pad (4) for absorbing a liquid exuded from the human body positioned therebetween, and having an elasticized side flap (20) along each side edge of the absorbent article. The sideflap has a loop member (21) formed from either the topsheet or the backsheet, or an optional secondary nonwoven sheet, which extends from and loops back toward the side edge fo the absorbent pad, and an inserted member (30) formed from a layer which extends from the side edge of said absorbent pad. An elastic material (40) is affixed along a portion of the length of the inserted member, and a seal (10) affixes the inserted member inside the loop member at its base end. The absorbent sanitary article provides improved fit and leakage protection with better comfort.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE FAR EAST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE FAR EAST, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORITA YASUKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORITA, YASUKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a novel absorbent article, 
and particularly to a sanitary article such as a sanitary 
napkin or an absorbing sheet. As used herein, the term 
"absorbent article" refers to devices which absorb and 
contain body exudates, and, more specifically, refers to 
devices which are placed against or in proximity to the 
body of the wearer to absorb and contain the various 
exudates discharged from the body. An absorbent article such as sanitary napkins or 
paper diapers requires a good and comfortable fit to the 
body, in addition to preventing exudates from leaking. There has been conventionally proposed, for example, 
a curved sanitary napkin in which an elastic material in 
initial tension is arranged at the longitudinal edge of 
the napkin. If a sanitary napkin is formed into a curved 
shape by an elastic material, the body fit is enhanced, 
and an improvement in wearer's feeling of fit as well as 
the reduction of side leaking can be achieved. Such 
sanitary napkins are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 
4,668,230, 4,701,177 and 4,770,657. In the absorbent articles disclosed in the above-mentioned 
U.S. Patents, an elastic material is directly 
or indirectly bonded to the edge of a sheet surface which 
contacts with the body. A seal is provided which divides 
the elastic material arranged at this edge and an 
absorbent core positioned at the center. In this 
conventional constitution, a curved shape is provided to 
an absorbent article such as a sanitary napkin by 
wrinkling the surface sheet and the elastic material. However, the above-mentioned conventional absorbent 
article has a problem that causes an uncomfortable 
feeling due to a deep wrinkle caused on the surface sheet  
 
of the edge and impairs comfort at the time of using the 
absorbent article in a curved shape, particularly when 
the surface sheet is a plastic material. Therefore, such 
sanitary napkins are not completely satisfactory, and 
there remains a need for improvement in fit, comfort, and 
containment by sanitary napkins and other absorbent 
articles. The object of this invention is to provide an 
absorbent article which can enhance body fit in usage and 
can achieve an improvement in comfort and reduction of 
side leakage. This invention provides an absorbent article 
comprising a wearer-facing, body-contacting liquid 
permeable topsheet, a garment-facing liquid impermeable 
backsheet, and a liquid absorbent pad therebetween for 
absorbing a liquid exuded from the human body, 
characterized by comprising an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An absorbent article (1) comprising a liquid 
permeable topsheet (2), a liquid impermeable backsheet (3) and a 

liquid absorbent pad (4) for absorbing a liquid exuded from 
the human body positioned there between and having a pair 

of side edges (7), characterized by comprising an elasticized 
side flap (20) along each side edge (7) of said absorbent pad (4), 

said side flap (20) comprising: 

a loop member (21) which extends from and loops 
back toward said side edge (7) of said absorbent pad (4), said 

loop member (21) having a base end (22) with an opening (23) proximate 
said side edge (7) of said absorbent pad (4), a distal end (24), a 

garment-facing portion (25), and a wearer-facing portion (26); characterized 

in that it further comprises 
an inserted member (30) which extends through said 
base end opening (23) into said loop member (21) and having a 

distal end (31) and a base end (32) adjacent said base end opening (23); 
an elastic material (40) affixed along a portion of 
the length of said inserted member (30) outboard of said base 

end (32) of said inserted member (30), wherein said elastic 
material (40) is not affixed to said loop member (21); and 
a seal attaching said inserted member (30) to said 
garment-facing portion (25) and wearer-facing portion (26) of said 

loop member (21) at said base end (22). 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 1 
wherein said loop member (21) is formed from a layer which 

extends from and loops back toward said side edge (7) of said 
absorbent pad (4) and is selected from the group consisting 

of said topsheet (2) and said backsheet (3), and said inserted 
member (30) is formed from a layer which extends from said 

side edge (7) of said absorbent pad (4) and is selected from the 
group consisting of said backsheet (3) and the topsheet (2). 
An absorbent article (1) according to claim 1 wherein said  
 

secondary non-woven sheet (15) positioned 
between said topsheet (2) and said absorbent pad (4),
 
   said loop member (21) is formed from a layer which 

is selected from the group consisting 
of said topsheet (2), said backsheet (3), said secondary non-woven 

sheet (15), and combinations thereof,
 
   said inserted member (30) is formed from a layer which 

is selected from said backsheet (3), 
said topsheet (2), said secondary non-woven sheet (15) and 

combinations thereof. 
An absorbent article (1) according to claim 1 wherein said 
liquid permeable topsheet (2) has 

a central portion and a side portion on each lateral side 
of the central portion, and said article (1) comprises a non-woven outer sheet 

positioned along each side portion of said topsheet (2),
  
 

   said loop member (21) is formed from a layer which 
is selected from the group consisting 

of said topsheet (2), said backsheet (3), said non-woven outer 
sheet, and combinations thereof, 


said inserted member (30) is formed from a 
layer which 

is selected from the group consisting of said 
backsheet (3), said topsheet (2) said non-woven outer sheet, and 

combinations thereof, 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 2 or 3 
wherein said loop member (21) is the topsheet (2) and said 

inserted layer (30) is said backsheet (3). 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 3 
wherein said loop member (21) is the topsheet (2) and said 

inserted layer (30) is selected from said backsheet (3) 
and said secondary non-woven sheet (15).  

 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 6 
wherein said elastic material (40) is affixed to said 

backsheet (3) and said secondary non-woven sheet (15). 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 3 
wherein said loop member (21) is said secondary non-woven 

sheet (15) and said inserted layer (21) comprises said 
backsheet (3). 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 8 
wherein said inserted layer (21) further 

comprises said topsheet (2) 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 4 
wherein said loop member (21) is said non-woven outer sheet 

and said inserted layer (21) comprises said 
backsheet (3). 
An absorbent article (1) according to Claim 10 
wherein said inserted layer (21) further 

comprises said topsheet (2). 
An absorbent article (1) according to any of the claims 
further comprising a non-woven embossed wicking strip 

positioned between said topsheet (2) and said absorbent pad (4). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
