<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621118</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fastening member with ferromagnetic attachment strip.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A44B1800	A44B1800	B29C3300	B29C3300	B29C3314	B29C3316	B60N258	B60N260	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A44B	A44B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A44B18	A44B18	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fastening member having a base 11 carrying on one side 
thereof a first part 18 of a gripping fastening member for 

mating connection with a complementary second part 28 of a 
gripping fastening member, and a temporary cover 20 for protecting 

the first gripping fastener part against leakage of 
molding liquid onto the first gripping fastener part to protect 

the first gripping fastener part against clogging by 
molding liquid when molding the fastening member into a molded 

article in a mold, characterized by comprising a flexible, 
granular ferromagnetic attachment strip 22 positioned in 

overlying relation on top of the first gripping fastener part 
and extending along the length of the fastening member for 

being attracted by at least one magnet in the mold to temporarily 
hold the fastening member 10 by magnetic attraction 

in the mold during the molding process. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APLIX SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APLIX (SOCIETE ANONYME)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BILLARANT PATRICK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BILLARANT, PATRICK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a fastening member of the type 
which is molded into molded foam cushions, such as seat cushions 
used in automobiles and other vehicles. The fastening members have 
hooks which mate with complementary fastening members which are 
attached to the inside of seat upholstery. When mated the 
fastening members position and secure the upholstery to the seat 
cushion. Prior art devices, including prior patents to the present 
assignee, include a covering film which encloses and protects the 
hooks of the fastening member from molding liquid until the liquid 
has cured and turned into a solid foam material. Then, the 
covering film is removed to expose the hooks and permit the 
fastening member to be used for its intended purpose. The fastening members are generally held in mold pockets 
in the mold by magnetic attraction. The mold pockets contain 
powerful magnets. Most commonly, the covering film of the fastening 
member is bonded to intermittent strips of steel shim stock, which 
are attracted to the magnets in the mold pocket and hold the 
fastening member in the mold pocket. See, e.g., US - A - 
4,933,035 and 4,693,921. An alternative arrangement is shown in US - A - 
4,784,890, wherein a ferromagnetic coating is applied to the 
marginal areas of the fastening member along either side of the 
upstanding hooks. The ferromagnetic coating is intended to create  
 
a sufficiently good seal between the mold pocket and the fastening 
member that the protective film covering such as shown in the two 
preceding documents is unnecessary. Thus, the film removal step after 
molding is complete is eliminated in the '890 Patent. However, the fastening member using the protective film 
covering has become the predominant method of using this form of 
seat upholstery attachment, since it is easier to position in the 
mold pocket and a more secure seal against molding liquid 
contamination of the hooks is provided. As noted above, this film 
must be removed before the fastening member can be used. It has 
been found that occasionally the removed protective film with the 
attached steel shim stock is inadvertently swept up with foam 
scraps for recycling. Scrap foam contaminated with this steel 
material is unusable. The protective film with the attached steel 
shim stock is also difficult to dispose of, since it is not 
recyclable either as a metal or plastic. It has also been observed that if the steel shim stock 
becomes bent, it may cause the fastening member to bend as well, 
thus causing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fastening member having a base (11,61) carrying on 
one side thereof a first part (18,63) of a gripping fastening 

member for mating connection with a complementary second part 
(28) of a gripping fastening member, and a temporary cover 

(20,64) for protecting the first gripping fastener part against 
leakage of molding liquid onto the first gripping fastener part 

to protect the first gripping fastener part against clogging 
by molding liquid when molding the fastening member into a 

molded article in a mold,characterized by comprising a flexible, 
granular ferromagnetic attachment strip (22,68) positioned in 

overlying relation on top of the first gripping fastener part 
and extending along the length of the fastening member for 

being attracted by at least one magnet (52) in the mold (51) to 
temporarily hold the fastening member (10,60) by magnetic attraction 

in the mold during the molding process. 
A fastening member according to claim 1, wherein the temporary 
cover is a thin protective film covering sealingly engaging 

the base for enclosing and protecting the first gripping 
fastener part against leakage of molding liquid past 

the film onto the first gripping fastener part. 
A fastening member according to claim 1 or 2, wherein 
said ferromagnetic attachment strip extends within the aera 

covered by said temporary cover. 
A fastening member according to any Claim 1 to 3, wherein 
said first gripping fastener part comprises numerous rows of 

hook-like projections (18) for mating, releasable engagement 
with complementary gripping fastener parts. 
A fastening member according to any Claim 1 to 3, wherein 
said first gripping fastener part comprises numerous rows of 

hook-like projections (18) for mating, releasable engagement 
with a complementary loose, fibrous, non-woven patch comprising 

said second gripping fastener part. 
A fastening member according to any Claim 1 to 5, wherein 
said ferromagnetic attachment strip (22,68) comprises a mixture 

of a pressure sensitive adhesive and steel powder. 
A fastening member according to Claim 6, wherein said 
mixture is coated onto a thin plastic or paper backing film 

(24,69). 
A fastening member according to any Claim 6 or 7, wherein 
said ferromagnetic attachment strip comprises a mixture of approximately 

60 parts of a pressure sensitive adhesive and approximately 
40 parts of a steel powder, for example to provide 

50 to 300 grams, preferably 200 grams, of steel powder per 

square meter. 
A fastening member according to any Claim 1 to 8, wherein 
a thin plastic backing film (24) carries the ferromagnetic material 

and includes a silicone coating on the side of the thin 
plastic backing film obverse to the side on which the ferromagnetic 

material is coated for permitting the attachment strip 
to be produced in long lengths and rolled on itself without 

adjacent layers of the roll sticking to each other. 
A fastening member according to any Claim 1 to 9, wherein 
said ferromagnetic attachment strip includes a pigment for coloring 

the attachment strip to contrast with the color of the 
base to permit easy visual determination that the attachment 

strip and the temporary cover have been removed. 
A fastening member according to any Claim 1 to 10, wherein 
said fastener member is curved along its longitudinal axis to 

define an arc. 
A fastening member according to Claim 1, wherein said 
cover (64) comprises : 


(a) a layer of fibrous loops (65) for mating connection 
with a plurality of hooks (63) forming said first gripping 

 
fastener part for securing the cover to the base (61) ; 
(b) a substrate (66) for carrying said layer of fibrous 
loops ; 
(c) said flexible, granular ferromagnetic attachment 
strip (68) positioned on face of the substrate obverse from the 

fibrous loops ; and 
(d) a paper or plastics carrier sheet (69) releasably 
attached to said ferromagnetic attachment strip (68). 
A fastening member according to Claim 12, including a 
tab (70) formed on one end of the cover (64) and extending 

beyond one end of the base (61) for permitting the cover to 
be easily and quickly removed after the molding operation is 

completed. 
A fastening member according to Claim 13, wherein said 
tab (70) is integrally formed with and comprises an extension 

of the cover (64) and is folded over itself and releasably 
attached to the cover. 
A fastening member according to claim 13 wherein said 
tab comprises on a first end portion hooks for engaging 

said fibrous loops (65), on an adjacent and intermediate portion 
a self-adhesive film for engaging the outer face of said 

carrier sheet (69), and a second end portion forming a manual 
catching portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
