<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods and apparatus for marking and identifying hooks of electric motor collectors.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R3900	H01R3932	H01R4306	H01R4306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R39	H01R39	H01R43	H01R43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and apparatus for marking and 
identifying a commutator hook of an electric motor are 

provided. A preselected commutator hook is marked by 
deforming the hook while the armature is in a winding 

machine, with a known angular position. The marked 
hook is identified by apparatus which determines 

whether or not the hook has been deformed while in the 
winding machine, and thereby recognizing the hook. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXIS SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXIS S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOMBARDI MASSIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SABATINO LUCIANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOMBARDI, MASSIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SABATINO, LUCIANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to armature 
winding machines, and, more particularly, to machines 
for winding the armature wires of an electric-motor to 
a hook member ("tang") of a commutator bar and 
deforming selected hook members for later 
identification during processing. Although armature winding machines are widely 
used, a system for marking and later identifying 
commutator hooks for further processing is not yet 
available. Prior attempts to identify hooks requiring 
special processing have involved manual identification. 
However, manual identification may be inefficient and 
expensive. The conditions required for fusing commutator 
hooks vary depending upon the number of armature lead  
 
wires that are passed around a given hook. The fusing 
conditions must be tailored to the hook's winding 
configuration if a satisfactory fusion joint is to be 
formed. For example, a hook with a single wire passed 
around it will require a different electrode 
displacement, electrode force, and electric current 
application than a hook with two wires passed around 
it. The hook wrapped with two wires may require 
additional electrode force to produce a cohesion joint 
of satisfactory quality. Winding machines typically attach two 
armature lead wires to selected hooks during the 
termination stages of armature winding. At the instant 
a hook is wrapped with two wires, the armature has a 
precise, known angular position. Thus, it would be 
possible to transfer a wound armature to a fusing 
machine while in a known angular position. The hooks 
wrapped with two wires could be recognized by their 
angular position and appropriately processed. However, 
such a solution requires costly changes to the transfer 
solutions between the winding and fusing machines. It would be desirable to provide a winding 
machine which deforms a hook requiring special 
processing, such as a hook wrapped with two wires, so 
that the hook may be identified during later stages of 
processing. It would also be desirable to provide a 
method for identifying such a deformed hook in the 
fusing machine for performing special operations. In view of the foregoing, it is an object of 
this invention to provide a winding machine that 
selectively marks portions of a workpiece.  It is a further object of this invention to 
provide a method for identifying portions of a 
workpiece that require special processing. It is another object of this invention to 
provide a method, that will not require changing the 
transfer function between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for making electric motor armatures using a 
deforming member to deform a portion of an electric motor 

armature workpiece and using an electronic circuit to determine 
when contact occurs between said deforming member and said 

workpiece, the method being characterized by comprising the 
steps of: 


contacting an electrically conductive contact member against 
said workpiece: 
providing for a predetermined electric signal to circulate in a 
sensing electrode which is coupled to said deforming member and 

in said contact member; 
moving said sensing electrode along an axis and determining 
whether a circuit path has been established for said electric 

signal, said circuit path being established when said sensing 
member makes contact with said portion of said workpiece; and 
fusing said portion of said workpiece using a fusing operation 
which depends on when said circuit path is established. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the functions of said sensing 
electrode and said deforming member are performed by a single 

electrode. 
The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of 
terminating said predetermined electric signal between said step 

of moving and said step of fusing. 
The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein 
different first and second electrical potentials are applied to said 

 
deforming member and to said contact member, respectively, in 

order to provide said electric signal and therein electric current 
flow is monitored through said sensing electrode during said 

moving step to detect when said deforming member first contacts 
said workpiece by detecting when electric current first begins to 

flow through said sensing member. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said first electric potential is a 
first predetermined signal voltage. 
The method of claim 5, wherein said second electrical potential 
is essentially a ground potential and said step of monitoring 

monitors said flow of said electric current from said deforming 
member to said contact member. 
The method of claim 5, wherein said second electric potential 
is a second predetermined signal voltage different than said first 

predetermined signal voltage and said step of monitoring 
monitors said flow of said current between said deforming 

member and said contact member. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising 
the steps of: 


identifying said portion as a first portion or a second portion 
based upon whether said circuit path is established; and 
fusing said portion using said fusing operation which varies 
depending on whether said portion is identified as a first portion 

or a second portion. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein said 
moving step further comprises the step of monitoring the 

displacement of said movement of said sensing electrode. 
The method defined in claim 9, wherein said step of 
identifying identifies said portion such that: 


said portion is identified as a first portion having one wire 
when said circuit path is established at a predetermined 

displacement; and 
said portion is identified as a second portion having two wires 
when said circuit path has not been established at said 

predetermined displacement. 
The method according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein said fusing step comprises the step of generating a 

fusing current in said deforming member to produce heat in said 
deforming member, said heal being transferred from said 

deforming member to said workpiece to soften said workpiece 
during said fusing step. 
Apparatus for making electric motor armatures using a 
deforming member to deform a portion of an electric motor 

armature workpiece and using an electronic circuit to 
determine when contact occurs between said deforming 

member and said workpiece, said apparatus being 
characterized in that it comprises: 


a contact member which is placed in physical contact with 
said workpiece; 
a sensing electrode; 
a predetermined voltage supply which supplies a 
predetermined voltage signal between said contact member 

and said sensing electrode; 
means for moving said sensing electrode along an axis; 
means for determining whether a circuit path has been 
established for said voltage signal when said sensing member 

makes contact with said portion of said work piece; and 
means for fusing said portion of said workpiece using a 
fusing operation depending on when said circuit path is 

established. 
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein said sensing 
electrode also functions as a fusing electrode during said 

fusing operation. 
The apparatus defined in claim 12 or 13 wherein said means 
for determining is a microprocessor based control system. 
The apparatus defined in claim 14, wherein said 
microprocess based system controls an activation switch 

which is electrically connected between said predetermined 
voltage supply and said sensing electrode. 
The apparatus defined in claim 15 wherein said 
microprocessor based control system deactivates said switch 

before said means for fusing performs said fusing operation. 
The apparatus defined in any of the preceding claims, 
further comprising: 


means for simultaneously monitoring displacement of said 
sensing electrode movement; 
means for recording said displacement when said circuit 
path is established; 
means for comparing said recorded displacement with a 
plurality of predetermined displacements to identify 

whether said portion is a first portion or a second portion; 
and 
means for fusing said portion using a fusing operation 
which varies depending on whether said portion is identified 

as a first portion or a second portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
