<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615629</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIGHT VALVE EMPLOYING A FILM COMPRISING AN ENCAPSULATED LIQUID SUSPENSION, AND METHOD OF MAKING SUCH FILM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F117	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A film (24) suitable for use as the light modulating unit of a light valve (27) comprises a cross-linked polymer matrix having droplets (26) of liquid light valve suspension distributed in the cross-linked polymer matrix, and a light valve comprising such a film.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to light valves and
more particularly to improvements relating to
incorporating within a plastic film a light valve
suspension used to control light transmission in a light
valve.Light valves have been used for over fifty years for
modulation of light. Early examples are described in
U.S. Patents 1,955,923, 1,962,496, 3,512,876 and
3,773,684. A conventional prior art light valve may be
described as a cell formed of two walls that are spaced
apart by a small distance, at least one wall being
transparent, the walls having electrodes thereon usually
in the form of transparent conductive coatings. The cell
contains a "light valve suspension" namely small
particles suspended in a liquid suspending medium. In
the absence of an applied electrical field, the particles
in the liquid suspension exhibit random Brownian
movement, and hence a beam of light passing into the cell
is reflected, transmitted or absorbed, depending upon the
nature and concentration of the particles and the energy
content of the light. When an electric field is applied
through the light valve suspension in the light valve,
the particles become aligned and for many suspensions 
most of the light can pass through the cell. Light
valves have been proposed for many purposes including,
e.g., alphanumeric displays, television displays,
windows, mirrors, eyeglasses and the like to control the
amount of light passing therethrough.For light valves of large size oriented in a
vertical position, hydrostatic pressure can cause a
serious problem. This pressure arises because the weight
of a column of the liquid light valve suspension tends to
make the walls of a light valve bulge outward, especially
toward the lower part of the light valve. Methods for
reducing this problem have been suggested in the prior
art, e.g., see U.S. Patent Nos. 3,742,600, 3,744,126 and
3,912,365. However, for large area light valves, such as
may be desirable for use as windows, outdoor signs and
other types of displays it is usually desirable that the
thickness of the layer of the light valve suspension be
substantially uniform over the whole active area of the
light valve. If the layer thickness is not uniform, some
parts of the light valve will appear darker than other
parts, and application of a voltage to the device will
also result in a non-uniform appearance because of non-uniform
field strength from area to area. Moreover,
bulging due to hydrostatic pressure can put severe
strains on the seal around the cell and may break the
seal.Another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A film suitable for use as the light-modulating unit of a light valve,
comprising a cross-linked polymer matrix (25) having distributed therein and in

direct contact therewith,

   droplets (26) of a liquid light valve suspension,

   the liquid light valve suspension (26) comprising particles suspended in a
liquid suspending medium,

   
characterized in that

   the cross-linked polymer matrix (25) is a cross-linked polyorganosiloxane
polymer matrix.
The film according to claim 1, wherein said cross-linked polyorganosiloxane
polymer is a polyorganosiloxane homopolymer or copolymer.
The film according to claim 1, wherein said cross-linked polyorganosiloxane
polymer is a cross-linked polydimethylsiloxane polymer.
The film according to claim 2 wherein said cross-linked polyoganosiloxane
polymer is a cross-linked polyorganosiloxane copolymer of a polydimethylsiloxane

and a polyalkylphenylsiloxane.
The film according to claim 1, wherein the liquid suspending medium is
electrically resistive and has a polymeric stabilizer dissolved therein that prevents

agglomeration of said particles.
The film according to claim 1, wherein the particles are organic particles.
The film according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
suspension is in the form of droplets that are substantially disconnected one from

another. 
The film according to any one of the preceding claims wherein an electrode
is in contact with each surface of the film.
The film according to any one of the preceding claims wherein an electrode
is in contact with each surface of the film and a protective layer is in contact with the

outer surface of each of said electrodes.
The film according to any one of claim 1-7 wherein a protective layer is in
contact with each surface of the film and an electrode is in contact with the outer

surface of each of the protective layers.
The film according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said
particles are light polarizing.
The film according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said film,
while in its cured, cross-linked form, has been swollen with a liquid applied to the

surface thereof to form a liquid-swollen film that is less light-scattering as compared
to said film prior to being swollen with said liquid.
The film according to claim 12, wherein the film is swollen with a liquid
selected from liquid aliphatic ester, ether, straight or branched chain aliphatic,

cycloaliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbon and halogenated or perhalogenated
hydrocarbon.
The film according to claim 12, wherein the film is swollen with liquid
toluene or xylene, or a liquid, low molecular weight fluorocarbon polymer having a

specific gravity of at least 1.5 and having at least about 50 % of its atoms constituted
by halogen atoms, at least 60 % of the halogen atoms being fluorine and the balance

chlorine and/or bromine.
The film according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the index
of refraction of the film is substantially identical to that of the droplets. 
A method of preparing the film according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 which
comprises admixing a cross-linkable polyorganosiloxane oligomer or polymer, a

liquid light valve suspension comprising particles suspended in a liquid suspending
medium and a copolymer of an organosiloxane and a copolymerizable organic

monomer as emulsifier, emulsifying the resulting admixture to form an emulsion of
said liquid light valve suspension in said cross-linkable liquid polyorganosiloxane

oligomer or polymer and cross-linking said cross-linkable liquid polyorganosiloxane
oligomer or polymer while said admixture is in the form of a thin layer of said

emulsion.
The method of claim 16 wherein said particles are organic particles.
A light valve having opposed cell walls, between which a film according to

any one of claims 1-15 is arranged to form the light modulating unit of the
light valve.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
