<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627029</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PULP BLEACHING APPARATUS AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F700	D21C700	B01F1500	D21C300	D21C910	D21C9153	D21C910	B01F1500	B01F700	D21C700	D21C9147	D21C326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	D21C	B01F	D21C	D21C	D21C	D21C	B01F	B01F	D21C	D21C	D21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F7	D21C7	B01F15	D21C3	D21C9	D21C9	D21C9	B01F15	B01F7	D21C7	D21C9	D21C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for bleaching high consistency lignocellulosic pulp using ozone supplied in an ozone containing gas. The bleaching reactor apparatus according to the invention is a generally cylindrical vessel (42A, 42B) with a rotatable shaft (48B) having radially extending paddles (52B) or other conveying elements arranged in a configuration to minimize axial dispersion of the pulp and maximize radial dispersion of the pulp to provide a radially dispersed plug flow of pulp through the reactor in the presence of the ozone to provide substantially uniformly bleached pulp.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION CAMP PATENT HOLDING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION CAMP PATENT HOLDING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEND WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANDEK THOMAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIKULIN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE DAVID C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEND, WILLIAM H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANDEK, THOMAS P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIKULIN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE, DAVID C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pulp bleaching
apparatus as stated in the introdoctory part of claim 1 and method for bleaching lignocellulosic
pulp with ozone as stated in the introdoctory part of claim 19, and more particularly, a reactor
including rotating elements to convey radially
dispersed pulp particles through an ozone containing
gas in a plug flow-like manner.To avoid the use of chlorine as a bleaching
agent for pulp or other lignocellulosic materials, the
use of ozone in the bleaching of chemical pulp has
previously been attempted. Although ozone may
initially appear to be an ideal material for bleaching
lignocellulosic materials, the exceptional oxidative
properties of ozone and its relatively high cost have
previously limited the development of satisfactory
ozone bleaching processes for lignocellulosic pulps.Numerous articles and patents have been
published related to ozone bleaching of pulp. For
example, bleach sequences using ozone are described by
S. Rothenberg, D. Robinson and D. Johnsonbaugh,
"Bleaching of Oxygen Pulps with Ozone", Tappi, 182-185
(1975) - Z, ZEZ, ZP and ZPa (Pa-peroxyacetic acid); and
N. Soteland, "Bleaching of Chemical Pulps with Oxygen
and Ozone", Pulp and Paper Magazine of Canada, T153-58
(1974) - OZEP, OP and ZP. Further, US-A-4,196,043
to Singh discloses a multi-stage bleaching
process utilizing ozone and peroxide with effluent
recycle, which also attempts to eliminate the use of
chlorine compounds.Also, various patents disclose vertical bed
type reactors for ozone bleaching of pulp in a high 
consistency range, wherein the pulp is deposited at
the top of an essentially quiescent or slowly moving
bed and an ozone containing gas is drawn through the
bed. For example, Fritzvold US-A- 4,278,496
discloses a vertical ozonizer for treating high
consistency (i.e., 35-50%) pulp. Both oxygen/ozone
gas and the pulp are conveyed into the top of the
reactor to be distributed across the entire
cross-section, such that the gas comes in intimate
contact with the pulp particles. The pulp and gas
mixture is distributed in layers on supporting means
in a series of subjacent chambers. The supporting
means includes apertures or slits having a shape such
that the pulp forms mass bridges thereacross, which
the gas passes throughout the entire reactor in
contact with the pulp.Fritzvold et al. US-A-4,123,317
more specifically discloses the reactor described in
the aforementioned Fritzvold '496 patent and Fritzvold
et al. US-A-4,279,694 discloses a method
and system for ozone bleaching
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bleaching apparatus for ozone bleaching of high consistency pulp particles
having a range of floc sizes comprising


fluffer means (10) for reducing the floc size of the pulp particles and providing
the particles with a first bulk density,
a reactor apparatus (14) having
an elongated shell (42) adapted to receive the pulp particles and an ozone
containing gas, said shell defining a pulp inlet (44) and a pulp outlet (46);
means for introducing the high consistency pulp particles into the inlet (44) of
the shell (42); and
rotating means (48) for radially dispersing said pulp particles substantially
completely across the entire cross-section of the shell (42), while

simultaneously conveying said pulp particles through the shell (42) to the outlet
(46) in a plug flow-like manner, 
characterized in that
the rotating means (48) comprises first means for conveying the pulp
introduced through the inlet (44) and having a first bulk density at a first

conveying rate and second means for gradually reducing the conveying rate
through the shell to a second lower conveying rate which conveys the radially

disposed pulp particles through the shell (42) to the outlet (46), whereby the
density of the pulp is gradually increased by the second means to a second

increased bulk density.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the rotation means
comprises a conveyor having a first section that provides the initial and reducing

conveying rates and a second section that provides the second conveying rate
with a dispersion index for the pulp of less than about 7.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least the second section
of the conveyor comprises radially extending members (52) mounted in a

predetermined arrangement on a rotatable shaft, and the dispersion index is
maintained at all rotational speeds of said rotating means (48) under about 125

rpm.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the members (52) in the
second section are arranged around 
the shaft at 120° or 240° spacings in a helical
quarter- or half-pitch pattern.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said radially extending
members define a rotational diameter for the conveyor and said members are

paddles (52) located in both the first and second sections of the conveyor with a
preselected number of the paddles (52) having a width of less than about 0.3

times the rotational diameter.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 5, wherein a first portion of the
preselected number of paddles (52) each has a width equal to about 0.15 times

the rotational diameter and a second portion of said number each has a width
greater than the paddles of the first portion, and wherein the paddles (52) of the

first portion provide a conveying rate which is less than that of the paddles (52) of
the second portion at the same rotational sped, with the first portion of paddles

located in the second conveyor section and the second portion of the paddles
located in the first conveyor section. 
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 6, wherein each of the paddles (52) is
mounted upon the shaft at an angle () of between 30° and 50° with respect to the

shaft centerline (58).
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the paddle angle ()
gradually decreases along the shaft in the first conveyor section from about 45° to

about 35°.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the radially extending
members are paddles which are spaced apart in the longitudinal direction to

provide an unswept distance between paddles (52) of less than 0.11 times the
rotational diameter.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least the second section
of the conveyor comprises a screw flight defining a pitch of the rotating means

(48), said screw flight having a plurality of portions cut out (154) from the flight to
form openings therein, said cut out portions (154) being bent at a predetermined

angle with respect to the shaft.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least the second portion
of the conveyor comprises a screw flight defining a pitch of the rotating means

(48), said screw flight having one or more lifting elements attached to each flight.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least the second section
of the conveyor comprises a ribbon blade (164) mounted helically around a

rotatable shaft in a predetermined pitch.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least the second section
of the conveyor comprises an inclined ribbon (164) having infinite pitch extending

from the rotatable shaft. 
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first conveyor section
receives the pulp from the inlet (44) at a first bulk density and delivers the pulp to

the second conveyor section at a second, increased bulk density.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the fluffer means (10) for
reducing the floc size of the pulp and providing the pulp with said first bulk density

are disposed vertically above the reactor inlet (44) and communicating with the
reactor shell (42) through said inlet (44) for free fall of pulp onto said first conveyor

section.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 15, further comprising pulp de-entrainment
means (12) for separating pulp fibers from said ozone containing gas

prior to removal of said gas from the bleaching apparatus, said de-entrainment
means (12) including a frusto-conical wall (20) to provide an increasing cross-sectional

area and being disposed between the reactor apparatus inlet (44) and
said fluffer means (10) for passage of pulp therethrough into the reactor apparatus

inlet (44).
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising:

a receiving tank (18) and;
means for quenching (16) the ozone bleaching reaction on said pulp by adding
water to the pulp and lowering the consistency of the pulp, said quenching

means (16) disposed vertically below the reactor apparatus outlet (46) to
receive bleached pulp therefrom and including a plurality of downwardly angled

nozzles (36) for forcing the pulp into the receiving tank (18) by a water spray.
The bleaching apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the ozone containing gas
is adapted to flow cocurrently to the movement of pulp and is supplied into the

reactor shell (42) through multiple ports therein.
A method for ozone bleaching of high consistency pulp particles, comprising:

fluffing high consistency pulp particles for reducing the floc size of the pulp
particles providing pulp particles with a first bulk density,
introducing high consistency pulp particles and an ozone containing gas into a
reaction zone, 
characterized in
initially conveying the pulp particles at a first conveying rate followed by
gradually reducing the conveying rate of the pulp to a second lower conveying

rate; while dispersing and conveying the pulp particles substantially completely
throughout the reaction zone in a plug flow-like manner at the second

conveying rate, whereby the pulp density is increased from a first bulk density at the first
conveying rate to a second increased bulk density at the second conveying

rate.
The method according to claim 19, wherein the second conveying rate is a
dispersion index for the pulp particles of about 7 or less thus exposing

substantially all surfaces of the pulp particles to the ozone containing gas for
reaction therewith.
The method according to claim 19, further comprising:

removing the gas flow from the reaction zone with entrained pulp particles at a
first flow rate; 
reducing the flow rate of the removed gas to a rate where the entrained pulp
particles become de-entrained and
returning the de-entrained pulp particles to the reaction zone.
The method according to claim 19, further comprising;

removing bleached pulp from the reaction zone;
spraying the bleached pulp with water to lower the consistency of the pulp
particles and quench the bleaching reaction; and
forcing the pulp into a receiving means (18) by angling the water spray towards
said receiving means (18).
The method according to claim 19, which further comprises conveying the pulp
particles with a conveying means that include radially extending members

mounted in a predetermined arrangement on a rotatable shaft (48), so that the
dispersion index remains at less than about 7 at all rotational speeds of the shaft

under about 125 rpm.
The method according to claim 23 which further comprises configuring a
preselected number of the radially extending members to have a width of less

than about 0.3 times the rotational diameter of the conveying means.
The method according to claim 23 which further comprises configuring the
radially extending members to provide an unswept distance be
tween said
members of less than 0.11 times the rotational diameter of the conveying means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
