<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BONE CEMENT REMOVAL METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1716	A61B1716	A61B1804	A61B1808	A61F246	A61F246	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method for removing thermoplastic bone cement by applying a heater tip (30) of heating wire to the cement to melt the bone cement, inserting the hot heater tip (30) into the bone cement allowing it to cool while embedded in the bone cement, and pulling the heater tube out with the cement embedded thereon with the use of an instrument (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KIESTER DOUGLAS P
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KIESTER, DOUGLAS P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIESTER DOUGLAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIESTER, DOUGLAS P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BONE CEMENT REMOVAL METHOD AND APPARATUSBackground of the invention This invention relates to orthopedic surgery and, more specifically, to the removal of bone cement in the repair or replacement of orthopedic prosthesis.It is common practice in orthopedic surgery, particularly in the replacement of hip joints with prosthetic devices, to fix the anchor portion of the prosthetic device or devices in the bone using one or more types of bone cement. The most popular kind of cement currently in use is a methylmethacrylate based cement which can be mixed with the catalyst immediately before use and injected or placed around the prosthetic anchor in the bone where it quickly polymerizes and hardens to form a firm bond to the bone and to the implant. One such cement is sold by Dow Corning Wright, Arlington, Tennessee 38002, under the trademark CMW 3 the bone cement is sold in two packages, one consisting essentially of methylmethacrylate monomer, which contains stabilizers. The second portion is a mixture of polymethylmethacrylate powder and barium sulfate that contains a catalyst, or initiator, benzoyl peroxide. Barium sulfate is included as a radiopaque material so that the precise configuration of the cement, after it has set in the bone, can be determined by X-ray.When the surgical procedure has proceeded to the point where the prostheses can be fixed in place in the bone, the first portion, which is a liquid, is mixed with the second portion. The second portion is in powder form and including small particles of polymethylmethacrylate which form nucleation sites for polymerization. The second portion also contains benzoyl peroxide which initiates polymerization quite rapidly. Once the mixing is complete, the surgeon has less than ten minutes in which to complete the use of the cement in the surgical procedure before it sets. Curing continues for several hours after set up, but the bone cement sets to a solid firm configuration in about ten to fifteen minutes. Once the cement is set, the 

surgical procedure can be completed while the curing of the cement continues.Hot melt adhesives, i.e. thermal plastic materials which melt upon being warmed and harden upon cooling, may also be used, see Hayakawa, Y., et al, J. Takeda Res. Lab. (Japan), 1982, 41/1-2 (72-80).The nature of the bone cement is of not critical to the present invention, except that it must be thermoplastic, that is, when the cement is set in place it must melt or soften upon the application of heat. Nearly all such cements are based upon the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. An instrument assembly comprising heater tip, an elongate probe having proximal and distal ends, the tip being rigidly mounted on the distal end thereof, an electrical system for supplying electricity to the heater tip for heating the same, and hammer means for applying impact force to the proximal end of the probe and through the probe to the tip on the distal end thereof, the tip probe, electrical system and hammer means being so constructed, configured and connected as to permit the heating of the tip to a temperature sufficient to soften thermoplastic bone cement and, while heated, to be inserted into the cement by force applied through the probe and thereafter to apply a cement removing impact force to the tip for removing the cement in which the tip was inserted.
2. The instrument of Claim 1 wherein the heater tip is a loop formed of about 14 to about 18 gauge nichrome wire. 3. The instrument of Claim 2 wherein the electrical system comprises a plurality of portable electric cells and means for selectively connecting the output of the electric cells through electrical conductors to the loop, the electrical resistance of said conductors being so low that no substantial heating of such conductors occurs during heating of the loop. 4. The instrument of Claim 2 or 3 wherein the loop comprises a pair of generally parallel tip extensions and a proximal most bridge portion, the tip extensions and bridge portion being formed of such heater wire and wherein the proximal most portion of the bridge portion is configured to define a cutting edge. 5. The instrument of Claim 4 wherein the bridge portion has a smaller cross-section that the cross-section of the tip extensions.
6. The instrument of Claim 5 wherein the tip extensions are spaced from about 0.2 to about 0.4 inch apart and are substantially straight.
7. The instrument of Claim 6 wherein the probe has an axis and wherein the tip extensions extend substantially parallel to the axis of the probe. 


 8. The instrument of Claim 6 wherein the tip extensions extend at an angle with respect to the axis of the probe.
9. The instrument of Claim 1 wherein the heater tip comprise a molly-bolt like assembly comprising a molly-bolt sleeve and an enlarged bead at the end of the probe, the molly-bolt sleeve being slidably received on the probe closely adjacent the bead.
10. The instrument of Claim 9 wherein the electrical system comprises a plurality of portable electric cells and means for selectively connecting the output of the electric cells through electrical conductors to the heater tip, the electrical resistance of said conductors being so low that no substantial heating of such conductors occurs during heating of the tip.
11. The instrument of Claim 10 wherein the electrical system comprises a plurality of portable electric cells and means for selectively connecting the output of the electric cells through electrical conductors to the tip, the electrical resistance of said conductors being so low that no substantial heating of such conductors occurs during heating of the tip.
12. The instrument of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the hammer means comprises a hammer shaft and, slidably received on the hammer shaft, a combination battery hammer assembly that serves as a hammer and comprises a plurality of electric cells.
13. The instrument of Claim 1 or 12 wherein the electrical system comprises a plurality of portable electric cells and means for selectively connecting the output of the electric cells through electrical conductors to the loop, the electrical resistance of said conductors being so low that no substantial heating of such conductors occurs during heating of the loop.
14. A self-contained thermoplastic bone cement removal system comprising, in combination: an elongate probe having proximal and distal ends, the proximal end constructed and configured to be inserted into a bone containing such cement to be removed; a heater tip substantially rigidly mounted in and extending from the proximal end of the probe; electric means for heating the heater tip to a temperature sufficient to soften the 


cement to be removed, and means for exerting a removal force through the probe and the heater tip and to the cement to be removed, the probe, heater tip, electric means and force exerting means being constructed and configured to selectively heat the heater tip to a temperature sufficient to soften said bone cement and to apply through the probe a pulling removing force to the heater tip embedded in the cement for removing such cement from such bone.
15. A method for removing previously formed thermoplastic bone cement from a bone comprising the steps of: a) heating to a temperature sufficient to soften the thermoplastic bone cement a heater tip substantially rigidly mounted on the end of an elongate probe, said tip being heated substantially independently of the probe; b) contacting the bone cement with and inserting the thus heated heater tip into the bone cement by melting the cement; c) pulling the heater tip and thereby removing the cement in which the heater tip is embedded.
16. The method of Claim 15 further comprising the step of allowing the heater tip to cool after said tip has been inserted into the bone cement.
17. A method for removing previously formed thermoplastic bone cement from a bone comprising the steps of: a) heating to a temperature sufficient to soften the thermoplastic bone cement a heater loop substantially rigidly mounted on the end of an elongate probe, said loop being heated substantially independently of the probe; b) contacting the bone cement with and inserting the thus heated heater loop into the bone cement by melting the cement; c) allowing the heater loop to cool in the cement; d) pulling the heater loop and thereby removing the cement in which the heater loop is embedded. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
