<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643899</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STEREOPHONIC SIGNAL PROCESSOR GENERATING PSEUDO STEREO SIGNALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04S500	H04S500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04S	H04S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04S5	H04S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Frequency-dependent linear audio signal processing means (10) take source signals S in input signals (21) and provide directionally spread directionally encoded output signals (22). Said means (10) directionally encode with constant gain magnitude frequency components of the source signal S to-and-fro across a predetermined directional stage P" as frequency increases such that at least three predetermined positions within said stage P", said directional encoding has substantially zero perceived phasiness. Said means (10) may be a frequency-dependent rotation matrix for stereo input signal (21) and may be a unitary network using a feedback path aroung parallel identical all-pass networks in series with a rotation matrix and a feedforward path bypassing said all-pass networks. Successive frequencies of positioning of source signal S at a predetermined position P within said stage P" are preferably spaced approximately uniformly on a logarithmic or Bark Frequency scale. Several sources S may have individually adjustable spreads while sharing common means (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIFIELD PRODUCTIONS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIFIELD PRODUCTIONS LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERZON MICHAEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERZON, MICHAEL, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to directional sound
production and reproduction systems wherein it is desired
to provide sound source signals with a desired
directional dispersion or angular spread of signal
components.In many applications, it is undesirable that the
reproduced image of a sound source in a directional
reproduction system should be absolutely sharp. Actual
sounds subtend a finite angular width at a listener,
and it is often desired to simulate such a natural
angular size. Additionally, it is often desired to take
monophonic material, such as historical monophonic
recordings or the monophonic "surround" channel of a
film surround soundtrack and to provide reproduction
having a wide angular spread.Methods of providing such angular spread or
dispersion for individual sound source signals are often
termed "pseudostereo" methods. Pseudostereo methods are
well known in the prior art. For example, see R. Orban
"A Rational Technique for Synthesizing Pseudo-Stereo
from Monophonic Sources", Journal of the Audio
Engineering Society, vol. 18 no. 2 pages 157 to
(Feb. 1970), and M.R. Schroeder "An Artificial
Stereophonic Effect Obtained from a Single Audio Signal"
Journal of the Audio Engineering Society, vol. 6 no. 2
pages 74 to 79 (April 1958).However, prior art pseudostereo methods have
numerous defects. Most prior art pseudostereo methods
work by providing a dual filter arrangement whereby a
monophonic source signal is fed to a left and a right
stereo channel with complementary filter characteristics,
whereby frequency components that are cut on one channel
are boosted on the other. However, prior art filter 
arrangements such as those described by Orban in the
cited reference generally cause unpleasant phase
differences between the two speaker signals, producing
an unpleasant subjective sensation often termed
"phasiness". While in the cited reference Schroeder
describes a dual filter arrangement that avoids
phasiness, the arrangement suggested has a total
reproduced energy response, measured as a function of
frequency, that is not flat, but which has variations of
3 dB. Such variations in the reproduced total energy
response are undesirable, as they can cause audible
colouration effects.Phasiness and unflat reproduced energy response are
not the only problems with prior art pseudostereo
methods. It is not difficult to degrade the sharp
localisation quality of stereophonic images by
introducing irregular amplitude and/or phase differences
between the stereo channels, and/or adding delayed
simulated early
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An audio signal processor (10) responsive to an input
sound source signal S (21) and arranged to produce a pseudo

stereo effect in a plurality of output signals (22)
directionally encoded for reproduction via a predetermined

directional encoding system, the audio signal processor
including filtering means (1a,1b,2L,2R, 11L, 11R) arranged to

vary the encoded direction across a directional sound stage
of an output signal as the frequency of the input sound

source signal varies, the reproduced energy gain
characteristic of the filtering means being substantially

constant with frequency,

   characterised in that the phasiness Q of the filtering
means (1a,1b,2L,2R,11L,11R) is substantially zero for at

least three positions within the directional sound stage.
An audio signal processor according to claim 1,
wherein said filtering means comprise a frequency-dependent

rotation matrix means whose angle of rotation varies with
frequency within a predetermined range of angles.
An audio signal processor according to claim 2,
wherein said audio signal processor is unitary.
An audio signal processor according to claim 3, in
which the filtering means comprise parallel all-pass

filtering means and series rotation matrix means within a
feedback path and a feedforward path bypassing said all-pass

means.
An audio signal processor according to claim 3 or 4,
wherein the unitary audio signal processor is time-variant.
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim, wherein said predetermined directional encoding

systems are 2-channel stereo encoded with a sine/cosine
directional panning law. 
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 to 4, wherein said predetermined directional encoding

systems are ambisonic B-format encoding systems.
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 to 4, wherein said predetermined encoding systems encode

channels with gains proportional to azimuthal or spherical
harmonics of direction.
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim, for a predetermined direction encoding system A,

further comprising a matrix conversion means, which may be
frequency-dependent, following the filtering means, for

converting signals encoded for system A for directional
encoding or reproduction via another predetermined

directional encoding system B.
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 or 9, wherein said predetermined directional encoding

system is binaural encoding for a measured or theoretically
modelled head.
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 or 9, in which said predetermined directional encoding

system is transaural stereo.
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 or 9, in which said predetermined directional encoding

system is UHJ.
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 or 9, in which said predetermined directional encoding

system is arranged for reproduction via an arrangement of
three or more loudspeakers covering a stereophonic stage. 
An audio signal processor according to claim 13,
wherein the signal channels are intended to feed different

loudspeakers.
An audio signal processor according to any of claims
1 to 9 responsive to source signals S encoded in all

directions within a plurality of input signal channels
conveying signals encoded for a second predetermined

directional sound encoding system, wherein the filtering
means are arranged so that a rotation of source direction

in said input signals has the effect of a related rotation
of the encoded directions in said predetermined encoding

system in said plurality of output signals.
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim, wherein the encoded direction of an output signal

sweeps to and fro across said predetermined directional
sound stage as the frequency of a corresponding source

signal S varies.
An audio signal processor according to claim 16, in
which the number of swings to and fro within the audio band

is not less than 3.
An audio signal processor according to claim 17, in
which within the audio band from 200 Hz to 6 kHz the

frequencies at which said source is reproduced from a
predetermined position within said predetermined

directional sound stage are spaced apart more nearly
uniformly on a logarithmic or Bark frequency scale than on

a linear frequency scale.
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim, in which the width of said predetermined directional

sound stage varies with frequency. 
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim, wherein said filtering means are linear filtering

means.
An audio signal processor according to claim 20,
wherein all time delay factors in component filters of the

filtering means, otner than those responsible for the
overall time delay through said audio signal processor, are

less than 2 milliseconds.
An audio signal processor according to claim 21,
wherein said time delay factors are less than one

millisecond.
An audio signal processor according to claim 22,
wherein all said time delay factors are less than one half

millisecond.
An audio signal processor for a plurality of source
signals S according to any preceding claim, incorporating

means for mixing said source signals and control means for
independently adjusting the mean output direction and the

angular spread of each source signal in said output
signals.
An audio signal processor according to claim 24,
wherein frequency-dependent filtering means used in

achieving said pseudo stereo effect are shared in common
among said source signals S.
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim, further comprising a distance effect simulator

arranged to generate signals corresponding to simulated
early reflections with gains and time delays characteristic

of a distance d, wherein the direct sound output of each
source signal is given an angular spread characteristic of 

a desired acoustical width w' of said sound source S at
said distance d.
An audio signal processor according to claim 26 when
dependent on claims 24 or 25, wherein control means are

also provided for individual sound sources for adjusting
simulated distance d. said distance control means adjusting

the relative time delays and gains of simulated early
reflections relative to direct sound signal outputs, said

distance control means also adjusting the angular width of
spread of the direct sound responsive to the distance d.
An audio signal processor according to claim 28 when
dependent on claim 25, wherein the plurality of source

signals S share a common early reflection simulation means.
An audio signal processor according to any preceding
claim comprising the series connection of any number of

audio signal processors according to any preceding claim,
of which at most one is not according to claim 15.
An audio signal processor according to claim 9,
wherein the predetermined directional encoding system A

comprises linear combinations of B format signals W, X, Y
having respective directional gains that are constant,

proportional to the cosine of encoded azimuthal angle and
the sine of encoded azimuthal angle, the predetermined

directional encoding system B provides for loudspeaker feed
signals L
3
, C
3
 and R
3
 for three-loudspeaker stereo, and the
matrix conversion means (20) is a 3 x 3 conversion matrix.
An audio signal processor according to claim 30,
further comprising means for mixing and directionally

panning a plurality of independent source signals encoded
according to the predetermined encoding system A, prior to

the conversion of said signals by the matrix conversion
means. 
A method of processing an audio signal S (21) to
produce a pseudo stereo effect in a plurality of output

signals (22) directionally encoded for reproduction via a
predetermined directional encoding system, comprising

filtering the input sound source signal S (21) thereby
varying the encoded direction across a directional sound

stage of a corresponding output signal as the frequency of
the input sound source signal S (21) varies, the reproduced

energy gain of the output signal being substantially
constant with frequency,

   characterised in that the phasiness Q introduced by
the step of filtering is substantially zero for at least

three positions within the directional sound stage.
An audio signal processing system for processing a
source signal S and producing an output signal comprising

a plurality of channels encoded for reproduction via a
directional encoding system, said output signal when

reproduced producing a pseudo stereo effect, said audio
signal processing system comprising:


an input for receiving said source signal S;
an output for outputting said plurality of channels;
signal paths connecting said input to said output;

   and,
means for filtering having predetermined gain and
phasiness characteristics connected in said signal paths

and arranged to modify signals in said signal paths in a
frequency-dependent manner producing modified signals in

said plurality of signals at said output encoded for
reproduction from a direction in a directional sound stage,

said direction varying with frequency of said source
signal, said means for filtering thereby producing said

pseudo stereo effect,

   characterised in that said gain characteristic of said
means for filtering is substantially constant with 

frequency and said phasiness of said means for filtering is
substantially zero for at least three positions within said

sound stage.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
