<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623208</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DATA TRANSMISSION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D526	G01D526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D5	G01D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for data transmission by light has a waveguide (1) doped with a fluorescent material. A light source (3) is arranged to provide modulated light to enter the waveguide through an upper surface (2), the fluorescent material being responsive to the modulated light to emit light omnidirectionally. The emitted light is guided towards and emitted through end surfaces (5) of the waveguide.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV COVENTRY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELMED LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COVENTRY UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELMED LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERGELY STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERGELY, STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DATA TRANSMISSIONThe present invention relates to data transmission by means of electromagnetic radiation and is applicable by way of example to position encoders.Data transmission by means of electromagnetic radiation, e.g. light, is a useful technique in cases where data has to be transferred across a gap and/or between relatively movable parts. As a special case, a digital position encoder modulates the radiation with a code dependent upon the relative positions of two parts, one of which carries code elements which are able to modulate the radiation, e.g. by reflection or transmissivity.According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a device for data transmission by electromagnetic radiation comprising a member constituting a waveguide, means for providing pulsed or modulated radiation comprising a first frequency to enter the waveguide and means for detecting radiation at a second frequency at an end surface of the waveguide, the member having within it fluorescent material responsive to radiation at the first frequency to emit radiation at the second frequency, the emitted radiation being guided by the waveguide to the end surface.According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a position detector for detecting the relative positions of two parts comprising a data transmission device according to the above first aspect. In one embodiment the means for providing modulated radiation comprises a plurality of portions relatively opaque to radiation at the first frequency and disposed between the waveguide and the source of radiation so that the radiation will be modulated by the pattern of said portions.According to a third aspect of the invention there 

 is provided an infusion pump transmission comprising a position detector according to the above second aspect, one of said parts being means for operating a syringe infusion pump plunger and the second being means arranged to be connected to the syringe infusion pump body.According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a device for data transmission by electromagnetic radiation comprising a waveguide for the radiation, the waveguide having two, opposed, major surfaces, one of which provides an input for the radiation to the waveguide, an end or edge surface of the waveguide providing for output of radiation, there being source means of radiation for supplying radiation to said one major surface, detector means responsive to the directed radiation emitted from said end or edge surface, and means in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A device for data transmission by electromagnetic radiation comprising a member constituting a waveguide, means for providing pulsed or modulated radiation comprising a first frequency to enter the waveguide and means for detecting radiation at a second frequency at an end surface of the waveguide, the member having within it fluorescent material responsive to radiation at the first frequency to emit radiation at the second frequency, the emitted radiation being guided by the waveguide to the end surface.
2. A device according to claim 1 wherein the fluorescent material has a maximum of absorption in the region of the first frequency. 3. A device according to claim 2 wherein the frequency of maximum absorption is 521 nm. 4. A device according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the fluorescent material has a maximum of emission at the second frequency. 5. A device according to claim 4 wherein the frequency of maximum emission is 595 nm.
6. A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the waveguide is a planar waveguide having two opposed major surfaces which act as guide surfaces for the emitted radiation.
7. A device according to claim 6 wherein the means for providing radiation is arranged to provide it through one of the major surfaces.
8. A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said end surface is substantially perpendicular to a guide axis of the waveguide.
9. A device according to any one of the preceding claims, the waveguide having at least one of its surfaces coated with a reflective coating wherein light confinement within the waveguide is improved.
10. A device according to any one of the preceding 


claims wherein the said end of the waveguide is at the narrow end of a throat portion formed by at least one tapering sidewall of the waveguide, wherein light may be guided to the end. 11. A device for data transmission substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings.
12. A position detector for detecting the relative positions of two parts, comprising a device according to any one of the preceding claims.
13. A position detector according to claim 12 comprising a plurality of elements relatively opaque to radiation at the first frequency positioned between the means for providing radiation and the waveguide, the elements being arranged in an n-bit code.
14. A position detector according to claim 13 wherein the means for providing radiation comprises n individual sources for illuminating respective bits in the code. 15. A position detector according to claim 13 or 14 comprising a plurality of the said n-bit codes arranged sequentially in the direction of relative motion of the two parts.
16. A position detector according to claim 15 wherein the plurality of n-bit codes are arranged sequentially as a Gray code.
17. A position detector according to claim 15 or 16 wherein the elements forming the code or codes are on a waveguide surface and the waveguide and the detector are arranged to be fixed relative to a first of the parts and the means for providing radiation is arranged to be fixed relative to the second of the parts.
18. A position detector according to any one of claims 12 to 16 wherein the waveguide, detector and means for providing radiation are arranged to be fixed relative to a first of the parts and the elements forming the 


 code are arranged to be fixed relative to the second of the parts.
19. A position detector according to any one of claims 12 to 18 arranged to detect the relative linear position of the two parts.
20. A position detector according to any one of claims 12 to 18 arranged to detect the relative rotary position of the two parts.
21. A position detector substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 2 and 3 or Figures
3 and 5 of the accompanying drawings.
22. A syringe infusion pump transmission comprising a position detector according to claim 19, one of said parts being means for operating a syringe infusion pump plunger and the second being means arranged to be connected to the pump body.
23. A device for data transmission by electromagnetic radiation comprising a waveguide for the radiation, the waveguide having two, opposed, major surfaces, one of which provides an input for the radiation to the waveguide, an end or edge surface of the waveguide providing for output of radiation, there being source means of radiation for supplying radiation to said one major surface, detector means responsive to the directed radiation emitted from said end or edge surface, and means in the waveguide and responsive to input radiation for directing radiation towards the end or edge surface, that radiation being guided between the major surfaces. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 17 February 1993 (17.02.93); original claims 1,10,14, 17, 18 and 23 amended; new claim 11 added; claims 11-23 renumbered as claims 12-24; original claims 2-9 unchanged (3 pages)]
1. A device for data transmission by electromagnetic radiation comprising a member constituting a waveguide, a
5 plurality of selectively operable means for providing respective pulsed or modulated beams of radiation comprising a first frequency to enter the waveguide and means for detecting radiation at a second frequency at an end surface of the waveguide, the member having within it 0 fluorescent material responsive to radiation at the first frequency to emit radiation at the second frequency, the emitted radiation being guided by the waveguide to the end surface.
2. A device according to claim 1 wherein the fluorescent 5 material has a maximum of absorption in the region of the first frequency.
3. A device according to claim 2 wherein the frequency of maximum absorption is 521 nm.
4. A device according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 0 fluorescent material has a maximum of emission at the second frequency.
5. A device according to claim 4 wherein the frequency of maximum emission is 595 nm.
6: A device according to any one of the preceding claims 5 wherein the waveguide is a planar waveguide having two opposed major surfaces which act as guide surfaces for the emitted radiation.
7. A device according to claim 6 wherein the means for providing radiation is arranged to provide it through one 0 of the major surfaces.
8. A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said end surface is substantially perpendicular to a guide axis of the waveguide.
9. A device according to any one of the preceding claims, 5 the waveguide having at least one of its surfaces coated with a reflective coating wherein light confinement within the waveguide is improved. 


 , _
10. A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the said end of the waveguide is at the narrow end of a throat portion formed by at least one tapering sidewall of the waveguide, wherein light defined from any one of the providing means may be guided to the same portion of that narrow end.
11. A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the means for detecting radiation comprises a single detector. 12. A device for data transmission substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings.
13. A position detector for detecting the relative positions of two parts, comprising a device according to any one of the preceding claims.
14. A position detector according to claim 13 comprising a plurality of elements relatively opaque to radiation at the first frequency positioned between the means for providing radiation and the waveguide, the elements being arranged in an n-bit code.
15. A position detector according to claim 14, comprising n of said selectively operable means for illuminating respective bits in the code.
16. A position detector according to claim 14 or 15 comprising a plurality of the said n-bit codes arranged sequentially in the direction of relative motion of the two parts.
17. A position detector according to claim 16 wherein the plurality of n-bit codes are arranged sequentially as a Gray code.
18. A position detector according to any one of claims 14 to 17 wherein the elements forming the code or codes are on a waveguide surface and the waveguide and the detecting means are arranged to be fixed relative to a first of the parts and the plurality of selectively operable means are arranged to be fixed relative to the second of the parts. 


 19. A position detector according to any one of claims 14 to 17 wherein the waveguide, detecting means and plurality of selectively operable means are arranged to be fixed relative to a first of the parts and the elements forming the code are arrange to be fixed relative to the second of the parts.
20. A position detector according to any one of claims 13 to 19 arranged to detect the relative linear position of the two parts. 21. A position detector according to any one of claims 13 to 19 arranged to detect the relative rotary position of the two parts.
22. A position detector substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 2 and 3 or Figures 3 and 5 of the accompanying drawings.
23. A syringe infusion pump transmission comprising a position detector according to claim 20, one of said parts being means for operating a syringe infusion pump plunger and the second being means arranged to be connected to the pump body.
24. A device for data transmission by electromagnetic radiation comprising a waveguide for the radiation, the waveguide having two, opposed, major surfaces, one of which provides an input for the radiation to the waveguide, an end of edge surface of the waveguide providing for output of radiation, there being a plurality of selectively operable source means of radiation for supplying beams of radiation to said one major surface, detector means responsive to the directed radiation emitted from said end or edge surface, and means in the waveguide and responsive to input radiation for directing radiation towards the end or edge surface, that radiation being guided between the major surfaces. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
