<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COUPLING CIRCUIT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F326	H03F326	H03F330	H03F330	H03F368	H03F368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for coupling a signal source (Vi) producing a signal having a given voltage waveform to a load (6) having two ends, the circuit being composed of: a load voltage control unit (A1) connectable between the signal source and one end of the load for producing across the load (6) a voltage corresponding to the signal voltage; and a load current control unit (A2) connectable to the load (6) and operable independently of the signal source (Vi) for producing a current flow through the load (6) sufficient to cause the voltage across the load (6) or the current through the load (5) to have the given waveform.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZERO IMPEDANCE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZERO IMPEDANCE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLIER EDWARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREULER GEORGE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAZI DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLIER, EDWARD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREULER, GEORGE, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAZI, DAVID, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COUPLING CIRCUITBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to circuits for connecting the output terminals of a signal source across a load impedance.The operation of many electrical and electronic systems relies on the application of a voltage across a load from a voltage source and it is recognized in the art that the performance of such systems depends on the quality of the coupling between the source and the load, i.e. the extent to which the voltage across the load corresponds to, or equals, the open circuit source voltage or an amplified version of the source voltage. Ideal coupling would result in the appearance of a voltage, or possibly a current, exactly proportional to the open circuit source voltage across the load with respect to both time and frequency domain characteristics as the source signal. The achievement of ideal coupling would be advantageous in many electronics systems. For example, if the signal source is an electronic or electrical circuit port, the load is an oscilloscope employed to monitor the time domain waveform of the voltage developed by the signal source and the intervening coupling medium is the oscilloscope probe and associated cabling, the oscilloscope trace will accurately reflect the waveform of the source voltage only if the voltage applied to the oscilloscope inputs is identical to the open circuit source voltage.For many other types of electronics purposes, ideal coupling would produce optimum results. This would also be the case in a variety of audio, data transmission, communication and telecommunication systems. However, there is no known circuit 

 Known coupling circuits fail to achieve ideal coupling for several reasons. Firstly, the voltage source is connected to the load via a coupling medium which has a finite impedance at any given frequency, and which will therefore be responsible for a voltage drop. Secondly, a practical voltage source behaves like an ideal voltage source in series with a source impedance. Therefore, when current is drawn from such a source, there is a voltage drop across the source resistance.It is known to minimize source-to-load voltage drops, or signal attenuation, by the provision of an active circuit, known as an amplifier stage, between the source, and load circuits. When such a circuit is used, for example when an operational amplifier is used as a unity gain voltage follower, the ratio of load voltage, VL, to source voltage, V;, can be expressed as follows:*i -W+ zΛ zL + Ron) U>Where Av is the open circuit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. A circuit for coupling a signal source producing a signal having a given voltage waveform to a load having two ends, the load having an impedance, said circuit comprising: load voltage control means connectable between the signal source and one end of the load for producing across the load a voltage corresponding to the signal voltage; and load current control means connectable to the load and operable independently of the signal source for producing a current flow through the load sufficient to cause one of the voltage across the load and the current through the load to have the given waveform.
2. A circuit as defined in claim 1 wherein said load voltage control means comprise a high gain operational amplifier having a noninverting input connectable to the source and an output connectable to the source and to one end of the load.
3. A circuit as defined in claim 1 wherein said load voltage control means and said load current control means comprise operating power supply means having two conductors each providing a respective potential such that a selected voltage exists between said conductors, and said load current control means comprises a first pair of current flow control elements each having a current flow path with a controllable impedance, said current flow paths being connected together at a point which is connectable to the other end of the load and being connected in series between said two conductors. 


 4. A circuit as defined in claim 3 wherein said first pair of current flow control elements are mutually complementary transistors.
5. A circuit as defined in claim 4 wherein said load voltage control means include an output stage comprising a second pair of mutually complementary transistors each having a current flow path with a controllable impedance, said current flow paths of said second pair of transistors being connected together at a point which is connectable to the one end of the load and being connected in series between said two conductors.
6. A circuit as defined in claim 3 wherein said operating power supply means further comprise: an operating voltage source having two output connections providing potentials having respectively opposite polarities relative to ground, and isolating means coupling said output connections to said conductors in a manner to isolate said conductors from ground.
7. A method for coupling a signal source producing a signal having a given voltage waveform to a load having two ends, the load having an impedance, said method comprising: coupling the signal source to the load for producing across the load a voltage corresponding to the signal voltage; and controlling current through the load, independently of the signal produced by the signal source, for causing one of the voltage across the load and the current through the load to have the given waveform. 


 8. An amplifier circuit for coupling a voltage source to a load, the load having a frequency domain transfer function with a reactive component g(s) , said circuit comprising: coupling means having a frequency domain transfer function with a reactive component f(s) ; first connecting means for connecting said coupling means between the source and the load; compensating means having a frequency domain transfer function with a reactive component r(s); and second connecting means for connecting said compensating means to both the source and the load; wherein r(s) is at least substantially equal to ~[f(s)+g(s)].
9. A circuit as defined in claim 8 wherein: the voltage source has first and second output terminals and the load has first and second ends; said coupling means comprise differential amplifying means having first and second inputs, an output and means for generating a voltage at said output which is proportional to the difference in potential at said first and second inputs, said first input being- connected to said first connecting means for connection to the first output terminal of the source, said output being connected to said first connecting means for connection to the first end of the load, and said second input being connected to said output; and said compensating means comprise second amplifying means having at least one input, an output and means for establishing a high voltage gain between said input and said output, said output of said second amplifying means being connected to said second connecting means for connection to the second output terminal of the source and to the second end of the load. 


 10. A circuit as defined in claim 9 wherein said differential amplifying means is a high gain operational amplifier having a noninverting input constituting said first input and an inverting input constituting said second input.
11. A circuit as defined in claim 10 in combination with a voltage source having first and second output terminals, said first output terminal being connected to said noninverting input of said operational amplifier and said second output terminal being connected to said output of said second amplifying means, and a load impedance having first and second ends each connected to the output of a respective one of said amplifying means.
12. A circuit as defined in claim 9 wherein said coupling means further comprise a first resistor connected in series between said output and said inverting input of said operational amplifier and a second resistor connected in series between said inverting input of said operational amplifier and said output of said second amplifying means, whereby the effective gain of said operational amplifier is determined by the ratio of the sum of the resistances of said first and second resistors to the resistance of said second resistor. 

13. A circuit as defined in claim 9, further comprising: a housing containing said amplifying means; first and second input terminals extending out of said housing, said first input terminal being connected to said one input of said differential amplifying means and said second input terminal being connected to said output of said second amplifying means; and first and second output terminals extending out of said housing, each said output terminal of said circuit being connected to said output of a respective one of said amplifying means.
14. A circuit as defined in claim 9 wherein each said amplifying means has an operating bandwidth, and the operating bandwidth of said second amplifying means is at least as large as that of said differential amplifying means. 

15. An amplifier circuit for coupling a voltage source to a load, the load having a frequency domain transfer function g(s) , said circuit comprising: coupling means having a frequency domain transfer function f(s); first connecting means for connecting said coupling means between the source and the load; compensating means having a frequency domain transfer function r(s) ; and second connecting means for connecting said compensating means to both the source and the load; wherein: the voltage source has first and second output terminals and the load has first and second ends; said coupling means comprise differential amplifying means having first and second inputs, an output and means for generating a voltage at said output which is proportional to the difference in potential at said first and second inputs, said first input being connected to said first connecting means for connection to the first output terminal of the source, said output being connected to said first connecting means for connection to the first end of the load, and said second input being connected to said output; and said compensating means comprise second amplifying means having at least one input, an output and means for establishing a high voltage gain between said input and said output, said output of said second amplifying means being connected to said second connecting means for connection to the second output terminal of the source and to the second end of the load, and said input of said second amplifying means being connected to said output of said second amplifying means by a circuit connection which maintains the potential at said input of said second amplifying means substantially equal to the potential at said output of said second amplifying means. 



 16. A circuit as defined in claim 15 wherein said differential amplifying means is a high gain operational amplifier having a noninverting input constituting said first input and an inverting input constituting said second input.
17. A circuit as defined in claim 16 in combination with a voltage source having first and second output terminals, said first output terminal being connected to said noninverting input of said operational amplifier and said second output terminal being connected to said output of said second amplifying means, and a load impedance having first and second ends each connected to the output of a respective one of said amplifying means.
18. A circuit as defined in claim 16 wherein said coupling means further comprise a first resistor connected in series between said output and said inverting input of said operational amplifier and a second resistor connected in series between said inverting input of said operational amplifier and said output of said second amplifying means, whereby the effective gain of said operational amplifier is determined by the ratio of the sum of the resistances of said first and second resistors to the resistance of said second resistor. 

19. A circuit as defined in claim 15, further comprising: a housing containing said amplifying means; first and second input terminals extending out of said housing, said first input terminal being connected to said one input of said differential amplifying means and said second input terminal being connected to said output of said second amplifying means; and first and second output terminals extending out of said housing, each said output terminal of said circuit being connected to said output of a respective one of said amplifying means.
20. A circuit as defined in claim 15 wherein each said amplifying means has an operating bandwidth, the operating bandwidth of said second amplifying means is at least as large as that of said differential amplifying means.
21. A circuit as defined in claim 15 wherein said input of said second amplifying means is connected to said second connecting means for maintaining said input of said second amplifying means at the same electric potential as the second output terminal of the source. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
