<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621558</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flying spot laser printers using multi spatial mode lasers and laser array.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J244	B41J244	G02B2610	G02B2610	G06K1512	G06K1512	H01S3101	H01S3101	H01S500	H01S500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	G02B	G02B	G06K	G06K	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	G02B26	G02B26	G06K15	G06K15	H01S3	H01S3	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Flying spot laser printers include one or more 
spatially partially coherent multimode lasers (12) for 

generating a corresponding number of separate light 
beams (13), and an optical system including a movable mirror (20), 

holygon, polygon, or any other suitable device for 
scanning and focusing the light beams on a surface (28) of a 

light sensitive printing media. The light beam from each 
multimode laser is spatially coherent in a first cross-sectional 

direction (30) and spatially incoherent in a second 
orthogonal cross-sectional direction (32) upon leaving the 

associated multimode laser. The optical system treats 
each of the spatially coherent and spatially incoherent 

directions independently and uses an F-ϑ scanning lens (24) to 
produce a separate spot of laser light with a desired 

size on the printing media for each laser as the spot is 
scanned across the printing media. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SARRAF SANWAL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SARRAF, SANWAL P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to laser printers, 
and, more particularly, to flying spot scanning laser 
printers using at least one spatially partially coherent 
multimode laser. In a laser printer, a single light beam that is 
modulated by an image signal is used to form an image on 
a printing media. The printing media can comprise either 
a light photosensitive material for film printing or a 
receiver member via a dye donor member for thermal 
printing. To achieve high speed image printing, multi-beam 
laser printers are used to produce a plurality of 
light beams which are simultaneously scanned along rows 
or columns of the printing media to print the desired 
image. U.S. Patent No. 4,424,442 (T. Kitamura), issued on 
January 3, 1984, discloses an exemplary multi-beam 
scanning laser printer comprising an array of single mode 
lasers, a collimating lens, a rotating polygonal mirror, 
an F-ϑ scanning imaging lens, a photodetector circuit, 
and a photosensitive drum or material. The single mode 
lasers provide separate light beams at different heights 
along the axis of the array which are collimated and 
directed to a common area on the polygonal mirror by the 
collimating lens. The light beams are angularly 
reflected from the mirror and propagate through the F-ϑ 
scanning lens to focus the light beams onto the 
photosensitive drum with a predetermined scanning pitch. 
The photodetector means is positioned outside the 
scanning area and adjacent to the drum to detect when 
each light beam spot (a) begins the scanning of the 
requisite scanning area, (b) is focused with respect to 
the scanning direction of the spot beam, and (c) 
defocused with respect to a direction orthogonal to the 
scanning direction.  U.S. Patent No. 5,018,805 (D. Kessler), issued on 
May 28, 1991, discloses a laser printer for use in color 
imaging. The printer comprises three single mode diode 
lasers, which each emit a light beam at a different 
wavelength. Each of the light beams passes along a 
separate channel including a plurality of optical plates, 
polarizers, and lenses to a pair of dichroic plates which 
combine the three beams into a single combined beam. The 
combined beam is scanned onto a receiving medium by the 
motion of a rotating polygon. An optical relay is used 
to (a) transfer the combined beam from a registration 
plane to the polygon, and (b) focus the combined beam in 
a cross-scan direction on the polygon. The polygon is 
optically conjugated to an image plane on the receiving 
medium for achieving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser printer for printing an image on a 
light sensitive printing media comprising: 

   a spatially partially coherent multimode laser 
for generating a light beam that is modulated to produce 

a selective predetermined density at each pixel of the 
image, and a cross-section which is spatially coherent in 

a first direction and spatially incoherent in a second 
orthogonal direction; and 

   optical means being positioned relative to the 
multimode laser so as to receive the light beam from the 

multimode laser and to optically and selectively treat 
each of the spatially coherent and spatially incoherent 

directions of the light beam to (a) focus the light beam 
to a predetermined sized spot on the printing media, and 

(b) scan the predetermined sized spot along a 
predetermined path on a plane of the printing media for 

printing the image. 
The laser printer of claim 1 wherein the 
optical means comprises: 

   a first lens having a power to collimate a 
first one of the spatially coherent or spatially 

incoherent directions of the light beam; 
   a second lens having a power to collimate a 

second one of the spatially coherent or spatially 
incoherent directions of the light beam; 

   means for scanning the collimated light beam 
from the first and second lenses along the predetermined 

path on the plane of the printing media; and 
   an F- scanning lens for receiving the light 

beam from the scanning means and focus the light beam to 
a predetermined sized spot on a plane of the printing 

media. 
The laser printer of claim 2 wherein the 
optical means further comprises a third lens for 

receiving the light beam from the F- scanning lens and 
having a power in a direction normal to the predetermined 

scan path to shape the radiation in the spatially 
incoherent direction in the light beam to form the light 

beam spot to the predetermined size on the plane of 
printing media. 
The laser printer of claim 1 wherein the laser 
printer further comprises: 

   a plurality of spatially partially coherent 
multimode lasers disposed in an array, each multimode 

laser generating a separate light beam that has selective 
power dependent on a separate input modulating signal and 

a cross-section that is spatially coherent in a first 
direction and spatially incoherent in a second orthogonal 

direction; and 
   the optical means is disposed to receive the 

light beams from the plurality of multimode lasers and 

optically selectively treat each of the spatially 
coherent and spatially incoherent directions of each 

light beam to (a) focus each light beam to a 
predetermined sized spot on the printing media, and (b) 

scan the predetermined sized spot along a separate 
predetermined path on the plane of the printing media. 
A laser printer for printing an image on a 
light sensitive printing media comprising: 

   a plurality of spatially partially coherent 
multimode lasers disposed in an array, each multimode 

laser being adapted to generate a separate light beam 
that is modulated to produce a selective predetermined 

density at each pixel of the image, and a cross-section 
that is spatially coherent in a first direction and 

 
spatially incoherent in a second orthogonal direction; 

and 
   optical means being positioned relative to the 

plurality of multimode lasers so as to receive the light 
beams from the plurality of multimode lasers and to 

optically and selectively treat each of the spatially 
coherent and spatially incoherent directions of the light 

beams to (a) focus each light beam to a separate 
predetermined sized spot on the printing media, and (b) 

scan each predetermined sized spot along a separate 
predetermined path on a plane of the printing media which 

is substantially parallel to the path of each other spot 
for printing the image. 
The laser printer of any of the preceding 
claims wherein the optical means comprises: 

   a first lens having a power to collimate a 
first one of the spatially coherent or spatially 

incoherent directions of the light beams from the 
plurality of multimode lasers; 

   a plurality of second lenses, each second lens 
having a power to collimate a second one of the spatially 

coherent or spatially incoherent directions in a separate 
light beam from the plurality of multimode lasers; 

   means for scanning the collimated light beams 
from the first and second lenses along the predetermined 

path on the plane of the printing media; and 
   an F- scanning lens for receiving the light 

beams from the scanning means and focusing each of the 
light beams to a separate predetermined sized spot on a 

plane of the printing media. 
The laser printer of any of the preceding 
claims wherein the scanning means is selected from a 

group consisting of a movable mirror, a movable hologon 
system, or a movable polygon system. 
The laser printer of any of the preceding 
claims wherein the optical means further comprises at 

least one third lens for receiving the light beams from 
the F- scanning lens and having a power in a direction 

normal to the predetermined scan path to shape the 
radiation in the spatially incoherent direction in each 

of the light beams to form each of the light beam spots 
to the predetermined size on the plane of printing media. 
The laser printer of any of the preceding 
claims wherein the optical means further comprises a 

fourth lens having a power in a predetermined direction 
for converging the light beams onto a predetermined area 

on the third lens. 
The laser printer of any of the preceding 
claims wherein the optical means further comprises 

optical redirecting means for converging the light beams 
at a predetermined area along the path of the light beams 

between the plurality of multimode lasers and the 
printing media and providing a predetermined angular 

separation between the light beams as the light beams 
leave the predetermined area. 
The laser printer of any of the preceding claim 
wherein the optical redirecting means is selected from a 

group consisting of a plurality of prisms where each 
prism is positioned to redirect the light beam from a 

separate multimode laser onto the predetermined area, or 
a lens having a power in a predetermined direction for 

converging the light beams onto the predetermined area. 
The laser printer of claim 10 wherein the 
optical redirecting means is a plurality of prisms 

disposed between the second lenses and the scanning means 
for redirecting the light beams from a separate multimode 

lasers onto the predetermined area disposed on the 
 

scanning means to provide the predetermined angular 
separation between the light beams as the light beams 

leave the predetermined area on the scanning means. 
A laser printer for printing an image on a 
light sensitive printing media comprising: 

   a laser for generating a light beam that is 
modulated to produce a selective predetermined density at 

each pixel of the image, and a cross-section which is 
spatially coherent in a first direction and spatially 

incoherent in a second orthogonal direction; and 
   optical means being positioned relative to the 

laser so as to receive the light beam from the laser and 
to optically and selectively treat each of the spatially 

coherent and spatially incoherent directions of the light 
beam. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
