<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614449</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO AN ARTICLE COATING METHOD AND APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05C309	B05C908	C03C1728	C03C1700	B05D306	B05D302	B05C914	B05C912	B05C1300	B05D304	C03C1732	B05C908	B05C1300	B05D118	B05D306	B05C310	C03C1700	B05D302	B05D304	B05D300	B05C914	B05D118	B05D300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05C	B05C	C03C	C03C	B05D	B05D	B05C	B05C	B05C	B05D	C03C	B05C	B05C	B05D	B05D	B05C	C03C	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05C	B05D	B05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05C3	B05C9	C03C17	C03C17	B05D3	B05D3	B05C9	B05C9	B05C13	B05D3	C03C17	B05C9	B05C13	B05D1	B05D3	B05C3	C03C17	B05D3	B05D3	B05D3	B05C9	B05D1	B05D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus (1) for coating exterior surfaces of heated glass containers (B) exiting from a lehr at a controlled temperature. A coating chamber (5) is provided with a dipping zone (6), a thermal ageing zone (7) and a curing zone (8). Conveying means (9) defines a coating path (2) extending successively through the dipping, thermal ageing and curing zones (6, 7, 8) of the coating chamber (5), and is operable to convey the containers (B) along the coating path (2) so that the containers (B) are arranged in a non-contact relationship with one another. A coating vessel (18) is provided in the dipping zone (7) for containing a bath of ultraviolet light radiation curable liquid coating material (M), the conveying means (9) being arranged to dip containers (B) being conveyed thereby along the coating path (2) so as to apply a coating of the coating material (M) to exterior surfaces of the containers (B). Radiation means (23) is located within the curing zone (8) and operable to subject the coated containers (B) being conveyed along the coating path (2) to irradiation with ultraviolet light radiation for curing the coating. The atmosphere in the coating chamber (5) is controlled so that the atmosphere within at least the curing zone (8) is inert to the coating material (M).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT PARTNERS GLASS RES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS IN GLASS RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWES ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMADA YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUMOTO YOSHIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWES, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMADA, YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUMOTO, YOSHIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to an improvement 
in a method and apparatus for the application of a coating 
to an exterior surface of articles, and in particular to 
such a method and apparatus in which fragile articles are 
dip coated with a monomer or polymer material in order to 
increase their dynamical strength. The method and 
apparatus are applicable to generally cylindrical glass 
articles such as cylindrical bottles and other containers 
in order to increase their resistance and inpact strengths 
against breakage, and it will be convenient to hereinafter 
describe the invention in relation to that exemplary 
application. It is to be appreciated, however, that the 
invention is not limited to that application. Australian patent application 70941/91 discloses a 
method and apparatus in which glass containers are dipped 
in a material in order to apply an exterior coating of the 
material. A preferred coating material used with the 
method and apparatus is a monomer or polymer resin in a 
solvent base. A generally used solvent is methyl ethyl 
ketone (MEK). A material containing about 75% MEK has 
been found to provide an acceptably cured coating. The 
applied coating has a thickness of up to about 10 µm (microns), 
with consistent thicknesses of about 5 to 6 µm (microns) of the 
preferred coating material being achieved with the method 
and apparatus. Although the method and apparatus performs generally 
satisfactorily, and achieves acceptable article coating, 
difficulties associated with the use of the preferred 
coating material are envisaged. It is well recognised that MEK is a highly volatile 
solvent presenting significant risks of a fire or 
explosion at the apparatus worksite. That is particularly 
so in the exemplary application were the apparatus is 
conveniently sited on a lehr conveyor for dip coating 
heated glass containers. In addition, the solvent fumes 
evaporated during thermal aging of the coating provide an 
unpleasant, and possibly harmful, working environment for  
 
the apparatus operators. Thus, the method and apparatus 
present a potentially hazardous situation. In an effort to minimise that situation, the 
apparatus of patent application 70941/91 has been provided 
with an air ventilation system to dilute and exhaust the 
solvent fumes from about the apparatus. However, the 
exhaustion of the fumes has been to the atmosphere with a 
consequent loss of the solvent. Moreover, that 
atmospheric emission of the solvent may be environmentally 
unsound. In using the method
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for coating exterior surfaces of heated glass 
containers exiting from a lehr at a controlled temperature, 

including: conveying the containers along a coating path 
extending successively through a dipping zone, a thermal 

ageing zone and a curing zone of a coating chamber so that the 
containers are arranged in a non-contact relationship with one 

another; dipping the containers being conveyed through the 
dipping zone at least partially into a bath of ultraviolet 

light radiation curable liquid coating material so as to apply 
a coating of the coating material to exterior surfaces of the 

containers; thermally ageing the applied coating of containers 
being conveyed through the thermal ageing zone; and, 

subjecting the coated containers being conveyed through the 
curing zone to irradiation with ultraviolet light radiation 

for curing the coating, the containers being dipped, thermally 
aged and irradiated within an atmosphere inert to the coating 

material, the inert gas atmosphere having a pressure gradient 
extending along the coating path causing flow of the inert gas 

within the coating chamber generally in a direction from the 
curing zone toward the dipping zone, the inert gas thereby 

entraining coating material vapours for removal away from the 
curing zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the coated 
containers are irradiated within a nitrogen gas atmosphere. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dipping of 
the containers within the coating material, thermal ageing of 

the applied coating and irradiation of the coated containers 
occurs within a nitrogen gas atmosphere. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein pressure of the 
inert gas atmosphere in the curing zone is higher than 

pressure of the gas atmosphere in the thermal ageing zone, 
which in turn is higher than the pressure of the gas 

atmosphere in the dipping zone so that inert gas flows in a 
direction from the curing zone toward the thermal ageing zone 

and from the thermal ageing zone toward the dipping zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein fresh inert gas 
is supplied to the curing zone and coating material vapour 

entrained inert gas is withdrawn from the dipping zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein fresh inert gas  
 

is supplied to the termal ageing zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein fresh inert gas 
is supplied to the dipping zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, and further including 
sealing the inert gas atmosphere in the coating chamber from a 

surrounding air atmosphere so as to inhibit ingress of air 
into the coating chamber and egress of coating material vapour 

from the coating chamber. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the inert gas 
atmosphere has a pressure which is higher than the surrounding 

air atmosphere pressure. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, and further including 
sealing the thermal ageing zone from the curing zone so as to 

inhibit entry of coating material vapours from the thermal 
ageing zone into the curing zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, and further including 
sealing the dipping zone from the thermal ageing zone so as to 

inhibit entry of coating material vapours from the dipping 
zone into the thermal ageing zone. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, and further including 
removing the inert gas and entrained coating material vapours 

from the coating chamber, processing the gas to recover the 
coating material vapours, and recycling the inert gas stripped 

of the coating material vapours to the coating chamber. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the stripped 
inert gas is recycled into the dipping zone. 
Apparatus for coating exterior surfaces of heated glass 
containers exiting from a lehr at a controlled temperature, 

including: a coating chamber having a dipping zone, a thermal 
ageing zone and a curing zone; conveying means defining a 

coating path extending successively through the dipping, 
thermal ageing and curing zones of the coating chamber, and 

operable to convey the containers along the coating path so 
that the containers are arranged in a non-contact relationship 

with one another; a coating vessel in the dipping zone for 
containing a bath of ultraviolet light radiation curable  

 
liquid coating material, the conveying means being arranged to 

dip containers being conveyed thereby along the coating path 
so as to apply a coating of the coating material to exterior 

surfaces of the containers; radiation means in the curing zone 
operable to subject the coated containers being conveyed along 

the coating path to irradiation with ultraviolet light 
radiation for curing the coating; and, means providing a 

controlled atmosphere in the coating chamber so that the 
atmosphere within the dipping zone, thermal ageing zone and 

curing zone is inert to the coating material, the controlled 
atmosphere means including at least one inlet to the coating 

chamber for supplying fresh inert gas thereto and at least one 
outlet from the coating chamber for withdrawal of inert gas 

therefrom, the inlet and outlet being located so that flow of 
the inert gas within the coating chamber is generally in a 

direction from the curing zone toward the dipping zone, the 
inert gas thereby entraining coating material vapours for 

removal away from the curing zone. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the controlled 
atmosphere means is operable to provide a nitrogen gas 

atmosphere in at least the curing zone. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the controlled 
atmosphere means is operable to provide a nitrogen gas 

atmosphere throughout the coating chamber. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the controlled 
atmosphere means includes at least one inlet in the curing 

zone and at least one outlet in the dipping zone so that the 
inert gas flows in a direction from the curing zone toward the 

dipping zone, the inert gas entraining coating material 
vapours for removal away from the curing zone. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the coating 
atmosphere means includes at least one inlet to the thermal 

ageing zone for supplying fresh inert gas thereto. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the controlled 
atmosphere means includes at least one inlet to the dipping 

zone for supplying fresh inert gas thereto. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the coating 
chamber has an inlet through which the containers enter the 

chamber and an oulet through which the containers exit the 
chamber, and further including gas seals at the inlet and  

 
outlet enabling container passage therethrough whilst 

inhibiting ingress of air into the coating chamber and egress 
of coating material vapour from the coating chamber. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 20, and further including 
a gas seal sealing the thermal ageing zone from the curing 

zone to inhibit entry of coating material vapours from the 
thermal ageing zone into the curing zone. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 20, and further including 
a gas seal sealing the dipping zone from the thermal ageing 

zone to inhibit entry of coating material vapours from the 
dipping zone into the thermal ageing zone. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, and further including 
means processing inert gas and entrained coating material 

vapours removed from the coating chamber so as to recover the 
coating material vapours and recycle the inert gas stripped of 

the coating material vapours to the coating chamber. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein the processing 
means includes an inlet into the dipping zone and into which 

stripped inert gas is recycled into the coating chamber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
