<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Video memory
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1204	G06F1204	G11C718	G11C11401	G11C11401	G11C700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F12	G06F12	G11C7	G11C11	G11C11	G11C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Memory cell column lines are provided in a memory cell 
array for constructing a random access memory. Each of the 

memory cell column lines is divided into a plurality of 
partial column lines (COL11-COL14). Data is sensed in each of the 

partial column lines in correspondence to the row selected 
during random access. Either one of seral registers (SRL, SRR) of 

a serial access memory is provided on each side of two 
adjacent lines of the memory cell column lines, respectively. 

These registers are connected to the two adjacent 
memory cell column lines via gate elements (TRG1L,TRG2L,TRG1R,TRG2R), 

respectively for data transfer of the random access memory and the 
serial access memory. By selectively controlling the gate 

elements, it is possible to use the four-divided partial 
column lines as the transfer paths when deactivated, thus 

reducing the power consumption and improving the integration 
rate of the video memory. Further, the video memory 

can be applicable to various transfer modes. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a dual port video
memory having both a random access memory (referred to as
RAM, hereinafter) and a serial access memory (referred to
as SAM, hereinafter), and more specifically to the configuration
of a memory cell array suitable for constructing a
memory chip of large capacity.As is well known, in the dual port video RAM (referred
to as DPVRAM, hereinafter) used as a memory for processing
video data, the RAM and the SAM are both formed on a same
single chip. In the RAM and the SAM of the DPVRAM, data
can be inputted thereto and outputted therefrom without
synchronism. In addition, the DPVRAM is provided with such
functions that data can be transferred from the RAM to the
SAM or vice versa in a single transfer cycle. That is,
data for one line of the RAM can be transferred in the case
of the ordinary mode, and data for 1/2 line of the RAM can
be transferred in the case of the split transfer mode.On the other hand, since the capacity of the memory has
been increased more and more, when memory cell data of all
the selected columns are sensed in the RAM, since current
consumption inevitably increases, there exists a problem
in that the power consumption increases in opposition to
a strong demand for power saving. Accordingly, it has been
proposed that the cell data sensing operation is divided
in the RAM to decrease the power consumption.Fig. 1 shows an example of configuration of the
interface portion between the RAM and the SAM in the DPVRAM
of divided sensing operation type.In Fig. 1, in order to realize the two-divided sensing
operation in the RAM, each column line of memory cells is
divided into two and further a serial register S/R is
arranged at the middle portion of the interface in each 
column line. For instance, the memory cell column line
COL1 is divided into two partial column lines COL1L and
COL1R. The partial column line COL1L is connected to a
data line IOL via a sense amplifier (S/A) SAIL, and the
partial column line COL1R is connected to a data line IOR
via a sense amplifier (S/A) SA1R. Furthermore, a transfer
gate TRG1L is connected between the partial column line
COL1L and the serial register (S/R) SR1, and a transfer
gate TRG1R is connected between the partial column line
COL1R and the serial register (S/R) SR1. The same construction
as above is applied to the partial column lines
COL2L and COL2R in the second column line.Furthermore, as is well known, a predetermined number
of word (row) lines are arranged in a direction perpendicular
to these column
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video memory (20) comprising:

   a random access memory portion (RAM) having a memory
cell array (1-16) having a plurality of memory cells arranged

in row and column directions into a matrix form, said random
access memory cell array having a plurality of word lines and

a plurality of column lines (COL11-COL24); and serial access
memory portions (SAM);
characterized in that

said serial access memory portions (SAM) are each composed of
registers, a register (SRL, SRR) being arranged on each

end of two adjacent ones of said column lines, respectively;
that the memory further comprises data transfer control means

(TRG1L-TRG2R, G11-G24) arranged between said register and
each of said two adjacent column lines for controlling

selective data transfer between any of said two adjacent
column lines and said registers; and

   that each of said column lines are divided into a
plurality of partial column lines (COL11-COL24) so that data

of the memory cell is sensed in each of the partial column
lines in correspondence to the row selected during random

access.
The video memory of claim 1, wherein data are
transferred between the selected partial column line and the

register of said serial access memory by using the non-selected
partial column line of said memory cell column lines

as data transfer paths.
The video memory of claim 1, wherein the two registers
of said serial access memory each provided on each side of 

said two memory cell column lines are used as two partial
serial registers so as to correspond to a first half serial

access and a second half serial access, in split transfer
mode such that said serial access is divided into a first

half serial access and a second half serial access so that
data can be transferred to and from said random access memory

independently in each divided half access; and data are
transferred from the partial column lines corresponding to

said two adjacent column lines on the basis of the data
transfer by the first half serial access and the data

transfer by the second half serial access.
The video memory of claim 1, wherein each of said memory
cell column lines is divided into first, second, third and

fourth partial column lines; two sense amplifiers are
preferably connected between said first and second partial

column lines and between third and fourth partial column
lines via a gate element, respectively; and further a data

transfer gate is provided between the second and third
partial column lines.
The video memory of claim 4, wherein said two sense
amplifiers for said two adjacent memory cell column lines are

arranged on opposite sides with respect to each other

relative to the data lines.
The video memory of claim 1, wherein said data are
transferred from either of two columns to a serial register

by appropriately changing the corresponding relationship
between the left and right halves of the serial access memory

portions (SAM) and the upper and lower halves of the random
access memory portion (RAM).
The video memory of claim 6, wherein in a first data
transfer cycle, data are transferred from the upper side

memory cell column line to the left side serial register
(SRL), and similarly in the succeeding second data transfer 

cycle, data are transferred from the upper side memory cell
column line to the right side serial register (SRR).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
