<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624958</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remote control system for audio/visual equipment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q900	H04Q900	H04B120	H04B120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q9	H04Q9	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A remote control system included a remote commander and a control 
apparatus. The remote commander (RD/R) includes a first transmitting unit (23) 

for transmitting a first command signal modulated based on a first carrier 
frequency by a first wireless transmission medium in response to an input 

operation. The control apparatus (10/30/50) includes a receiving unit (11,13/31/51) 
for receiving a wireless transmission signal transmitted from the remote 

commander by the first wireless transmission unit, and a second transmitting unit 
(12/32/56) for transmitting a second command signal modulated based upon a 

second carrier frequency by a second wireless transmission medium. This second 
command signal is to control an operation of an electronic appliance designated by 

the remote commander among a plurality of electronic appliances based upon an 
output signal derived from the receiving unit. A plurality of electronic appliances 

have such a receiving unit (RJ) for receiving the second command signal outputted 
from the second transmitting unit of the control apparatus (10/30/50), and 

operations of these electronic appliances are controlled in response to the output 
signal issued from this receiving unit. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATO KAZUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATO, KAZUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a remote control system. More
specifically, the present invention is directed to a remote control system for radio-transmitting
a command signal.Recently, remote control operations are available in various sorts of
electronic appliances such as audio/visual appliances, e.g., VTRs, television
receivers, and CD players, and also air conditioners, and illumination apparatuses.Since users may feel it cumbersome when these various appliances are
remote-controlled by employing the remote commanders exclusively designed to
the relevant appliances, some methods capable of operating a large number of
appliances by way of a single remote controller have been proposed. As one of
these single remote commander controlling methods, a central controller is
employed.In Figure 1, there is shown an example of a remote control system with
employment of a central controller. This example is adapted to an A/V
(audio/visual) system. The A/V system is so constructed that a VTR 2, a CD player
3, a TV tuner, and an optical video disk player (simply referred to a "video disk
player" hereinafter) 5 are connected via an A/V selector amplifier 6 to a CRT
monitor 7 and a speaker 8.That is, outputs of picture signals SV from the respective VTR 2, TV
tuner 4, and video disk player 5 are supplied to a picture input changing unit 6a of
an A/V selector amplifier 6 and are selected by the picture input changing unit 6a.
Then, the picture signal SV selected by the picture input changing unit 6a is
supplied to the CRT monitor 7 to output a picture.L-channel and R-channel audio signals (SAL, SLR) outputted from the
respective appliances of the VTR 2, CD player 3, TV tuner 4, and video disk player
5 are supplied to an audio input changing by the audio input changing unit 6b. The,
the picture signal selected by the audio input changing unit 6b is amplified by an
amplifier unit 6c, and volume controls are performed in the amplifier unit 6c. The
resultant audio signals are supplied to an L-channel speaker 8 and a R-channel
speaker 8 for outputting sounds.Here, there are provided a remote controller "R" equipped with operation
keys to operate various appliances in such an A/V system, and a central controller 
1 capable of receiving a command signal from this remote commander R. The
remote commander R may transmit as an infrared signal by modulating with a
predetermined carrier frequency, a command signal read by an internal
microcomputer key of the remote commander R. An infrared ray receiving unit 1a
is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A remote control system comprising ;

   a remote commander (R) for wirelessly transmitting
a first command signal in accordance with a user

operation, the first command signal being a signal
transmission having a first infrared carrier

frequency ;

   control means (30) including a receiving unit (31)
for receiving said first command signal at said first

infrared carrier frequency transmitted directly to said
control means (30) as said signal transmission from said

remote commander (R), and

   a transmitting unit (32), connected to said
control means (30), for wirelessly transmitting a

second command signal, directly to a selected
appliance, at the same time as said first command signal

is transmitted, said second command
signal controlling operation of said selected appliance

in response to said user operation ;

   wherein said first and second command signals do
not interfere with each other even though wirelessly

transmitted through an operational range of common
space in the vicinity of said selected appliance, since said second command signal has a

second infrared carrier frequency, different from said
first infrared carrier frequency.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 1,
wherein one of the first and second carrier frequencies

is no greater than 100 kHz.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 1 or
claim 2 further comprising :


A display (7) connected to said control means (30)
for indicating an electronic appliance designated in

accordance with said user operation.
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 3, wherein said transmitting unit (12;32)

transmits said second command signal along various
mutually different directions.
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 3, wherein first and second transmitting

units (12) are located on different surfaces of the
control means (30).
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 3, wherein said transmitting unit (12;32)

comprises one or more transmitters (12e) disposed at an
angle to each other.
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 3, wherein said transmitting unit (12;32)

comprises at least three, orthogonally arranged
transmitters (12e).
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 3, further comprising a reflection plate

(18;20) for directing the second command signal to a
receiving unit (RJ) on the selected appliance.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 8,
wherein the reflection plate (18) comprises a taper-shaped

cylindrical reflection plate.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 8,
wherein the reflection plate (20) comprises a dome-shaped

reflection plate. 
A remote control system as claimed in claim 8,
wherein the reflection plate (18) includes an irregular

surface for dispersing the second command signal.
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of

claims 1 to 11, further comprising:

a graphics controller (55) responsive to said
first command signal for:


superimposing an image (SD) on a display (7), the
image (SD) indicating a plurality of appliances which

can be selected,
superimposing a cursor (K) on the display, and
superimposing an image (SD) on said display
indicating a plurality of available commands for a

selected appliance (PD).
A remote control system as claimed in claim 12,
wherein said cursor (K) moves in response to said first

command signal to indicate either one of said plurality
of appliances or one of said plurality of available

commands so that said indicated appliance or command
can be selected in response to a user operation.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 1,
wherein said selected appliance is an air conditioner.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 1,
wherein said transmitting unit (32) transmits said

second command signal using non-visible light.
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 15, wherein said receiving unit (31) of

said control means (30) comprises a band pass filter
(35) for passing only signals of said first carrier

frequency. 
A remote control system as claimed in anyone of
claims 1 to 16, wherein said control means (30) further

comprises memory (37b, 37c), storing a set of stored
command signals of a plurality of code and format

systems, each of said code and format systems being
categorized according to respective individual

appliances manufactured by a plurality of
manufacturers.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 17,
wherein said memory (37b) is a ROM.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 17,
wherein said memory (37c) is a RAM, and wherein stored

command signals for code and format systems, additional
to said stored command signals, according to additional

appliances, are output from a corresponding remote commander (R)
and registered into the RAM (37c) using a learning

operation.
A remote control system according to anyone for
claims 1 to 19, 
characterized in that
 it further
comprises :


a speaker (8) and a video monitor (7),
a selecting apparatus (6) having a receiving unit
(RJ) for receiving the second command signal,
said selecting apparatus (6) being connected among
a plurality of appliances (2,3,4,5), each of which

output at least one of an audio or video signal,
said selecting apparatus (6) selectively supplying
a signal or signals from one of said plurality of

appliances (2,3,4,5) to said speaker (8) or video
monitor (7) in response to said second command signal.
A remote control system as claimed in claim 20,
wherein said selecting apparatus (6) and said selected 

appliance are both controlled by said second command
signal in response to a single user operation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
