<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637258</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ORGAN SUPPORT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M134	A61M134	C12M134	C12M134	C12M136	C12M136	C12M306	C12M306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	C12M1	C12M1	C12M1	C12M1	C12M3	C12M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An organ support system and method adapted for use with a patient (200) and designed to modify the blood from the patient includes a control system (410), a venous line (2) coupled to an output of a patient, an arterial line (3) coupled to an input of the patient, and a cell line inserted into a hollow fiber cartridge (1) to form an organ assist device. Blood is passed through the organ assist device (1). A small flow is extracted from the extra-capillary space to check the integrity of the organ assist device. With this closed loop arrangement (110), a proper fluid balance can be maintained for the patient without requiring any dialysate, and leaks from the cell line to the patient can be immediately detected and prevented from reaching the patient.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEPATIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEPATIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY JAMES H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOBDELL DONN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSMAN NORMAN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY, JAMES, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOBDELL, DONN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSMAN, NORMAN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ORGAN SUPPORT SYSTEMThis application incorporates herein by reference U.S. Patent Application No. 07/524,075, filed on May 16, 1991, U.S. Patent Application No. 07/965,448 (the Continuation-in-Part of U.S. Patent Application No. 07/524,075), filed on October 23, 1992, and PCT Publication No. WO 91/18087.The present invention relates to an organ support system and method for sustaining a patient, and more particularly to an organ support system having a cell line which mimics or supports the function of a specific bodily organ e.g., liver, kidney, etc. The embodiment of the invention discussed in detail below is directed to the liver, but it is envisioned that the support system can be used for other organs. The components of the system include a hollow fiber cartridge, biologically active cells which could be a continuously cultured cell line, and a pumping system.Hollow Fiber CartridgesBriefly, hollow fiber cartridges consist of a tube which contains a plurality of hollow fibers. The hollow fibers can be made of a number of substances such as polysulfone or cellulose acetate, and may vary in diameter. The cartridge has two spaces; an intracapillary space (ICS) and an extracapillary space (ECS) . The ICS is the space comprised of the interior of the fibers, and is accessed through the end ports of the cartridge. The ECS is the space between the outside of the fibers and the shell of the cartridge, and is accessed through the side ports as shown, for example, in Figure 1. These two spaces are the basis of 

hemodialysis; a continuous stream of blood passes through one space and is dialyzed against a continuous stream of fluid (i.e. , a dialysate) which passes through the other space. The nature of the membrane dictates the type of exchange which takes place between these two streams, but transfer of water and small-to- medium-sized molecules is usually the goal. Blood is usually passed through the intracapillary space since flow is less turbulent, and clotting is reduced. The system would function in the reverse orientation, i.e., blood in the ECS, dialysate in the ICS. The description in this application refers to the conventional orientation of blood flow for convenience, but it is recognized that the system may work equally well in the reverse orientation.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIt is known that the acute loss of more than 60% of liver function is a serious risk to survival. It is also known that patients with chronic liver insufficiency may have periods when a metabolic stress such as surgery or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 7 June 1994 (07.06.94); original claims 1,16, 19-21 amended; original claims 22-30, 34,35,40 a-nd 41 deleted; new claim 29 added; remaining claims unchanged; claims renumbered as claims 1-29 (9 pages)]
1. An organ support system adapted for use with a patient, comprising: an organ assist device for receiving fluid from the patient and designed to pass said fluid therethrough to modify said fluid; a first line having first and second ends, said first end being connected to an outlet of the patient for drawing fluid therefrom, and said second end being connected to an input of said organ assist device; a second line having first and second ends, said first end being connected to an output of said organ assist device, and said second end being connected to an input of said patient to return said fluid having been drawn from said patient and having been modified by said organ assist device; a third line having first and second ends, said first end being coupled to said organ assist device for drawing a predetermined volume of fluid therefrom, and said second end being coupled to said second line; and a control system for automatically controlling said fluid flow of said patient and measuring a characteristic of said fluid, said system having a closed loop configuration formed by said first line, said second line, and said third line, said control system comprising means for continuously maintaining a pressure differential between said third line and said second line.
2. An organ support system according to claim 1, wherein said organ assist device comprises a cell line inserted into a hollow fiber cartridge having a semi-permeable membrane and 


 forming an extra-capillary space for perfusion of cells of said fluid therethrough for conversion and modification of said fluid.
3. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising a filter member coupled to said third line, a pressure detector coupled to said first line, a plurality of pressure detectors coupled to said third line, and a pressure detector coupled to said second line.
4. An organ support system according to claim 1, wherein said organ assist device comprises a semi-permeable membrane having a molecular cutoff of between 10,000 and 250,000.
5. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising an injecting member coupled to said first line.
6. An organ support system according to claim 5, wherein said injecting member injects an anticoagulant into said first line.
7. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising a detector coupled to said organ assist device which detects a loss of cells from said organ assist device.
8. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising an oxygenator coupled to said first line and said third line.
9. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising a pumping device coupled to said first line.
10. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising a pumping device coupled to said third line.
11. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising a fourth line coupled to said first line, an injecting 


device coupled to said fourth line, and a pumping device coupled to said fourth line.
12. An organ support system according to claim 1, wherein said third line comprises a recirculation cell line.
13. An organ support system according to claim 1, wherein a flow rate of fluid from said patient through said organ assist device is 75 ml/min to 500 ml/min, and preferably from 100
"
to 250 ml/min.
14. An organ support system according to claim 1, wherein an extraction flow rate of fluid from said organ assist device through said third line is from 5 ml/min to 120 ml/min.
15. An organ support system according to claim 3, wherein said filter comprises a .45μm filter.
16. An organ support system adapted for use with a patient, comprising: an organ assist device for receiving fluid from the patient and designed to pass said fluid therethrough to modify said fluid; a first line having first and second ends, said first end being connected to an outlet of the patient for drawing fluid therefrom, and said second end being connected to an input of said organ assist device; a second line having first and second ends, said first end being connected to an output of said organ assist device, and said second end being connected to an input of said patient to return said fluid having been drawn from said patient and having been modified by said organ assist device; a third line having first and second ends, said first end being coupled to said organ assist device for drawing a 


predetermined volume of fluid therefrom, and said second end being coupled to said second line; and a control system for automatically controlling said fluid flow of said patient and measuring a characteristic of said fluid, said system having a closed loop configuration formed by said first line, said second line, and said third line, wherein said control system comprises a primary control module including dual pumps, and an auxiliary control module, said auxiliary control module including means for monitoring pressure of said first line, said second line, and said third line, wherein said auxiliary control module includes means for terminating operation of said system when at least a pressure differential between said third line and said second line is greater than a predetermined value.
17. An organ support system according to claim 16, wherein said control module further comprises a venous pressure module, said venous pressure module including means for monitoring pressure in the second line, and wherein said first line, said second line, and said third line each comprise polyvinylchloride.
18.
.
 An organ support system according to claim 6, wherein a flow rate of said anticoagulant is from 1 ml/min to 10 ml/min, and preferably 1 to 3 ml/min.
19. An organ support system adapted for use with a patient, comprising: a metabolically-active device for receiving fluid from said patient and for modifying said fluid, said device having first 


and second ends, wherein said device comprises a cell line inserted into a hollow fiber cartridge to form a semi-permeable membrane having an extracapillary space for perfusion of cells included in said fluid therethrough for conversion and modification of said fluid; a first line having first and second ends, said first end being coupled to said patient for receiving said fluid from said patient, said second end being coupled to said device and allowing said fluid to flow to said device; a second line having first and second ends, said first end being coupled to said device and said second end being coupled to said patient to return said fluid having been modified by said device; a third line having first and second ends, said first end coupled to said device and said second end being coupled to said second line; a filter coupled to said third line for preventing cells detachable from said device from being returned to said patient; a first pressure detector coupled to said first line; a plurality of pressure detectors coupled to said third line; a second pressure detector coupled to said second line; and a control system for monitoring and automatically controlling flow of said fluid, said system having a closed loop configuration formed by said first line, said second line, and said third line, said control system comprising means for continuously maintaining a pressure differential between said third line and said second line, 


 wherein said device has a molecular weight cutoff of between 10,000 to 250,000, and preferably between 60,000 to 80,000.
20. A method for extracorporeally and metabolically modifying a bodily fluid of a patient adapted for use with a metabolically-active device, comprising: removing said fluid from said patient; passing said fluid through a device adapted to convert metabolites having a predetermined structure from said fluid, said device having a semi-permeable membrane with an extracapillary space through which cells included in said fluid are perfused to convert said fluid; withdrawing a flow of fluid from said extracapillary space of said device to determine whether said metabolites having said predetermined structure in said fluid in said extracapillary space have been removed; monitoring and automatically controlling flow of said fluid to prevent cells detached from said extracapillary space of said device and exceeding a predetermined size from returning to said patient; returning said fluid to said patient, wherein said device is capable of filtering cells having a molecular weight of between 10,000 and 250,000, and preferably between 60,000 to 80,000; and continuously maintaining a pressure differential between said flow of fluid withdrawn from said extracapillary space of said device and said fluid returned to said patient.
21. An apparatus for extracorporeally and metabolically modifying a bodily fluid of a patient, said apparatus comprising: 


 means for removing said fluid from said patient; means for converting metabolites having a predetermined structure from said fluid, said device having a semi-permeable membrane with an extracapillary space through which cells included in said fluid are perfused to convert said fluid; means for passing said fluid through said converting means; means for withdrawing a flow of fluid from said extracapillary space of said device to determine whether metabolites having said predetermined structure in said fluid in said extracapillary space have been removed; means for monitoring and automatically controlling flow of said fluid to prevent cells from said extracapillary space of said device and exceeding a predetermined size from returning to said patient; and means for returning said fluid to said patient, wherein said device is capable of filtering cells having a molecular weight of between 10,000 and 250,000, and preferably between 60,000 to 80,000, wherein said means for monitoring and automatically controlling flow of said fluid comprises means for continuously maintaining a pressure differential between said flow of fluid from said extracapillary space of said device and said fluid returned to said patient.
22. An organ support system according to claim 1, wherein said first line includes means for filtering said fluid drawn from said patient to prevent dysfunctionality of said organ assist device. 


 23. An organ support system according to claim 19, wherein said first line includes means for filtering said fluid drawn from said patient to prevent dysfunctionality of said organ assist device.
24. An apparatus according to claim 21, further comprising means for preventing clogging of said converting means.
25. An organ support system according to claim 1, further comprising means for determining parameters of said fluid flowing in said system.
26. An organ support system according to claim 19, further comprising means for determining parameters of said fluid flowing in said system.
27. A method according to claim 20, further comprising determining parameters of said fluid flowing in said system.
28. An apparatus according to claim 21, further comprising means for determining parameters of said fluid removed from said patient.
29. An organ support system adapted for use with a patient, comprising: an organ assist device for receiving fluid from the patient and designed to pass said fluid therethrough to modify said fluid, said organ assist device comprising a cell line inserted into a hollow fiber cartridge having a semi-permeable membrane and forming an intracapillary space for passing said fluid therethrough and an extracapillary space for perfusion of cells of said fluid therethrough for conversion and modification of said fluid; 


 a first line having first and second ends, said first end being connected to an outlet of the patient for drawing fluid therefrom, and said second end being connected to an input of said organ assist device; a second line having first and second ends, said first end being connected to an output of said organ assist device, and said second end being connected to an input of said patient to return said fluid having been drawn from said patient and having been modified by said organ assist device; a third line having first and second ends, said first end being coupled to said organ assist device for drawing a predetermined volume of fluid therefrom, and said second end being coupled to said second line; and a control system for automatically controlling said fluid flow of said patient and measuring a characteristic of said fluid, said system having a closed loop configuration formed by said first line, said second line, and said third line, said control system comprising means for continuously maintaining a positive pressure gradient from said intracapillary space to said extracapillary space. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
Claims 1-29 are now pending in the application. Original claims 1, 16 and 19-21 have been amended. Original claims 2-15, 17 and 18 have not been amended. Original claims 22-30, 34, 35, 40 and 41 have been cancelled. Original claims 31, 32, 33, 36, 37, 38 and 39 have been renumbered as 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, respectively. New claim 29 has been added. 

The specific changes to claims 1, 16 and 19-21 are as follows:
Claim 1 has been amended to recite that the control system automatically controls the fluid flow of the patient and measures a characteristic of the fluid, and that the control system comprises means for continuously maintaining a pressure differential between the third line and the second line.
Claim 16 has been amended so as to be an independent claim and also to recite that the control system automatically controls the fluid flow of the patient and measures a characteristic of the fluid.
Claim 19 has been amended to recite that the control system automatically controls the flow of fluid, and that the control system comprises means for continuously maintaining a pressure differential between the third line and the second line.
Claim 20 has been amended to recite the step of monitoring and automatically controlling the flow of the fluid to prevent cells detached from the extracapillary space of the device and exceeding a predetermined size from returning to the patient, and also the step of continuously maintaining a pressure differential between the flow of fluid withdrawn from the extracapillary space of the device and the fluid returned to the patient.
Claim 21 has been amended to recite that the means for monitoring automatically controls flow of fluid to prevent the cells from the extracapillary space of the device and exceeding a predetermined size from returning to the patient, and also to 


clarify that the means for monitoring and automatically controlling the flow of fluid comprises means for continuously maintaining a pressure differential between the flow of fluid from the extracapillary space of the device and the fluid returned to the patient.
New independent claim 29 is similar to claim 1 but specifies that the control system comprises means for continuously maintaining a positive pressure gradient from the intracapillary space to the extracapillary space of a hollow fiber cartridge.
It is submitted that the claims are proper in form and present patentable subject matter over the art of record as well as any other known art. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
