<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611668</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tyre for motor-vehicle wheels exhibiting a surface-worked annular strap at the sidewalls thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60C1300	B60C1300	B60C1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60C	B60C	B60C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60C13	B60C13	B60C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The described tyre (1) is provided at the sidewalls (3) with an 
annular strap (8) within which a plurality of ribs (9) is formed, 

which ribs are disposed in mutual side by side relation and circumferentially 
distributed. The annular strap (8) is made in the form of a 

hollow on the respective sidewall (3) of the tyre (1) and is designed 
to receive informative inscriptions (12) the characters of which (13) 

are defined by projections (19) emerging from the surface of the 
annular strap itself. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIRELLI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIRELLI COORDINAMENTO PNEUMATICI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARRESE ANTONIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATTAINI MASSIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARRESE, ANTONIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATTAINI, MASSIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a tyre for operating use on motor-vehicle 
wheels, of the type comprising: a pair of beads each of which is 
defined at an inner circumferential edge of the tyre; a pair of 
sidewalls, each of which is in the form of an annulus and extends in a 
radial direction and away from one of said beads; a tread band of 
substantially cylindrical conformation the opposite perimetric edges 
of which are joined to the sidewalls at respective buttress areas, 
said band exhibiting a surface-worked annular strap at the sidewalls. It is known that tyres presently used in the automotive field are 
externally provided with a tread band having the form of a cylindrical 
ring and arranged to rest on the roadway, two sidewalls extending in a 
radial direction from the opposite edges of the tread band and two 
beads defined at the end of the respective sidewalls along the inner 
circumferential edges of the tyre. In tyres hitherto depicted, the 
sidewalls have a substantially smooth surface on which different 
inscriptions such as brand of the tyre-producing company, model, 
particular technical data and other information, are printed. The above inscriptions sometimes encounter some readability problems 
in that the contrast between the inscription surface and background 
surface, that is the remaining surface of the tyre sidewall, is not 
very strong and in that the incident light on the tyre sidewall, 
apart from very favourable lighting conditions, creates two opposed 
circular sectors which are well-lighted but of very reduced width, 
whereas all the remaining portion of the sidewall is left in the 
shade, so that only a small part of said inscriptions is highlighted. As regards contrast, solutions tending to enhance it have been long 
since adopted, such as writing the inscriptions in relief with respect 
to the background, knurling the inscription surface or emphasizing the 
edges of said inscriptions with respect to the central part thereof. 
Therefore, these expedients have only partly solved the problem  
 
related to the inscription readability, and at all events without 
dealing with the aspect connected with the tyre sidewall lighting. It is yet to be noted that in the tyre vulcanization process carried 
out in a closed mould, it is required that the air that has been 
trapped between the mould cheek and the tyre sidewall should be vented 
during the mould closure: in order to enable this air escape, the 
solutions of the known art make it necessary to form a great number of 
small
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tyre for operating use on motor-vehicle wheels, comprising: 

a pair of beads (4) each of which is defined at an inner circumferential edge of the tyre (1); 
a pair of sidewalls (3), each of which is in the form of an annulus and extends in a radial 
direction away from one of said beads (4); 
a tread band (2) of substantially cylindrical conformation the opposite perimetric edges of 
which are joined to the sidewalls (3) at respective buttress areas (3a), said band exhibiting a 

surface-worked annular portion at the sidewalls,
 
   on the outer surface of at least one of said sidewalls (3) being defined an annular strap 

(8) the radial extension of which is delimited between an inner perimetric edge (10) 
disposed in the area included between the relative bead (4) and the maximum-chord 

circumferential line of the tyre, and an outer perimetric edge (11) substantially coincident 
with the perimetric edge of the tread band (2) at the corresponding buttress area,
 
   on said annular strap (8) a plurality of substantially rectilinear ribs (9) being formed 

which are disposed consecutively in side by side relation, are circumferentially distributed 
and extend each substantially according to a direction intersecting at least the outer 

perimetric edge (11) of said annular strap (8), with informative inscriptions (12) being 
formed on said annular strap (8),
 
   characterized in th
at
 
said inscriptions (12) are formed as a solid characters on the annular strap (8) and are 

defined by a plurality of projections (19) having smooth surfaces (13a), emerging from said 
annular strap according to a height ("H") greater then the height ("h") of said ribs (9). 
A tyre according to claim 1, characterized in that said annular strap (8) is formed on the 
corresponding tyre sidewall (3) in the form of a surface hollow of predetermined depth 

("p"). 
A tyre according to claim 2, characterized in that said ribs (9) have a height ("h") lower 
than the depth ("p") of said surface hollow.  

 
A tyre according to claim 3, characterized in that said ribs (9) have a height ("h") not 
lower than half the depth ("p") of said surface hollow. 
A tyre according to claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said annular strap (8) is clear of 
residual vulcanization stems. 
A tyre according to claim 1, characterized in that said ribs (9) have a trapezium-shaped 
profile in cross-section. 
A tyre according to claim 1, characterized in that each of said ribs (9) extends from the 
inner perimetric edge (10) to the outer perimetric edge 11 according to a given angle of 

inclination 
α
 with respect to a radial straight line ("n") issuing from the inner perimetric 
edge (10) at the crossing point with the rib itself, each rib (9) being spaced apart from the 

adjacent rib according to an arc ("l") that on said inner perimetric edge (10) subtends a 
respective central angle 
β
 of predetermined opening. 
A tyre according to claim 7, characterized in that said angle of inclination 
α
 is identical 
for all ribs 9. 
A tyre according to claim 8, characterized in that said angle of inclination (
α
) is 
included between 60° and 90°. 
A tyre according to claim 9, characterized in that said angle of inclination 
α
 is lower 
than 85°. 
A tyre according to claim 7, characterized in that said arc "l" and central angle 
β
 are 
identical for all pairs of adjacent ribs 9. 
A tyre according to claim 11, characterized in that said arc ("l") is comprised between 
0.8 mm and 5 mm.  

 
A tyre according to claim 11, characterized in that said central angle (
β
) has an 
opening included between 0.0178° and 1.35°. 
A tyre according to claim 7, characterized in that a plurality of sectors of an annulus (14) 
having the same angular extension is defined along the circumferential extension of said 

annular strap (8), each of them exhibiting, along the circumferential extension thereof, a 
gradual increase of the angle of inclination (
α
) of the individual ribs (9), together with a 
corresponding gradual increase of the values of said arc "l" and central angle 
β
. 
A tyre according to claim 14, characterized in that the value of said angle of inclination 
(
α
) continuously increases from 0° to 90° in each of said sectors (14). 
A tyre according to claim 15, characterized in that the value of said arc ("l") increases 
continuously from 0.8 mm to 5 mm in each of said sectors (14). 
A tyre according to claim 15, characterized in that the value of said central angle (
β
) 
increases continuously from 0.0178° to 1.35° in each of said sectors (14). 
A tyre according to claim 15, characterized in that the annular strap (8) has two of said 
sectors of an annulus (14). 
A tyre according to claim 15, characterized in that the annular strap (8) has four of said 
sectors of an annulus (14). 
A tyre according to claim 6, characterized in that the annular strap (8) has a 
predetermined number of sectors of an annulus (14) of the same angular extension, each of 

said sectors exhibiting first (15) and second (16) series of ribs (9) extending from the inner 
perimetric edge (10) and outer perimetric edge (11) respectively, each rib (9) of the first 

series intersecting a corresponding rib (9) of the second series (16) at a respective point of 
mutual break (17).  

 
A tyre according to claim 20, characterized in that each rib (9) of the first series (15) is 
inclined in the opposite direction to that of the corresponding rib (9) of the second series 

(16) with respect to a radial direction ("r") passing through the respective point of mutual 
break (17). 
A tyre according to claim 20, characterized in that the annular strap (8) is divided into 
two sectors (14) of an angular extension substantially equal to 180°. 
A tyre according to claim 20, characterized in that said points of mutual break (17) are 
consecutively aligned according to a spiral-shaped line extending from the inner perimetric 

edge (10) to the outer perimetric edge (11). 
A tyre according to claim 1, characterized in that said ribs (9) present on said annular 
strap (8) are in a number higher than 200. 
A tyre according to claim 1, characterized in that at least one of said inscriptions is 
disposed according to a straight line. 
A tyre according to claim 25, characterized in that at least one of said inscriptions lies 
along one of said ribs. 
A tyre according to claim 1, characterized in that said annular strap (8) is divided into 
two coaxial annular portions, each provided with a plurality of ribs of its own. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
