<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652219</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
New extractive process for the recovery of naturally occurring macrolides
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12P1962	C12P1900	C07D49818	B01D1104	B01D1104	C07D49800	C12P1718	C12P1718	C12P1944	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12P	C12P	C07D	B01D	B01D	C07D	C12P	C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12P19	C12P19	C07D498	B01D11	B01D11	C07D498	C12P17	C12P17	C12P19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention concerns a process for separating a macrolide from acidic, basic and non-polar 
neutral impurities present in a macrolide containing solution which comprises one 

or more of the following processes in any order: 

a. a solution of said macrolide in a water-immiscible solvent is extracted with aqueous 
base to substantially remove all acidic impurities; 
 
b. a solution of said macrolide in a water-immiscible solvent is extracted with aqueous 
acid to substantially remove all basic impurities; 
 
c. a solution of said macrolide is subjected to one or more of the following in order to 
remove non-polar neutral impurities: 


(i) extraction with a non-aromatic hydrocarbon solvent in which the macrolide 
is insoluble, 
(ii) treatment with a sufficient quantity of a miscible macrolide non-solvent to 
cause the macrolide to become insoluble in the resulting solvent mixture and 

thus separate from the solution whereby the macrolide can be separated from 
the solvent mixture, 
(iii) triturate with a macrolide crystallizing solvent. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an extractive process for the recovery of naturally occurring
macrolides, more particularly to a process for separating a neutral macrolide, which is
rapamycin or a naturally occuring homolog or analog thereof such as, 32-desmethylrapamycin
and 15-deoxorapamycin, from other naturally occuring components
that are obtained by fermentation processes. More specifically, this invention relates to
a process for recovering the tricyclic macrolide rapamycin from fermentation broth
extract concentrate and from mother liquor concentrate.The tricyclic macrolides exemplified by rapamycin have immunosuppressant
activity as well as antibiotic and other pharmacological activities and are useful in
treating graft and transplant rejections, diseases of inflammation, and autoimmune
diseases such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes mellitus and multiple sclerosis.The tricyclic macrolides rapamycin, 32-desmethylrapamycin and 15-deoxorapamycin
and are produced by fermentation of various strains of Streptomyces
under the proper conditions and are neutral as there is no basic amino group, phenolic or
carboxylic acid groups present. Rapamycin is produced by culturing S. hygroscopicus
NRRL 5491 in an aqueous medium. Mycelia containing the tricyclic macrolide are
recovered from the growth medium and extracted with a organic solvent such as
methanol to obtain a mixture comprised of the desired tricyclic macrolide, related
compounds, acidic compounds such as fatty acids, basic compounds such as alkaloids
and peptides, and neutral lipophilic compounds such as fats. Typically, the fermentation
broth extract is concentrated to facilitate transportation and/or storage until the macrolide
can be isolated. Isolation and purification of the tricyclic macrolides from the
fermentation broth extract has been, prior to this invention, a laborious expensive process
employing various chemical and chromatographic techniques to obtain purified material.
[U.S. 5,091,389; U.S. 3,993,749; WO 93/11130; Sehgal, J. of Antibiotics
28(10)727(1975)]. The fermentation broth extract concentrate for rapamycin contains
only 5 to 15% rapamycin and up to about 50% acidic components, for example, and
rapamycin must be separated from the other components. Typically, processes for
recovery of the tricyclic macrolides from fermentation broth extracts involves adsorption
on and desorption from activated carbon, selective solubility procedures, and one or
more time consuming and expensive chromatographic procedures using column
chromato
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for separating a neutral macrolide, which is rapamycin or a naturally
occurring homolog or analog thereof, from acidic, basic and non-polar neutral impurities

present in a concentrate of fermentation broth extracts or mother liquors containing said
neutral macrolide which comprises in any order extraction step (a) and optionally one or

both of steps (b) and (c) as follows:

(a) a solution of said concentrate in a water-immiscible solvent is extracted at a
temperature from about -5°C to about 45°C with aqueous base to substantially

remove all acidic impurities;
(b) a solution of said concentrate in a water-immiscible solvent is extracted at a
temperature from about -5°C to about 45°C with aqueous acid to substantially

remove all basic impurities;
(c) a solution of said concentrate is subjected to one or more of the following in order
to remove non-polar neutral impurities:


(i) extraction with a non-aromatic hydrocarbon solvent in which the macrolide
is insoluble,
(ii) treatment with a sufficient quantity of a miscible macrolide non-solvent to
cause the macrolide to become insoluble in the resulting solvent mixture and

thus separate from the solution whereby the macrolide can be separated from the
solvent mixture,
(iii) triturate with a macrolide crystallizing solvent .
A process according to Claim 1 in which in step (c) the solution of said macrolide is
a solution in a water immiscible solvent.
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the extraction of acidic and/or
basic impurities is carried out at a temperature from about -5°C to about 10°C. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the non-polar neutral
components of the neutral macrolide-containing fermentation broth extract concentrate

or mother liquor concentrate are removed by extraction of a solution of said concentrate
in a first solvent with a second non-aromatic hydrocarbon solvent immiscible with the

first solvent and in which the neutral macrolide is insoluble.
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the water-immiscible
solution containing the neutral macrolide after extraction of acid and if desired basic

components is treated with a sufficient quantity of a miscible macrolide non-solvent to
cause the macrolide to become insoluble in the resulting solvent mixture and thus

separate from the solution whereby the neutral macrolide can be separated from the
solvent mixture.
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the water-immiscible
solution containing the neutral macrolide after extraction of acidic and if desired basic

components is concentrated and the residue crystallized by admixture with a
crystallizing solvent or solvent mixture.
A process according to Claim 1 wherein the fermentation broth extract
concentrate or mother liquor concentrate is first dissolved in a first solvent and extracted

with a second non-aromatic hydrocarbon solvent immiscible with said first solvent, to
remove the non-polar neutral impurities, the solution in the first solvent is then

concentrated and the residue dissolved in a water immiscible solvent and extracted with
aqueous base or acid and base in either order to remove acidic or acidic and basic

impurities.
A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the non-aromatic
hydrocarbon solvent is cyclohexane, cyclohexene, hexane, heptane or pentane or a

mixture thereof.
A process according to claim any one of Claims 1 to 8 in which the water-immiscible
solvent is dichloromethane, t-butyl methyl ether, ethyl acetate, toluene, 1-butanol,

an ethyl acetate/toluene mixture, a heptane/ethyl acetate mixture, or a
hexane/methylene chloride mixture. 
A process according to claim any one of Claims 1 to 9 in which the aqueous base is
sodium hydroxide, sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate or ammonium hydroxide. 
A process according to claim any one of Claims 1 to 10 in which the
aqueous acid is hydrochloric acid, monopotassium phosphate or monosodium sulfate.
A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 11 wherein the macrolide is
rapamycin, 32-desmethylrapamycin or 15-deoxorapamycin.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
