<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623728</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Safety blind provided with a cremone bolt or handle and side opening hinges     made of aluminium section members adapted to support metal slates and including inner armoring foils.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B510	E06B510	E06B702	E06B7082	E06B7086	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B5	E06B5	E06B7	E06B7	E06B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a safety 
blind (1) provided with a cremone bolt or handle (15) and 

side opening hinges (7) made of aluminium section 
members adapted to support metal slates (16) and including 

inner armoring foils (17) made of steel or 
other high strength materials. 
The section members (3) form a perimetrical 
construction which supports a plurality of 

slates (16), made of aluminium and including inner 
armoring foils (17). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALL SYSTEM SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALL SYSTEM S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALESTRINI GIANANTONIO C O ALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALESTRINI, GIANANTONIO, C/O ALL SYSTEM S.R.L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a safety 
blind provided with a cremone bolt or handle and 
side opening hinges, made by using particular 
aluminium section members adapted to support 
metal slates, in particular having either a 
fixed or a variable orientation and provided 
with inner steel armoring foils. As is known, there are already commercially 
available safety blind, to be applied to 
windows or window bearing frames, generally of 
the type supporting fixed slanting slates. At present these prior blinds are made of 
wood, P.V.C, aluminium or sheet metal constructions 
and have a reduced strength in particular 
against tampering. Thus, the aim of the present invention is 
to overcome or solve the drawbacks and problems 
thereinabove mentioned, by providing a safety 
blind provided with a cremone bolt or handle and 
side opening hinges, made of particular perimetrical 
aluminium section members which has a 
high strength against tampering is adapted to 
replace the iron blinds and filter in a desired  
 
and variable degree the outer light. Within the scope of the above mentioned 
aim, a main object of the present invention is 
to provide such a safety blind which in its perimetrical 
construction is provided with inner 
armoring foils made of steel or other high 
strength materials. Another object of the present invention is 
to provide a safety blind the slates of which 
can be variously slanted or tilted so as to differently 
filter the outer light. Another object of the present invention is 
to provide such a safety blind which, owing to 
its constructional features, is very safe in 
operation and can be easily made starting from 
easily available elements and materials. Yet another object of the present invention 
is to provide such a safety blind which is 
very competitive from a mere economic standpoint. According to one aspect of the present invention 
the above mentioned aim and objects, as 
well as yet other objects, which will become 
more apparent hereinafter, are achieved by a 
safety blind provided with a cremone bolt or a  
 
handle and with side opening hinges, made of 
specifically designed aluminium section members 
characterized in that said safety blind comprises 
a plurality of aluminium section members 
provided with inner armoring foils made of steel 
or other high strength materials which form a 
perimetrical construction supporting a plurality 
of slates made of aluminium and provided with 
inner armoring foils. Further characteristics and advantages of 
the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A safety blind provided with a cremone 
bolt or a handle and with side opening hinges, 

made of specifically designed aluminium section 
members, characterized in that said safety blind comprises 

a plurality of aluminium section members, 
provided with inner armoring foils made of steel 

or other high strength materials which form a 
perimetrical construction supporting a plurality 

of slates made of aluminium and provided with 
inner armoring foils. 
A safety blind according to the preceding 
claim, characterized in that said armoring foils 

are engaged in seats provided inside said section 
members and near a portion of said blind 

outwardly facing. 
A safety blind according to one or more 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that, in a 

preferred embodiment thereof, additional armoring 
foils are engaged in seats provided near 

that portion of said blind which is inwardly 
turned. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in that 

said perimetrical construction is provided with 
 

a plurality of side hinges,provided with respective 
pivot pins, which are suitably locked so as 

that can not be withdrawn. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that said hinges are affixed to said perimetrical 
construction by means of affixing screws and 

are anchored, by further affixng screws, to light 
alloy blocks having a L shaped cross-section and 

provided inside said section members and being 
anchored to the side portion of the recess housing 

said safety blind. 
A safety blind according to one or more 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that 

said side section members are provided in the 
inside thereof with light alloy compensating 

elements affixed to said blocks, in particular 
fitted on steel plug elements which are embedded 

in the concrete wall by passing through false 
frames. 
A safety blind according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that said false frames of L shape and made of 
steel are embedded in said concrete material of 

said wall by using safety bracket elements. 
A safety blind according to one or more 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that 

said slates are arranged with a partially superimposed 
pattern and with a fixed orientation 

usually slanted through about 15° with respect 
to the vertical direction. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that each slate is affixed at the ends thereof 
by using pairs of screws 90 as to anchor said 

slate to the armoring foil to be engaged in a 
seat formed in the same aluminium section member. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that, according to an embodiment, each said 
slate is connected to said armoring foil by a 

pin and is adapted to rotate, about said pin, by 
performing a maximum partial rotation of 45° 

with respect to said slanted inclination of 15° 
7 said construction being further provided, on 

the side surface thereof opposite to that where 
are provided said hinges, with a cremone bolt or 

a handle for opening and closing said safety 
blind. 
A safety blind according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that said safety blind is further provided with 
slates including seats for housing therein gaskets 

provided with projecting lugs. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that said safety blind is provided with an 
aluminium foil provided with an inner cavity 

having inwardly projecting ribs. 
A safety blind, according to one or 

more of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that said safety blind comprises aluminium foils 

which are connected, by screws, to a male shell 
which operates as a locking element for locking 

said foils, said male shell being applied by 
screws of a self-threading type and a fitting 

plate. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that said safety blind in provided with a wing 
section member provided with cavities in which 

can be engaged respective armoring foils, said 
wing section member being provided with a screw 

for locking a female shell provided with a driving 
 

pin. 
A safety blind, according to one or 
more of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that said safety blind further comprises a movable-wing 
section member which is applied to an 

arm element by a screw and being provided with a 
sealing gasket which abuts against a section 

member which is provided with a seat for a 
gasket which, in turn, abuts, in the inside, 

against said movable-wing section member, said 
gaskets defining there between a space which is 

defined by seats for housing therein said armoring 
foils. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
