<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650448</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NECK CLIP BOTTLE CARRIER AND CORRESPONDING BLANK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D7148	B65D7140	B65D7504	B65D7508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D71	B65D71	B65D75	B65D75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A neck clip bottle carrier (10) having a handle panel (24) extending up from the angled side panels (16). The lower edges (22) of openings (20) in the side panels engage the undersides of bottle flanges (F) to support the bottles. The openings (20) continue into the handle panel (24), and the upper edges (27) also engage the undersides of the bottle flanges when the handle panel (24) is folded down. This maintains the handle panel (24) below the tops of the bottles to allow the carriers to be stacked. One of the openings (28) extending into the handle panel is a handle opening (28). The upper edge (30) of the handle opening (28) is of arcuate shape in order to distribute lifting and carrying stresses into the side panels (16).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIVERWOOD INT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIVERWOOD INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS RANDALL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, RANDALL, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a neck clip bottle
carrier of the type defined in the preamble of claim 1
and to a blank for forming such a carrier as defined in
the preamble of claim 8. Thus the present invention deals
with carriers wherein the bottles are supported at their
necks by an elongated tube-like carrier.Neck clip carriers are commonly used to carry
beverage bottles, particularly large plastic bottles
which are formed with a flange or collar on the neck just
below the bottle cap. Openings in the bottom of the
carrier permit the carrier to be moved down over the tops
of the bottles to be packaged. The lower edges of
openings in the side panels of the carrier engage the
underside of the bottle flanges and support the bottles
during lifting and carrying.Normally, a neck clip carrier designed to carry two
bottles is provided with finger holes in the side panels
between the bottles. In this location the finger holes
can readily be grasped and the bottles are balanced when
the carrier is lifted. Problems are encountered, however,
in carriers designed to carry three bottles. The middle
bottle occupies the space in the center of the carrier
where finger holes normally would be, forcing the finger
holes to be located on either side of the bottle. This is
not feasible where large size bottles are involved
because the finger holes would be too far apart to be
grasped.Attempts have been made to provide a handle that
extends up over the bottles to enable the handle to be
centered. Such a carrier corresponding to the preamble of
claim 1 is disclosed for example in US-A 3860281. Whereas 
this handle design allows balanced carrying of the
carrier the handles in these cases have not been entirely
satisfactory. Because the handle panel extends up above
the tops of the bottles, it interferes with the stacking
of carriers for shipping and storage.It is an object of the invention to provide a
handle for a neck clip bottle carrier that can be used in
a three-bottle carrier without causing the problem
setforth above.This object is achieved by providing a clip type
carrier of the generic type with the characterizing
features of claim 1. Similarly this object is achieved by
providing a blank of the generic type with the
characterizing features of claim 8.Accordingly the invention is used in connection
with a neck clip bottle carrier of the type having a
bottom panel with openings therein for receiving the
necks of bottles and angled side panels foldably
connected to the bottom panel. The upper portions of the
side panels
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A neck clip bottle carrier (10), comprising:

a bottom panel (12) having openings (42) therein for
receiving the necks of bottles;
side panels (16) connected to the bottom panel (12)
along fold lines (41), the side panels being angled toward

each other;
a handle panel (24) connected to the side panels (16)
along fold lines (18) and extending upwardly therefrom;
openings (20) in the upper portions of the side
panels for receiving the necks of bottles, the openings

including lower edges (22) for engaging the undersides of
outwardly extending flanges on the bottle necks to support

the bottles in the carrier;
openings (26) in the lower portions of the handle
panel (24) opening into the openings (20) in the side

panel; characterized in that
at least one of the openings (26) in the handle panel
having an upper edge (27) for engaging the underside of

the outwardly extending flange on an associated bottle
when the handle panel is folded down about the fold lines

(18) connecting the handle panel (24) to the side panels
(16), thereby holding the handle panel in folded position

beneath the tops of the bottles in the carrier.
A neck clip bottle carrier as defined in claim 1,
wherein the carrier includes openings for supporting three

bottles, the outer two openings (26) in the handle panel
having upper edges (27) for engaging the undersides of the

outwardly extending flanges on associated bottles to hold
the handle panel in folded position.
A neck clip bottle carrier as defined in claim 1,
wherein the lower edges (22) of the openings (20) in the

side panels (16) are shorter than the upper edges (27) of
the openings (26) in the handle panel.
A neck clip bottle carrier as defined in claim 2,
wherein one of the openings in the handle panel comprises

a handle opening (28) to be gripped when lifting and 
carrying the carrier, the upper edge (30) of said handle

opening being arcuately shaped in a downward direction.
A neck clip bottle carrier as defined in claim 4,
wherein the width of the arcuate edge (30) is greater than

the lower edge (22) of the corresponding side panel
openings (20).
A neck clip bottle carrier as defined in claim 5,
including a plurality of tabs (32) foldably connected to

the arcuate edge of the handle opening.
A neck clip bottle carrier as defined in claim 1,
wherein the side panels are of two-ply construction

comprised of inner (46, 52) and outer (16) plies in face-to-face
relationship, the inner plies being connected to

each other along fold lines (68, 54, 66) in areas between
the openings in the side panels, the fold lines (18)

connecting the side panels (16) to the handle panel (24)
being in the outer plies (16).
A substantially rectangular blank (38) for
forming a neck clip bottle carrier (10), comprising:


a first side panel section (16) having an edge
connected to a bottom panel section (22) along a first

fold line (41) and an opposite edge connected to a first
handle panel section (24) along a second fold line (18);
a second handle panel section (24) having an edge
connected to the first handle panel section along a third

fold line (40) and an opposite edge connected to a second
side panel section (16) along a fourth fold line (18);
the first and second handle panel sections adapted to
be adhered in face-to-face relationship to form the handle

panel of a carrier formed from the blank;
the second side panel section adapted to be
adhesively connected to a third side panel portion (46)

foldably connected to an edge of the bottom panel section
along a fifth fold line (44), and the side panel sections

adapted to be tapered toward each other in a carrier
formed from the blank; 
openings (20, 26, 28) in adjoining portions of the
side panel sections (16) and the adjacent handle panel

sections (24) for receiving the necks of bottles in a
carrier formed from the blank, each opening (20) in the

side panel sections having an edge (22) for engaging the
underside of an outwardly extending flange on an

associated bottle neck to support the bottles in the
carrier; characterized in that
at least some of the openings (26) in the handle
panel sections having an edge (27) for engaging the

underside of the outwardly extending flange of an
associated bottle when the handle panel is folded down

about the second (18) and fourth (18) fold lines to hold
the handle panel in folded position beneath the tops of

the bottles in the carrier.
A blank for forming a neck clip bottle carrier as
defined in claim 8, wherein the edges (22) of the openings

(20) in the side panel sections are shorter than the edges
(27) of the openings (26) in the handle panel sections.
A blank for forming a neck clip bottle carrier
as defined in claim 8, wherein a pair of openings (28) in

the handle panel sections (24) which form a single opening
in the handle panel of a carrier when the handle panel

sections are in face-top-face relationship comprises a
handle opening (28) to be gripped when lifting and

carrying the carrier, the edges (30) of said openings
which are adapted to be the upper edge of the handle

opening in the handle panel of a carrier being arcuately
shaped so as to extend downward in the carrier.
A blank for forming a neck clip bottle carrier
as defined in claim 10, including a plurality of tabs (32)

foldably connected to the arcuate edges (30) of said pair
of openings (28).
A blank for forming a neck clip bottle carrier
as defined in claim 8, including a fourth side panel

section (52) connected to an edge of the third side panel
section (46) along a sixth fold line (54), the third (46) 

and fourth (52) side panel sections having openings (56,
60) therein adjoining at the sixth fold line (54) for

receiving the necks of bottles, the third and fourth side
panel sections adapted to be adhered together in face-to

face relationship when folded about the sixth fold line
(54) and the opposite face of the third 
side panel (46)
section adapted to be adhered to the first side panel (16)

section so that the side panels of a carrier formed from
the blank are comprised of two plies of material.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
