<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0999979</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR DOSED DISPENSING OF A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT LIQUID OR PASTY MASSES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4784	B01F1300	B65B328	B65B300	B01F1504	B01F1504	B65G4784	B01F1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B01F	B65B	B65B	B01F	B01F	B65G	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G47	B01F13	B65B3	B65B3	B01F15	B01F15	B65G47	B01F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for dosed dispensing of a number of different liquid or pasty masses to a receiving container comprises: first supporting means for supporting containers for the masses in fixed positions; a fixedly disposed annular frame bearing a number of dispensing nozzles controllable by fixedly disposed control means and each individually connectable to said containers via respective conduits; second supporting means controllable by the control means for supporting a receiving container such that this receiving container is displaceable in an annular path corresponding with the annular form of the frame and can be placed temporarily beneath a chosen dispensing nozzle for receiving mass dispensed by this dispensing nozzle; a weighing device supported by the second supporting means on which a receiving container can be placed, which weighing device can supply weight signals to the control means; wherein the weighing device is connected via the second supporting means to the control means by means of cable means such that when the second supporting means progress through a path extending through 360 DEG  the net torsion of these cable means is zero.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GERRITSE BEHEER BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GERRITSE BEHEER B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERRITS JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERRITS, JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an apparatus for dosed
dispensing of a number of different liquid or pasty
masses. Such an apparatus is known in diverse embodiments
and is also designated as colour kitchen. Said masses are
in that case paint, ink, thickening or thinning agents
and the like. The masses have to be supplied in predetermined
quantities, at least mutual ratios, to a receiving
container. This receiving container, for instance a
bucket, a can or the like, must be filled with a determined
quantity of mixture. For this purpose predetermined
quantities of selected masses are admitted successively
into the receiving container. As soon as the receiving
container is filled with all desired components in the
desired quantities, a subsequent receiving container is
filled in comparable manner with the constituent components.
In this subsequent and other cycles the composition
can differ in accordance with the composition of the
finally required mixture.After the constituent components have been placed in
the receiving container, homogenization generally takes
place by means of known homogenizing processes, in particular
stirring and shaking.An apparatus of said type comprises provisions for
supporting containers for the masses for dosed dispensing.
These containers can be connected by means of flexible
hoses or fixed conduits to dispensing nozzles for
individual dosing in each case of a determined quantity
of a relevant mass. A placed receiving container and all
relevant dispensing nozzles must be mutually movable such
that each dispensing nozzle can dispense mass to the
receiving container. It is known for instances to fixedly
dispose a container on scales and to place the relevant
dispensing nozzle in each case above the receiving container
by means of a movable frame. Alternatively, a frame supporting the dispensing
nozzles can be fixedly disposed, wherein the scales
supporting the receiving container are movable thereunder.The scales are of importance for dispensing a determined
mass in the correct quantity. The control of the
dispensing nozzles therefore takes place on the basis of
this mass measurement. It is possible in principle to
suffice with a mass or weight difference measurement.In the case where the dispensing nozzles are movable
relative to the storage container, use must be made of
flexible conduits. The great drawback of flexible conduits
is that they are subject to undesirable mechanical
loads, in particular torsion, which can greatly reduce
the lifespan and can cause malfunctions. Hoses are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus (1) for dosed dispensing of a
number of different liquid or pasty masses such as paint,

ink, thickening or thinning agents and the like to a
receiving container (2), for instance a bucket or a can,

which apparatus comprises:

first supporting means (3) for supporting
containers for the masses in fixed positions;
an annular frame (4) bearing a number of
dispensing nozzles (7, 8) controllable by control means

(PLC, PC) and each individually connectable to said
containers via respective conduits;
second supporting means (9) controllable by
said control means for supporting a receiving container

such that this receiving container (2) is displaceable in
an annular path corresponding with the annular form of

the frame (4) and can be placed temporarily beneath a
chosen dispensing nozzle (7, 8) for receiving mass

dispensed by this dispensing nozzle (7, 8);
a weighing device (10) supported by the second
supporting means (9) on which a receiving container (2)

can be placed, which weighing device (10) can supply
signals to the control means which are representative for

the weight of the receiving container (2) with its
content or the change in that weight;
which control means are adjustable, for
instance by means of program control, for dispensing

different masses in determined quantities to successive
receiving containers (2), for instance in successive

cycles, in order to make successive mixtures of
respective chosen compositions,

   
characterized in that
 the annular frame (4)
bearing the dispensing nozzles (6) and the control means

are fixedly disposed, and the weighing device (10) is
connected via the second supporting means (9) to the

fixedly disposed central control means by means of cable
means (17) such that when the second supporting means (9) 

progress through a path extending through 360° the net
torsion of these cable means (17) is zero.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein
the cable means (17) comprise a fixed part (15) and a

part movable together with the second supporting means
(9), which two parts are mutually connected by contact

means.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 2, wherein
the fixed part (15) comprises slide rings (18, 19) and

the movable part comprises slide contacts (20, 21)
co-acting with these slide rings (18, 19).
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 2, wherein

the two parts are coupled capacitively to each other.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 2, wherein
the two parts are coupled inductively to each other.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 2, wherein
the two parts are coupled optically to each other.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 1,
comprising guide means (30, 34) for guiding the second

supporting means (9) such that when these second
supporting means (9) progress through a path extending

through 360° the net rotation thereof is zero.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 7, wherein
the guide means comprise an arm (30) which connects the

second supporting means (9) slidably, and thus with the
required variable distance, to a point (31) outside said

annular path (14) such that the orientation of the second
supporting means (9) relative to that point (31) is

substantially invariable.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 7, wherein
the guide means are embodied such that the second

supporting means have a substantially invariable
orientation.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 9,
wherein the guide means comprise an arm (32) which

connects the second supporting means (9) slidably, and
thus with the required variable distance, to a carriage

(33) with fixed orientation, which carriage (33) is
movable in linear manner in a direction (35) which

differs from the longitudinal direction of the arm (32). 
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 10,
wherein said direction (35) and the longitudinal

direction of the arm are mutually perpendicular.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 9,
wherein the supporting means (9) are supported by a first

toothed wheel (35) which is connected via a transmission
element (38) to an equally large second toothed wheel

(37) which is disposed fixedly in the centre (15) of the
path (14).
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 12,
wherein the transmission element is a toothed belt or

chain.
Apparatus (1) as claimed in claim 12,
wherein the transmission element is a third toothed wheel

(38), wherein the three toothed wheels (35, 37, 38) are
disposed such that their centres are always situated on a

radial straight line.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
