<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632688</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composite enclosure for electronic hardware.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K714	H05K714	H05K720	H05K720	H05K900	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K7	H05K7	H05K7	H05K7	H05K9	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a shielded enclosure (10) 
for electronic modules, comprising walls (12a - 12f) made 

of composite material including conductive fibers for 
shielding the enclosure interior from electromagnetic 

radiation, and means (16) for securely mounting at least 
one module inside the enclosure with a fastener means 

(42), the mounting means (16) comprising composite 
material. The invention further contemplates methods for 

making shielded enclosures and card guides for such 
enclosures. This invention also contemplates composite 

cold walls (22) and composite fins (40), which may be used 
alone or together in structures and enclosures which are 

useful in conducting heat. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION PRODUCTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION PRODUCTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANNETTI WILLIAM BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESS DAVID GRAHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCORD STUART JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDD ROBERT EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIH WEI-TEH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANNETTI WILLIAM BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESS DAVID GRAHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCORD STUART JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDD ROBERT EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIH WEI-TEH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to enclosures for 
electronic hardware. More particularly, the invention 
relates to enclosures made of composite materials and that 
provide electromagnetic shielding for electronic hardware 
installed in such enclosures. As is well known, electronic equipment and hardware is 
susceptible to electromagnetic interference (EMI), whether 
it be generated from radio waves, interference from nearby 
equipment, meteorological disturbances and so forth. In 
applications such as avionics, both military and 
commercial, such interference can present an unacceptable 
risk to proper operation of the hardware. Therefore, 
enclosures for sensitive hardware usually provide for EMI 
shielding, and in fact such shielding is often 
necessitated by military and commercial specifications. Although enclosures made of metal such as aluminum provide 
good shielding against EMI, such materials add 
significantly to the weight of the equipment. Composite 
materials hold great promise for replacing heavier metal 
materials for enclosures with lightweight but comparably 
strong materials.  
 
Shielding with such composite materials can be accomplished by the use of 
conductive fibers in the composite material used to form the walls of the 
enclosure. Although the general concept of using composite materials for 
shielded enclosures is well known, their use to date has been limited because of 
some associated problems. Although composite materials can exhibit excellent 
structural characteristics, in order to achieve sufficient strength, stiffness and 
vibrational requirements a trade off is made as to weight. In other words, the 
weight savings is not necessarily as great as expected due to the need for 
additional material in order to meet structural integrity requirements. Composite 
materials that meet the structural requirements also tend to be very expensive, 
thus substantially increasing the cost of enclosures made of such materials beyond 
the cost of conventional metal enclosures. Most enclosures for electronics hardware include a card guide and 
heat exchanger mounted therein. The card guide, of course, is used to hold one 
or more electronics modules, and typically includes a plurality of guide ribs that 
support the modules, and a cold wall that the ribs are attached to. An electronic 
module typically includes one or more printed circuit boards mounted on a 
thermally conductive substrate (thermal plane) such as a flat metal sheet or plate. 
The module is held in the card guide by a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A structure comprising a cold wall having a number of guide ribs thereon, 
wherein the cold wall and the guide ribs are a composite material comprising a matrix and 

conductive fibers. 
The structure of claim 1 further comprising at least one heat exchanger member 
attached to the cold wall for dissipating heat conducted from the guide ribs and cold wall. 
The structure of claim 2 wherein the heat exchange member is a fin, a box cooling 
element with fin like walls, or a unibody corrugated composite structure, wherein the heat 

exchange means is a composite material comprising a matrix and conductive fibers. 
A structure comprising an enclosure for electronic modules comprising walls made 
of composite material, optionally including conductive fibers for shielding the enclosure interior 

from electromagnetic radiation, and means for securely mounting at least one module inside the 
enclosure with a fastener means, wherein the mounting means is a composite material 

comprising a matrix and thermally conductive fibers. 
The structure of claim 4 wherein the walls comprise first and second layers of a 
carbon resin lamination with a glass bead epoxy core sandwiched therebetween. 
The structure of claim 5 comprising four sidewalls and a bottom wall formed as 
a unibody enclosure and, optionally, a cover made of said sandwich core construction composite 

material. 
The structure of claim 4 wherein the mounting means comprises a card guide, the 
card guide comprising a plurality of guide ribs on a cold wall; and wherein the fastener means 

comprises a wedging means for securely holding electronic modules against the ribs. 
The structure of claim 7 wherein the cold wall is the cold wall of any one of 
claims 1-3. 
The structure of any one of claims 4-8 wherein the walls are coated with at least 
one layer of metal for electromagnetic radiation shielding the enclosure. 
The structure of claim 7 wherein said card guide comprises a composite material 
that is coated with a conductive material at areas of contact with said potentially galvanic thermal 

planes. 
A heat transfer structure for conducting heat from a heat source comprising: a 
cold wall adapted to be in heat transfer relationship with the heat source, and at least one heat 

exchange member in heat transfer relationship with the cold wall; wherein the cold wall and the 
heat exchange member comprise composite material comprising a matrix and thermally 

conductive fibers. 
The structure of claim 11 wherein the cold wall is adapted to support at least one 
electronic module having a number of components thereon that produce heat to be transferred 

through the structure, wherein the cold wall is optionally coated with a conductive material at 
areas of contact with the electronic module, and wherein each module comprises a thermal plane 

in thermal contact with the components, and the thermal plane comprises a composite material 
comprising a matrix and thermally conductive fibers. 
The structure of claim 11 wherein the heat exchange member is a fin, a box 
cooling element with fin like walls, or a unitary corrugated composite structure. 
The structure of claim 11 wherein the heat exchange member has a high fiber 
loading to maximize heat dissipation by the heat exchange member, and wherein a high thermal 

conductivity adhesive provides thermal contact between each heat exchange member and the cold 
wall, and, optionally, a structural adhesive is used to secure each heat exchange member to the 

cold wall at a joint between the fin and cold wall where heat transfer between the heat exchange 
member and cold wall is low relative to heat transfer across the thermally conductive adhesive. 
The structure of claim 11 wherein the heat exchange member is at least one fin 
and a surface of the cold wall includes a number of slots corresponding to the number of fins 

attached thereto, wherein each slot is profiled to receive a conforming end of a fin, and a 
thermally conductive adhesive is disposed in each slot at the interface of the slot surfaces with 

the mated fin end to thermally couple respective ends of the cold wall fibers and the fin fibers, 
and optionally, the structure further comprises a plate attached in thermal transfer relationship 

to the ends of the fins opposite the cold wall, wherein the plate comprises composite material 
comprising a matrix and thermally conductive fibers. 
The structure of claims 14 or 15 wherein the thermally conductive adhesive 
comprises a filled epoxy. 
The structure of claim 15 wherein at least one slot is formed as a groove selected 
from the group consisting of a V-shaped groove, an arcuate groove, and a rectangular groove. 
The structure of claim 11 wherein the heat exchange member is a fin, and each 
fin has a surface that is generally transverse to a preferred fin fiber orientation, and further 

wherein said fin surface is attached to a surface of the cold wall by a thermally conductive 
adhesive at the juncture thereof. 
The structure of claim 11 wherein the heat exchange member is a fin, and each 
fin is integrally formed with the cold wall such that the fin conductive fibers run continuously 

through the cold wall. 
A structure comprising a heat transfer system for transferring heat generated from 
a number of electrical components to a heat transfer medium, the system comprising: a thermal 

plane adapted to be in thermal transfer relationship with the components; a card guide 
comprising a cold wall and guide ribs disposed thereon for supporting a number of the thermal 

planes; each thermal plane being thermally coupled to the card guide; and a heat exchange 
member thermally coupled to the cold wall; each of said thermal planes, card guide, and heat 

exchange member comprising composite material comprising a matrix and thermally conductive 
fibers, and optionally, the structure f
urther comprises a clamp for holding a respective thermal 
plane in rigid and thermal transfer contact with a respective guide rib. 
The system of claim 20 wherein the fibers of the card guides are disposed in the 
matrix with a preferred heat transfer direction, said heat exchange member conductive fibers of 

the heat exchange member being disposed generally parallel to the card guide preferred heat 
transfer direction. 
The system of claim 20 wherein the heat exchange member is a fin, a box cooling 
element with fin like walls, or a unibody corrugated composite structure. 
The system of claim 20 wherein the heat exchange member is a fin and the fins are 
integrally formed with the cold wall such that the fin conductive fibers run continuously through 

the cold wall. 
The system of claim 20 wherein the heat exchange member comprises a fin, and 
wherein each fin is partially disposed in a respective and conformal track formed in a surface 

of the cold wall, and wherein each fin is secured in its respective track by a thermally 
conductive paste that fills voids between the track surfaces and adjacent fin surfaces at such 

interfaces requiring high heat transfer. 
The system of claim 20 wherein the thermal plane is a carbon-carbon composite. 
A structure comprising a composite heat exchanger comprising composite material 
comprising a matrix and thermally conductive fibers. 
The composite heat exchanger of claim 26 wherein the heat exchanger has a high 
fiber loading to maximize heat dissipation by the heat exchanger. 
The composite heat exchanger of claim 26 wherein said conductive fibers are 
disposed generally unidirectionally through the heat exchanger volume. 
The structure of any one of claims 1-27 wherein the matrix is selected from the 
group consisting of a resin matrix, a metal matrix, a ceramic matrix, and a carbon matrix, and 

wherein the fibers comprise graphite fibers. 
The structure of any one of claims 1-27 wherein the matrix is a thermoset or 
thermoplastic resin matrix. 
The structure of any one of claims 1-27 wherein the matrix is an epoxy matrix. 
The structure of any one of claims 1-27 wherein the fibers are woven in a cross-ply 
manner with an unbalanced fiber ratio oriented in a direction to facilitate heat transfer. 
A method of attaching composite fins to a composite cold wall comprising the 
steps of cutting a plurality of slots in the composite cold wall, wherein each slot is profiled to 

receive a conforming end of a fin, disposing in each slot thermally conductive adhesive, mating 
a plurality of fins, corresponding to the number of slots, to the slots, and securing each fin to 

the cold wall by placing a structural adhesive at the juncture between the fin and cold wall. 
A method of forming composite heat exchange members comprising the steps of 
forming a corrugated shaped composite by placing fibers in a corrugated mold, impregnating the 

fibers with a composite matrix, and curing the matrix and fibers to form a corrugated composite 
shape, and optionally cutting the corrugated composite along its axis to form composite fins. 
A method of attaching composite fins to a composite cold wall comprising the 
steps of disposing a thermally conductive adhesive to the surface of the cold wall and mating 

to the cold wall a fin, having a plurality of surfaces wherein the attachment occurs at the surface 
which is generally transverse to a preferred fin fiber orientation, and optionally, placing a fillet 

of structural adhesive at the juncture of the fin and the cold wall. 
A method of preparing a composite cold wall with fins having continuous fibers 
running through the cold wall comprising the steps of preparing a laminant by alternating two 

sizes laminating material, wherein the area of the shorter laminating material is filled with wax 
or salt, and removing the wax or salt from the laminant. 
A method for making a unibody enclosure for electronic modules comprising the 
steps of: 


a. laying up a woven layer of conductive fibers and in a mold; 
b. applying an uncured resin layer over the first layer in the mold; 
c. laying up additional uncured carbon resin layers in the mold; 
d. laying up an uncured glass resin core in the mold; 
e. laying up additional uncured carbon resin layers in the mold; and 
f. performing a single step cure by applying heat and pressure to the materials 
in the mold. 
A method for making a composite card guide for an electronics enclosure comprising 
the steps of: 


a. laying up a plurality of mesophase pitch based carbon resin laminates to form 
a composite block; 
b. cutting said block into a plurality of segments, 
c. aligning said segments in a predetermined orientation to produce a desired 
preferred direction of heat transfer; 
d. joining said segments together to form a second block; 
e. cutting said second block to form a plurality of guide ribs integral with a cold 
wall; and 
f. bonding cooling fins to said cold wall having a preferred direction of heat 
transfer. 
The method of claim 38 wherein the step of laying up a plurality of carbon resin 
laminates includes the step of forming said laminates with woven carbon fibers that are heat 

treated before the resin is applied to improve thermal conductivity of the fibers. 
The method of claim 39 wherein said fibers are woven in a cross-ply manner. 
The method of claim 40 wherein said cross-ply weave includes an unbalanced 
orientation as to fibers oriented in one direction compared to fibers oriented in another direction 

preferred for heat transfer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
