<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630819</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cigarette packing machine exit apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B6128	B65B5100	B65B5110	B65B5132	B65B1900	B65B1902	B65B5110	B65B6100	B65B6100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B61	B65B51	B65B51	B65B51	B65B19	B65B19	B65B51	B65B61	B65B61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cigarette packing machine exit apparatus (1) having a 
contoured heating surface (4) and a pivoted heater retraction 

feature (21,22) is disclosed. The contoured surface preferably 
is in the form of diagonally oriented elongated narrow ridges that 

act as contact surfaces to concentrate heat on the seal of the 
cigarette packs being conveyed along the surface. The pivoted 

retraction feature serves to raise and then lower the heater when 
the packing machine is shut off so that the packs then on the 

heater surface are raised and are held spatially separated from 
the heater. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASKIN JEFFREY M S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASKIN, JEFFREY M. S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus
and method for packing cigarettes into cigarette packs
and sealing the packs with pre-applied adhesives. More
particularly, the present invention relates to sealing
cigarette packages in which the packaging stock, such
as the pack labels, is coated with a dry adhesive
before it is supplied to the packaging machine; the
apparatus provides improved means for activating and
for setting the adhesive.Cigarette packing machines are widely used in
high speed cigarette manufacturing operations. In
typical commercial wet adhesive ("wet-glue") packing
machines, cigarettes pass through successive processing
steps in order to be formed into packs. A typical soft
cigarette pack manufactured by such machines comprises 
an internal liner, an external label, which typically
is made of coated paper, and a closure stamp. Water
based or other solvent based or wax based adhesives are
commonly used as adhesives to seal the packaging.
Typically such wet glue is applied to the label at an
edge corresponding to the sideseam of a cigarette pack
and at another edge corresponding to the folded over
bottom of the cigarette pack; the label is then wrapped
around a bundle of cigarettes, usually 20 in number,
that has already been wrapped in a foil liner. The wet
glue is set by holding the label in place until the
glue has dried. Heat may be applied in order to
accelerate drying.Wet-glue cigarette packers are widely known
in the art of cigarette packaging. Exemplary versions
of wet-glue packers are described in United States
Patent Nos. 3,628,309 and 3,948,115, both of which are
assigned to G.D. Societa per Azioni, Via Pomponia 10,
40100 Bologna, Italy, which sells commercial wet-glue
packers under various model designations, including
GDX-1.In addition to apparatus for the application
of wet glue to the labels, the known wet-glue-type
packers typically incorporate four processing turrets,
each performing predetermined processing functions
while passing cigarette bundles from turret to turret.
The fourth turret functions first to finish the label
folds on the bottom of the pack and then to set the
glue on that bottom panel by operating in conjunction
with a heating assembly having a flat raised portion
designed to contact the pack bottoms and thereby set
the glue by application of heat and pressure.The known wet-glue-type packers also
typically incorporate exit ramps, onto which the
wrapped cigarette bundles enter after exiting the 
fourth processing turret. The exit ramp comprises a
flat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cigarette packing machine exit apparatus (1) for
activating pre-applied adhesive on sideseams of cigarette packs,

comprising:

a heater plate (4); and
a conveyor (7) for transporting cigarette packs along an
exit apparatus path comprising the heater plate so that the

sideseams of the cigarette packs contact at least a portion of the
top surface of the heater plate, in which the top surface of the

heater plate comprises a plurality of contact surfaces (10)
characterised in that the heater plate (4) is pivotally mounted to

be movable between an operating position and a pivoted position
and in that the apparatus further comprises:
a pivot axis to which the heater plate is pivotally
mounted; and
pivot motion means (21,22) for moving the heater plate
about the pivot axis.
Apparatus (1) according to claim 1 wherein the conveyor
comprises a plurality of conveyor belts (7).
Apparatus (1) according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the
conveyor comprises two opposing conveyor belts (7) each running

the entire longitudinal length of the exit apparatus path.
Apparatus (1) according to any preceding claim wherein
the exit apparatus path further comprises:


a cooling plate (5) situated such that the entrance end
of the cooling plate (5) is aligned with the exit end of the

heater plate (4) such that the conveyor (7) can transport 
cigarette packs from the exit end of the heater plate towards the

entrance end of the cooling plate.
Apparatus (1) according to claim 4 wherein the pivot axis
is adjacent the entrance end of the heater plate.
Apparatus (1) according to any preceding claim further
comprising a switch for switching the packing machine between

operating and off conditions, wherein the pivot motion means
(21,22) causes the heater plate (4) to be pivoted upward when the

switch is activated to switch the packing machine to the off
condition.
Apparatus (1) according to claim 6 wherein the pivot
motion means (21,22) causes heater plate (4) to return to its

operating position after the pivot motion means or the lifting
means causes the heater plate to be pivoted upwards.
Apparatus (1) according to any preceding claim wherein
the conveyor comprises a plurality of opposing conveyor belts (7)

mounted on opposite transverse sides of the heater plate (4) and
mounted such that they support the packs spatially separate from

the heater plate after the pivot motion means (21,22) causes the
heater plate to return to its operating position.
Apparatus (1) according to any preceding claim wherein
the contact surfaces comprise contact ridges (10) parallel to each

other and oriented diagonally with respect to the exit apparatus
path.
Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the contact ridges
intersect with one another to create a plurality of crossing

patterns. 
Apparatus (1) according to claim 9 or 10 wherein the
contact ridges (10) extend along less than the entire length of

the heater plate (4).
Apparatus according to any of claims 9 to 11 further
comprising heat insulating means between the contact ridges (10)

to insulate the packs from the top surface of the heater plate.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein the
contact surfaces (10) comprise a plurality of shortened contact

ridges parallel to each other and to the exit apparatus path, the
plurality being generally oriented diagonally with respect to the

exit apparatus path.
Apparatus (1) according to any preceding claim further
comprising a top pressure plate (6) mounted to provide pressure to

the cigarette packs opposing the top surface of the heater plate
(4).
Apparatus (1) according to claim 14 wherein the top
pressure plate (6) is spring mounted.
Apparatus (1) according to claim 14 wherein the top
pressure plate (6) is swivel mounted to be self-levelling.
Apparatus (1) according to any of claims 14 to 16 wherein
the top pressure plate (6) is mounted to be movable between an

operating position and a retracted position and further comprising
a retractor (24) for moving top pressure plate between the

operating position and the retracted position; and

a switch for switching the packing machine between
operating and off conditions, wherein the retractor causes the top 

pressure plate to retract when the switch is activated to switch
the packing machine to the off condition.
Apparatus for manufacturing cigarette packs comprising
packaging stock having a pre-applied dry heat adhesive 
coated on
a portion of its inside surface, the apparatus comprising:


a bundler for forming a bundle of stock-wrapped
cigarettes, each bundle being wrapped such that the inside surface

of the packaging stock is adjacent the cigarettes and each of the
bundles includes a side seam comprising pre-applied dry heat

adhesive coated on a portion of the inside surface of the
packaging stock;
exit apparatus according to any of claims 1 or 17 for
activating the pre-applied dry heat adhesive of the sideseams of

the bundles by contacting the sideseams with the plurality of
contact surfaces (10) of the heater plate (4), the exit apparatus

including a cooling plate (5) according to claim 4 for setting the
pre-applied dry heat-activated adhesive of the sideseams of the

stock-wrapped bundles by contacting each of the sideseams with the
cooling plate (5), the cooling plate (5) being downstream of the

heater plate (4).
Apparatus according to claim 18 comprising:

a feeder for transporting the packaging stock along a
feed path; and
an assembler for gathering a plurality of cigarettes that
are to be included in each cigarette pack,
the bundler being downstream of the feeder and the
assembler.
Apparatus according to claim 18 or 19 in the form of a
turret-type cigarette packing machine wherein the heater plate (4)

is situated in proximity to the activation turret such that the 
heater plate applies heat to the sideseam of each stock-wrapped

bundle when it is on the exit apparatus (1).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
