<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645858</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Strained quantum well structure having variable polarization dependence and optical device inducing the strained quantum well structure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3300	H01S500	H01L2102	H01L3300	H01S500	H01L2120	G02F135	H01S534	G02F1015	G02F101	G02F1025	H01S5343	H01S5042	G02F1017	H01S5062	G02F135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01S	H01L	H01L	H01S	H01L	G02F	H01S	G02F	G02F	G02F	H01S	H01S	G02F	H01S	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L33	H01S5	H01L21	H01L33	H01S5	H01L21	G02F1	H01S5	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	H01S5	H01S5	G02F1	H01S5	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A strained quantum well structure 
comprises a subs
trate, and a strained quantum well. 
The strained quantum well has at least 

one well layer and a plurality of barrier 
layers. The well layer is sandwiched by the barrier 

layers. At least a portion of the well layer and the 
barrier layers is composed of semiconductor crystal 

whose amount of strain is distributed, and the band 
structure of the quantum well is constructed 

so that the transition in the quanrum well layer can 
be exchanged between states in which first 

polarization-state, typically transverse electric, 
transition is dominant and in which second 

polarization-state, typically transverse magnetic, 
transition is dominant. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to
an optical device
including a strained quantum well structure, such
as a semiconductor laser or a wavelength filter.Semiconductor lasers, which output a transverse
magnetic (TM) polarized beam, have been known.
Such lasers have active layers including strained
quantum well structures into whose quantum wells
a tensile strain is introduced.In a conventional semiconductor laser, once a
strained quantum well structure has been formed, it is
impossible to change the polarization direction of its
light oscillation because its energy band structure is
fixed. Document US-A-5 079 774 discloses a strained quantum well
structure comprising a substrate and a quantum well
structure, which is switchable between a TE and TM mode by
means of a voltage applying means. Therein, switching is
effected by a valence-band reversal induced by the applied
voltage.Furthermore, document SPIE Vol. 1850 "Laser Diode Technology
and Applications V (1993)", pp. 145-152 describes switching
of the polarization modes of a strained quantum well
structure comprising two electrodes of different lengths,
wherein the polarization mode is determined by the total
length of the electrode(s) into which current is injected.It is an object of the present invention to provide an
optical device including a strained quantum well structure
which enables to change the polarization direction.This object is achieved by an optical device as claimed in
claim 1. Fig. 1 is a perspective view illustrating a first
embodiment of the present invention.Fig. 2 is a graph illustrating the destribution of
a lattice constant difference between a substrate and
an active layer constructed in accord with the invention.Fig. 3 is a band diagram illustrating a band structure
during a non-voltage applied state.Fig. 4 isa band diagram illustrating the band
structure during a voltage applied state.Fig. 5 is a graph illustrating a square well
potential band gap energy. Fig. 6 is a graph illustrating a further
destribution of a lattice constant difference between
a substrate and an active layer constructed in accord
with the invention.Fig. 7 is a band diagram illustrating an additional
band structure during a non-voltage applied state.Fig. 8 is a band diagram illustrating an additional
band structure during a voltage applied state.Fig. 9 is a band diagram illustrating a band gap
energy of an active layer of a further embodiment
of the invention.Fig. 10 is a graph illustrating an additional
destribution of a lattice constant difference between
a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical device comprising a substrate 
(1; 18)
, a
strained quantum well structure being formed on said

substrate and having at least one well layer sandwiched
between barrier layers, and voltage applying means 
(7, 10;
26, 28)
 for applying a voltage to said at least one well
layer in order to switch between a state in which a first polarization-state

transition between a band end of heavy holes of said at least
one well layer and a conduction band of said well layer is

dominant and a state in which a second polarization-state transition between a
band end of light holes of said at least one well layer and

the conduction band of said at least one well layer is
dominant,

   
characterized in that

   a lattice constant of said at least one well layer
varies within said well layer so that the band end of heavy

holes and the band end of light holes cross in said well
layer.
An optical device according to claim 1,

   
characterized in that

   said first transition is corresponding to a transverse
electric transition and said second transition is

corresponding to a transverse magnetic transition.
An optical device according to claim 1 or 2,

   
characterized in that

   said quantum well structure comprises two barrier layers
and a single well layer.
An optical device according to claim 1 or 2,

   
characterized in that

   said quantum well structure comprises a multiple quantum
well structure having a plurality of single quantum well 

structures each including two barrier layers and a single
well layer.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 4,

   
characterized by

   at least one of current injecting means 
(8, 9; 26, 27)

for injecting current into said strained quantum well
structure and reverse voltage applying means for applying a

reverse voltage to said strained quantum well structure,
wherein said voltage applying means 
(7, 10; 26, 28)
 is
adapted to apply the voltage to said strained quantum well

structure independently from said at least one of said
current injecting means and said reverse-voltage applying

means.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 5,

   
characterized by

   current injecting means 
(8, 9; 26, 27)
 for injecting
current into said strained quantum well structure, wherein

said optical device is adapted to operate as a semiconductor
laser.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 5,

   
characterized by

   antireflection coatings provided on end facets of said
strained quantum well structure, wherein said optical device

is adapted to operate as a semiconductor optical amplifier.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 5,

   
characterized by

   reverse-voltage applying means for applying a reverse
voltage to said strained quantum well structure, wherein said

optical device is adapted to operate as an absorption type
optical modulator.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 8,

   
characterized in that
 
   a material of said at least one well layer is such that

the band gap energy of the or each well layer in the absence
of strain effects in the or each well layer is a

substantially distortion free square well in a layer-forming
direction.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 8,

   
characterized in that

   the band gap energy of said at least one well layer
linearly varies in the absence of strain effects in the or

each well layer in a layer-forming direction.
An optical device according to claim 10,

   
characterized in that

   the lattice constant linearly varies in said at least
one well layer from a value which is larger than that of the

substrate to a value which is smaller than that of the
substrate when the band gap energy linearly varies in said at

least one well layer from a small value to a large value.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to
11,

   
characterized in that

   the lattice constant linearly varies in each of said
barrier layers.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to
11,

   
characterized in that

   the lattice constant does not vary in each of said
barrier layers.
An optical device according to any one of claims 1 to
13,

   
characterized in that

   a variation of the lattice constant in said barrier
layers or said at least one well layer is a linear variation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
