<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640929</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Inter-processor communication via post office RAM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1516	G06F15167	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device and method for providing inter-processor 
communication in a multi-processor architecture. A post 

office RAM has a plurality of mailboxes. Each mailbox is 
write-accessible by one port, but is read-accessible by 

the other ports. Thus, a processor device on a port has 
write-access to one mailbox, but can read the other 

mailboxes in the post office. A transmitting processor 
communicates with a receiving processor, by utilizing the 

post office. The transmitting processor writes 
information into its own mailbox, and signals a receiving 

processor. The receiving processor determines which of 
the processor devices signalled it, and reads the 

information in the transmitting processor's mailbox. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DETTMER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREEMSTER RYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DETTMER, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREEMSTER, RYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains generally to inter-processor 
communication, and, more particularly, to inter-processor 
communication via mailboxes. A processor device in a multi-processor system 
architecture needs a capability of transferring 
information to the other processor devices in the system. 
Various inter-processor communication approaches have been 
used, with varying degrees of success. One such approach utilizes a central memory for 
storing the information to be transferred. Each processor 
device has read-access and write-access to the central 
memory via a bus. Bus arbitration logic is used to allow 
each processor device read-access and write-access to the 
memory without bus collision or contention. Typically, 
the central memory is random access memory (RAM), used for 
storing the information which is passed between the 
processors. Unfortunately, such approaches are costly, since they 
center around the combination of the central RAM to store 
the information and complex bus arbitration logic to 
provide each processor device both read-access and write-access 
to the RAM without bus collision or contention. One example of the approach is Burkhardt, Jr., et al., 
"Intercomputer Communication Control Apparatus and 
Method", U.S. Pat. No. 5,142,683, which discloses a 
mailbox communication method and apparatus in which 
multiple processors have access to a common memory. A 
processor desiring to send a message to another processor 
inserts the message into its own mailbox, along with the 
address of the other processor. The sending processor  
 
interrupts the receiving processor, which, in response to 
the interrupt, scans the mailboxes to find the mailbox 
containing receiving processor's address and reads the 
message. Since the processors access common memory via 
a common work station bus, one disadvantage is that 
overhead is required to deal with bus contention and 
collision. Moreover, Burkhardt has another disadvantage, 
since communication paths may be tied up unless processors 
copy and clear mailbox information quickly. An example of a shared common mailbox is found in 
Murray, Jr. et al., "Data Multiplex Control Facility", 
U.S. Pat. No. 4,665,482, which discloses use of a mailbox 
between a CPU and an I/O microprocessor. Another example 
of a mailbox, which does not alleviate the disadvantages, 
is shown in Fiacconi, "Multiprocessor System with 
Interrupt and Verification Unit", U.S. Pat. No. 4,862,354. Another approach that avoids bus collision or 
contention employs commonly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for communication between a 
plurality of processor devices, comprising 

   a post office memory including a plurality of 
mailbox memories; 

   each of the mailbox memories being write 
accessible only by its owner processor device, and read-accessible 

by its owner and other the processor devices. 
An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein: 
   the plurality of processors includes a 

transmitting processor and a receiving processor; 
   a signal line provides communication between the 

processors; and 
   a subroutine in the receiving processor, 

corresponding to the signal line, reads the mailbox memory 
of the transmitting processor. 
An apparatus as in claim 2, wherein at least one 
of the processor devices is external to a chip, and the 

other processor devices are on the chip. 
An apparatus as in claim 3, wherein at least two 
of the processor devices on the chip are streamlined 

signal processors, and one of the processor devices on the 
chip is a master microprocessor. 
An apparatus as in claim 2, wherein the signal 
line is a trigger, and further comprising a vector 

register pointing to the subroutine. 
An apparatus as in claim 2, wherein the signal 
line is an interrupt, and wherein the subroutine is an 

interrupt service routine addressed by the interrupt. 
An apparatus as in claim 5, wherein the plurality 
of processors comprises at least three processor devices, 

including at least two transmitting processors and at 
least one receiving processor, and a signal line between 

the receiving processor and each of the transmitting 
processors, further comprising: 


(a) an OR gate producing a logical-OR of the 
signal lines; and 
(b) a mailbox status register associated with 
the receiving processor, each of the signal lines setting 

a status of one of the transmitting processors in the 
mailbox status register. 
An apparatus as in claim 5, having at least three 
processor devices, including at least two transmitting 

processors and at least one receiving processor, and a 
signal line between the receiving processor and each of 

the transmitting processors, further comprising: 

(a) an OR gate producing a logical-OR of the 
signal lines; 
(b) a mailbox status register associated with 
the receiving processor, each of the signal lines setting 

a status of one of the transmitting processors in the 
mailbox status register. 
An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the post 
office memory is a multi-port random access memory (RAM), 

and each of the mailbox memories is a predetermined area 
of the RAM; 

   each predetermined area of the RAM further 
comprising means for providing write-access for only one 

of the processor devices to the predetermined area of the 
RAM from one of the ports; and 

   means for providing read-access to the RAM for 
the processor devices from each port. 
An apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the device 
is a 4-port RAM. 
An apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the 
predetermined area of RAM is 8 bytes. 
An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising: 

   a plurality of ports corresponding to the 
plurality of processor devices; and 

   wherein each of the post office memories 
comprises, 

   a plurality of register blocks, each of the 
register blocks including, 

      storage for a predetermined number of data 
bits, 

      a single data-in bus connection, 
      a plurality of data-out bus connections, 

one data-out bus connection for each of the plurality of 
ports, 

      a plurality of read input lines, one read 
input line from each of the ports, and 

      a single write line, the write line coming 
from the port corresponding to the owner processor device. 
A method of communicating among a plurality of 
processor devices, including a transmitting processor and 

a receiving processor, utilizing a post office with a 
plurality of mailboxes, the method comprising the steps 

of: 
   writing information into a predetermined one of 

the mailboxes in the post office with a transmitting 
processor; 

   signaling a receiving processor with the 
transmitting processor; 

   determining in the receiving processor which of 
the processor devices signalled the receiving processor; 

and 
   reading the information in the predetermined 

mailbox with the receiving processor. 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the 
step of the receiving processor acting on the information. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the writing step 
occurs via a first port which is reserved to the 

transmitting processor. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the signalling 
step comprises the transmitting processor issuing an 

interrupt to the receiving processor. 
The method of claim 13, the determining step 
including the receiving processor executing an interrupt 

subroutine corresponding to the interrupt, and the reading 
step being performed by the interrupt subroutine. 
The method of claim 17, further comprising the 
step of the transmitting processor setting a status 

register indicating the transmitting processor, and the 
determining step comprising the receiving processor 

reading the status register to determine the transmitting 
processor. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the signalling 
step comprises the transmitting processor issuing a 

trigger to the receiving processor. 
The method of claim 19, the determining step 
including executing a subroutine pointed at in a vector 

register corresponding to the trigger, and the reading 
step being performed by the subroutine. 
The method of claim 20, further comprising the 
step of the transmitting processor setting a mailbox 

status register indicating the transmitting processor, and 
the determining step comprising the receiving processor 

reading the mailbox status register to determine the 
transmitting processor. 
A method of bi-directional communication between 
at least two processor devices, utilizing a post office 

with a plurality of mailboxes, the method comprising the 
steps of: 

   writing information into a first mailbox in the 
post office RAM, and signaling a second processor device 

with a first processor device; 
   writing information into a second mailbox in the 

post office RAM, and signaling the first processor device 
with the second processor device; 

   determining in the second processor device which 
of the processor devices signalled it; 

   determining in the first processor device which 
of the processor devices signalled it; 

   reading the information in the first mailbox with 
the second processor device; and 

   reading the information in the second mailbox 
with the first processor device. 
A post office RAM comprising: 
   a multi-port RAM, having a plurality of cells 

and a plurality of ports, any one of the RAM cells being 
read-accessible by the plurality of ports, and write-accessible 

by only one of the ports. 
An apparatus for communication' between a plurality of 
processor devices comprising a central memory including a 

respective memory section for each of said processor 
devices, the arrangement being such that information may 

only be put into each said memory section from its 
associated processor device but information may be removed 

therefrom by its associated processor device or other 
processor devices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
