<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648358</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FURTHER METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROL OF LATHES AND OTHER MACHINE TOOLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1108	G01B1108	G01B1112	G01B1124	G01B1124	G01S1700	G01S1746	G05B19401	G05B19401	G05B19406	G05B194065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01S	G01S	G05B	G05B	G05B	G05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01S17	G01S17	G05B19	G05B19	G05B19	G05B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention primarily concerns improvements to NC lathes and associated processes using the same. An NC turret lathe (11), known in the art, is equipped with sensors (25) located in the turret (20) as herein described. These sensors are equipped to measure the diameter or equivalent radius of the part, the length, the surface finish, and to determine forces of cutting. The invention includes the set of any or all of these sensors, and in combination, to improve machining, quality of the workpiece, as well as increased up time, and machining performance. Further illustrated are sensor and machine calibration and sensor display, and detail on a tool sensing embodiment.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSOR ADAPTIVE MACH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSOR ADAPTIVE MACHINES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRYOR TIMOTHY R SENSOR ADAPTIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRYOR, TIMOTHY R., SENSOR ADAPTIVE MACHINES, INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Further METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROL OF LATHES AND OTHER MACHINE TOOLSReferences:US Patents:1. 4,373,804 Method and apparatus for electro-optically determining the dimension, location and attitude of objects.2. 4,394,683 New photodetector array based optical measurement systems.3. 4,453,085 Electro-optical systems for control of robots, manipulator arms and coordinate measurement machines.4. 4,667,231 Electro optical part inspection in the presence of contamination and surface finish variation.5. 4,774,751 Electro optical and robotic casting quality assurance.6. 4,576,482 Electro-optical inspection.7. 4,403,860 Apparatus for determining dimensions (contact) .8. 4,574,199 Sensing location of an object.9. 4,585,350 Pulsed Robotic Inspection.10. 5,112,131 Controlled machining.11. 4,753,569 Robot Calibration.BACKGROUNDIt is of major interest to industry to eliminate the use of coolants wherever possible in the manufacturing process, both for environmental and cost reasons. "Cutting dry" is best performed in most cases with ceramic, CBN and other cutting tools which desirably operate at elevated temperatures. However these tools are often brittle, in tolerant of mechanical or thermal shock, and unpredictable in their Time to failure in terms of parts cut, which makes them able to benefit from the adaptive control methods described herein.It is also desirable where economically and technically feasible to add higher degrees of adaptive control to machining processes, such that benefits of increased quality and higher productivity can be obtained. Use of such adaptive control canSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

greatly improve the use of machining processes to turn precision finishes and diameters in normal production processes, and facilitate finishing and grooving, using cutting tools, as opposed to grinding in hardened materials.Adaptive control can also reduce set up time and the engineering time to integrate new processes.This application concerns adaptive control aimed at solution of the above problems and others. Particularly considered are the high production processes, where such adaptive control techniques can optimize production in largely automated plants, where human intervention is often not possible. The key to all of these issues, is increased sensory capabilities in the machine, and the requisite software algorithms, etc. to deal with the sensed data.To summarize : Goals in part are toFacilitate coolant free operation.Reduce part variation in production.Improve machine accuracy.Increase tool life, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method for inspecting, in a machine, a cutting tool used to work a part, comprising the steps of: illuminating the edge of said tool at an angle with respect to a face of said tool, imaging said tool edge onto a two dimensional image scanning device, scanning said tool edge image from the data obtained from the positions on said device, determining the two dimensional contour of the tool edge, and from said contour determining a characteristic of said tool.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said contour is used to determine wear in said tool.
3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said contour is used to calculate the dimension or finish of parts produced by said tool.
4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said angle is chosen to accentuate wear on a flank or crater surface.
5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determination is made at more than one angle.
6. A method according to claim 1 wherein a display of said contour of the tool edge is made.
7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said contour is obtained with a TV camera located in the machine tool.
8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said angle is 20- 70 degrees with respect to the tangent to the rotation of said tool of said part.
51
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 9. A method according to claim 5 wherein said display is further able to display a previous or expected tool contour.
10. A method for determining tool breakage in a machine tool comprising the steps of: providing an electro-optical sensor in said machine tool capable of determining a two dimensional shape of the cutting edge of said tool, after a cut has been made, examining said tool with said sensor, and determining if said shape corresponds to a tool characteristic to be determined.
11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said shape is that characteristic of a broken tool.
12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said shape of said broken tool is substantially different than the last shape checked with said sensor.
13. Amethod according to claim 11 wherein said broken tool shape is substantially different than a standard shape of said tool.
14. A method according to claim 10 wherein if a shape characteristic of a broken tool is detected, said tool is changed, and if not detected, the machine continues to operate.
15. A method according to claim 10 wherein the checking of said tool is more frequent near the end of its predicted useful life.
16. A method according to claim 10 wherein a physical characteristic of said machine or tool, such as force, is sensed and it is determined that the sensed value has provided information indicative of a potential break in said tool, and said cut is interrupted to perform said electro-optical examination of said tool shape or other parameter.
52 -
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 17. A method according to claim 10 wherein a prediction of future tool edge breakage is made from tool edge condition determined before such a break.
18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said prediction is made on analysis of historical tool contour or other data stored in a data base.
19. A method according to claim 16 wherein said determination of said sensor valve of said characteristic is modified for operation in subsequent cuts taken with said tool or a different tool, to improve the reliability of said potential break indication.
20. A method for determining tool breakage in a machine tool machining a part with a tool comprising the steps of: providing on said machine tool or a tool thereof, or a part being machined thereon, at least one transducer of a physical phenomena; providing an electro-optical sensor in said machine tool capable of determining a dimensional parameter of said cutting tool in more than one axis, sensing the output of said transducer to determine if a signal indicative of a break in said tool is present; if said signal is present, stopping said machine and positioning said tool relative to said electro-optical sensor; examining said tool with said sensor and determining if said breakage has occurred.
21. A method accordingly to claim 20, wherein if said electro-optical sensor indicates that no break is present, the machine is returned to operation.
22. A method according to claim 21, wherein the method to determine said signal indicative of a tool break is modified for future actions of the machine.
- 53
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 23. A method according to claim 20 in which data taken by at least one of said physical phenomenon or electro-optical sensors is logged in a data base.
2 . A control system for a machine or group of machines comprising: means for sensing at least one part characteristic, tool characteristic, or machine variable on at least one of said machines, a data base containing information concerning properties of tools, machine characteristics, or part materials and shapes, means to compare sensed data with rules derived from information in said data base, means for changing a machine parameter or tool as a result of said comparison.
25. A system according to claim 24 further including a part dimension and feature data base.
26. A method of controlling the production of molded or formed parts such as castings and the machining thereof, comprising: providing a machine tool with at least one sensor, capable of rapidly measuring a portion of a part in said machine, checking in situ in said machine, before machining, the dimension of the part presented to the machine, and performing at least one of the steps of: reject if excessive stock, optimize the tool path, optimize the machining process.
27. A method according to claim 26 further comprising accumulating data obtained in said checking step, and utilizing the accumulated data to control the production of said parts.
28. A machining process for parts made to near net shape conditions, comprising the steps of:
54
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 rapidly and automatically inspecting the part in the machine tool, before machining is performed, determining if the part to be machined has sufficient stock or excessive material, rejecting any parts which are out of tolerance.
29. A method according to claim 28 wherein said inspection is performed electro-optically.
30. A method according to claim 28, wherein data so obtained is fed back to the foundry or other source to correct that process.
31. A method according to claim 28, wherein said process is optimized such that a small number of undersized parts are procued and caught at the machining operation.
32. A method for processing material into shaped parts which are subsequently machined, comprising: processing said material into said part, providing said part to a machine tool, in said machine tool measuring at least one dimension of said part and providing the result of said measuring to assist in said material shaping process.
33. A method according to claim 32, further determining if said dimension of said part is sufficient to allow machining to reduce the surface further, and if so, proceeding with said machining.
34. A method according to claim 32, wherein said measurement is rapidly accomplished at multiple points on said provided part.
35. A method of machining part in a machine tool comprising the steps of: rapidly sensing multiple locations on said part, using an
55
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


electro-optical sensor in said machine tool, from said sensing, determining a condition of said part in said machine, and performing a machine function dependent on said condition.
36. A method according to claim 35 wherein said machine function provides rejection or reloading of out of alignment parts.
37. A method according to claim 35 wherein said machine tool paths are modified to cut parts having excessive stock.
38. A method according to claim 35 wherein said part condition data is logged in a data base.
39. A method of reducing effects of contamination on a reading taken by non contact optical sensor in a lathe comprising the steps of providing an air blow or suction along the surface of a part in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the part at a region of the part surface where said reading is effected.
40. A method for controlling a production machine comprising: providing at least one further machine having an ability to generate data from the parts it produces and communicating with said further machine and from data obtained therefrom, controlling said production machine.
41. A method according to claim 40 wherein said control is related to the product of a certain size parts to correspond to part size produced in said further machine.
42. A method according to cliam 40 wherein said date includes image video data.
56 -
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 43. An improved operation of the operation of a machine tool comprising, means to display data taken from parts and/or tools taken by sensors within said machine tool, and means to display historical data from previous parts and tools.
44. Apparatus according to claim 43 wherein said display incorporates means to display data from other machines.
45. An apparatus according to claim 43 wherein said machines are or have been used to make similar or interrelated parts.
46. An improved display of the operation of a machine tool comprising means to display video images of a part or tool in said machine tool.
47. Apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said display provides data within a machine cycle.
48. Apparatus according to claim 46 wherein machine, part or tool data is displayed together with said video image.
49. Apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said display is provided in real time.
50. A method of controlling a machine tool to produce parts comprising the steps of: machining a part with a tool, monitoring a temperature related characteristic of said part as a result of said machining, determining at least one change in dimension of said part caused by temperature change due to said machining, form said change in dimension controlling said machine to accurately produce said part or a subsequent part.
57
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 51. Amethod according to claim 50 wherein said temperature related characteristic is the temperature of the part.
52. A method according to claim 50 wherein a plurality of part temperatures are determined spaced in time or location on said part.
53. A method according to claim 50 wherein said temperature related characteristic is a dimension of said part.
54. A method of controlling a lathe having a plurality of turrets, comprising: using a sensor in one turret to track the work performed with a cutting tool in an other turret, from the sensed information determining at least one dimension of the part being cut or the depth of cut, and utilizing the determined dimension or depth to control operation of the lathes.
55. A method for production of cylindrical parts rotated in a machine tool, comprising the steps of: machining a part from below, and monitoring a characteristic of the part from above, to minimize effects of chips, coolant and other contaminants on the sensing process.
56. Amethod for controlling a machining process comprising the steps of: providing means for measuring characteristics of parts within a machine tool, providing means to calibrate the output of said measuring means within said machine tool, measuring with said means, and in situ in the machine, the dimension, finish or other characteristic of parts machined in the process, said measurement of at least one characteristic being accomplished without contacting the part, controlling the tool position, tool change, feedrate or
- 58
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


other variable of said machine tool, to optimize said process.
57. A method of correcting the position of a machine tool, comprising the steps of: providing an electro optical sensor in the machine tool, said sensor being moved by the same machine axes as move a tool of said machine tool; moving the sensor along at least one of said axes, sensing a plurality of datums located on one or more fixed surfaces in the machine tool, and utilizing the sensed data to correct the position of the machine tool at a plurality of locations.
58. A method of correcting the position according to claim 57 wherein the position of said datums are learned by sensing them when the axes locations positioning the sensor are known.
59. A method according to claim 57 wherein said fixed surfaces comprise one or more surfaces of an artifact in a working position in said machine tool.
60. A method according to claim 59 wherein said artifact is production part.
61. A method according to claim 59 wherein artifact is special stepped part.
62. A method according to claim 59 wherein artifact is special surface.
63. A method of determining characteristics of a machine tool operation comprising examining in real time the operation of the machine with at least one TV camera capable of scanning an image in two axes, said TV camera being mounted to view a part or tool condition at high resolution in the area of the cut.
64. A method of incoming part qualification for correct
59
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


machining in a lathe comprising: providing a sensor in the lathe; selecting one or more features on a part to be turned indicative of correct part condition; loading said part in to a chuck; chucking the part; rotating the part; sensing said object feature or features and, from the location, size, or other characteristics of at least one feature of said rotating part, determining how said part should be machined.
65. A method according to claim 64 wherein said sensor is located on a movable portion of said lathe and used to obtain readings, at multiple locations on said part.
66. A method according to claim 64 wherein said sensor is further used to determine size data concerning the part.
67. A method according to claim 66 wherein said size data is used to retained in a data base.
68. A method according to claim 66 wherein said size data is provided to assist the manufacture of said part.
69. A method according to claim 64 wherein said sensor is capable of measuring said part from a standoff distance sufficient to avoid crashes with mischucked parts.
70. Amethod according to claim 64 wherein said determining process is used to activate or reject or reload of said part.
71. A method according to claim 64 wherein the path of the machine tool is altered as a result of said determination.
- 60 -
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
