<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MAKING A RESILIENT PACKING PRODUCT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3384	B31D500	B26D708	G01N3372	B65D8109	B65D8105	G01N3372	A01K1015	B26D900	B31D500	G01N3384	B26D708	B26D900	A01K1015	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	B31D	B26D	G01N	B65D	B65D	G01N	A01K	B26D	B31D	G01N	B26D	B26D	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	B31D5	B26D7	G01N33	B65D81	B65D81	G01N33	A01K1	B26D9	B31D5	G01N33	B26D7	B26D9	A01K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for making an improved resilient packing material by forming, resiliently folding and crimping shredded strips of moistened paper material (30, 32, 34) into an improved interlocking, bulk, packaging material. The method and apparatus includes a wetting or dampening system (50) which can be selectively varied to regulate the moisture content of moistened paper material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RANPAK CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RANPAK CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEIERLORZER EDWIN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEIERLORZER, EDWIN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates of a method and apparatus for 
making an improved resilient packing material. More particularly, 
this invention relates to such apparatus and methods for forming, 
resiliently folding and crimping shredded strips of moistened sheet 
material into an improved interlocking, bulk, packaging material. Styrofoam pellets or peanuts are commonly used within the 
wholesale and retail industries as bulk packaging material. The 
peanuts are used to position a product away from the interior sides 
of a container and fill the empty space located therebetween. The 
peanuts are intended to protect the packaged product against the 
impact or a blow or other mistreatment. Dispensing styrofoam peanuts does not require a great degree 
of sophistication. The peanuts are simply gravity fed from large 
retainer bins into the empty spaces within a packaging container. Use of styrofoam peanuts, however, has many drawbacks. For 
example, if styrofoam peanuts are used to protect a heavy object 
placed within a container, and such package is jostled and shaken, 
the object tends to gravitate toward the bottom of the container and 
the peanuts float upward. Eventually the object can come to rest 
against the base or side of the container and damage to the object 
may occur. The light weight of the styrofoam peanuts also allows 
them to be easily blown by the wind and scattered. It is of particular concern that the styrofoam peanuts are 
extremely difficult to dispose of and destroy after use. In fact, 
because of the extensive use of this non-biodegradable product, 
which emits toxic gases if burned, styrofoam peanuts present a major 
threat to the environment and are being banned from an increasing 
number of communities. Styrofoam peanuts are also dangerous to children and to 
wildlife who often mistake them as food and consequently ingest 
them. Styrofoam peanuts are not digestible and cause a major source 
of tracheal blockage in children. Other packaging filler materials, such as shredded paper, 
have also been used. Shredded paper, however, usually lays flat 
within the container and a very large amount of paper is required 
to provide the bulk needed to fill the voids and to protect the 
contained object. To provide such a large amount of shredded paper  
 
is often cost prohibitive and, following its use, such voluminous 
amounts of paper must be disposed. In addition, the shock 
absorbency of flat shredded paper is minimal. U.S. Patent No. 5,088,972 
discloses apparatus and method for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing a paper product comprising the 
steps of: 


providing a continuous web (16) of paper material 
(14); 
withdrawing a section of the web of paper material; 
cutting the withdrawn section of paper into a plurality 

of strip means; 
advancing each of said strip means; 
restricting said each strip means from continued advancement; 
sequentially folding said each strip means by said restricting 
in opposition to said advancing; and
 
   characterized by the steps of 
moistening said withdrawn section of paper material 
prior to said cutting step whereby said cutting step 

produces a plurality of moistened strip means; and 
allowing said each moistened strip means to dry to 
form longitudinally compressed strip means. 
The method according to Claim 1, wherein the step of 
said sequentially folding is accomplished only by restricting 

the forward advancement of the plurality of said 
moistened strip means in a common discharge chute in such a 

manner that the natural resilience of the paper produces a 
plurality of substantially uniform adjacent folds of said 

moistened strip means with adjacent said folds being in opposite 
directions thereby causing each said moistened strip 

means to assume substantially the same accordion shape. 
The method according to Claim 2, wherein the step of 
said sequentially folding said plurality of said folds is 

against said natural resilience of said moistened strip means 
to produce biasing at each of said folds tending to separate 

adjacent longitudinal portions of said moistened  
 

strip means which said adjacent longitudinal portions are 
adjacent to said each fold and the step of said allowing 

said each moistened strip means to dry provides stability 
to said each fold tending to establish a stable angle between 

said adjacent longitudinal portions. 
The method according to Claim 2 or 3, further including 
the step of collecting a plurality of said moistened 

strip means in said discharge chute after said sequentially 
folding to cause said allowing of said each moistened strip 

means to dry within said discharge chute. 
The method according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, wherein the step of said cutting includes the steps 

of: 

poroviding two sets of alternating, overlapping cutting 
discs; 
pulling said moistened paper material between said two 
sets of said cutting discs; and 
advancing said moistened paper material by rotating at 
least an outer surface of a corresponding one of said cutting 

discs as said outer surface moves in said advancement 
direction. 
The method according to Claim 5, further including the 
steps of: 


transversely cutting a leading sheet portion of said 
moistened paper material; and 
separating the leading sheet portion from the remaining 
portions of said moistened paper material prior to 

said sequential folding step whereby said folded plurality 
of said moistened strip means are of the same unfolded 

length. 
The method according to Claim 6, wherein the step of 
transversely cutting is only partially through said moistened 

paper material whereby said leading sheet portion remains  
 

partially attached to said remainder of said moistened 
paper material prior to said pulling and said step of 

said pulling includes separating said leading sheet portion 
from said remainder of said moistened paper material and 

whereby said pulling step and said separating step are performed 
simultaneously. 
The method according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, further including the steps of longitudinally cutting 

said moistened paper material after said adding said 
moisture to form a plurality of longitudinal segments of 

said moistened paper material, redirecting each of said 
longitudinal segments of said moistened paper material to 

produce overlapping thereof to provide said moistened paper 
material with layers. 
The method according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, wherein the step of moistening includes adjusting 

the amount of moistening 
to select a moisture content of said moistened paper 

material. 
The method according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, wherein the step of moistening includes rotating 

a roller through a container including water and 
against said paper material to transfer said water from 

said container to said paper material wherein the amount of 
water added to the paper material is adjustable by varying 

a rotational speed of said roller relative to said paper 
material. 
The method according to Claim 10, wherein the step of 
rotating includes a rotation in a direction corresponding 

to movement of said paper material by said roller. 
Apparatus for producing a paper product comprising: 

a continuous web (16) of paper material (14);  
 
means for withdrawing a section of said paper material 
(14) from said continuous web (16); 
cutting means (238) for cutting said section of said 
paper material into a plurality of strip means; and 
advancing means (238) for advancing each of said strip 
means; 
restricting means (244) for restricting each of said 
strip means (400) formed by said cutting means (204) to 

cause sequential folding of said each strip means;
 
   characterized by 
means (10) for moistening said paper material 
(14) to form moistened paper material; said means (10) for 

moistening being arranged at the transportation path 
of the paper material upstream of the means (238) for cutting 

said moistened paper material, thereby forming a 
plurality of moistened strip means. 
The apparatus according to Claim 12, further including 
a common discharge chute (260) through which said plurality 

of moistened strip means are advanced, said discharge chute 
including means (280) for restricting the forward movement 

of said plurality of moistened strip means in such a manner 
that said restricting means along with the natural 

resilience of the paper material alone produces substantially 
uniform adjacent each said moistened strip means to 

assume substantially the same accordion shape. 
The apparatus according to Claim 12 or 13, wherein 
said cutting means (204) for cutting said withdrawn section 

of said moistened paper material into said plurality of 
said moistened strip means (400) includes two rotating sets 

of alternating, overlapping cutting discs (240, 242) and 
said advancing means (238) is for directing said section of 

said moistened paper material between said two rotating 
sets of cutting discs (240, 242). 
The apparatus according to any one of  
 

claims 12-14 further including means (222) for at least partially 
cutting said paper material in a transverse direction of 

said paper material to define a leading sheet portion (238) 
of said paper material; and
 
   a separating device (238) which separates said leading 

sheet moistened paper prior to said moistened strip means 
being folded whereby said plurality of said moistened strip 

means are of the same unfolded length. 
The apparatus according to Claim any one of 
Claims 12-15, wherein said means (20) for moistening 

includes a container (50) of water and a roller (62) disposed 
to make contact with said paper material between said 

roll (16) and said means (222) for cutting said moistened 

paper material and means (64) for rotating said roller 
through said water and against said paper material for 

transferring said water from said container to said paper 
material. 
The apparatus according to Claim 16, wherein said 
means (64) for rotating includes means (66) for selectively 

varying a rotational speed of said roller for selectively 
varying an amount of said water being transferred to said 

paper material. 
The apparatus according to Claim 16 or 17, wherein 
said means for rotating (64) rotates said roller (62) in a 

direction corresponding to the movement of said paper material. 
The apparatus according to any one of Claims 12 to 18, 
further including means (24, 80) for cutting and layering 

said moistened paper material disposed between said means 
(20) for adding moisture and said means (222) for at least 

partially cutting. 
The apparatus according to Claim 19, wherein said  
 

means (24, 80) for cutting and layering includes means (24, 
80) for forming a plurality of longitudinal segments of 

said moistened paper material, redirecting said longitudinal 
segments (30, 32, 40) to produce overlapping thereof 

and providing layers of said moistened paper material for 
said each leading sheet means and said each moistened strip 

means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
