<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612558</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Means for providing dispersed flowable colourant in a coating composition contained in a liddable container which may have one of several alternative heights
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F1300	B01F1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F13	B01F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A more easily useable means for providing dispersed 
flowable colourant in a coating composition contained in a 

liddable container which means may have none of several 
alternative heights. The means comprises dispenser 18 at 

which a dose of flowable colourant 1 can be introduced into 
a container 20 which contains a base paint 2. A shaker 24 

is provided and is laterally spaced from the dispenser 18. 
A surface 14 extends from the dispenser 18 to the shaker 24 

along which the container can be moved making transfer to 
the mixing station particularly easy. The means can also 

include labelling and lidding stations 22, 23 between the 
dispenser and shaker 18, 24. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ICI PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANE MICHAEL ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANE, MICHAEL ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a means for providing 
dispersed flowable colourant in a coating composition such 
as a paint, varnish, woodstain or the like contained in a 
liddable container, which container may have one of several 
alternative capacities (for example 1 or 2.5 litres) and 
therefore one of several alternative heights. "Paint" 
includes traditional paints based on organic solvents and 
also paints based on aqueous solvents many of which are 
known as emulsion or latex paints. The flowable colourant 
(including white and black colourants) may be any material 
which can be caused to flow well enough to enable it to be 
pumped through a dispensing nozzle. Dispensing nozzles 
usually have a diameter of from 2 to 6mm. The invention especially relates to a means for 
introducing a dose of (usually liquid or semi-solid) 
colourant to a base paint contained in a liddable paint 
container and which is especially suitable for use in 
stores which supply tradesmen, that is to say professional 
painters. Such introduction of colourants into paint in  
 
stores is often known as "in-store tinting". In-store 
tinting allows a much wider range of colours to be offered 
than would be possible if containers of each individual 
coloured paint had to be stocked. That is because the 
space which would be needed to stock a large number of 
coloured paints is much greater than the space needed to 
stock containers of base paint and colourant. For 30 years or more, typical in-store tinting systems 
have employed firstly a colourant-dispenser comprising a 
plurality of (usually 6 to 30) dispensing nozzles through 
each of which one of a variety of alternative colourants 
could be pumped into a liddable container filled with base 
paint or the like and secondly a shaker for dispersing the 
colourant in the base paint. The dispenser and shaker are 
separate machines. On receiving an order from a customer, 
an operator feeds into the colourant-dispenser the 
information relevant to the particular order and collects 
a lidded container of base paint or the like from a storage 
area usually located some distance from the dispenser. A 
lidded container of the correct capacity and base paint 
will be chosen from a stock of containers of alternative 
capacities and containing alternative base paints. The lid 
is removed and the container then placed in the dispenser 
(which usually involves the opening and closing of an 
access door), and then at least the smaller containers are 
raised towards the dispensing nozzles. This
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for providing dispersed flowable 
colourant (1) in a coating composition (2) contained 

in a liddable container (20) which container may have 
one of several alternative heights, the apparatus 

comprising a colourant-dispenser (18) comprising a 
plurality of nozzles (37) through which flowable 

colourant can be pumped into the container when 
unlidded and a shaker (24) laterally spaced from the 

dispenser characterised in that a fixed shelf (13) 

extends between the dispenser and the shaker along 
which shelf the container can be moved from the 

dispenser to the shaker and wherein the nozzles of 
the dispenser can be raised and lowered relative to 

the fixed shelf. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised 
in that the dispenser comprises a sensor (53) 

positioned so as to be able to sense a code means 
(54) bearing information relevant to the container 

and/or the coating composition therein which code 
means is provided on the container. 
Apparatus according to Claim 2 characterised 
in that the information provided by the sensor is 

compared by the computer to the information supplied 
via the input means to provide a check that the  

 
container placed in position to receive the colourant 

is of the correct capacity and contains the correct 
base coating composition. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that the dispenser includes "V"-shaped 

positive location means (28) for locating the 
container (20) in a position to receive the 

colourant. 
Apparatus according to Claim 4 characterised 
in that the angle between the arms of the "V" of the 

"V"-shaped recess is from 27° to 33°. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that the shelf extending between the 

dispenser and the shaker is located at a height of 
from 890 to 950mm above the lowest part of the mans 

intended to stand on a floor. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that the shelf also extends past the 

dispenser in a direction away from the shaker. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that a lidding station (23) is 

provided between the dispenser and the shaker at 
which lidding station an unlidded container supported  

 
on the shelf and having an open mouth across which a 

lid (21) is laid can have the lid press-fitted into 
the open mouth. 
Apparatus according to Claim 8 characterised 
in that a "V"-shaped location means as defined in 

Claim 5 or Claim 6 is provided at the lidding 
station. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that the colourant-dispenser 

includes a moisturising device for inhibiting drying 
of colourant in outlets (37a) from the nozzles whilst 

the dispenser is not in use wherein the moisturising 
device comprises a container (43) for water (44a) 

adjacent the nozzle outlets which container is 
raisable and lowerable with the nozzles. 
Apparatus according to Claim 10 
characterised in that the water-container comprises 

an annular trough extending below and around the 
nozzle outlets. 
Apparatus according to Claim 10 or Claim 11 
characterised in that the moisturising device also 

comprises a closure member (45) which together with 
the water-container and nozzles helps to at least 

partially enclose a space around the nozzle outlets  
 

into which water-vapour can evaporate from the water-container 
and wherein the moisturising device further 

comprises retraction and returning means for moving 
the closure member (45) to and from a position in 

which it is clear of the nozzles so as to permit free 
passage for the colourant from the nozzles to the 

container. 
Apparatus according to Claim 12 
characterised in that the moisturising device further 

comprises a reservoir (44) for water which reservoir 
is closed from the atmosphere but linked to the 

water-container by a tube (44c) extending from a 
lower region of the reservoir to the water-container 

whereby the water-container can be replenished with 
water from the reservoir in a controlled way owing 

the creation of a partial vacuum in the reservoir 
which is occasionally relieved by the ingress of an 

air-bubble via the tube. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that
 
   there is also provided a lidding press (56) for 

press-fitting a lid (21) into an open mouth (21a) in an 
unlidded container (20) of one of several alternative 

heights which press is operable manually using one hand and 
is therefore especially suitable for use in means for 

providing dispersed colourant (1) in coating compositions 
(2) contained in the container wherein the press 

comprises:-  
 


(1) a support (57,58 and 59); 
(2) a lid -engaging means (65) for applying 
pressure to the lid to press-fit it into the 

open mouth;  
 
(3) a main lever (60) on which the lid 
engaging means (65) is mounted, the main 

lever being proximally pivotally mounted 
about a substantially horizontal axis on the 

support; 
(4) an upwardly extending operating lever 
(66) pivotally mounted about a substantially 

horizontal axis on the main lever at a point 
between the mountings of the main lever and 

the lid-engaging means; 
(5) an extension of the operating lever 
(72) beyond its mounting which extension is 

short relative to the operating lever and 
(6) several alternative reaction surfaces 
(69, 70, 71) for engagement with the short 

extension located one above another and all 
fixed relative to the mounting for the main 

lever 
 
and wherein rotation of the operating lever in one 

direction combined with rotation of the main lever 
can move the extension of the operating lever to and 

from engagement with any one of the alternative 
reaction surfaces and rotation of the operating lever 

in the opposite direction which moves the extension  
 

into engagement with a reaction surface and urges the 
lid-engaging means downwards. 
Apparatus according to Claim 14 wherein the 
length of the extension to the operating lever is 

from 5 to 30% of the length of the remainder of the 
operating lever. 
Apparatus according to Claim to Claim 14 or 
Claim 15 wherein the extension to the operating lever 

extends in a direction inclined to the remainder of 
the operating lever. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 14 to 
16 wherein the distance from the mounting (73) for 

the operating lever to the proximal end (60a) of the 
main lever is at least twice the distance from the 

mounting (73) to the distal end (60b). 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 14 to 
17 wherein the extension to the operating lever is biassed into 

engagement with one or other of the reaction surfaces. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
