<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641488</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROSTRICTIVE SENSORS AND ACTUATORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2966	H01L2984	H01L4108	H01L4108	H01L4109	H01L4109	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L29	H01L29	H01L41	H01L41	H01L41	H01L41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of fabricating an electrostrictive heterogeneous bimorph for sensing and actuating which includes depositing a ZnO layer on a layer of Si3N4. The electrostrictive material is biased to a voltage to induce a strain. The resulting large amplitude of deflection exhibits quadratic dependence on the applied voltage.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV BOSTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUSTEES OF BOSTON UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITS JOHANNES G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITS, JOHANNES, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTROSTRICTIVE SENSORS AND ACTUATORSBackground of the InventionThis invention relates generally to dielectric materials, and more particularly to a heterogeneous electrostrictive bimorph for actuating and sensing objects.Typically, electricity or electric polarity can result from the application of a mechanical pressure (i.e, stress) placed upon a piezoelectric material. A mechanical stress that is applied to a piezoelectric material generates an electric polarization (electric dipole moment per cubic meter) proportional to the stress, If the material is isolated, the polarization manifests itself as a voltage across the material. Conversely, application of a voltage between the material produces a mechanical distortion of the material. This reciprocal relationship is known as the piezoelectric effect. Thus, piezoelectric materials will expand or contract when positioned within an electric field. The expansion or contraction of piezoelectric materials depend upon the polarity of the applied electric field.A piezoelectric bimorph can be formed by securing a film of piezoelectric material to a flexible beam or by joining two piezoelectric materials together to form a composite cantilever beam. The beam has a free portion that can be deflected in a precise and predetermined manner as an electric field is applied. Generally, the beam is deflected in a perpendicular direction. Piezoelectric bimorph structures have a wide range of applications, such as in transducers, pumps, vibrating structures, computers, motors, etc.A heterogeneous piezoelectric bimorph is formed by depositing a single layer of piezoelectric material on a 

layer of non-piezoelectric material. The piezoelectric heterogeneous bimorphs undergoes deflection when an electric field is applied thereto. Typical piezoelectric heterogeneous bimorph use piezoelectric material such as PLZT, PZT, and PVF2. These bimorphs have been used in telephone receivers, thickness extensional mode resonators, PLFET accelero eters, resonant diaphragm pressure sensors, resonant force sensors, monolithic band¬ pass filters made of cantilevers, dampers in vibrational control of beams and regulators of vibration modes of rectangular plates to control sound radiation.Summary of the inventionIn accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an electrostrictive heterogeneous bimorph including a substrate layer and a dielectric layer deposited over the substrate layer. The electrostrictive layer exhibits the electrostrictive property
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of using an electrostrictive device, comprising: providing an electrostrictive material secured to a substrate; providing electrical contacts at different regions of the electrostrictive material to provide a device such that an electric field can be applied across the material; and biasing the electrostrictive material to a voltage to initiate deflection thereof, the biased electrostrictive material having a deflection that is quadratically dependent upon the biasing voltage.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the electrostrictive material is a chemical compound consisting of elements selected from Groups II and IV of the periodic table.
3. The method of Claim 2 wherein the electrostrictive layer is ZnO.
4. The method of Claim l wherein the substrate is a semiconductor material.
5. The method of Claim 1 wherein the voltage is biased in the range of 0 to 8 volts.
6. The method of Claim 1 wherein the voltage is biased with an alternating electrical signal in the range of 1-8 volts. 


7. The method of Claim 1 wherein the substrate and the electrostrictive material have a thickness ratio approximating unity.
8. The method of Claim 1, wherein the substrate and the electrostrictive materials have a thickness ratio that is optimized for energy transfer.
9. The method of Claim 7 wherein the substrate layer has a thickness ranging from about 1 μ to about 100 μ.
10. The method of Claim 1 wherein the electrostrictive material has a length of about 1-5 mm long.
11. A method for using an electrostrictive device for actuating an object comprising: providing an electrostrictive element having electrical contacts at different regions of the electrostrictive element such that an electric field can be applied across the element; positioning the element adjacent to an object to be actuated; and applying an electric field to the electrostrictive element, the electric field having a voltage material between the contact, the voltage having a magnitude such that the element deflects in one direction regardless of the polarity of the electric field to move the object.
12. The method of Claim 11 wherein the electrostrictive material comprises a chemical compound consisting of 


 elements selected from Groups II and IV of the periodic table.
13. The method of Claim 12 wherein the electrostrictive material comprises ZnO.
14. The method of Claim 11 wherein the element is secured to a silicon substrate having a layer of silicon nitride thereon.
15. The method of Claim 11 wherein the voltage is in the range of 0 to 8 volts.
16. The method of Claim 12 wherein the voltage is AC biased in the range of 0 to 8 volts.
17. The method of Claim 11 wherein the electrostrictive element comprises a bimorph having two materials which have a thickness ratio approximating unity.
18. The method of Claim 17 wherein the thickness ratio is optimized for energy transfer.
19. The method of Claim 14 wherein the silicon substrate has a thickness ranging from about 1 μ to about 100
20. The method of Claim 11 further comprising deflecting the electrostrictive element towards the object.
21. A method of using an electrostrictive element for sensing an object or medium comprising: providing an electrostrictive element; 


 providing electrical contacts at different regions of the electrostrictive element to provide a device such that an electric field can be applied across the element; positioning the electrostrictive element adjacent to the object or medium to be sensed; and biasing the electrostrictive element to a voltage to initiate deflection thereof, the biased electrostrictive element having deflection that is independent of the field polarity.
22. The method of Claim 21 wherein the electrostrictive bimorph is a chemical compound consisting of elements selected from Groups II and VI of the periodic table.
23. A method of Claim 22 wherein the electrostrictive bimorph comprises ZnO.
24. The method of Claim 21 wherein the silicon substrate layer comprises Si
3
N
4
.
25. The method of Claim 21 further comprising deflecting the electrostrictive bimorph towards the object.
26. The method of Claim 21 further comprising vibrating the electrostrictive bimorph to enhance contact with the object.
27. The method of Claim 26 further comprising generating an electrical signal representative of a position of the object. 


28. The method of Claim 27 further comprising processing the electrical signal to determine the position of the object.
29. An electrostrictive sensor comprising: a first region of electrostrictive material positioned between a first pair of electrodes on a deflectable member; a second region of electrostrictive or piezoelectric material positioned between a second pair of electrodes on the deflectable member; and an electrical circuit connected to the first pair of electrodes such that a first electrical signal can be applied across the first region of material to cause a deflection of the member, the circuit also being connected to the second pair of electrodes such that an alternating electrical signal can induce a vibration of the deflectable member.
30. The sensor of Claim 29 further comprising a control circuit wherein the first electrical signal is modified to actuate an object or medium in response to a sensor signal generated by the electrical circuit in response to contact between the deflectable member and the object or medium.
31. The sensor of Claim 29 wherein the electrostrictive material comprises ZnO.
32. The sensor of Claim 29 wherein the deflectable member is formed on or over a semiconductor material. 


33. A system for deflecting a beam of light emitted from an energy source, comprising: an electrostrictive material for deflecting the beam of light emitted from the energy source,, the electrostrictive material including a first region of electrostrictive material positioned between a first pair of electrodes on a deflectable member, a second region of electrostrictive or piezoelectric material positioned between a second pair of electrodes on the deflectable member, a reflective surface positioned over the first and second regions of electrostrictive material, and an electrical circuit connected to the first pair of electrodes such that a first electrical signal can be applied across the first region of material to cause a deflection of the member, the circuit also being connected to the second pair of electrodes such that an alternating electrical signal can induce a vibration of the deflectable member; a charged surface for receiving the beam of light deflected from the electrostrictive material; and a microprocessor for controlling the energy source, the electrostrictive material, and the charged surface.
34. A system according to Claim 33, wherein the electrostrictive material comprises ZnO.
35. A system according to Claim 33, wherein the deflectable member is formed on or over a semiconductor material. 


36. A method for deflecting a beam of light emitted from an energy source, comprising: positioning an electrostrictive material having a reflective surface in between the beam of light; biasing the electrostrictive element to a predetermined voltage to initiate deflection; and deflecting the beam of light onto a charged surface.
37. A device for sensing the position of an object, comprising: a first electrostrictive material and a second electrostrictive material spaced apart at a predetermined distance for receiving a reflected image of the object, the first and second electrostrictive materials each having a reflective surface for reflecting the reflected image therefrom; an image detector receiving the reflected images from both first and second electrostrictive material, the detector having a first and a second reference image formed thereon; a biasing source coupled to the first electrostrictive material and the second electrostrictive material for supplying bias voltage thereto, the bias voltage generating deflection in the first and second electrostrictive materials and moving the first and second reference images on the image detector; and an image correlator coupled to the image detector for generating one image from the first 


 and second reference images based on an autocorrelation function.
38. A method for sensing the position of an object, comprising the steps of: positioning a first and second electrostrictive material each having a reflective surface separated apart from each other a predetermined distance for receiving a reflected image of the object; biasing the first and second electrostrictive materials to a predetermined voltage for initiating movement thereof; detecting the images reflected from both first and second electrostrictive materials wherein a first and second reference image are generated; and correlating the first and second reference image into one distinct image.
39. A device for addressing a plurality of optical fibers, comprising: a light source for emitting a beam of light to each of the plurality of optical fibers; an electrostrictive actuator coupled to the light source to address each of the plurality of optical fibers; and a biasing source coupled to the electrostrictive actuator for supplying a bias voltage thereto. 


40. A method for addressing a plurality of optical fibers, comprising the step of: providing a light source for emitting a beam of light; coupling an electrostrictive actuator to the light source; and addressing each of the plurality of optical fibers with a beam of light from the light source, the light.source moving in a predetermined manner.
41. An accelerometer for measuring vibration of an object, comprising: a proof mass for providing a reference to the object; a frame for supporting the object and the proof mass, the proof mass and object being separated at a predetermined distance; and an electrostrictive material positioned between the proof mass and the object for initiating vibration of the proof mass and the object. 

42. A method for measuring vibration of an object, comprising the steps of: positioning a proof mass relative to the object; connecting the object and the proof mass to a frame; providing an electrostrictive material between the proof mass and the object for initiating vibration thereto; and measuring the vibration of the object. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
