<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655898</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR APPLYING VASCULAR GRAFTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vascular graft (26) is held in a collapsed state on a pair of stents (20) which take the form of flexible sheets wound around spool (14). A sheath (34) is fitted closely around the graft (26) to hold it in its collapsed state and to retain the stents (20) in rolls (24) tightly wound on the spool (14). After the spool (14) has been inserted into a damaged vessel area (12) and advanced to the area of vascular damage, the sheath (34) is withdrawn. The stents (20) then unwind and expand to press the ends of the graft (26) against healthy parts of the vessel (10) on opposite sides of the damaged area (12). An alternative embodiment (Figs. 6 and 7) of the invention includes a Y-shaped graft (126) for application to a branched part of a vessel. In place of a sheath, control cords (36, 42, 48) with slip knots (38, 44, 50) are used to retain the stents (20) in their contracted conditions while the graft (126) is being positioned in the vessel (10a, 10b, 10c).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ULTRASONIC SENSING AND MONITOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ULTRASONIC SENSING AND MONITORING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEET JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINSTON THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEET, JOHN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINSTON, THOMAS, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR APPLYING VASCULAR GRAFTSField of the InventionThis invention relates in general to the implantation of vascular grafts and more particularly to a method and apparatus for applying and securing a graft in place in a damaged vessel.Background of the InventionThe walls of arteries and blood vessels can become damaged by disease or a number of other causes, including medical treatments such an angioplasty. One technique that has been used to repair damaged vessels and arteries is invasive surgery. Typically, incisions are made in the area of the damaged vessel, and it is resected and replaced either by a synthetic graft or by a healthy vessel that is removed from the patient at a different portion of his or her body. The graft is typically sutured in place. While this technique is often effective, it is often characterized by the trauma and other problems that are associated with major surgery. In the case of patients who are in poor health or in a weakened condition, invasive surgery is not always possible.As disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,078,726 to Kreamer, prior inventors have proposed holding vascular grafts in place through the use of expansible stents. The principal problems with the stents proposed in the Kreamer patent is that they are naturally contracted and must be positively expanded in order to be able to hold the graft in place. Consequently, a balloonSUBSTITUTESHEET 

catheter or other device must be inserted into the vessel to the area of the stents and expanded in order to expand the stents. The need to make use of a balloon catheter increases the difficulty involved in properly applying the graft. In addition, it increases the time that is needed for the procedure and requires highly skilled and experienced medical personnel. The stents are not always properly applied even then, and their ability to hold the graft in place suffers accordingly.Another drawback with the Kreamer device is that the stents have a fixed diameter in the expanded condition. Conse¬ quently, it is necessary for the stent to closely conform with the diameter of the blood vessel in order to properly perform its intended function. If the stent is too large, it can unduly expand the ealthy part of the vessel against which it presses. Conversely, a stent that is too small is unable to securely hold the graft in place. Thus, in order for the system proposed by Kreamer to function properly, the stents must be provided in a wide variety of sizes, and the proper size must be selected for each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Having thus described the invention, we claim:
1. Apparatus for treating a damaged portion of a vessel, comprising: a core; a pair of stents on said core at spaced apart loca¬ tions, each stent comprising a thin flexible sheet tightly wound around the core in a roll having contracted condition and urged to unwind to an expanded condition; a flexible graft extending around both stents in a collapsed state and being expansible against the vessel to span the damaged portion thereof; and means for maintaining said rolls in the contracted condition to permit the core to be inserted into the vessel, said maintaining means being selectively releasable to allow said rolls to assume the expanded conditions thereof to effect expansion of said graft against the vessel wall.
2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, including a tab on each of said sheets secure to said graft.
3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said maintaining means comprises a sheath sleeved around said graft and movable axially relative to said core to release said stents and allow said rolls to assume the expanded condition.
4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said core comprises an elongated spool, having an axial passage therethrough for receiving a guide wire to facilitate insertion of the spool into the vessel.
13
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said maintaining means comprises a sheath sleeved around said graft and movable axially relative to said core to release said stents and allow said rolls to assume the expanded condition.
6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said maintaining means comprises a sheath sleeved around said graft and movable axially relative to said core to release said stents and allow said rolls to assume the expanded condition.
7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said maintaining means comprises a control cord for each stent arranged to releasably secure the stent in the contracted condition and adapted to be pulled to release the stent.
8. Apparatus for treating a damaged portion of a vessel at _a location thereon where a main trunk of the vessel adjoins first and second branches thereof which cooperate with the main trunk to provide a Y configuration, said apparatus comprising: a core, a Y-shaped graft having a trunk portion and first and second branch portions extending from the trunk portion, said graft fitting on said core in a collapsed state and being expansible from the collapsed state to engage said trunk port in against the trunk of the vessel and said first and second branch portions against the respective first and second branches of the vessel;
14
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 a first stent on said core within said first branch portion of the graft; a second stent on said core within said second branch portion of the graft; a third stent on said core within said trunk portion of the graft, each of said stents comprising a thin flexible sheet arranged in a roll wound around the core in a contracted condition and each of said stents being urged to unwind from the collapsed condition to an expanded condition for pressing the graft against the vessel wall; spring means for urging said first and second branch portions of the graft to spread apart; means for retaining said first and second branch portions together to allow said core to be inserted into the vessel to the damaged portion thereof, said retaining means being releasable to allow said first and second branch portions to spread apart under the influence of said spring means for entry of said branch portions into the respective first and second branches of the vessel; and means for maintaining each stent in the contracted condition while the core is being inserted into the vessel, said maintaining means being selectively releasable to permit the stents to assume the expanded condition for holding the first and second branch portions of the graft against the respective first and
15
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 second branches of the vessel and for holding the trunk portion of the graft against the trunk of the vessel.
9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8, including a flange on said spool for each stent, said rolls engaging the respective flanges at one end.
10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein said maintaining means comprises a control cord for each stent having a slip knot connection with the corresponding flange for holding the corresponding roll in the contracted condition, each slip knot connection releasing the corresponding roll when the control cord is pulled.
11. A method of treating a damaged vessel wall, comprising the steps of: winding a plurality of flexible metal sheets into rolls carried on a core with each roll being urged to unwind from a contracted condition to an expanded condition; applying a graft over said rolls within the graft in a collapsed state but being expansible to span the damaged wall with the graft engaging the vessel wall; inserting said core into the vessel to the damaged wall with the rolls in the contracted condition and the graft in the collapsed state; and releasing said rolls into allow them to assume the expanded condition and thereby expand the graft and hold it against the vessel wall at a location to span the damaged vessel wall.
16
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 12. A method as set forth in claim 11, including the step of sleeving a sheath closely around the graft to hold the rolls in the contracted condition and maintain the graft in the collapsed state while the core is being inserted in the vessel, said releasing step comprising effecting relative axial movement between the sheath and core to displace the sheath from a position confining the rolls and graft.
13. A method as set forth in claim 11, wherein: the vessel includes a main trunk and a pair of branches extending from the trunk; and said graft includes a trunk portion for applica¬ tion to the trunk of the vessel and a pair of branch portions for application to the respective branches of the vessel.
14. A method as set forth in claim 13, including the steps of: holding said branch portions of the graft together while the core is being inserted in the vessel; and effecting spreading of said branch portions apart to allow them to enter the respective branches of the vessel prior to said releasing step.
17
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
