<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659899</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Metallurgical bonding of metals and/or ceramics.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22D1900	B22D1900	B22D1908	B22D1908	C04B3702	C04B3702	C23C406	C23C406	C23C412	C23C412	C23C600	C23C600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	C04B	C04B	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22D19	B22D19	B22D19	B22D19	C04B37	C04B37	C23C4	C23C4	C23C4	C23C4	C23C6	C23C6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of bonding a solid material (2) to 
a metal (8) cast thereagainst by means of a 

metallurgical diffusion bond (11), and the product 
produced thereby. The solid material (2) is coated 

with a latent exothermic coating (14) formed from at 
least two dissimilar elements, which coating (14) 

reacts exothermically to produce intermetallic phases 
at the surface of the solid material (2) when the 

metal (8) is cast thereagainst. The heat generated by 
the intermetallic-phase-formation reaction promotes 

the formation of the diffusion bond (11). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN MOTORS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEYERS DENNIS MELVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKKOLA PAUL HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG YUCONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEYERS, DENNIS MELVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKKOLA, PAUL HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, YUCONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the bonding of a 
cast metal to a solid metal or ceramic insert and the 
resulting product. More specifically, it is concerned 
with a method of providing a metallurgical diffusion 
bond between a metal or ceramic insert and a metal 
cast thereagainst as specified in the preamble of 
claim 1. The automotive industry, inter alia, is 
moving towards the use of more and more lightweight 
metals in order to reduce vehicle weight, improve fuel 
economy, and improve heat transfer in certain 
components (e.g., brake drums and engines). Brake drums were originally constructed 
entirely of iron or steel for strength, wear and 
friction reasons. Subsequently, composite brake drums 
were used wherein a cast iron or steel liner provided 
the friction surface and was backed up with an 
aluminium backing cast thereabout for reducing the 
weight and improving the heat dissipation of the brake 
drum. Similarly, some internal combustion (IC) 
engines have used iron/steel cylinder liners 
insert-moulded into cast aluminium blocks. The 
aluminium reduces the vehicle weight and improves 
engine cooling. The production of such composite castings 
with effective bonding between the insert (e.g., brake 
or engine liners) and the aluminium cast thereabout 
has been a continuing problem for many years. 
Mechanical bonding techniques have been used, but, due 
to the differences in thermal expansion between the 
insert and the cast metal, these techniques have 
encountered some difficulties. Hence, in the case of 
iron liners cast into aluminium, the aluminium tends 
to expand away from, and to separate from, the iron  
 
insert resulting in poor and often non-uniform heat 
transfer in the composite casting. The use of 
low-melting metal coatings (e.g., zinc and its alloys) 
on the insert prior to casting the metal thereagainst 
has achieved some success, but even this technique is 
not free from problems. Accordingly, it is the principle object of 
the present invention to simply produce a unique, 
permanent, metallurgical bond between a solid metal or 
ceramic insert and metal cast thereagainst via an 
intermediate intermetallic layer formed in situ during 
casting, the constituents of which diffuse into both 
the insert and the cast metal to produce a bond which 
resists separation of the cast metal from the insert 
even at elevated temperatures such as those typically 
achieved in brake drums and IC engines. This and 
other objects and advantages of the present invention 
will become more readily
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of bonding a surface (12) of a 
solid material (2) to a metal (8) cast there against 

at a temperature above the melting-point of said metal 
(8) and below the melting-point of said material (2), 

which method comprises depositing a coating (14) on 
said surface (12) prior to casting said metal (8) 

against said surface, characterised in that said 
coating (14) is a latent exothermic coating comprising 

at least two dissimilar elements capable of reacting 
at said casting temperature so as to exothermically 

produce intermetallic phases of said elements at said 
surface (12); and said metal (8) is cast against said 

surface (12) at said temperature so as to initiate 
said exothermic reaction and locally to generate 

sufficient heat at said surface (12) so as to diffuse 
the constituents of said intermetallic phases into 

said material (2) and said metal (8) and to form a 
metallurgical bond therebetween. 
A method according to claim 1, which 
includes the step of thermo-spraying said dissimilar 

elements onto said surface (12) to form said coating 
(14). 
A method according to claim 2, in which 
said dissimilar elements are concurrently sprayed onto 

said surface (12) from a single spray nozzle (16). 
A method according to claim 3, in which 
said thermo-spraying is effected by plasma-spraying. 
A method according to claim 3, in which 
said thermo-spraying is effected by arc-spraying. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
said dissimilar elements are selected from the group 

consisting of metals and silicon. 
A method according to claim 6, in which 
said metals in said exothermic coating (14) are 

 
selected from the group consisting of aluminium, 

copper, nickel, and titanium. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 

said material (2) is selected from the group 
consisting of iron, copper, titanium, nickel, or 

intermetallic compounds thereof and ceramic compounds, 
and said metal (8) cast thereagainst is selected from 

the group consisting of aluminium, magnesium, copper 
and iron. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
one of said dissimilar elements comprises said metal 

(8). 
A method according to claim 8, in which 
said solid intermetallic material is selected from the 

group consisting of nickel aluminide, titanium 
aluminide, and iron aluminide. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
said dissimilar elements are alternately deposited in 

layers onto said surface (12). 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
said intermetallic phases formed by said exothermic 

reaction are selected from the group consisting of 
copper aluminides, nickel aluminides, titanium 

aluminides, and nickel silicides. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
said solid material (2) comprises iron, said metal (8) 

cast thereagainst comprises aluminium, one of said 
dissimilar elements comprises aluminium, another of 

said dissimilar elements is selected from the group 
consisting of nickel, copper and titanium, and said 

intermetallic phases comprise aluminides. 
A method according to claim 13, in 
which said another dissimilar element is copper and 

said intermetallic phases are copper aluminides. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
a second coating is deposited on top of said 

exothermic coating (14), said second coating 
comprising a metal having a melting-point lower than 

the melting-point of said cast metal (8). 
A method according to claim 15, in 
which said cast metal (8) is aluminium and said second 

coating is selected from the group consisting of 
zinc-aluminium alloys, aluminium-magnesium alloys, 

aluminium-tin alloys, aluminium-zinc-tin alloys and 
aluminium-magnesium-silicon alloys. 
A method according to claim 1, in which 
a second latent exothermic coating is deposited on 

top of said latent exothermic coating (14), the second 
exothermic coating requiring a different temperature 

to initiate the intermetallic-phase-formation reaction 
than said latent exothermic coating (14) and the heat 

of reaction from the reaction of the said latent 
exothermic coating (14) initiates the reaction of the 

second latent exothermic coating. 
An article of manufacture comprising a 
first material (2) having a relatively high 

melting-point, a metal (8) bonded to said first 
material (2), said metal (8) having a melting-point 

less than the melting-point of said first material 
(2), and an intermediate zone (11) between said first 

material (2) and said metal (8) metallurgically 
bonding said material (2) and said metal (8) together, 

characterised in that said intermediate zone (11) is 
rich in intermetallic phases formed from two 

dissimilar elements at the centre of said zone (11) 
and is progressively more dilute with respect to 

constituents of said intermetallic phases in regions 
of said zone (11) more remote from said centre, 

 
resulting from diffusion of said constituents into 

said material (2) and said metal (8). 
An internal combustion engine having a 
block (6) comprising aluminium, and a combustion 

chamber (4) in said block (6) defined by a cylindrical 
liner (2), characterised in that there is a bonding 

zone (11) intermediate said liner (2) and said 
aluminium (8) metallurgically bonding said liner (2) 

to said aluminium (8), said intermediate zone (11) 
being rich in intermetallic phases formed from two 

dissimilar elements at the centre of said zone (11) 
and being progressively more dilute with respect to 

constituents of said intermetallic phases in regions 
of said zone (11) more remote from said centre, 

resulting from diffusion of said constituents into 
said liner (2) and said aluminium (8). 
An internal combustion engine as 
claimed in claim 19, in which said intermetallic 

phases are copper aluminides. 
An internal combustion engine according 
to claim 20, in which the composition of said liner 

(2) is selected from the group consisting of iron, 
nickel, an intermetallic phase and reinforced 

aluminium composites having a higher melting-point 
than the aluminium (8) constituting said block (6). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
