<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641058</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Power source supplying method and device of electronic apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J700	G01R3136	H02J700	H02J906	G01R3136	H02J906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	G01R	H02J	H02J	G01R	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J7	G01R31	H02J7	H02J9	G01R31	H02J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power supplying method of an electronic apparatus and its electronic apparatus 
which can be continuously used for a long time by using both of an internal battery and an 

external battery. A power source is supplied to a video camera by an internal battery (25) 
and an external battery (13). A voltage of the internal battery (25) is detected by resistors 

(27) and (35) and a comparator (31). A voltage of the external battery (13) is detected by 
resistors (13a) and (13b). In the case where the external battery (13) is driven and the 

internal battery (25) is equal to or larger than a predetermined voltage, the driving of the 
external battery (13) is stopped. At the same time, the internal battery (25) is driven. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISHIMA KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISHIMA, KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a power source supplying method of an
electronic apparatus which is suitable when it is used in a technical field of a video
camera or the like, and to a power source supplying device of an electronic apparatus to
which the power source supplying method is applied.A video camera in which a built-in battery and an externally attached battery
are driven as power sources has been known. In such a built-in battery in the video
camera, there is no battery which is used for a long time in order to reduce the size of the
apparatus.Furthermore, other electronic apparatus are known in which a main power source
and an auxiliary power source are used in combination in order to ensure the supply of
power to the electronic apparatus, see for example EP-A-0 238 803 and DE-A-3
908 324. In DE-A-3 908 324, power is supplied from the main power source until its
voltage level drops below a certain threshold level, and then the auxiliary source is used
to provide power to the electronic apparatus.
In EP-A-0 238 803 a main power source
is connected via a circuit to a load which is connected to
an auxiliary power source. When the main power supply
voltage falls below the auxiliary power supply voltage the
circuit isolates the main power supply from the load.It is possible to photograph for a long time by using both of the built-in battery
and the externally attached battery. In this case, the externally attached battery is driven
in preference to the built-in battery. Due to this, even if an enough amount of capacity
of the built-in battery remains, the externally attached battery is driven. On the other
hand, in order to drive a video camera by the built-in battery after the externally
attached battery was used, the externally attached battery must be detached.Therefore, it is an object of the invention to provide a power source supplying
method of an electronic apparatus such as a video camera or the like in which a built-in
battery and an externally attached battery are efficiently driven and which can be used
for a long time, and to provide a power source supplying device of an electronic
apparatus to which the power supplying method is applied.According to the invention, there is provided a power source supplying method
of an electronic apparatus having a main body portion to which a power source voltage is
supplied, a built-in battery, and an externally attached battery; characterized in that a
voltage of said built-in battery is detected by detecting means and in the case where the
dete
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power source supplying method of an electronic apparatus having a main
body portion to which a power source voltage is supplied, a built-in battery (25), and an

externally attached battery (13);

   characterized in that a voltage of said built-in battery is detected by detecting
means (26, 31, 32, 34), and in the case where the detected voltage of said built-in battery (25)

is equal to or larger than a predetermined value and said externally attached battery (13)
is driving the power source voltage, the driving by said externally attached battery (13) is interrupted and the power

source voltage is supplied from the built-in battery (25) to said main body portion.
A power source supplying method according to claim 1, wherein said main
body portion has a display section (40) for performing a display indicating which one of

said built-in battery (25) and said externally attached battery (13) is driving the power source voltage.
A power source supplying method according to claim 2, wherein the display
section of said main body portion is a view finder (40).
A power source supplying method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said
display section (40) displays not only the battery driving the power source voltage but also a residual amount of said

battery.
A power source supplying method according to any previous claim, wherein
when the power supply to said main body portion is switched from either one of said

built-in battery (25) and said externally attached battery (13) to the other, a period of
time during which no power source is supplied from either of said batteries to said main

body portion is set and, in said period of time, a power source is supplied to the
main body portion from a

capacitor (17) which has been charged before said switching operation is executed.
A power source supplying method according to claim 5, wherein a mode in
which said main body portion needs a large electric power is stored by memory means

(15) and when said mode is selected by operating means, the switching operation of said
batteries is prohibited. 
A power source supplying method according to claim 6, wherein a control
signal for said switching operation is generated from a main body side of said electronic

apparatus.
A power source supplying method according to any previous claim, wherein a
state, in which a battery for supplying said power source voltage to said main body portion

is switched from either one of said built-in battery (25) and said externally attached
battery (13) to the other one, is stored by memory means (15) and in the case where said

switching state has been stored by said memory means (15) even if a voltage of the other
battery is dropped, the switching to said either one battery is prohibited.
A power source supplying method according to claim 8, wherein the memory of
the switching state by said memory means (15) is reset by the exchange of said either one

battery.
A power source supplying device of an electronic apparatus having a main body
portion to which a power source voltage is supplied, a built-in battery (25), and an

externally attached battery (13);

   characterized in that there are provided detecting means (26, 31, 32, 34) for detecting
a voltage of said built-in battery (25) and control means (15,34) adapted, in the case

where a detected voltage of said built-in battery (25) is equal to or larger than a
predetermined value and said externally attached battery (13) is driving the power source voltage, to cause the

driving by said externally attached battery (13) to be interrupted and the power source
voltage to be supplied from the built-in battery (25) to said main body portion.
A power source supplying device according to claim 10, wherein said main
body portion has a display section (40) for performing a display indicating which one of

said built-in battery (25) and said externally attached battery (13) is driving the power source voltage.
A power source supplying device according to claim 11, wherein the display
section of said main body portion is a view finder (40).
A power source supplying device according to claim 11 or 12, wherein said
display section (40) displays not only the battery driving the power source voltage but also a residual amount of said

battery. 
A power source supplying device according to any of claims 10 to 13, wherein
when the power supply to said main body portion is switched from either one of said

built-in battery (25) and said externally attached battery (13) to the other, a period of
time during which no power source is supplied from either of said batteries to said main

body portion is set and, in said period of time, a power source is supplied to the
main body portion from a

capacitor (17) which has been charged before said switching operation is executed.
A power source supplying device according to claim 14, wherein a mode in
which said main body portion needs a large electric power is stored by memory means

(15) and when said mode is selected by operating means, the switching operation of said
batteries is prohibited.
A power source supplying device according to claim 15, wherein a control
signal for said switching operation is generated from a main body side of said electronic

apparatus.
A power source supplying device according to any of claims 10 to 16, wherein a
state, in which a battery for supplying said power source voltage to said main body portion

is switched from either one of said built-in battery (25) and said externally attached
battery (13) to the other one, is stored by memory means (15) and in the case where said

switching state has been stored by said memory means (15) even if a voltage of the other
battery is dropped, the switching to said either one battery is prohibited.
A power source supplying device according to claim 17, wherein the memory of
the switching state by said memory means (15) is reset by the exchange of said either one

battery.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
