<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656849</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED HANDTRUCK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62B100	B62B114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62B	B62B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62B1	B62B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved handtruck having an unloader mechanism for assisting in the removal of cargo from the handtruck. The unloader mechanism utilizes a cargo support (28) pivotally mounted at the lower end of the handtruck. The cargo support (28) is designed so that it can be maintained in a latched position when transporting cargo and can be unlatched to pivot away from the handtruck when unloading cargo. A pusher structure (30) may be operatively connected to said cargo support to facilitate the removal of cargo from said cargo support. The pivot action of the cargo support causes a force to be exerted on the cargo by the pusher structure which urges such cargo down an inclined plane formed by the cargo support, thereby removing the cargo from the handtruck.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILLIAMSON GARY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILLIAMSON, GARY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMSON GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMSON, GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED HANDTRUCK Background of InventionOrdinary handtrucks suffer from a common problem relating to the removal of cargo once the handtruck has reached its destination. In particular, when it is desired to remove cargo from a handtruck, the cargo must somehow be lifted or slipped off of the handtruck base plate. In the case of heavy cargo, the frictional forces between the cargo and the base plate will in some cases cause difficulty in sliding the cargo off the plate. When this occurs a second worker may be required to lift or slide the cargo away from the handtruck to release the base plate and allow the handtruck to be removed from beneath the cargo. Even when a second worker is not necessary to remove the cargo, the handtruck must commonly be rocked from side to side to allow its base plate to slide out from beneath the cargo. This slows the unloading operation and creates additional work for the handtruck user.Where cargo is light in weight, a problem may also arise in its removal from the handtruck. This can occur where the cargo is not heavy enough to allow the portion of the cargo extending beyond the base plate to generate adequate frictional force against the ground to cause the cargo to remain stationary while the handtruck base plate is pulled out from underneath. In such cases the cargo must be manually lifted or pushed off of the handtruck.In addition, ordinary handtrucks suffer from a common problem which arises when it is desired to place cargo directly adjacent to a wall. In order to remove the 

handtruck from beneath cargo, the top portion of the handtruck is commonly angled inwardly toward the cargo while being pulled away to assist cargo in sliding off the handtruck base. However, in order to angle the handtruck in this manner, the cargo cannot be placed directly adjacent to the wall because the top portion of tall cargo will prevent the handtruck from being angled toward the wall. Thus, it is necessary to have space between the wall and the cargo to allow the handtruck to be tilted forward and removed. The prior art in handtruck unloader mechanisms has included various mechanisms adopted to solve the above stated problems. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,355,941 and 3,844,431. However, these mechanisms typically only provide means to push cargo off the handtruck base plate. A significant effort is required to push the cargo off the base plate. In addition, the prior art in some cases has involved complex pusher mechanisms which necessarily increase the cost to manufacture
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS I Claim:
1. An improved handtruck comprised of: an elongated frame; wheels mounted adjacent to an end of said frame; an open-sided cargo support pivotally mounted at the end of said frame adjacent to said wheels, said open-sided cargo support formed from a base plate and a pusher structure mounted substantially perpendicular to said base plate and adjacent to said frame, pivoting of said cargo support occurring substantially at the intersection of said base plate and said pusher structure; and latching means for maintaining said cargo support in a fixed position relative to the frame when the cargo is transported such that said base plate is substantially perpendicular to the elongated frame to support cargo; said latching means capable of being unlatched to allow said cargo support to pivot with respect to said frame; whereby cargo is removed from said cargo support when an upper portion of said pusher structure, combined with said pivoting, forces cargo down a downwardly and forwardly inclined plane formed by said base plate when the handtruck is angled downwardly away from the cargo.
2. The handtruck of claim 1, wherein said latching means is comprised of a control rod mounted to said frame with a handle formed at the upper end of said control rod, the control rod being maintained in position by a retaining spring bearing on a spring plate attached to said control rod, said retaining spring causing a tip of said control rod 


to engage a latch plate mounted on the pusher structure and thereby preventing said cargo plate from pivoting with respect to said frame.
3. The handtruck of claim 1, wherein said latching means is comprised of a control rod slidably mounted on a lower portion of said frame, said control rod operated by a foot pedal mounted to a bottom portion of said frame and upwardly biased by a retaining spring, said retaining spring causing a tip of said control rod to engage a latch plate mounted on a rear face of the pusher structure and thereby lockingly maintaining said cargo support in a stationary position with respect to said frame when cargo is transported, and capable of unlatching said cargo support by said foot pedal being depressed. 4. The handtruck of claim 1, wherein said pusher structure includes retaining plates which extend laterally from the pusher structure and prevent it from rotating beyond a plane defined by said frame.
5. The handtruck of Claim 1, wherein said pusher structure is formed from a flat plate attached along a lower edge to said base plate.
6. The handtruck of claim 1, wherein said pusher structure is formed from a substantially U shaped metal tube attached at each end to the base plate. 7. The handtruck of claim 1, wherein an upper edge of said pusher structure includes means for reducing friction between the pusher structure and cargo during unloading operations.
8. The handtruck of Claim 7, wherein said pusher 


structure has rollers mounted on its upper edge to reduce friction and prevent marring of the surface of cargo being forced off the cargo support.
9. The handtruck of claim 7, wherein said means for reducing friction is a strip of low-friction material fixed to the surface of the pusher structure on an upper edge.
10. The handtruck of claim 1, wherein a height of the pusher structure and a length of the base plate may be varied relative to one another to minimize the effort required by a user to unload a specific type of cargo.
11. The handtruck of claim 10, wherein the height of the pusher structure is greater than the length of the base plate to allow cargo to be more rapidly removed from the cargo support. 12. The handtruck of Claim 1, having a frame handle at an end of said elongated frame opposite to the end where said cargo support is mounted.
13. The handtruck of claim 12, wherein a U shaped loop handle is provided, said loop handle being attached at one end to said frame handle and at an opposite end to a frame support member, such that said loop handle can be grasped while cargo is resting against the frame handle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
