<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643588</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR CLEANING OCULAR PROSTHESES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L1200	A61L1206	A61L1212	G02C1300	G02C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L12	A61L12	A61L12	G02C13	G02C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A small compressor (13) pumps air through a closed chamber (28) in which the air is exposed to ultraviolet radiation from a u.v. lamp (31) to transform some of the oxygene to ozone. The resulting ozone-containing gas is directed into a suitable aqueous solution in a closed container (38), either through constricted tubing (34) or into a section of the container bounded by diffusing means (68), to establish movement of the ozone-containing solution over the surfaces of the contact lenses (51, 52) to remove proteinaceous material therefrom and to disinfect the lenses by chemical and hydrodynamic action. Gas that has passed through the solution and into the space in the container above the surface of the solution is then removed from the container and passed through a filter (62) that traps any remaining ozone.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARNES RONALD L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARNES, RONALD L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNES RONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNES, RONALD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR CLEANING OCULAR PROSTHESESBackground of the InventionField of the Invention:This invention relates to the removal of undesired matter from ocular prostheses by means of ozone in a liquid solution in which the prostheses are immersed. In particu¬ lar, it relates to apparatus and a process for cleaning and disinfecting prostheses by generating ozone-containing air and then introducing the ozone-containing air into a suitable liquid solution to disinfect the solution and the prostheses immersed therein.For clarity, the terms "contact lenses", or simply "lenses", will be used in the following description and claims to mean all forms of ocular prostheses. The Prior Art:It has been proposed heretofore to pump air through a tubular structure containing an ion-discharge tube, which is a high-voltage corona-discharge device, to transform some of the oxygen in the air into ozone. The ozonized air from the ion discharge tube is then passed into a container by means of a capillary tube inserted vertically through the center of the lid of the container and extending down into a quantity of an isotonic solution in the container to produce ozone- containing bubbles in the solution. A receptacle to hold contact lenses is suspended in the container, and the isotonic solution, in which some of the ozone is also dissolved, loosens proteinaceous deposits on the surface of the lenses over a period of 30 minutes to 2 hours. However, the energy in such discharge devices not only breaks the bond of molecu- lar 02 into O but is strong enough to break down molecular nitrogen N2 into N, resulting in the undesirable production of nitric acid.U.S. Patent 3,852,032 to Urbach describes a process and apparatus for sterilizing contact lenses that have ultraviolet stabilizers. The lenses are immersed in a shallow container of saline solution in an enclosure and are subjected to radia¬ tion from ultraviolet light sources. There is no attempt to produce ozone nor to stir the saline solution to assist in dislodging contaminants from the lenses.SUBSTITUTE SftsET 

 In U.S. Patent 4,063,890 Baron describes asepticiza- tion of contact lenses by exposing them, in the absence of ozone, to ultraviolet light having a wavelength that is preferably longer than 221 nm. U. S. Patent 5,144,144 to Borovsky discloses a system in which contact lenses are immersed in a solution that is disinfected by being subjected to irradiation by ultraviolet light. The lenses are supposed to be cleaned by the disin¬ fected solution, not by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for cleaning and disinfecting contact lenses, said apparatus comprising: (a) an ozone generation chamber; (b) an ultraviolet generation lamp in the chamber to generate radiation having a wavelength shorter than about 200 nm. and longer than about 150 nm. ; (c) pressure means to force air through the ozone generation chamber to be exposed to ultraviolet radiation from the lamp to produce pressurized ozonized air; (d) a reaction chamber comprising support means to support the contact lenses at a first location; (e) an isotonic solution partially filling the reaction chamber sufficiently to cover the contact lenses; (f) insertion means connected to the ozone gene- ration chamber to receive pressurized ozonized air therefrom and connected to the reaction chamber to direct the pressurized ozonized air into the reaction chamber and into the solution to sterilize the solution and to produce movement thereof over the surfaces of the contact lenses to allow the ozone in the moving solution to clean and disinfect the lenses; and (g) exhaust means communicating with the reaction chamber and including entrance means above the solution to allow gas that has passed through the solution to enter the entrance means to escape from the reaction chamber. 2. The apparatus in claim 1 in which the insertion means comprise a hollow tube having an internal cross- sectional area equal to that of a hypodermic needle between about 18-gauge and 24-gauge. 3. The apparatus in claim 2 in which the internal cross-sectional area of the hollow tube is substantially equal to that of a 22-gauge hypodermic needle. 4. The apparatus in claim 1 in which the insertion means comprise a pair of hollow needles, each having a diameter equal to that of a hypodermic needle between about 20-gauge and 24-gauge.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 5. The apparatus in claim 1 in which the reaction chamber comprises: (a) bottom and side wall means; (b) closure means attachable liquid-tight to the side wall means, the support means supporting the contact lenses at a first location higher than the bottom wall means, the insertion means terminating in the solution at a second location lower than the first location and injecting the ozonized air toward a third location lower than the second location to cause the pressurized, ozxonized air to circulate in the isotonic solution. 6. The apparatus in claim 5 in which the insertion means comprises a hollow tube extending through the side wall means at a first wall location and directed at an angle toward the bottom wall means. 7. The apparatus in claim 5 comprising capillary means passing through the side wall means at a second wall location and aimed toward a region above the second wall location and extending above the solution. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 in which the insertion means comprises a first hollow tube having a passage therethrough substantially equal in cross-sectional area to that of a hypodermic needle having a diameter between about 18-gauge and 24-gauge, and the capillary means comprise a second hollow tube having a passage therethrough with a cross- sectional area at least substantially as great as that of the first needle. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the first wall location is on the same side of the reaction chamber as the second wall location and on the opposite side of the reaction chamber from the ozone generation chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 5 comprising gas and liquid filter means below the reaction chamber, the exhaust means being connected to the filter means to remove ozone remaining in the gas from the reaction chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 in which the filter means comprises a bed of comminuted charcoal.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 12. The apparatus of claim 5 comprising diffusing means in the reaction chamber between a first part of the reaction chamber and a second part thereof containing the support means supporting the lenses. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 in which the diffusing means comprises plate means having passageways therethrough. 14. the apparatus of claim 13 in which all of the pas- sageways have diameters too small to pass a spherical object that has a diameter greater than 5 microns. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 in which the plate means is adjacent the bottom wall means and below the location of the support means. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 in which the vessel holding the bed of filter material comprises an open drain tube extending upwardly through the bottom of the vessel and having an open upper end above the surface of the bed of filter material. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the means to force the gas through the ozone generating chamber comprises a compressor. 18. Apparatus for cleaning surfaces of contact lenses, said apparatus comprising: (a) an ozone generation chamber with an ultraviolet generation lamp therein to generate ultraviolet radiation having wavelengths shorter than about 200 nm. and longer than about 150 nm. ; (b) pumping means to force the air through the ozone generation chamber to be exposed to the ultraviolet radiation from the lamp to produce ozonized air; (c) a reaction chamber comprising a bottom surface and containing an isotonic solution up to a predetermined level above the bottom surface; (d) support means with multiple openings there- through to support contact lenses in a position in the reac- tion chamber to be washed by the moving solution to allow the ozone in the solution to react with contaminants on the sur- faces of the contact lenses to remove those contaminants
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


therefrom, the chamber having a removable closure that can be opened to insert and remove contact lenses and can be closed fluid-tight when the lenses are inside the chamber; (e) first capillary means extending through a first location in a first wall of the reaction chamber at an acute angle to a second wall of the reaction chamber and away from the contact lenses to inject a stream of the ozonized air bubbles directly into the solution in the reaction chamber to produce movement of the solution through the openings in the support means and over the surfaces of the contact lenses to remove contaminants on those surface; and (f) exhaust means passing through a second wall location above the predetermined level in the reaction chamber to allow gas emerging from the solution to escape from the reaction chamber. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 comprising, in addition, means connected to the ozone generation chamber to receive ozonized air therefrom at a second predetermined level and connected to the first capillary means to supply the ozonized air to the reaction chamber. 20. The method of removing contaminants from the surfaces of contact lenses, said method comprising the steps of: (a) generating ozone by photo-disassociation of oxygen in an oxygen-containing gas to produce an ozonized air; (b) directing a concentrated jet of the ozonized air into an isotonic solution partially filling a closed container containing the contact lenses to transform the solution into an ozone-containing solution and to establish movement of the ozone-containing solution to wash the surfaces of the contact lenses to remove contaminants therefrom; and (c) removing from the container gas that has passed through the solution.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
