<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627048</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITE RADIAL-AXIAL PLAIN BEARING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C4300	F16C3304	F16C1710	F16C4302	F16C1700	F16C3304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C43	F16C33	F16C17	F16C43	F16C17	F16C33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a composite radial-axial plain bearing (1) there is at least one retaining stub (5) on the inner edge of the axial part of the bearing to which is allocated at least one spreader pin (6). In the edge region (7) of the radial part of the bearing there are recesses (13 and 18) for the retaining stub and the spreader pin respectively, taking the form of an engagement niche (8), at least in an end region, which is axially covered by a hook-shaped projection (9). When the axial part of the bearing (2) is fitted on the radial part (1), the retaining stub (5) must be laid in the recess (23) and the spreader pin (6) in the recess (18), whereupon the spreader pin (6) must be fitted with permanent deformation into the engagement niche (8) behind the hook-shaped projection (9). This method of securing provides for a defined limited degree of mutual movement of the radial (3) and the axial (2) parts of the bearing but still ensures that both parts are permanently and securely held together. In another embodiment, the spreader pins are arranged at a distance from the retaining stubs and engage in their own spreader pin recesses.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLYCO METALL WERKE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLYCO-METALL-WERKE GLYCO B.V. 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANDT HORST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANDT, HORST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Composite radial-axial plain bearing comprising a 
radial part (3) in the form of a shell or bush and a 

part-annular axial part (2) or a set of part-annular 
axial parts situated on one or both sides of the radial 

part, wherein every axial part has on its inner 
peripheral rim at least two holding stubs each of which 

engages into a respective recess (13) situated in the 
region of the arcuate or circular rim of the radial part, 

wherein at least one holding stub acting as a retaining 
stub is flanked with at least one spreader pin (6) which 

engages into an indentation (8) formed in the associated 
retaining recess of the radial part, characterised in 

that the holdning stubs (5) project radially inwardly at 
a mutually opposite angular distance, and that the 

indentation (8) is covered in axial direction of the 
radial part (3) by a hook-shaped projection (9) formed on 

the rim of the retaining recess (13). 
A plain bearing according to Claim 1, characterised 
in that the spreader pin or pins (6) is/are arranged in 

peripheral direction of the axial part (2) of the bearing 
next to the retaining stub (5) and is/are separated along 

its/their whole radial length by a cut or notch from the 
retaining notch (5). 
Plain bearing according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the axial part (2) comprises one or 

more holding stubs as guiding stubs (4) without spreader 
pins, with each of which is associated a receiving hole 

(11) which is at least partially, preferably fully 
axially closed and is made on the rim (7) of the radial 

part (3). 
Plain bearing according to Claim 3, characterised in 
that every axial part (2) has in the apex region of its  

 
radial inner edge a guiding stub (4) and on both sides, 

preferably at the same angular distance, a retaining stub 
(5), wherein every retaining stub (5) is at least on the 

side facing away from the guiding stub (4) flanked by a 
spreader pin (6). 
Plain bearing according to Claim 4, characterised in 
that the axial part (2) of the bearing has in the apex 

region of its radial inner edge a support rim (15) 
projecting radially inwardly with respect to the inner 

edge, the support edge extending on both sides of the 
guiding stub (4). 
Plain bearing according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the axial part (2) has on one side 

of its apex region, at an angular distance therefrom a 
guiding stub (4), and on the other side of the apex 

region at an angular distance a retaining stub (5). 
Plain bearing according to Claims 1 and 2, 
characterised in that the axial part (2) has on both 

sides, in each case at an angular distance from its apex 
region, a retaining stub (5), each of which is associated 

with one or two spreader pins (6). 
Plain bearing according to Claim 6 or 7, 
characterised in that each retaining stub (5) is 

associated with a spreader pin (6) which is preferably 
arranged on the side of the retaining stub (5) facing 

away from the apex region of the axial part (2). 
Plain bearing according to Claim 6 or 7, 
characterised in that the retaining stub (5) is flanked 

on both sides by a spreader pin (6), each of the spreader 
pins engaging in a deflected state in an engagement niche 

(8) of the retaining recess (13) which receives the 
retaining stub (5).  

 
Composite radial-axial plain bearing comprising a 
radial part in the form of a shell or bush and a part-annular 

axial part or a set of part-annular axial parts 
situated on one or both sides of the radial part, wherein 

every axial part has on its inner peripheral rim at least 
two holding stubs, projecting inwardly at a mutual 

angular distance, each of which engages into a respective 
recess situated in the region of the arcuate or circular 

rim of the radial part, and also at least one spreader 
pin, characterised in that the holding stubs (5) project 

radially inwardly at a mutually opposite angular 
distance, that the spreader pin (6) is spaced from the 

holding stub (5) and engages into its own recess (18) in 
the region of the arcuate or circular rim (7) of the 

radial part (3), wherein the recess (18) for the spreader 
pin includes an indentation which is covered in axial 

direction of the radial part (3) by a hook-shaped 
projection (9) formed on the rim of the recess (18) for 

the spreader pin. 
Plain bearing according to Claim 10, characterised 
in that the spreader pin (6) is situated in its recess 

(18) with a clearance (19) which is greater than that of 
the holding stub (5) in the retaining recess (13) 

associated therewith. 
Plain bearing according to Claim 10 or 11, 
characterised in that the spreader pin or pins (6) are 

arranged on one or both sides of the holding stub (5) 
spaced therefrom. 
Plain bearing according to any one of Claims 10 to 
12, characterised in that the axial part (2) of the 

bearing comprises one or more holding stubs as guiding 
stubs (4) for each of which is provided on the rim (7) of 

the radial part (3) of the bearing a receiving hole (11) 
which is at least partly but preferably fully axially  

 
closed
. 
Plain bearing according to Claim 13, characterised 
in that every axial part (2) has in the apex region of 

its radial inner edge a guiding stub (4) and on both 
sides, preferably at the same angular distance, a holding 

stub (5), wherein every holding stub (5) has, at least on 
the side facing away from the guiding stub (4), a 

spreader pin (6) which is spaced therefrom. 
Plain bearing according to Claim 14, characterised 
in that the axial part (2) is in the apex region of its 

inner edge provided with a support rim (15) projecting 
radially inwardly with respect to the inner edge, the 

support rim extending on both sides of the guiding stub 
(4). 
Plain bearing according to any one of Claims 10 to 
15, characterised in that the axial part (2) has, on one 

side of its apex region, at an angular distance 
therefrom, a guiding stub (4) and on the other side of 

the apex region, at an angular distance, a holding stub 
(5), wherein at least one spreader pin (6) is provided 

spaced from the holding stub (4,5). 
Plain bearing according to any one of Claims 10 to 
12, characterised in that the axial part (2) has on both 

sides, in each case at an angular distance from its apex 
region, a holding stub (5) with which is/are associated 

one or two spreader pin(s) (6). 
Plain bearing according to any one of Claim 10 to 
17, characterised in that two spreader pins (6) engage in 

the recess (18) for spreader pins, each spreader pin (6) 
engageing in deflected state in its own engagement niche 

(8). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
