<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621838</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WARNING SYSTEM DISTINGUISHING WHEEL SKIDDING AND WHEEL SLIPPING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R1602	B60R1602	B60R16023	B60R16023	B60T888	B60T888	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60T	B60T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R16	B60R16	B60R16	B60R16	B60T8	B60T8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEXEL TORSEN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEXEL TORSEN INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAY KENNETH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSTERTAG STEVEN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAY, KENNETH, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSTERTAG, STEVEN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLEWARNING SYSTEM DISTINGUISHING WHEEL SltlDDING AND WHEEL SLIPPINGTECHNICAL FIELDThe invention relates to the field of vehicle traction systems and, in particular, to such systems that respond to the detection of a loss of traction with a driver warning signal.BACKGROUNDMost traction control systems are designed to limit either wheel skidding or wheel slipping. The systems that limit wheel skidding help to decelerate vehicles by preventing wheels from rotating slower than required for maintaining adhesion with a traction surface, and the systems that limit wheel slipping help to accelerate vehicles by preventing drive wheels from rotating faster than required for maintaining the same adhesion. However,, some more complicated traction systems are designed to limit both wheel skidding and wheel slipping.Such traction control technology has been available for many years, and the advantages of this technology are widely known. Nevertheless, most automobiles are. manufactured without electronic traction control systems for limiting either wheel skidding or wheel slipping, and a much smaller percentage of automobiles are manufactured to limit both. One reason for this may be the high cost of manufacturing traction control systems to operate with a degree of reliability required to supersede driver control over a vehicle. For instance, systems for limiting wheel skidding periodically take control over vehicle brakes. 

Systems for limiting wheel slipping periodically take control over either engine output power or its distribution to the drive wheels.Although drivers may not be capable of responding as rapidly or effectively as advanced traction control systems to changes in vehicle operating conditions, at least some improvement to driving performance may be possible by alerting drivers to the detection of an impending loss of traction. This information about an impending loss of traction is available from traction control technology at a small fraction of the cost of a complete traction control system, because the driver retains responsibility for taking remedial action.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONThe invention involves a warning system for alerting a driver about two different types of traction losses, namely, wheel skidding and wheel slipping. Once either of the two types of traction losses are detected, a warning device emits one of two sensorially distinguishable signals for eliciting different responses from the driver to the detection of wheel skidding or wheel slipping.The correct driver response to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A warning system for alerting a vehicle driver to different types of traction losses comprising: a first sensing circuit for detecting a loss of adhesion by a vehicle wheel with respect to a relatively moving traction surface; a second sensing circuit for detecting application of a vehicle brake; a logic circuit for combining sensor signals from said first and second sensing circuits and for producing a first command signal indicative of the detection of both the loss of adhesion by said vehicle wheel and the application of said vehicle brake and a second command signal indicative of the detection of the loss of adhesion by said vehicle wheel but not the application of said vehicle brake; a first indicator responsive to the first command signal of said logic circuit for alerting the vehicle driver to wheel skidding; and a second indicator responsive to the second command signal of said logic circuit for alerting the vehicle driver to wheel slipping.
2. The warning system of claim 1 in which said first and second indicators produce respective warning signals that are sensorially distinguishable for eliciting different responses from the vehicle driver.
3. The warning system of claim 2 in which said respective warning signals are sensorially distinguishable by the driver without changing a driver's line of sight away from the relatively moving traction surface.
4. The warning system of claim 3 in which said respective warning signals are audible. 


 5. The warning system of claim 4 in which one of said warning signals produced by the first indicator is a sound suggestive of a skidding wheel.
6. The warning system of claim 5 in which one of said warning signals produced by the second indicator is a sound suggestive of a slipping wheel.
7. The warning system of claim 1 in which said first sensing circuit includes a sensor for detecting a pronounced vibration induced by said vehicle wheel having lost adhesion with respect to the relatively moving traction surface.
8. The warning system of claim 7 in which the pronounced vibration detected by said sensor is induced by both wheel skidding and wheel slipping.
9. The warning system of claim 8 in which said first sensing circuit includes a filter for isolating a range of frequencies of the pronounced vibration.
10. The warning system of claim 9 in which said first sensing circuit also includes a level detector for measuring an amplitude of the isolated frequency range and a comparator for comparing the amplitude of the isolated frequency range with a threshold to detect a loss of adhesion by said vehicle wheel.
11. A system for warning a vehicle driver of both wheel skidding and wheel slipping comprising: a first sensing circuit for detecting a pronounced vibration induced by a vehicle wheel having lost adhesion with respect to a relatively moving traction surface; a second sensing circuit for detecting application of a vehicle brake; a logic circuit combining outputs of said first and second sensing circuits for distinguishing between a loss of 


wheel adhesion due to wheel skidding and a loss of wheel adhesion due to wheel slipping; and a warning device for producing sensorially distinguishable warning signals for eliciting different responses from the vehicle driver in response to the detection of wheel skidding and wheel slipping.
12. The system of claim 11 in which said first sensing circuit includes a sensor for monitoring a vehicle drive line for the pronounced vibration.
13. The system of claim 12 in which said first sensing circuit includes a filter for isolating a range of frequencies of the pronounced vibration.
14. The system of claim 13 in which said first sensing circuit includes a level detector for measuring an amplitude of the isolated frequency range and a comparator for comparing the amplitude of the isolated frequency range with a threshold to detect the loss of adhesion by said vehicle wheel.
15. The system of claim 11 in which said warning signals are sensorially distinguishable by the driver without changing a driver's line of sight away from the relatively moving traction surface.
16. The system of claim 15 in which said warning signals are audible.
17. The system of claim 16 in which one of said warning signals is a sound suggestive of a skidding wheel and the other of said warning signals is a sound suggestive of a slipping wheel.
18. The system of claim 11 in which wheel skidding is distinguished by the detection of both the loss of adhesion by a vehicle wheel and the application of a vehicle brake and wheel slipping is distinguished by the detection of the loss 


of adhesion by a vehicle wheel but not the application of a vehicle brake.
19. A method of alerting a vehicle driver to different types of traction losses comprising the steps of: sensing vehicle operating conditions with a first sensing circuit for detecting a loss of adhesion by a vehicle wheel with respect to a relatively moving traction surface; sensing vehicle operating conditions with a second sensing circuit for detecting application of a vehicle brake; combining outputs of said first and second sensing circuits in a logic circuit for distinguishing between a loss of wheel adhesion due to wheel skidding and a loss of wheel adhesion due to wheel slipping; and producing sensorially distinguishable warning signals for eliciting different responses from the vehicle driver to the detection of wheel skidding and wheel slipping.
20. The method of claim 19 in which said step of combining outputs includes distinguishing wheel skidding by the detection of both the loss of adhesion by said vehicle wheel and the application of said vehicle brake and distinguishing wheel slipping by the detection of the loss of adhesion by said vehicle wheel but not the application of said vehicle brake.
21. The method of claim 20 in which said step of producing warning signals includes producing warning signals that are sensorially distinguishable by the driver without changing a driver's line of sight away from the relatively moving traction surface.
22. The method of claim 21 in which said step of producing warning signals includes producing warning signals that are suggestive of wheel skidding and wheel slipping.
23. The method of claim 22 in which said step of producing warning signals includes producing one of the warning signals as a sound suggestive of a skidding wheel and 


the other of the warning signals as a sound suggestive of a slipping wheel.
24. The method of claim 19 in which said step of sensing vehicle operating conditions with said first sensing circuit includes monitoring a vehicle drive line for the pronounced vibration.
25. The method of claim 24 in which said step of sensing vehicle operating conditions with said first sensing circuit includes isolating a range of frequencies of the pronounced vibration.
26. The method of claim 25 in which said step of sensing vehicle operating conditions with said first sensing circuit includes measuring an amplitude of the isolated frequency range and comparing the amplitude of the isolated frequency range with a threshold to detect the loss of adhesion by a vehicle wheel.
27. The method of claim 20 in which said step of sensing vehicle operating conditions with said second sensing circuit includes monitoring a vehicle brake light circuit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
