<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657728</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Leak detector for gas air bag inflator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2116	B60R2116	B60R2126	B60R2126	B60R21264	G01L2300	G01L2300	G01M300	G01M300	G01M316	G01M316	G01M320	G01M320	G01N2714	G01N2716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	G01L	G01L	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	G01L23	G01L23	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a detector for 
detecting leaks of a gas. The present invention is 

particularly applicable to a vehicle occupant restraint 
apparatus (10) which has a container (14) for an 

exothermically reactable gas mixture (18). An exothermic 
reaction of the gas mixture (18) released from container 

(14) deploys an occupant restraint (12). The detector has 
an electrically conductive sensor element (44). The sensor 

element (44) is positioned within an envelope (40) 
surrounding a portion of container (14) so as to be exposed 

to the gas mixture (18) if leaked from container (14). The 
sensor element (44) is part of an electric circuit (46). 

The electrical resistance of the sensor element (44) varies 
when the sensor element is exposed to the leaked gas 

mixture. The electric circuit (46) also has a power source 
(64) including a timing circuit (52) for providing an 

intermittent electric current through the sensor element 
(44). The timing circuit (52) has an off-period of 

relatively long duration. This allows the gas if leaked 
into the envelope (40) to accumulate in the area of the 

sensor element (44). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW VEHICLE SAFETY SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW VEHICLE SAFETY SYSTEMS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARKOVICH JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARKOVICH, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a detector for 
detecting leaks of a gas from a container for the gas. U.S. Patent No. 4,164,699 to Timoshenko et al. 
discloses a gas detector which has a thermistor within an 
electrical circuit. The thermistor is a platinum wire. 
The platinum functions as a catalyst for the combustion of 
the gas being detected. This combustion raises the 
temperature of the platinum wire, which changes the wire's 
resistance. The change in resistance is detected in the 
electrical circuit. U.S. Patent No. 4,806,314 to Fertig et al. discloses a 
detector suitable for detecting low concentrations of a 
hydrocarbon contaminant in an air stream. The detector 
contains a resistance element which is positioned in the 
air stream. The resistance element is coated with 
palladium. When the resistance element is electrically  
 
heated, the palladium functions as a catalyst to oxidize 
exothermically the hydrocarbon contaminant in the air 
stream. The detector has a second resistance element which 
is positioned in the air stream ahead of the palladium 
coated resistance element. The second resistance element 
is provided with an intermittent current. When the current 
to the second resistance element is on, the hydrocarbon 
contaminant is oxidized, and no oxidation takes place at 
the palladium coated element. This provides a reference 
noise level for the palladium coated element. U.S. Patent No. 4,854,155 to Poll discloses a 
catalytic gas detector which includes a resistance gas 
sensing element in a bridge circuit. A first power source 
is connected to terminals of the bridge circuit. The 
circuit has a second power source which includes a timer. 
The purpose of the second power source and timer is to 
direct a temporary current of relatively high voltage 
through the sensing element to burn off impurities on the 
surface of the sensing element. The present invention relates to a detector for 
detecting leaks of a gas. The detector has an electrically 
conductive sensor element. The sensor element is 
positioned so as to be exposed to the gas if leaked. The 
sensor element is part of an electric circuit. The 
electrical resistance of the sensor element varies when the 
sensor element is exposed to the leaked gas. The electric  
 
circuit also has a power source including a timing means 
for providing an intermittent electric current through the 
sensor element. The timing means has an off-period of 
relatively long duration. This allows the gas if leaked to 
accumulate in the area of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A detector for detecting leaks of a gas 
comprising; 


(a) an electrical circuit comprising 

(i) an electrically conductive sensor 
element; 
(ii) a power source; 
(iii) a timing means for providing an 
intermittent electric current from said power 

source through said sensor element; and 
(b) means positioning said sensor element so 
that it is exposed to the gas if leaked; 

   the sensor element comprising a material having 
an electrical resistance which varies when the sensor 

element is exposed to said gas; 
   the timing means having an off-period of long 

duration to allow accumulation of the gas around or by the 
sensor element. 
The detector of claim 1 wherein said gas is an 
exothermically reactable gas and the electrical resistance 

of the sensor element varies in response to a temperature 
increase of the sensor element, the sensor element 

comprising a material capable of initiating the exothermic 
 

reaction of the gas when an electric current is passed 
through the sensor element. 
An inflator for a vehicle occupant restraint 
comprising: 


(a) a container means for containing a gas; 
(b) a vehicle occupant restraint; 
(c) means for directing said gas to said vehicle 
occupant restraint; 
(d) a leak detector for detecting a leak from 
said container means; 

   said leak detector comprising: 

(i) an electrical circuit, said circuit 
comprising; 
(1) an electrically conductive sensor 
element; 
(2) a power source; 
(3) a timing means for providing an 
intermittent electric current from said 

power source through said sensor element; 
(ii) means positioning said sensor element 
so that it is exposed to the gas if leaked, 
 
   the sensor element comprising a material having 

an electrical resistance which increases when the sensor 
element is exposed to said gas; 

   the timing means having an off-period of long 
duration to allow accumulation of the gas around or by the 

sensor element. 
The inflator of claim 3 wherein said gas is an 
exothermically reactable gas and the electrical resistance 

of the sensor element varies in response to a temperature 
increase of the sensor element, the sensor element 

comprising a material capable of initiating the exothermic 
reaction of the gas when an electric current is passed 

through the sensor element. 
The inflator of claim 4 wherein said sensor 
element is in the form of a filament, foil or film. 
The inflator of claim 5 wherein said electrical 
circuit comprises an indicator means responsive to an 

electrical resistance change of the sensor element. 
The inflator of claim 6 in which said sensor 
element comprises palladium and said gas is hydrogen, said 

timing means having an off-period of sufficient duration 
for the absorption and storage of a detectable amount of 

hydrogen in the palladium. 
The inflator of claim 3 including an envelope 
circumscribing at least a portion of said container means, 

and means for positioning said sensor element in said 
envelope. 
A method for detecting a leak of a gas into an 

atmosphere comprising the steps of: 

(a) exposing an electrically conductive sensor 
element to the atmosphere; 
(b) providing an indicator means responsive to a 
change in the resistance of the sensor element; 
(c) applying an intermittent electric current to 
the sensor element; and 
(d) maintaining a current off-period for a 
duration to allow accumulation of leaked gas in said 

atmosphere;
 

   the sensor element comprising a material which 
has an electrical resistance which varies when the sensor 

element is exposed to said gas. 
The method of claim 9 wherein said gas is an 
exothermically reactable gas and the electrical resistance 

of the sensor element varies in response to a temperature 
increase of the sensor element, the sensor element 

comprising a material capable of initiating the exothermic 
reaction of the gas when an electric current is passed 

through the sensor element. 
The method, detector or inflator of any of the preceeding claims 
wherein the current off-period 

is of sufficient duration for the absorption and 
storage of a detectable amount of hydrogen in the 

palladium. 
The method , detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims in which said sensor 

element is a fuse material which interrupts said electrical 
circuit. 
A method of detecting a leak of hydrogen into an 
oxygen containing atmosphere comprising the steps of: 


(a) exposing an electrically conductive sensor 
element, having an electrical resistance dependent upon the 

temperature of said element, to the atmosphere; 
(b) providing an indicator means for detecting a 
resistance change in said sensor element; 
(c) applying an intermittent electric current to 
said sensor element; 
(d) maintaining a current off-period for a 
duration to allow accumulation of leaked gas into said 

 
atmosphere, said sensor element having a palladium surface 

effective to absorb and store hydrogen which is accumulated 
in said atmosphere during said off-period; and 
(e) initiating a flow of electric current 
through the sensor element for a duration to desorb the 

hydrogen from the palladium and catalytically 
exothermically react the hydrogen in the atmosphere. 
A method of detecting a leak of an exothermically 
reactable gas from a container for the gas in a vehicle 

occupant restraint apparatus wherein the gas functions to 
deploy an occupant restraint, said method comprising the 

steps of: 

(a) providing an envelope circumscribing at 
least a portion of the container; 
(b) providing an electrically conductive sensor 
element; 
(c) positioning the sensor element within the 
envelope; 
(d) providing an indicator means responsive to a 
change in the resistance of the sensor element; 
(e) applying an intermittent electric current to 
the sensor element; and 
(f) maintaining a current off-period for a 
duration to allow accumulation of leaked gas in the 

envelope;
 

   the sensor element comprising a material which 
has an electrical resistance which varies when the sensor 

element is exposed to said gas. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the electrical 
resistance of the sensor element varies in response to a 

temperature increase of the sensor element, the sensor 
element comprising a material capable of initiating the 

exothermic reaction of the gas when an electric current is 
passed through the sensor element. 
The method , detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims wherein the sensor element 

comprises a catalytic material and said exothermic reaction 
is a heterogeneous combustion reaction. 
The method, detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims wherein said 

exothermically reactable gas is hydrogen and the material 
of said sensor element is palladium. 
The method , detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims wherein the hydrogen is 

absorbed by and stored in the palladium. 
The method, detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims in which said sensor 

element is a material which absorbs the leaked gas and 
exhibits a resistance change as a result of said 

absorption. 
The method, detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims in which said sensor 

element comprises palladium and said gas is hydrogen. 
The method , detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims in which said sensor 

element is part of an electrical circuit and said sensor 
element is a fuse material which interrupts said electrical 

circuit. 
The method, detector or inflator of any of the preceeding 
claims in which said indicator 

means includes a bridge circuit and said sensor element is 
in said bridge circuit. 
A method for detecting leaks of a gas from a 
source comprising positioning the detector of claim 1 

adjacent said source. 
A method for detecting leaks of a gas from a gas 
container for a vehicle occupant restraint apparatus 

comprising positioning an envelope around at least a 
portion of said gas container and then positioning the 

sensor element of the leak detector of claim 1 in said 
envelope. 
A detector for detecting leaks of a gas 
comprising; 


(a) an electrical circuit comprising an 
electrically conductive sensor element and a power source; 
(b) means positioning said sensor element so 
that it is exposed to the gas if leaked, the sensor element 

comprising an elemental material which absorbs and stores 
the gas when the sensor element is exposed to the gas and 

has an electrical resistance which increases with the 
amount of gas absorbed; and 
(c) indicator means responsive to a resistance 
increase of the sensor element. 
The detector of claim 45 in which the sensor 
element material is palladium. 
A detector for detecting leaks of an 
exothermically reactable gas comprising; 


(a) an electrical circuit comprising an 
electrically conductive sensor element and a power source; 
(b) means positioning said sensor element so 
that it is exposed to the gas if leaked, the sensor element 

comprising a catalytic material capable of initiating the 
exothermic reaction of the gas when an electric current is 

passed through the sensor element and a fuse material which 
interrupts the electrical circuit at a predetermined 

temperature of the sensor element. 
A detector for detecting leaks of a gas 
comprising: 


(a) an electrical circuit comprising 

(i) a sensor element; 
(ii) a power source; and 
(iii) a timing means, the timing means having 
an off-period of long duration to allow 

accumulation of the gas. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
