<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620978</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for spin processing material having temperature feedback control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01D500	A23G302	D01D518	A23G302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01D	A23G	D01D	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01D5	A23G3	D01D5	A23G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A material processing apparatus for thermo flow melt 
spinning having temperature control characteristics. The 

apparatus includes a spinner head with a chamber that has 
a continuous perimeter for centrifugal force and a heater 

element substantially continuous with the perimeter for 
providing heat to the head. The spinner head includes 

means for rotating and a power source connected to the 
heater element. The apparatus includes temperature 

detecting means integral with the heater element to 
detect a processing temperature and generate a 

temperature detection signal accordingly. Also included 
is a power controller for controlling the power source in 

accordance with the temperature detection signal. The 
processing temperature may be controlled such that a 

substantially constant temperature is maintained. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGUE BEUFORD ARLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HRUBEC JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGUE, BEUFORD ARLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HRUBEC, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to melt spin 
processing machines, and, more particularly, to 
improvements in processing machines to enhance process 
capability. Various spinning machines have been designed for 
spinning flowable materials, particularly sugar. The 
materials may be introduced to a spinning assembly within 
the spinning machine in molten form or, alternatively, 
introduced in solid form and heated to the flow point or 
subjected to flash-flow just prior to being spun out from 
the spinning assembly. U.S. Patent No. 4,872,821 discloses a spinning 
machine which is particularly designed for spinning 
cotton candy. The machine includes a spinner head having 
slotted, cylindrical walls and heating elements adjacent 
to each wall. Sugar in solid form is introduced into the 
spinner head and propelled against the heating elements 
where it is melted (i.e., undergoes flash-flow 
transition) and caused to travel through a tortuous path. 
The molten sugar is spun out through the slots where it 
solidifies into the floss-like material known as cotton 
candy. Various other machines have been designed over the 
years for spinning cotton candy. Once such machine is 
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,930,043. This machine 
includes a helical resistance heating element positioned 
within a finely perforated shell. The heating element is 
supported against the inner wall of the shell by spacer 
elements. As the shell spins, molten sugar is extruded 
through the perforations. Similar machines are disclosed 
in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,073,262 and 3,070,045.  
 Still another machine for spinning substances is 
disclosed in commonly owned co-pending 
European Patent Application No. EP-A-0591095 to Fuisz. The 
application discloses a spinning head including a heating 
element which defines a narrow, elongate opening 
providing a substantially non-tortuous path through which 
feedstock material subjected to flash-flow is projected. 
Various other spinning machines of the prior art are 
referenced therein. The basic machine includes a spinning head which has 
a heating element arranged circumferentially therearound. 
Sugar is introduced to the spinning head in conventional 
cotton candy machines and dispersed along the heating 
element. Heat thereby reduces the physical structure of 
the sugar sufficiently to permit the sugar to flow 
through openings and form a floss product. In early 
models, there was virtually no temperature control of the 
heating element. More recently, however, various forms of temperature 
contr
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermo flow melt spinning apparatus for processing a solid material capable of 
intraparticle flow comprising a spinner head component (24) with a chamber having 

a continuous perimeter for providing heat and centrifugal force to material being 
processed, means for rotating the spinner head about an axis and a heat control 

system, the spinner head component (24) including a heating element (34) 
substantially continuous with the perimeter, said element providing heat responsive 

to power provided thereto, characterised in that the heating element includes at least 
one opening through which the material is processed and the heat control system is 

adapted to control the temperature of the perimeter of the chamber at a location 
thereon where the material undergoes the intraparticle flow to provide a substantially 

constant temperature thereby maintaining a substantially constant flow rate of said 
material through said spinner head and comprises 


(a) temperature detection means (70) integral with the heating element (34) to detect a 
processing temperature at the heating element (34), and to generate a temperature 

detection signal corresponding to the processing temperature 
(b) a power controller (80) electrically connected to the temperature detection means 
(70) for receiving the temperature detection signal and generating a power control 

signal based on the temperature detection signal 
(c) a power source (85) electrically connected to the power controller (80) for receiving 
the power control signal and 
(d) connection means for connecting the power source (85) to the heating element (34) 
to transmit power thereto in accordance with the power control signal. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that the heating element (34) 
comprises a continuous helical cable (46) extending about an axis including a  

 
plurality of turns, the cable (46) comprising a material which is heated in response to 

power supplied. 
Apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that the continuous helical cable 
(46) defines a narrow elongate opening extending at least partially about the axis, the 

opening having a height of between 0.0127 to 0. 127 cm (0.005 to 
0.050 inches) and defining a substantially non-tortuous path in which material may 

be heated and through which material may be projected. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the power control 
signal switches the power source (85) supplying power to the heating element (34) 

when an AC voltage signal acting within said power controller (80) exceeds a 
voltage level determined by the power control signal, the AC voltage signal defining 

an average power delivered to the heating element (34). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the power control 
signal activates the power source (85) supplying power to the heating element (34) 

for some portion of a period of an AC voltage signal contained within the power 
controller (80) determined by the power control signal, the portion defining an 

average power delivered to the heating element (34). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the temperature 
detection means (70) is a resistance temperature detector (72). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the power 
controller (80) determines a difference between a detected processing temperature 

and an optimal processing temperature for a material being processed and outputs the 
power control signal accordingly. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the power 
controller (80) is a proportional integral differential controller.  

 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the temperature 
detection means (70) is positioned at the heating element (34). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the temperature 
detection means (70) is positioned within the heating element (34). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 2 to 8, characterized in that the temperature 
detection means (70) comprises the heating element (34), the temperature varying 

resistance of the heating element (34) defining the temperature detection signal. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 11, characterized in that the processing 
temperature is controlled to provide a substantially constant temperature at the 

heating element (34) within a temperature range of ± 8 °C. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 11, characterized in that the processing 
temperature is controlled to provide a substantially constant temperature at the 

heating element (34) within a temperature range of ± 3 °C. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 11, characterized in that the processing 
temperature is controlled to provide a substantially constant temperature at the 

heating element (34) within a temperature range of ±1 °C. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 14, characterized in that the power 
controller (80) further comprises a memory (83) in which at least an optimal 

processing temperature is provided according to a material being processed. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 15, characterized in that the power 
controller (80) comprises a selection means in which an optimal processing 

temperature may be defined. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 16, in which the temperature detection 
signal is electrically coupled through a first pair of electrical wires (79) extending  

 
through a hollow shaft central to the rotating means to rotating electrical contacts, 

said contacts positioned at a base portion of the hollow shaft, and in which the 
electrical contacts are electrically coupled through a second pair of electrical wires 

(80) to the power controller. 
A method of thermo flow melt spinning processing of a solid material capable of 
intraparticle flow, comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing a spinner head (24) having a perimetrical processing wall, said processing 
wall being formed of a heating element (34) with an electrically powered resistance 

heater (46) having at least one opening through which the material is processed, 
(b) inserting material to a chamber within the spinner head (24), 
(c) heating the processing wall to a processing temperature sufficient to effect the 
intraparticle flow of the material, 
(d) rotating the spinner head (24) to urge the material through the processing wall, and 
(e) providing a heat control system for controlling the temperature of the processing wall 
at a location thereon where the material undergoes the intraparticle flow to provide a 

substantially constant temperature thereby maintaining a substantially constant flow 
rate of said material through said spinner head. 
A method according to claim 18, characterized in that the controlling step further 
includes detecting the temperature of the processing wall directly at a location therein 

adjacent the opening and controlling power supplied to the heater (34) in response to 
the detected temperature so as to maintain the processing wall temperature at said 

processing temperature.  
 
A method according to claim 19, characterized in that the detecting step further 
includes providing a temperature detection means (70) attached to the processing 

wall adjacent the opening. 
A method according to claim 20, characterized in that the controlling step further 
includes providing a power assembly (80, 85) responsive to the detected temperature 

at said processing wall for supplying the power to the heater (34). 
A method according to claim 21, characterized by further including the step of 
placing the temperature detection means (70) within the opening. 
A method according to any of claims 18 to 22, further comprising the step of 
maintaining the temperature within a temperature range of ± 8 °C. 
A method according to any of claims 18 to 22, further comprising the step of 
maintaining the temperature within a temperature range of ± 3 °C. 
A method according to any of claims 18 to 22, further comprising the step of 
maintaining the temperature within a temperature range of ± 1 °C. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
