<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647109</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS TO CONVERT A REFRIGERATED VENDOR TO A REFRIGERATED DISPLAY CASE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47F304	A47F304	F25D1100	F25D1100	F25D1706	F25D1706	F25D1708	F25D1708	F25D1900	F25D1900	F25D1902	F25D1902	F25D2300	F25D2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47F	A47F	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47F3	A47F3	F25D11	F25D11	F25D17	F25D17	F25D17	F25D17	F25D19	F25D19	F25D19	F25D19	F25D23	F25D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for converting a refrigerated vendor to a refrigerated display apparatus wherein the vendor has a cabinet (3) with a front opening and a refrigeration unit (15) for circulating cool air within the interior of the cabinet (3). A front panel having a pivotally mounted transparent door (2) is attached to the front opening to seal the interior of the cabinet (3) and a partition (19) is positioned adjacent and parallel to the rear wall of the cabinet (3) to form an air distribution plenum (21). A plurality of slots in the partition (19) are used to direct cool air toward the front panel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COCA COLA CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GATIPON SHAUN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDICK ARTHUR G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WACHENHEIM HOWARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GATIPON, SHAUN, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDICK, ARTHUR, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WACHENHEIM, HOWARD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS TO CONVERT A REFRIGERATED VENDOR TO A REFRIGERATED DISPLAY CASEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a refrigerated cabinet for storing beverage containers and other food items, and more particularly, to a cabinet for housing a plurality of readily interchangeable and independent modular elements which collectively define a refrigeration cabinet having multiple uses.Beverage containers are displayed and sold in a variety of different types of refrigerated self-serve display cabinets and coin-operated vending machines. The sales environment in which the machine will be used most times determines the necessary attributes of a particular refrigerated cabinet. For example, a glass door merchandiser may be chosen to sell items inside a business, but would not be practical for vending items outside the business where a closed coin-operated merchandiser would be a better choice.However, conventional refrigerated cabinets are not easily convertible from one type of merchandiser to another. For example, if a vendor purchases a closed vending machine but later discovers the need for a display type refrigerated cabinet, there is presently no way of economically and conveniently converting that machine. This is due in part to differences in the refrigeration systems provided by the two diverse types 

 of vendors. This inability to convert merchandisers prohibits vendors from utilizing more effective methods for selling a product. Further, a vendor's purchase of a plurality of different types of cabinets causes expense and inventory problems.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is a primary object of this invention to provide a modular refrigeration apparatus with a cabinet having a front opening and divided into refrigerated and unrefrigerated portions for housing a plurality of removable modular units, the removable modular units including one of a selected plurality of interchangeable storage units and substantially the same refrigeration unit for use with either storage unit. It is a further object of the invention to provide a modular refrigeration apparatus in which a plurality of interchangeable storage units and a refrigeration unit can be easily removed or inserted from within a cabinet without affecting the other units. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a modular refrigeration apparatus in which one of a plurality of interchangeable storage units includes a vending unit for storing and dispensing a plurality of containers having a front panel which attaches
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT I CLAIM IS :
1. An apparatus for converting a refrigerated vendor to a refrigerated display apparatus, said vendor having a cabinet with a front opening and a refrigeration means for circulating cool air within the interior of said cabinet and venting warm air, comprising; a front panel attached to the front opening for sealing the interior of said cabinet, said front panel having a transparent door pivotally mounted to said front panel; and a partition positioned adjacent and parallel to the rear interior wall of said cabinet defining an air distribution plenum therebetween, said partition having a plurality of slots for directing a plurality of layers of cool air currents flowing from the plenum toward said front panel.
2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, said partition further comprising a plurality of air directors, each of said air directors being positioned adjacent a corresponding one of said slots for directing a portion of the air flow from said air distribution plenum toward said front panel.
3. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein each of said air directors is curved for causing the air to flow in a curved path from the air distribution plenum to the interior of said cabinet and toward said front panel.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, further comprising an air deflection plate extending horizontally from the partition and separating the interior of said cabinet into a refrigerated and unrefrigerated portion, said air deflection plate defining an intake opening to the refrigeration means between a front edge thereof and said front panel.
5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said refrigeration means includes: condenser means for circulating a refrigerant through a plurality of coils, said condenser means including a condenser fan for exhausting warm air to the outside of said cabinet through a condenser exhaust channel, the air being exhausted along one side of said condenser exhaust channel creating an aspiration effect thereby drawing air from outside said cabinet for cooling a compressor disposed in a side of the exhaust channel opposite from said one side; and evaporator means, connected to said condenser for cooling and removing moisture from the air flowing within said cabinet.
6. A modular refrigeration apparatus, comprising: a cabinet having a front opening for separately receiving a plurality of removable modular units, said removable modular units including one of a selected plurality of interchangeable storage units and a refrigeration unit, said plurality of interchangeable storage units comprising: a vending unit for storing and dispensing a plurality of containers, the vending unit including: a front panel attached to the front opening of said cabinet for sealing the interior of said cabinet, a plurality of storage columns for holding said containers to be dispensed,
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 product selection means positioned on the front panel for choosing the type of stored container to be dispensed, and vending mechanism means, responsive to said product selection means, for causing a selected container to be released from a selected one of said storage columns and ejected through an aperture in said front panel, and a display unit for storing a plurality of containers, the display unit including, a front panel attached to the front opening for sealing the interior of said cabinet, said front panel having a transparent panel door pivotally mounted to said front panel, and a partition positioned adjacent and parallel to the rear interior wall of said cabinet creating an air flow channel therebetween, said partition having a plurality of slots for facilitating a circular flow of a plurality of cool air currents in predetermined directions from said refrigeration unit in the interior of said cabinet; whereby said interchangeable storage units and said refrigeration unit can be respectively removed or inserted from within said cabinet.
7. The apparatus as recited in claim 6, said partition further comprising a plurality of air directors, each of said air directors being positioned adjacent a corresponding one of said slots for directing a portion of the air flow from said air distribution plenum to the interior of said cabinet and toward said front panel.
8. The apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein each of said air directors is curved causing the air to
SUBSTITUTE SH T 


 - ID 
—
 flow in a circular manner from the air distribution plenum to the interior of said cabinet.
9. The apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein said partition further comprises an air deflection plate extending horizontally from said partition and separating the interior of said cabinet into a refrigerated and unrefrigerated portion, said air deflection plate defining an intake opening to the refrigeration means between a front edge thereof and said front panel.
10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said refrigeration means further comprises: condenser means for circulating a refrigerant through a plurality of coils, said condenser means including a condenser fan for exhausting warm air to the outside of said cabinet through a condenser exhaust channel, the air being exhausted along one sue of said condenser exhaust channel creating an aspiration effect thereby drawing air from outside said cabinet for cooling a compressor disposed in a side of the exhaust channel opposite from said one side; and evaporator means connected to said condenser for cooling and removing moisture from the air flowing within said cabinet.
11. A refrigeration apparatus disposed within a cabinet comprising: condenser means for circulating a refrigerant through a plurality of coils, said condenser means including a condenser fan for exhausting warm air to the outside of said cabinet through a condenser exhaust channel, the air being exhausted along one side of said condenser exhaust channel creating an aspiration effect in an opposite side of the channel thereby drawing air from outside said cabinet for cooling a compressor positioned in the opposite side of the exhaust channel. 


 — lo —
12. The refrigeration apparatus of claim 11 wherein said condenser fan includes an elongated squirrel cage impeller for exhausting said warm air through said channel.
13. A refrigerated cabinet for selectively housing a coin-operating vending unit behind a substantially opaque door, or a self-serve product storage unit including product-storage shelves disposed behind a transparent door, said cabinet having an open front wall selectively coverable by one of the opaque or transparent doors and closed top, side and back walls, comprising: a horizontal partition separating the cabinet into a refrigerated product storage compartment and an unrefrigerated compartment for housing a refrigeration unit, said horizontal partition defining an air intake opening in about the middle thereof and an air outlet opening near said back wall; a vertical partition in said cabinet spaced from and disposed substantially parallel to the back wall defining an air plenum therebetween, said air plenum being in fluid communication with said outlet opening; slot means formed in said vertical partition disposed in vertically extending columns, said columns being spaced horizontally across said vertical partition, said slot means directing air streams from said plenum through said storage compartment toward said front wall; and fan means disposed in said bottom compartment for drawing air from the product storage compartment through said air intake opening, into operative engagement with said refrigeration unit and out said air outlet opening into said plenum; whereby air flows in substantially circular paths up the back wall of the cabinet, toward the front wall and down the front wall into the unrefrigerated compartment. 


 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further including an additional horizontal partition in the product storage compartment extending from a rear edge thereof connected to the vertical partition near the bottom thereof to a front edge spaced from but closely adjacent to the front wall of the cabinet, said front edge being closer to the front wall than said intake opening in the other horizontal partition.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 further including vertically spaced air deflector baffles disposed in each vertical column of said slot means between each of a plurality of adjacent vertically spaced slots.
16. The apparatus of claim 13 further including vertically spaced air deflector baffles disposed in each vertical column of said slot means between each of a plurality of adjacent vertically spaced slots.
17. A refrigeration apparatus disposed within a cabinet having a refrigerated and unrefrigerated portion, comprising: condenser means for circulating a refrigerant through a plurality of coils, said condenser means including a condenser fan for exhausting warm air to the outside of said cabinet through a condenser exhaust channel; evaporator means, in communication with said condenser means, for cooling and circulating air in said refrigerated portion of said cabinet, said evaporator means including an evaporator fan for creating a circular flow of air within the refrigerated portion of said cabinet; temperature control means, connected to said condenser means and evaporator means, for controlling the temperature of air circulated in said cabinet; and a base for housing said condenser means, evaporator means and temperature control means, said base being removably insertable in said cabinet, said base
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 including a partition separating said temperature control and condenser means from said evaporator means.
18. The refrigeration system of claim 17, wherein said system is removably installed in the unrefrigerated portion of the cabinet so that the partition forms an air-tight seal between the refrigerated and unrefrigerated portions of the cabinet placing the evaporator in communication with the refrigerated portion of the cabinet and the remainder of the system being housed in the unrefrigerated portion.
19. The refrigeration system of claim 18, wherein the length of said partition is perpendicular to the length of said base.
20. The refrigeration system of claim 19, further comprising guiding means, disposed on said base, for automatically positioning said system in the unrefrigerated portion of the cabinet.
21. The refrigeration system of claim 20, wherein said guiding means comprises a plurality of skids disposed on said base corresponding to a plurality of guide rails positioned in said cabinet. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
