<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656689</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transistor circuit apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21822	H03K19003	H03K19003	H03K190175	H03K190175	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01L2170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transistor circuit apparatus comprises a MOS 
transistor (N3) to be improved, for preventing an avalanche 

breakdown, the MOS transistor being connected in 
a channel conductor path provided between one of power 

supply terminals (Vcc, Vss) and a terminal of an output 
(OT1), a separate circuit connected to the output terminal 

and driven by a voltage from a separate power 
supply, and a pull-down unit including a second transistor 

(N10) connected between one of said power supply 
terminals (Vcc, Vss) and a back gate of the MOS transistor, 

the second transistor being turned on with an 
output node of the separate circuit used as power supply 

when the MOS transistor (N3) remains at a ground potential 
level with no power supply potential supplied, 

thereby pulling down the potential level of a back gate 
node of the MOS transistor (N3) to the level of one of 

the power supply terminals (Vcc, Vss). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a transistor circuit
apparatus wherein a drain-source breakdown voltage
of a MOS transistor is improved, thereby preventing an
avalanche breakdown.It is generally known that with a bipolar transistor,
if a collector-emitter voltage is applied while
a base is being opened, an avalanche breakdown occurs
when a voltage value reaches a certain level, and as a
result a large current flows across the collector and
emitter. The reason for this is that a dark current
flowing across the collector and emitter causes an
electron avalanche phenomenon in a base region, and an
excessively large current flows. This phenomenon is
stated, for example, in "Physics and Technology of
Semiconductor Devices", A.S. Grove (John Wiley and Sons,
Inc. 1976, pp. 231-233).On the other hand, the inventors of the present
invention have already proposed an NMOS output circuit
wherein a back gate bias effect compensation was
effected (Jap. Pat. Appln. KOKAI No. 5-37336).FIGS. 1 and 2 show examples of a conventional
transistor circuit apparatus. FIG. 1 shows a non-inversion
type tri-state output circuit, and FIG. 2
shows a non-inversion type bi-state output circuit.FIG. 1 shows a circuit configuration for effecting
a control wherein transistors N3 and N4 are controlled 
by NOR circuits NOR1 and NOR2, thereby producing an
output OT1 having the same phase as an input IN1 or
setting the output OT1 in a high-impedance state.In FIG. 2, transistors N3 and N4 are controlled by
inverters IV1 and IV2, thereby producing an output OT1
having the same phase as an input IN. The output OT1 is
pulled up to Vcc2 by a resistor R. The resistor R
corresponds to a circuit 11 in FIG. 1.For example, in the NMOS output circuit shown in
FIG. 1, suppose that a power supply voltage Vcc (=Vcc1)
is short-circuited to a ground potential Vss, i.e. a
power supply is set in a turned-off state. In addition,
suppose that an I/O bus line is supplied with a signal
from the circuit 11 driven by a power supply Vcc2 which
is different from Vcc1.Specifically, the I/O bus line is shared by
circuits connected to two power supply systems
(Vcc=Vcc1; Vcc2).In this case, Vcc = Vss and the gate (front gate)
potentials of NMOS transistors N3, N4, N5, N61 and N62
are set at ground potential Vss. Thus, the gate-source
voltage Vgs of these NMOS transistors N3, N4, N5, N61
and N62 is 0 v, and these transistors are turned off.
In other words, the back gates (node A) of the NMOS
transistors N3 and N5 are set in a high impedance state.Accordingly, the base
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transistor circuit apparatus
comprising:


a first MOS transistor (N3) to be improved, for
preventing an avalanche breakdown of a parasitic bipolar

transistor, said first MOS transistor being connected in a
channel conductor path provided between the first of first and second power supply

terminals (Vcc and Vss) and an output terminal (OT1);
a separate circuit (11) connected to said output
terminal (OT1) and driven by a voltage from a separate power

supply; and
a pull-down unit (32) including a second transistor
(N20) connected in a channel conductor path provided between

one of said power supply terminals (Vcc and Vss) and a front
gate of said first MOS transistor, the front gate of said

second transistor (N20) being connected to the back gate of
the first MOS transistor (N3), said second transistor (N20)

being turned on by a potential at the back gate of the first MOS
transistor (N3) generated by said separate circuit

when said first MOS transistor (N3) is in an open state with
the first power supply terminal being at a potential of the

second power supply terminal,
thereby pulling down the potential level

of the front gate node of said first MOS transistor (N3) to
the level of the second power supply terminal (Vss).
A transistor circuit according to claim 1 further
comprising:


a back gate compensation transistor (N5) connected in a
channel conductor path provided between a back gate of the

first MOS transistor (N3) and the terminal of the output
(OT1); and
a logic circuit for controlling an input to a front gate
of the first MOS transistor (N3) and a front gate of said

back gate compensation transistor (N5),
a second pull-down unit (31) including a second
transistor (N10) connected between the first power supply

terminal (Vcc) and a back gate of said first MOS
transistor (N3), the front gate of the second transistor

(N10) being connected to the back gate of the first MOS
transistor (N3), said second transistor (N10) being turned on by a

potential at the back gate of the first MOS transistor (N3) generated by
said separate circuit when said first MOS transistor (N3) is in an open state

with the first power supply terminal being at a potential of the
second power supply terminal,

thereby pulling down the potential level of a back
gate node of said first MOS transistor (N3) to the level of

the second power supply terminal (Vss);
a third pull-down unit (33) including a fourth
transistor (N30) connected in a channel conductor path

provided between the first power supply terminal (Vcc)
and the front gate of said first MOS transistor (N3), a

front gate of said fourth transistor (N30) detecting a
potential variation of said terminal of the output terminal

(OT1), said fourth transistor (N30) being turned on by the
output of said separate circuit when said first MOS

transistor (N3) is in an open state with the first power supply terminal being at a potential of the
second power supply terminal, thereby pulling down the

potential level of the front gate node of said first MOS
transistor (N3) to the level of the second power supply 

terminal (Vss); and
a path cut unit including a fifth transistor (N40),
connected in series between said back gate voltage

compensation transistor connected to the back gate of said
first MOS transistor (N3), said fifth transistor (N40) having

a front gate which is directly biased by power supply (Vcc)
and said output terminal (OT1), for cutting a path of a leak

current.
The transistor circuit apparatus according to claim 1,
or 2 
characterized in that
 said second transistor (N10) is in
a turn-off state when said first transistor (N3) is being

supplied with a power supply potential
which is different from the potential of the second power supply terminal.
The transistor circuit apparatus according to claim 2,

characterized in that
 said third transistor (N20) is in a
turn-off state when said first transistor (N3) is being

supplied with a power supply potential
which is different from the potential of the second power supply terminal. 
The transistor circuit apparatus according to claim 2,

characterized in that
 said fourth transistor (N30) is in a
turn-off state when said first transistor (N3) is being

supplied with a power supply potential which is different
from the potential of the second power supply terminal. 
The transistor circuit apparatus according to claim 2,

characterized in that
 a front gate of said fourth transistor
(N30) is connected to said output terminal via a capacitor

(Ca).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
