<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646258</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUPPLY PRESSURE COMPENSATED FLUID PRESSURE REGULATOR AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D1604	G05D1606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D16	G05D16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERIFLO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERIFLO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLLIVIER LOUIS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLLIVIER LOUIS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Description SUPPLY PRESSURE COMPENSATED FLUID PRESSURE REGULATOR AND METHODTechnical FieldThe present invention relates to a fluid pressure regulator and method for regulating the pressure and flow of fluid from a source of high pressure fluid such as a compressed gas cylinder containing gas at a pressure of 2,000 psi or greater when the cylinder is filled.Background ArtIt is desired that fluid pressure regulators coupled to compressed gas cylinders or other containers containing pressurized gas at 2,000 psi or greater produce a constant outlet pressure as the gas in the cylinder is used up and the cylinder pressure decreases. For example, constant outlet pressures for pressurized nitrogen, nitrogen-arsine/phosphorous gas mixtures as dopants, argon, hydrogen and air, are desired in the manufacture and treatment of semiconductors. However, in typical known single stage fluid pressure regulators the outlet pressure increases by 9 psi as the cylinder pressure decreases from 2,000 psi down to 200 psi. A variation in outlet pressure of 9 psi is relatively substantial in relation to the typical outlet pressure of the regulator, which may be in the range of 25 to 35 psi. This is a problem where process requirements as in semiconductor manufacture call for constant or substantially constant gas pressure. 

 A prior art, single stage fluid pressure regulator 1 is schematically illustrated in Figure 1 of the drawings. The pressure regulator 1 is shown connected at its inlet to a source of gas at high pressure, particularly a -gas cylinder 2 which initially, when filled, contains a gas at a pressure of 2,000 psi or higher. The function of the regulator is to receive pressured gas from the cylinder at the regulator inlet, which is connected to the cylinder, and to deliver the gas at a selected lower pressure from the outlet of the regulator while minimizing the change in outlet pressure in the presence of changes in outlet flow and variations in supply pressure. The regulator 1 comprises a diaphragm 3 and a valve 4. One end of the valve, the upper end in Figure 1, contacts the diaphragm and the other, outwardly tapered end of the valve, cooperates with valve seat 5 for adjustably throttling a fluid passage 6 extending through the regulator. Particularly, the fluid passage 6 extends through central aperture 7 of the valve seat 5. The upper surface of the annular valve seat 5 is supported about the aperture 7 by regulator member 8. The lower, conical portion 9 of the valve 4 cooperates with the lower edge 10 of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
I claim:
1. A fluid pressure regulator comprising: a fluid passage for the flow of pressurized fluid; a valve movably positioned in said regulator for adjustably throttling said fluid passage and the flow of pressurized fluid therethrough; a diaphragm which can be deflected in response to a force imbalance thereon for moving said valve; a spring for applying a first force on the diaphragm in a first direction, pressurized fluid downstream of said throttled passage applying a second force on the diaphragm in a second direction opposite said first direction, a third force being applied to said diaphragm in said second direction by way of said valve, said third force being a function of the p
r
essure of said fluid supplied to said throttled passage which acts on said valve; and means for substantially reducing the rate of change of the amount of throttling of the fluid passage by the valve with a given movement of the valve and diaphragm in response to a force imbalance on the diaphragm caused by a change in the pressure of fluid supplied to said throttled passage which acts on said valve as said third force, as compared with the rate of change of the throttling amount with said given movement of the diaphragm and valve caused by a change in the 


pressure of the fluid downstream of said throttled passage which applies said second force on the diaphragm, wherein said means for substantially reducing the rate of change of the amount of the throttling of the fluid passage includes a flexible valve seat having an aperture extending therethrough which defines a portion of said fluid passage, said valve cooperating with said flexible valve seat about the aperture therein for adjustably throttling said fluid passage, and wherein said flexible valve seat is mounted in said regulator for flexural movement of the valve seat in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to said throttle passage.
2. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 1, further comprising means for fixedly supporting said seat in the fluid pressure regulator only at a location spaced radially outwardly of said seat aperture such that a radially inner portion of said seat in the immediate vicinity of said aperture can be deflected by flexure of the seat in response to changes in the pressure of fluid supplied to the throttled passage. 3. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 2, wherein said seat is annular and the radially inner portion of said seat extends over at least one-half of the diameter of said seat as seen in a cross-section of the seat taken along a longitudinal central axis of said seat aperture.
4. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 2, wherein said radially inner portion 


extends over at least two-thirds of said diameter of the seat.
5. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 2, wherein said flexible valve seat is formed of a resilient material for controlling the degree of deflection thereof in response to changes in the pressure of the f. Id supplied to the throttled passage.
6. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 5, wherein said radially inner portion of said seat in the immediate vicinity of said aperture is unsupport:
7. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 2, wherein the radially inner portico of the seat is yieldably supported by a spring to control flexural deflection of the seat in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to the throttled passage.
8. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 2, further comprising a spring which yieldably supports said valve seat for controlling the flexural movement thereof in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to said throttle passage.
9. A fluid pressure regulator comprising: a fluid passage for the flow of pressurized fluid; a valve movably positioned in said regulator for adjustably throttling said fluid passage and the flow of pressurized fluid thereto; 


 a diaphragm which can be deflected in response to a force imbalance thereon for moving said valve; a spring for applying a first force on the diaphragm in a first direction, pressurized fluid downstream of said throttled passage applying a second force on the diaphragm in a second direction opposite said first direction, a third force being applied to said diaphragm in said second direction by way of said valve, said third force being a function of the pressure of the fluid supplied to said throttled passage which acts on said valve; and a flexible valve seat having an aperture extending therethrough which defines a portion of said fluid passage, said valve cooperating with said valve seat about its aperture for adjustably throttling said fluid passage, and wherein said valve seat is mounted in said regulator for flexural movement of the valve seat in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to said throttled passage for changing the operating point of said seat whereby the effect of changes in the pressure of fluid supplied to said throttled passage on the pressure of the fluid downstream of said throttled passage caused by a change in the force balance on said diaphragm is substantially reduced.
10. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 9, further comprising means for fixedly supporting said seat in the regulator only at a location spaced radially outwardly of said seat aperture such that a radially inner portion of said seat in the immediate vicinity of said 


aperture can be deflected by flexure of the seat in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to the throttled passage.
11. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 10, wherein said seat is annular and the radially inner portion of said seat extends over at least one-half of the diameter of the seat as seen in a cross-section thereof taken along a central axis of said seat aperture.
12. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 11, wherein the radially inner portion of the seat extends over at least two-thirds of said diameter of said seat.
13. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 10, wherein said flexible valve seat is formed of a resilient material for controlling the degree of deflection thereof in response to changes in the pressure of fluid supplied to said throttled passage.
14. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 13, wherein said radially inner portion of said seat is unsupported.
15. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 12, wherein the radially inner portion of the seat is yieldably supported by a spring for controlling the flexural deflection of the seat in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to said throttled passage. 


 16. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 10, including means for limiting the amount of flexural deflection of said radially inner portion of the seat in response to changes in the pressure of the fluid supplied to the throttled passage.
17. In a method of regulating the fluid pressure dispensed from a container of pressurized fluid, such as a high pressure gas cylinder, using a fluid pressure regulator having a fluid passage for the flow of pressurized fluid, a valve movably positioned in the regulator for adjustably throttling the fluid passage and the flow of pressurized fluid therethrough, a diaphragm which can be deflected in response to a force imbalance thereon for moving said valve, a spring for applying a first force on the diaphragm in a first direction, pressurized fluid downstream of said throttled passage applying a second force on the diaphragm in a second direction opposite said first direction, a third force being applied to said diaphragm in said second direction by way of said valve, said third force being a function of the pressure of said fluid supply to said throttled passage which acts on said valve and a valve seat having an aperture extending therethrough which defines a portion of said fluid passage, the valve cooperating with said valve seat about the aperture for adjustably throttling said fluid passage, the improvement comprising forming the valve seat of a flexible material and mounting the valve seat in the regulator for flexural movement of the valve seat in response to changes in the pressure 


of the fluid suplied to the throttled passage of the regulator from said pressurized fluid container which acts on the valve seat to substantially reduce changes in the pressure of fluid downstream of the throttled passage with movement of the diaphragm and valve as a result of force imbalances on the diaphragm caused by changes in the pressure in said container.
18. The fluid pressure regulator according to claim 1, wherein the flexible valve seat is made of a polymer.
19. The flow pressure regulator according to claim 9, wherein said flexible valve seat is made of a polymer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
