<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632899</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TIME VARYING SPECTRUM ANALYSIS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2316	G01R2316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R23	G01R23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A signal analyzer (10) generates a time varying spectrum for input signals (16) characterized by frequency components which change in time. The signal analyzer (10) includes a converter (11) generating a sequence of digital signals representative of an input signal (16). The sequence of digital signals is supplied to a digital signal processor (12) which computes orthogonal-like discrete Gabor transform coefficients Cm,n in response to the sequence, and a time varying spectrum (17) of the input signal energy in response to the coefficients. Finally, a data processor (14) processes the spectrum (17) for further analysis or display (15). One particular analysis step for which the time varying spectrum is useful is in partitioning the input signal into separate components. The orthogonal-like discrete Gabor transform coefficients are computed using a non-periodic, localized discrete window function h and a discrete auxiliary function y, similar to h. The time varying spectrum is computed utilizing a cross-term deleted Wigner-Ville distribution.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT INSTR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN DAPANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QIAN SHIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, DAPANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QIAN, SHIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains
material to which the claim of copyright protection is made. The
copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any
person of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office file or records, but reserves all
other rights whatsoever.The present invention relates to digital signal processing; and
more particularly, to machines and methods for determining
characteristics of signals having frequency components that vary in
time.Typical systems for digital signal processing involve conversion of
an input analog signal to a sequence of digital samples, supplying blocks
of the digital samples in the sequence to a digital signal processing
engine which performs array or block level computations on the digital
signals, and analyzing the results of the computations. This field is
rapidly expanding in the areas of speech processing, image recognition
for radar and sonar, underwater acoustics, and other technologies.The discrete Fourier transform DFT and fast Fourier transform FFT
implementation of the DFT, are fundamental processing techniques in
digital signal processing systems. These techniques suffer the limitation
that they do not characterize signals being processed in terms of how
frequency components vary in time very well. Prior art systems for analyzing signals with frequency components that vary
in time have used the so-called short time Fourier transform STFT. This
algorithm is based on a computationally intensive Fourier transform of a
large number of short windows of the input signal. Transforms of each of
the short time windows are combined to generate a time varying spectrum of
the input signal. However, time varying spectra generated using the STFT
technique do not have very good resolution. Also, the STFT technique is
computationally expensive.The Gabor transform is another digital signal processing tool which
generates a joint time-frequency representation of a signal. See, D. Gabor,
"Theory of Communication", J.IEE (London), Vol. 93, No. III, November,
1946, pp. 429-457. Its applications, however, have been limited primarily
due to the difficulty of selecting the biorthogonal auxiliary window function γ.
Recently, a framework for designing the auxiliary function γ for the finite and
cyclic discrete Gabor transform has been developed. See, Wexler, et al.,
"Discrete Gabor Expansions", Signal Processing, Vol. 21, No. 3, November,
1990, pp. 207-221. In many signal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal analyzer (10) having

a source (11) of a sequence S(i) of digital signals representative of an
input signal S(t); and characterized by
a processor (12) coupled to the source (11) for computing orthogonal-like
discrete Gabor transform coefficients C
m,n
 in response to sequence S(i),
wherein the processor (12) uses the coefficients to compute a time-varying

spectrum of input signal energy,

wherein the spectrum is used in analyzing the input signal.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 1, wherein the processor (12)
comprises a first means for generating the coefficients and a second means

for computing the spectrum.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 1 or 2, wherein the processor (12)
includes storage means (111) for storing a table for factors used in

computation of the spectrum.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein the processor
(12) computes the spectrum using a cross-term deleted Wigner-Ville

distribution.
The signal analyzer (10) of any preceding claim, wherein the
processor (12) includes a computation engine (106) for computing an

orthogonal-like discrete Gabor transform resulting in coefficients C
m,n
 based
upon a non-periodic, localized discrete window function h, and a discrete

auxiliary function γ similar to h, and wherein the processor (12) further
includes a computation engine (108) for computing an energy distribution

function for each of the coefficients C
m,n
, the energy distribution function
including a first factor based upon the magnitude of the Gabor coefficient,

and a second factor varying according to the localized discrete window
function of the Gabor transform.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 5, wherein the processor (12)
includes storage means (111) for storing a precomputed table of values

used for the second factors of the energy distribution function for a particular 
coefficient C
m,n
 accessible in response to coordinates i, k of factors of the
localized discrete window function near coordinates m, n of the particular

coefficient.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 5 or 6, wherein the processor (12)
determines an update region for each coefficient C
m,n
 in response to the first
factor, and the distribution for each coefficient is computed within the

determined update region.
The signal analyzer (10) of any preceding claim, further including an
input buffer memory system (103) connected to receive the sequence

supplied by the source and supply the sequence to the processor (12) in a
set of overlapping frames.
The signal analyzer (10) of any preceding claim, further comprising:

a second processor (14), coupled to the first processor (12), which
processes the spectrum.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 9, wherein the second processor
(14) includes:


means, responsive to the spectrum, for partitioning the input signal.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 9 or 10, wherein the second
processor (14) includes:


means, responsive to the spectrum, for displaying a graphic
representation of the spectrum for use in analysis of the input signal.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 9, 10 or 11 further including an
output buffer (109) memory system connected to receive the time-varying

spectrum from the first processor (12) and supply the time-varying spectrum
to the second processor (14).
The signal analyzer (10) of any preceding claim, wherein the source
(11) comprises an analog to digital converter.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 13, wherein the source (11) includes
an anti-aliasing filter. 
A signal analyzer (10) having

a converter (11), having an input, which generates a sequence of
digital signals representative of an input signal supplied to the inputs, and

characterized by
input memory means (103), connected to receive the sequence
generated by the converter (11), for supplying the sequence in a set of

overlapping frames;
first means (106), coupled to the input memory means (103), for
computing orthogonal-like discrete Gabor transform coefficients C
m,n
 in
response to the set of overlapping frames, by performing a discrete Gabor

transform with a localized, gaussian discrete window function h, and a
discrete auxiliary function γ similar to h;
second means (108), coupled with the first means (106), for
generating a time-varying spectrum of input signal energy in response to the

coefficients by computing a cross-term deleted Wigner-Ville distribution; and
analysis means (115), coupled to the second means (108), for
processing the spectrum.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 15, wherein h is a gaussian function
having a variance σ
2
 less than or equal to about 0.5 (L/12)
2
, wherein L is a
window length of window m.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 15 or 16, wherein a contribution to

the distribution of a particular Gabor transform coefficient computed by the
first means (106) is computed as a function of a first factor based upon the

magnitude of the particular Gabor transform coefficient, and a second factor
varying according to the localized window function of the Gabor transform,

and the second means (108) includes storage means for storing a
precomputed table of values used for the second factor, accessible in

response to coordinates i, k of factors of the localized window function near
coordinates m, n of the particular Gabor transform coefficient.
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 17, wherein the second means
(108) includes means for determining an update region for each coefficient

C
m,n
 in response to the first factor, and the distribution for each coefficient is
computed only within the determined update region. 
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 15, 16, 17 or 18, further including an
output buffer memory system (107) connected to receive the distribution

data from the first means (106) and supply the distribution data to the
second means (108).
The signal analyzer (10) of claim 15, 16, 17, 18 or 19, wherein the
converter (10) includes an anti-aliasing filter.
A method for computing a time-varying spectrum of an input signal,
comprising


acquiring a sequence of digital signals representative of the input
signal, and characterized by
sampling the sequence of digital signals to define a plurality of
windows of length L, each window in the plurality including a plurality of

digital signals and each window shifted by length ΔM digital signals relative
to an adjacent window;
computing orthogonal-like discrete Gabor transform coefficients C
m,n

in sampling intervals ΔN and ΔM, for n =0 through N-1 for each window m,
and for the plurality of windows m = 0 through M-1, such that ΔN ΔM is less

than L;
computing the time-varying spectrum of energy of the input signal in
response to the coefficients C
m,n
; and
analyzing the input signal in response to the time-varying spectrum.
The method of claim 21, wherein the step of computing a spectrum
includes computing a cross-term deleted Wigner-Ville distribution.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
