<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646069</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VEHICLE SUSPENSION SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G17015	B60G17015	B60G170185	B60G2300	B60G2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G17	B60G17	B60G17	B60G23	B60G23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a land vehicle suspension in which a plurality of wheel and hub assemblies (10, 11, 12, 13) are each connected to the body of the vehicle by one of a plurality of actuators (26, 27, 28, 29). The operation of each actuator (26, 27, 28, 29) is controlled by an electronic or electrical processor (100). The processor (100) operates in response to signals received from a plurality of sensors which generate output signals indicative of the attitude of the vehicle body and forces on the body; e.g. a yaw gyrometer (200), a lateral accelerometer (300), a longitudinal accelerometer (400), a steering angle sensor (500), a vehicle speed sensor (600), load cells (45, 46, 47, 48), hub accelerometers (49, 50, 51, 52) and L.V.I.T.'s (53, 54, 55, 56). The processor (100) has a failure detection means for detecting failure of a sensor and a detection of the failure of the sensor operates in response to the remaining functioning sensor or functioning sensors of the plurality of sensors. Preferably the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a signal derived from an output signal of a functioning sensor or output signals of functioning sensors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOTUS CAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOTUS CARS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLISS JEREMY HENRY ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS JOHN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLISS, JEREMY HENRY ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, JOHN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VEHICLE SUSPENSION SYSTEMSThe present invention relates to vehicle suspension systems and more particularly to vehicle suspension systems in which a plurality of wheel and hub assemblies are each connected to the body of a vehicle by one of a plurality of actuators and the operation of each actuator is controlled by an electronic or electrical processor.Suspension systems according to the invention have been described as "active" suspension systems. Such suspension systems are well known and have been described in patent applications such as European patent publication Nos. 0114757 and 0190944.It is a problem with an active suspension system to control the suspension system upon failure of one of the sensors. Obviously, it is very undesirable for the suspension system to fail completely on failure of a sensor. This can be highly dangerous in a situation where the vehicle is manoeuvering at high speed and can lead to accidents.In fly-by-wire systems in aircraft generally several identical control systems are run in parallel and the output of each control system is checked against the output of the others. If one control system has a different output from the others then it is assumed to be faulty and therefore shut down. The costs of such an approach and the limited space in a motor vehicle make the approach impractical for controlling a land vehicle suspension system.The present invention provides a land vehicle 

suspension system in which a plurality of wheel and hub assemblies are each connected to the body of the vehicle by one of a plurality of actuators and the operation of each actuator is controlled by an electronic or electrical processor in response to signals received from a plurality of sensors which generate output signals indicative of the attitude of the vehicle body and the forces on the body, wherein the processor has failure detection means for detecting failure of a sensor and on detection of the failure of the sensor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a replacement signal and operates in response to the replacement signal and the output signal or output signals generated by a functioning sensor or functioning sensors of the plurality of sensors.Preferably the processor on detection of failure of a sensor replaces the output signal generated by the failed sensor with a replacement signal derived from an output signal or output signals generated by a functioning sensor or sensors of the plurality of sensors.In this specification the word derives should be construed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A land vehicle suspension system in which a plurality of wheel and hub assemblies are each connected to the body of the vehicle by one of a plurality of actuators and the operation of each actuator is controlled by an electronic or electrical processor in response to signals received from a plurality of sensors which generate output signals indicative of the attitude of the vehicle body and the forces on the body, wherein the processor has failure detection means for detecting failure of a sensor and on detection of the failure of the sensor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a replacement signal and operates in response to the replacement signal and the output signal or output signals generated by the remaining functioning sensor or functioning sensors of the plurality of sensors.
2. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor on detection of failure of a sensor replaces the output signal generated by the failed sensor with a replacement signal derived fr 
~
\ an output signal or output signals generated by a functioning sensor or sensors of the plurality of sensors.
3. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the processor generates control signals to control the actuators in response to output signals received from a plurality of sensors comprising two or more of; a sensor for measuring lateral acceleration of the vehicle, a sensor for measuring longitudinal acceleration 


of the vehicle, a sensor for measuring the speed of the vehicle, sensors for measuring the loads transmitted from the actuators to the vehicle body, sensors for measuring the extension and contraction of the actuators, and a sensor for measuring the yaw rate of the vehicle, and when the failure detection means detects failure of a sensor for measuring; the lateral acceleration of the vehicle; the longitudinal acceleration of the vehicle; the loads transmitted to the vehicle body by the actuators; or the extension and contraction of the actuators; the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor or output signals of failed sensors with a replacement signal or replacement signals derived from an output signal or output signals generated by a functioning sensor or functioning sensors of the plurality of sensors.
4. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 3 wherein upon a detected failure of a sensor for measuring the extension and contraction of an actuator the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a replacement signal derived from the output signal or output signals generated by one or more of the other sensors for measuring the extension and contraction of the actuators.
5. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 4 comprising two pairs of actuators, a first pair of actuators connected to wheel and hub 


assemblies on a first axle and a second pair of actuators connected to wheel and hub assemblies on a second axle, wherein upon a detected failure of a sensor for measuring the extension or contraction of an actuator on the first axle the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a replacement signal derived by summing the output signal of the sensor measuring the extension and contraction of the other actuator on the first axle with a signal generated as a function of the difference between the output signals of the sensors measuring the extension and contraction of the actuators on the second axle.
6. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 4 comprising two pairs of actuators, a first pair of actuators connected to wheel and hub assemblies on a first axle and a second pair of actuators connected to wheel and hub assemblies on a second axle, wherein the processor comprises means for determining whether the output signal generated by the sensor for measuring lateral acceleration indicates that the lateral accerleration is below a chosen level and when the lateral acceleration is below the chosen level and there is detected a failure of a sensor measuring the extension and contraction of a first actuator of a first pair of actuators then the processor replaces the output signal generated by the failed sensor with the output signal generated by the sensor measuring the extension and contraction of the other actuator of the first pair of actuators.
7. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 6 wherein when the lateral acceleration is above the chosen level and there is a 


detected failure of a sensor measuring the extension and contraction of the first actuator of the first pair of actuators then the processor replaces the ouzput signal generated by the first actuator by a replacement signal calculated as a function of the output signal generated by the sensor measuring the extension and contraction of the actuator of second pair of actuators which is located on the same side of the vehicle as the first acuator.
8. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of the Claims 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 comprising two pairs of actuators, a first pair of actuators connected to wheel and hub assemblies on a first axle and a second pair of actuators connected to wheel and hub assemblies on a second axle, wherein upon a detected failure of a sensor for measuring the load transmitted by a first actuator to the vehicle body the processor determines whether the lateral acceleration of the vehicle is below a chosen level and when the lateral acceleration is below the chosen level the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor by a replacement signal calculated as a function of the output signal of the sensor for measuring the load transmitted to the vehicle body by a second actuator opposite the failed sensor on the same axle and the difference between the output signals of the two sensors for measuring the extension and contraction of the first and second actuators.
9. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 8 wherein when after a detected failure of a sensor for measuring load transmitted by 


an actuator to the vehicle body the lateral acceleration is determined by the processor to be above the chosen level then the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor by a replacement signal calculated as a function of the output signal of a sensor for measuring the force transmitted to the vehicle body by a third actuator on the same side of the vehicle body as the failed sensor and on the second axle and the difference between the output signals of the sensors for measuring the extension and contraction of the first and third actuators.
10. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of Claims 3 to 8 wherein upon a detected failure of the sensor for measuring the lateral acceleration of the vehicle the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor by a replacement signal calculated as a function of output signal of the sensor for measuring vehicle speed and the output signal of the sensor for measuring vehicle yaw rate.
11. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 10 wherein upon a detected failure of the sensor for measuring the longitudinal acceleration of the vehicle the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor by a replacement signal derived by differentiating and filtering the output signal of the sensor for measuring vehicle speed.
12. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of Claims 3 to 12 wherein when the failure detection means detects failure of the sensor 


for measuring the yaw rate of the vehicle, the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a zero value replacement signal.
13. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of Claims 3 to 12 wherein when the failure detection means detects failure of the sensor for measuring vehicle speed, the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a constant value replacement signal.
14. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 13 wherein sensors are provided for measuring the acceleration of the wheel and hub assemblies and when the detection means detects a failure of a sensor for measuring the acceleration of a wheel and hub assembly the processor replaces the output signal of the failed sensor with a zero value replacement signal.
15. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the failure detection means of the processor monitors the output signal of a sensor and compares the output signal with a range of output signals stored in memory and recognises that the sensor has failed when the output signal is outside the predefined range.
16. A land vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the failure detection means of the processor averages the output signal of a sensor over time and compares the averaged output signal with a range of output signals stored in memory and recognises that the sensor has failed if the averaged output signal is outside the 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
