<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638468</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coupling for connecting the movement of the cable of a tensionner to the reel of a safety belt retractor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2246	B60R2248	B60R2246	B60R2200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R22	B60R22	B60R22	B60R22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coupling for transmitting the movement of a retensioning device, which acts on a cable, to the belt reel (1) of an automatic safety-belt retracting device having a coupling disc (2) which is connected to the cable (3) and having a carrier appliance (4, 7) which, when the cable is moving, connects the coupling disc (2) to the belt reel (1) in a non-rotating manner, rotation of the coupling disc caused by movement of the cable being transmitted to the reel (1) and the carrier appliance being such that it is able to move concomitantly with the belt reel (1), which takes the form of a lifting roller, together with the coupling disc (2) as part of the lifting movement. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ICSRD RUECKHALTESYSTEME FUER F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ICSRD RUECKHALTESYSTEME FUER FAHRZEUGSICHERHEIT GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPECHT MARTIN DIPL-ING FH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPECHT, MARTIN, DIPL.-ING. (FH)
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Coupling for the purpose of transmitting the retensioning movement, which
acts upon a traction cable (3), to a belt band spool (1) of an automatic seat

belt take-up device, having a coupling disc (2) which is connected to the
traction cable (3) and a driving device (4, 7) which in the event of movement

occurring in the traction cable (3) connects the coupling disc (2) in a non-rotatable
manner to the belt band spool (1) , wherein a rotational movement

of the coupling disc (2) caused by the movement in the traction cable is
transmitted to the spool (1), wherein the coupling disc (2) in the normal

operation is locked by virtue of a locking device (10) to prevent rotation on
the frame (8) of the automatic take-up device or on a coupling casing (9)

connected to the frame (8), the locking device (10) can be released by virtue
of the force exerted by the moving traction cable, the driving device (4, 7)

comprises driving elements (4) which after release of the locking device (10)
move upon rotation of the coupling disc (2) from a radially inner-lying normal

position into a radial outer position in engagement with the belt band spool
(1) and wherein in this engaged position the coupling disc (2) and the spool

(1) are mutually connected in a non-rotatable manner for a common rotation
about an axis (18), and wherein after the release of the locking device (10)

a preliminary locking element (12) supported on the frame (8) or the coupling
casing (9) engages the spool (1) and locks the spool (1) during the

subsequent movement of the traction cable to prevent rotation.
Coupling according to claim 1, characterised in that the rotational movement
in the opposite direction to the direction in which the traction cable is drawn

out is blocked.
Coupling according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the preliminary
locking element (12) is formed as a lever supported on the frame (8) or the

coupling casing (9). 
Coupling according to any one of the claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the
preliminary locking device (10) is attached to the preliminary locking element

(12).
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the
driving elements (4) are mounted in a displaceable manner on the coupling

disc (2).
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the
driving elements (4) comprise control surfaces (11), which can be guided

along control elements (6, 33) which are fixedly held with respect to the
frame (8) or coupling casing (9) during the movement of the driving elements

(4) into the engagement position.
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that in the
normal operation the coupling disc (2) is non-rotatably connected to the

control elements (6) by way of a second locking device (13) and that after
the release of the second locking device (13) the coupling disc (2) can rotate

by virtue of the traction cable movement with respect to the control elements
(6) still fixedly held on the frame (8) or coupling casing (9).
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 7, characterised in that the
control elements (6) are fixedly held on the frame (8) or coupling casing (9)

by means of a third locking device (14) until the non-rotatable connection
between the coupling disc (2) and the spool (1) is produced by way of the

driving elements (4).
Coupling according to claim 8 characterised in that the third locking device
(14) is then released if the non-rotatable connection between the spool (1)

and the coupling disc (2) is produced. 
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that the
three locking devices (10, 13, 14) are formed as pins which are sheared by

virtue of the forces exerted by the traction cable movement.
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the
control elements (33) are provided on the coupling casing (9).
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 11, characterised in that the
driving elements (4) are formed as jaws which are displaceable on the

coupling disc (2) and which can be brought into non-rotatable engagement
with the inner periphery of a driving ring (2) provided on the coil (1).
Coupling according to claim 12, characterised in that the driving elements (4)
comprise a toothing arrangement (19) which can be brought into

engagement with the inner periphery of the driving ring (20).
Coupling according to claim 12 or 13, characterised in that one tooth which
is formed as a gripping tooth (21) in the toothing arrangement (19) can be

moved into engagement with the inner periphery of the driving ring (20) upon
the displacement of the respective driving elements (4).
Coupling according to any one of claims 12 to 14 characterised in that the
driving ring (20) comprises a toothing arrangement (22) on its inner

periphery.
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 15, characterised in that the
driving elements (4) consist of a harder material than the inner-lying annular

part of the driving ring (20), with which the driving elements (4) come into
engagement.
Coupling according to claim 16, characterised in that the inner-lying annular 
part of the driving ring (20) is encompassed by a harder outer annular part.
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 17, characterised in that the
driving elements (4) are held in an inoperative position by virtue of a

positioning plate (34).
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 18, characterised in that by
virtue of the traction cable movement a flexible ratchet (25) can be brought

into engagement with a toothing arrangement (23) or (24) which is non-rotatably
connected to the spool (1).
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 19, characterised in that the
coupling disc (2) and the driving device (47) can be moved as one with the

belt band spool (1) by virtue of a lifting movement in a locking position and
that in the normal operation the locking device (10) is mounted on the frame

(8) of the automatic take-up device or on a coupling casing (9) connected to
the frame (8).
Coupling according to claim 20, characterised in that the pivot axis (16) lies
in the proximity of a rotational axis (17) about which the lifting movement of

the spool (1), which is formed as a rotational movement, is performed.
Coupling according to any one of claims 1 to 21, characterised in that a
locking detent (41, 42) for the purpose of locking a belt spool of a seat belt

take-up roller to prevent the belt being drawn out can be activated for the
locking engagement into the belt spool (1) by virtue of a component (47)

which moves upon the seat belt being tightened.
Coupling according to claim 22 characterised in that an actuating part (44)
which moves the locking detent (41, 42) into an engaging position with the

belt spool (1) can be moved out of an inoperative position upon the seat belt 
being tightened.
Coupling according to claim 23 characterised in that the actuating part (44)
is pretensioned in the actuating direction.
Coupling according to any one of claims 22 to 24 characterised in that a
retaining part (46) is provided which retains the locking detent (41, 42) in a

deactivated position with a pretensioning which is overcome by virtue of the
actuating part (44).
Coupling according to any one of claims 22 to 25 characterised in that the
locking detent (41, 42) comes into its final locking position by virtue of the

reversal of a movement caused by the tensioning drive.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
