<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631309</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device with contact structure and method of manufacturing the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L21768	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor device with a contact structure 
includes a silicon substrate (21), a diffusion region 

(28) formed in a surface of the silicon substrate, a 
silicide film (29c) of high melting point metal 

deposited on the diffusion region, an insulating film 
(30) formed on the silicon substrate, a contact hole 

(31) formed in the insulating film such that the 
silicide film is exposed at a bottom of the contact 

hole, an anti-diffusion film (35) formed on the exposed 
surface of the silicide film at the bottom of the 

contact film, a plug (32) formed in the contact hole by 
selective Al CVD, and a metal wiring (33) formed on the 

insulating film such that the metal wiring is 
electrically connected to the diffusion region by means 

of the plug, anti-diffusion film and silicide film. 
The anti-diffusion film may be formed by nitriding the 

surface of the silicide film. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAWASAKI STEEL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAWASAKI STEEL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMIYA TAKAYUKI C O KAWASAKI S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHTA TOMOHIRO C O KAWASAKI STE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINRIKI HIROSHI C O KAWASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEYASU NOBUYUKI C O KAWASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO HIROSHI C O KAWASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMIYA TAKAYUKI C O KAWASAKI S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHTA TOMOHIRO C O KAWASAKI STE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINRIKI HIROSHI C O KAWASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEYASU NOBUYUKI C O KAWASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO HIROSHI C O KAWASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor 
device with a contact structure for connecting a 
conductive region formed on at least one of junction and 
gate insulating film such as diffusion region and gate 
electrode of the semiconductor device to a metal wiring, 
and also relates to a method of manufacturing a semiconductor 
device including such a contact structure. In a semiconductor device including MOSFET transistors, 
source and drain regions of these transistors 
are connected to metal wirings by means of contact 
structures. In a known semiconductor device, a contact 
structure is formed by the following steps. At first, an 
insulating film such as an interlayer insulating film, 
i.e. SiO₂ film is formed on a silicon substrate having a 
surface in which transistor regions are formed, and then 
the insulating film is selectively removed to form a 
contact hole. Next, Ti film, TiN film and Al film are 
successively deposited by sputtering on the surface of 
the insulating film as well as in the contact hole, and  
 
after that a multilayered metal film on the insulating 
film is selectively removed in accordance with a desired 
pattern to form metal wirings. In this known contact 
structure, the Ti film reacts with silicon atoms of the 
diffusion region during a heating process after the 
deposition to form a silicide which serves to decrease a 
contact resistance between the diffusion region and the 
metal wiring. The TiN film serves to prevent the mutual 
movement of the silicon atoms and metal atoms of the 
metal wiring, so that a junction formed between the 
diffusion region and a bulk of the silicon substrate or 
a well formed in the surface of the silicon substrate 
can be protected against breakage. That is to say, the 
TiN film serves as an anti-diffusion film. The Al film 
constitutes a main body of the metal wiring and serves 
to flow an electric current at a low resistance. However, in a usual sputtering method, it is 
rather difficult to deposit an aluminum alloy film 
within a fine contact hole. Therefore, upon manufacturing 
a semiconductor device including contact holes 
having a diameter smaller than about 0.8µm a metal 
film is not deposited simultaneously on the insulating 
film as well as in the contact holes, but at first metal 
plugs are formed within the contact holes and then a 
metal wiring film is deposited on the insulating film as 
well as on the plugs.  Heretofore, source and drain regions of MOS 
transistors are formed by diffusion regions having 
impurities
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device comprising a substrate (21) 
supporting a semiconductor device portion (28, 25) to 

which electrical connection is made and upon which 
there are in turn a conductive region (29) and an 

insulating film (30), there being a contact arrangement 
comprising a contact hole (31) in the insulating layer, 

a plug (32) in the hole and metal wiring (33) on the 
insulating film (30) and electrically connected to the 

conductive region by means of the plug, characterised 
in that the plug (32) is of aluminum and a silicide 

film (29) of high melting point metal is at at least 
the bottom portion of the plug. 
A semiconductor device with a contact 
structure comprising: 

   a semiconductor substrate having a surface; 
   at least one of a junction and a gate insulating 

film formed on said surface of the semiconductor 
substrate; 

   a conductive region formed on said surface of the 
semiconductor substrate; 

   an insulating film formed on said conductive 
region; 

   a contact hole formed in said insulating film, an 
area of said contact hole being not larger than 0.7 

µm² ; 
   a plug formed in said contact hole and containing 

aluminum; 
   a silicide film of high melting point metal formed 

at least at a bottom of said plug; and 
   a metal wiring formed on said insulating film such 

that the metal wiring is electrically connected to said 
conductive region by means of said plug and silicide 

film, said metal wiring containing aluminum. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 1 or 
2, and comprising an anti-diffusion film formed at 

 
least on a top surface of the plug. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 1, 2 
or 3 wherein said plug is formed by an aluminum alloy 

containing silicon at the concentration of not lower 
than 0.7 weight %. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
2, 3 or 4, and comprising an anti-diffusion film formed 

at least at the bottom of the contact hole, the metal 
wiring being electrically connected to said conductive 

region by means of said plug, anti-diffusion film and 
silicide film. 
A semiconductor device according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said conductive region is 

formed of a diffusion region formed on a junction. 
A semiconductor device according to any one of 
claims 1 to 5, wherein said conductive region is formed 

of a gate electrode formed on a gate insulating film. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 7, 
wherein said gate electrode is formed by one of a 

highly doped poly-silicon film and a high melting point 
metal silicide. 
A semiconductor device according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said silicide film of 

high melting point metal is made of a material selected 
from the group consisting of TSi₂, CoSi₂, NiSi and 

PtSi. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 5, 
or any one of claims 6 to 9 when appended to claim 5, 

wherein said anti-diffusion film has a thickness within 
a range from 2 nm to 50 nm. 
A semiconductor device according to any one 
of the preceding claims, wherein said plug is directly 

contacted with the insulating film at a side wall of 
the contact hole. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 5, 
or any one of claims 6 to 11 when appended to claim 5, 

 
wherein said anti-diffusion film is formed by at least 

one of nitride, oxide nitride and boride of a high 
melting point metal selected from the group consisting 

of Ti, Zr, Hf, W, Ta, Nb and Mo. 
A semiconductor device according to any one 
of the preceding claims, wherein said silicide film is 

formed on an entire upper surface of the conductive 
region. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 5, 
or any one of claims 5 to 12 when appended to claim 5, 

wherein said anti-diffusion film is formed only at the 
bottom of the contact hole. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 14, 
wherein said anti-diffusion film is formed by one of 

nitride and boride of the high melting point metal of 
said silicide film. 
A semiconductor device according to any one 
of the preceding claims, wherein said silicide film is 

formed only at the bottom of the contact hole. 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor 
device with a contact structure comprising the steps 

of: 
   preparing a semiconductor substrate which has a 

surface: 
   forming a conductive region on at least one of a 

junction and gate insulating film on said surface of 
the semiconductor substrate; 

   forming an insulating film on said conductive 
region; 

   forming a contact hole having an area not larger 
than 0.7 µm² in said insulating film; 

   forming a silicide film of high melting point 
metal at least at a bottom of said contact hole prior 

to the step of forming the insulating film and/or after 
the step of forming the contact hole; 

   forming a plug containing aluminum in said contact 
 

hole by depositing a metal containing aluminum by a 
chemical vapor deposition using an organic aluminum 

compound gas; and 
   forming a metal wiring containing aluminum on said 

insulating film such that the metal wiring is 
electrically connected to said conductive region by 

means of said plug and silicide film. 
A method according to claim 17, and 
comprising a step of forming an anti-diffusion film at 

least on a top surface of said plug after said step of 
forming the plug. 
A method according to claim 18 or 19, wherein 
said step of forming the plug is performed such that 

the plug is formed by an aluminum alloy containing 
silicon at the concentration of not lower than 0.7 

weight %. 
A method according to claim 17, 18 or 19, and 
comprising forming an anti-diffusion film at least on 

said silicide film at the bottom of the contact hole so 
that the metal wiring containing aluminum is 

electrically connected to said conductive region by 
means of said plug, anti-diffusion film and silicide 

film. 
A method according to any one of claims 17 to 
20, wherein said step of forming the silicide film of 

high melting point metal is performed prior to the step 
of forming the insulating film, and said silicide film 

is formed on an entire upper surface of said conductive 
region. 
A method according to any one of claims 17 to 
20, wherein said step of forming the silicide film of 

high melting point metal is performed after the step of 
forming the contact hole by depositing the silicide 

film in said contact hole by a selective chemical vapor 
deposition. 
A method according to any one of claims 17 to 
 

22, wherein said silicide film of high melting point 
metal is TiSi₂, and said selective chemical vapor 

deposition of the silicide film is performed by using 
TiCl₄ gas and SiH₄ gas. 
A method according to any one of claims 17 to 
23, wherein said step of forming the silicide film of 

high melting point metal is performed prior to the step 
of forming the insulating films but after the step of 

forming the contact hole, and the step of forming the 
silicide film of high melting point metal performed 

after the step of forming the insulating film is 
performed by depositing the silicide film in said 

contact hole by a selective chemical vapor deposition. 
A method according to claim 20, or to any one 
of claims 21 to 24 when appended to claim 20, wherein 

said step of forming the anti-diffusion film is 
performed by nitriding the surface of said silicide 

film of high melting point metal under a nitriding 
atmosphere. 
A method according to claim 25, wherein said 
high melting point metal of the silicide film is Ti. 
A method according to claim 25 or 26, wherein 
said step of forming the anti-diffusion film is 

performed after forming the contact hole by nitriding 
the surface of the silicide film of high melting point 

metal exposed at the bottom of the contact hole. 
A method according to claim 20, or to any one 
of claims 21 to 27 when appended to claim 20, wherein 

said step of forming the anti-diffusion film is 
performed such that the thickness of the anti-diffusion 

film is within a range from 2 nm to 50 nm. 
A method according to claim 20, or to any one 
of claims 21 to 28 when appended to claim 20, wherein 

said step of forming the anti-diffusion film is 
performed by using an atmosphere containing ammonia gas 

at a temperature within a range from 800°C to 900°C for 
 

a time not longer than 60 seconds. 
A method according to any one of claims 17 to 
29, wherein at least two contact holes having different 

depths are formed in the insulating film and at least 
two plugs are formed in said contact holes such that 

the deepest contact hole is sufficiently filled with a 
plug, and then a part of a plug which protrudes from 

the surface of the insulating film is removed by a 
chemical mechanical polishing. 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor 
device with a contact structure comprising the steps 

of: 
   preparing a semiconductor substrate which has a 

surface; 
   forming a conductive region on said surface of the 

semiconductor substrate; 
   forming an insulating film on said conductive 

region; 
   forming a contact hole in said insulating film; 

   performing a nitriding treatment to terminate 
dangling bonds on the surface of the insulating film by 

heating the surface of the semiconductor substrate in a 
nitriding atmosphere; and 

   forming a plug containing aluminum in said contact 
hole by depositing a metal containing aluminum by a 

selective chemical vapor deposition using an organic 
aluminum compound gas. 
A method according to claim 31, wherein said 
nitriding treatment is performed in an atmosphere 

containing ammonia gas at a temperature within a range 
from 800°C to 900°C for a time not longer than 60 

seconds. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
