<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SILOXANEDIOL COATING FOR CAPILLARY ELECTROPHORESIS AND FOR GENERAL SURFACE MODIFICATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5702	B01D5702	B01J20281	B01J20281	B01J20283	G01N27447	G01N27447	G01N3000	G01N3088	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01J	B01J	B01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D57	B01D57	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	G01N27	G01N27	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coated microcapillary column for high performance electrophoresis is disclosed. A preferred microcapillary includes a column; a universal sub-layer of coating material that has been highly cross-linked using a cross-linking agent and attached covalently or non-covalently to the column wall; and a variable top layer of a monomer or polymer, preferably cross-linked, attached to the sub-layer. The microcapillary preferably is prepared by covalently bonding a highly cross-linked siloxanediol sub-layer to the inner surface of the microcapillary wall and then causing a mixture of monomers or polymers to react in the bore of the microcapillary to form a top layer. The bilayer coating as used in a microcapillary prevents adsorption of solutes during electrophoresis and eliminates or controls electroosmotic flow. The disclosed coating may also be formed on other kinds of surfaces where similar surface modification is desired. The sub-layer, which can be formed from other siloxane derivatives having two nucleophilic end groups, e.g., diamino or dithiol, may be used independently, or as a base layer for bilayer or even multilayer surface formation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV NORTHEASTERN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORET FRANTISEK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARGER BARRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMALZING DIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORET, FRANTISEK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARGER, BARRY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMALZING, DIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 5 SILOXANEDIOL COATING FOR CAPILLARY ELECTROPHORESISAND FOR GENERAL SURFACE MODIFICATIONFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to coatings for surfaces, and more particularly, to coatings suitable for capillary 10 electrophoresis columns.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONCapillary electrophoretic separation techniques find wide application in the biologically related sciences.Molecular species such as peptides, proteins,15 oligonucleotides, and oligosaccharides are separated by causing them to migrate in a buffer solution under the influence of an electric field. The separation is normally carried out in thin-walled, narrow-bore capillary tubes to minimize the evolution of heat during electrophoretic separa-20 tion, which would cause zone deformation.Among the other mechanisms that can cause zone deformation are non-uniform electroendosmosis and adsorption to the inner surface of the capillary of the substances to be separated. However, the problems associated with 25 adsorption and non-uniform electroendosmosis can be overcome by coating the inner wall of the electrophoresis tube with various polymeric substances.In U.S. Pat. No. 4,680,201, Hjerten discloses a method for coating the inner wall of a narrow bore capillary with30 a mono ole-cular polymeric coating of polyacrylamide bonded to the capillary wall by means of a bifunctional reagent, e.g., γ-methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane. These* capillaries can be used for free-zone electrophoresis in open tubes. ' 35 Novotny et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,074,982, discloses that the inner wall of silica capillaries used in electrophoretic separations can be coated with bifunctional reagent using a Grignard reagent, for hydrolytic stability. 

 Holloway, U.S. Pat. No. 5,110,439, shows a polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis column having a fused silica tube, a polyacrylamide gel matrix, and chains of non- crosslinked polydimethylsiloxane radially between and covalently attached to both the tube and the gel matrix.Huang et al. (J. Microl. Sepns. 4.:135-143, 1992) reports a procedure for bonding polyethylene glycol and polyethylene i ine onto the surface of a microcapillary tube. The capillary surface is first treated to create a uniform, dense distribution of silanol groups for bonding of a silicon hydride polymer. At elevated temperature, e.g., 250°C, the Si-H groups in the polymer mixture reacted with the silanol groups on the capillary surface and remaining Si-H groups crosslinked polymer chains. Free-radical reactions through Si-CH3 groups further crosslinked
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A microcapillary column for high precision and high performance electrophoresis, comprising: a microcapillary having an interior cavity and a wall with an inner surface; a sub-layer of a siloxanediol polymeric coating material, highly crosslinked with a crosslinking agent and attached covalently or non-covalently to said inner surface of said wall; and a top layer of a coating material attached covalently or non-covalently to said sub-layer coating material.
2. The microcapillary column of claim 1 wherein said microcapillary is made of fused silica.
3. The microcapillary column of claim 1 wherein said top layer of coating material is crosslinked.
4. The microcapillary column of claim 1 wherein said sub¬ layer coating material is polymethylvinylsiloxanediol.
5. The microcapillary column of claim 1 wherein said top layer of coating material comprises uncrosslinked polyacryl- amide.
6. The microcapillary column of claim 1 wherein said top layer of coating material comprises crosslinked polyacrylamide.
7. The microcapillary column of claim 1 wherein said top layer of coating material is polymethylolacrylamide.
8. A microcapillary column for high precision and high performance electrophoresis, comprising: 


 a fused silica microcapillary having an interior cavity and a wall with an inner surface; a sub-layer of coating material covalently bonded to said inner surface of said wall, wherein said coating material is highly crosslinked polymethylvinylsiloxanediol; and a top layer of coating material covalently bonded to said sub-layer of coating material, said top layer comprising polyacry1-amide.
9. The microcapillary column of claim 8 wherein said poly¬ acrylamide is crosslinked polyacrylamide.
10. The microcapillary column of claim 8 wherein said poly¬ acrylamide is polymethylolacrylamide.
11. A method of forming a coating on a surface, comprising the steps of: providing a surface for attachment of a coating; attaching a layer of a polymeric coating material to said surface, said polymeric coating material comprising a siloxane derivative having two nucleophilic end groups; and crosslinking individual polymers of said polymeric coating material using a crosslinking agent.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein in said attaching step, said layer of polymeric coating material is bonded covalently to said surface.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein in said attaching step, said layer of polymeric coating material is associated non- covalently with said surface.
14. The method of claim 11 wherein in said siloxane derivative is a siloxanediol. 


15. The method of claim 11 wherein said attaching step is performed prior to said crosslinking step.
16. The method of claim 11 wherein in said crosslinking step said crosslinking agent is separate from polymers of said polymeric coating material.
17. The method of claim 11 wherein said crosslinking agent is preliminarily attached to individual polymers of said polymeric coating material in a partial crosslinking step prior to performance of said crosslinking step.
18. The method of claim 11 wherein said polymeric coating material comprises a plurality of non-nucleophilic attachment centers.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein said non-nucleophilic attachment centers comprise vinyl groups.
20. The method of claim 18 wherein said non-nucleophilic attachment centers comprise alkyl groups.
21. The method of claim 18 wherein said layer attached to said surface is a sub-layer and said method further comprises the step of attaching molecules for a second layer of said coating to said plurality of non-nucleophilic attachment centers of said polymeric coating material.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein said molecules for said second layer are themselves crosslinked.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein said molecules for said second layer are crosslinked after said step of attaching said molecules for said second layer. 


24. The method of claim 21 wherein said polymeric coating material is polymethylvinylsiloxanediol.
25. The method of claim 21 wherein said molecules for a second layer of said coating comprise polyacrylamide.
26. The method of claim 24 wherein in said step of attaching molecules for a second layer, said molecules for a second layer react covalently with vinyl groups of said polymethylvinylsiloxanediol.
27. The method of claim 24 wherein in said step of attaching molecules for a second layer, said molecules for a second layer associate non-covalently with said polymethlyvinylsiloxanediol.
28. A method of forming a bilayer coating on a surface, comprising the steps of: providing a surface for attachment of a coating; attaching a sub-layer of a siloxanediol polymeric coating material to said surface; crosslinking individual siloxanediol polymers using a crosslinking agent; and attaching molecules for a top layer of said bilayer coating to non-nucleophilic attachment centers of said crosslinked siloxanediol polymeric coating material.
29. A multi-layer coating for a surface comprising: a sub-layer of a polymeric coating material bonded covalently or non-covalently to said surface, said polymeric coating material comprising a siloxane derivative having two nucleophilic end groups, individual polymers of said coating material having been crosslinked using a crosslinking agent, said polymeric coating material further comprising a plurality of non-nucleophilic attachment centers; and 


 a second layer of a coating material attached covalently or non-covalently to said plurality of non-nucleophilic attachment centers of said polymeric coating material.
30. The multi-layer coating of claim 29 wherein said siloxane derivative is siloxanediol.
31. The multi-layer coating of claim 29 wherein said non- nucleophilic attachment centers are vinyl groups.
32. A general coating for a surface comprising: a polymeric coating material attached covalently or non- covalently to said surface, said coating material comprising a siloxane derivative having two nucleophilic end groups, individual polymers of said coating material having been crosslinked using a crosslinking agent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
