<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0990929</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for a fiber optic jacket stripper
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B600	G02B600	G02B6245	G02B6245	H02G112	H02G112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H02G	H02G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	H02G1	H02G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for stripping an outer jacket from a fiber optic cable is
disclosed. The end of a fiber optic cable (390) is inserted between an upper cutting surface (310)

and a lower cutting surface (320) in the fiber optic stripping tool. The fiber optic cable is
engaged by the upper cutting surface substantially along a first half of the

circumference of the outer jacket and the lower cutting surface substantially along the
second half of the circumference of the outer jacket. The cutting surfaces cut through

the circumference of the outer jacket. The cutting surfaces are disengaged from the
jacket and the cut portion of the jacket is removed from the fiber optic cable.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TYCO SUBMARINE SYSTEMS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TYCO SUBMARINE SYSTEMS LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACKENZIE DONALD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIGGS RICHARD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARMA RAMESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACKENZIE, DONALD R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIGGS, RICHARD S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARMA, RAMESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for stripping an outer
jacket from a fiber optic cable. More specifically, the present invention provides for
engaging the outer jacket of the cable with a first cutting surface around half of the
circumference of the jacket and engaging the other half of the circumference of the
jacket with a second cutting surface in order to cut the jacket around its circumference
so that it can be removed from the optical fiber contained within the cable.Previously, jackets were not stripped from fiber optic cables. Due to the danger
of damaging the fiber within the cable, the jacket was manufactured to the desired
length and the fiber was then inserted into the pre-defined length of jacket. This is in
contrast to a method utilized for obtaining a desired length of jacket for a cable that
contains a copper conductor. In the copper cable context, a tool could be utilized to
strip a portion of the jacket off of the cable by engaging the jacket with the tool and
exerting a pulling force with the tool on the jacket to strip the jacket portion from the
copper cable. The tool is pulled along the copper cable's longitudinal axis, with the
tool engaging the jacket, until the jacket portion is removed from around the conductor.
Tools as advertised in Techni-Tool®, catalog 61, page 55, as "Precision Wire Strippers",
product numbers 217ST756, 217ST757, and 217ST3757 can be utilized to strip a jacket
from a copper cable conductor. If a similar method with the tools was utilized for
removing a jacket from a fiber optic cable the relatively fragile fiber, as contrasted to
the copper cable conductor, would break due to the pulling force that would be exerted
on the jacket, and consequently the optical fiber, by the tool.Additionally, it was not thought that the copper cable stripping tools themselves 
could be used to strip a jacket from a fiber optic cable. The electrical cable contains a
copper conductor that is, in comparison to an optical fiber conductor, rugged and
generally unaffected by physical imperfections in the outer circumference of the
conductor. Thus, when stripping an outer jacket from a copper conductor, if the
stripping tool's cuffing surfaces contact the conductor during the process, even if they
cut into the surface of the conductor, little damage is done to the transmission capacity
of the conductor. However, the same result would not be expected if an optical fiber
was contacted by the cutting surfaces of a stripping tool. Therefore, it was not thought
th
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for stripping an outer jacket from a fiber optic cable
comprising the steps of:


inserting an end of a fiber optic cable a distance through an opening defined by
an upper cutting surface and a lower cutting surface, the fiber optic cable including an

outer jacket wherein the outer jacket encases an optical fiber, said distance defining a
portion of the fiber optic cable to be stripped of the outer jacket;
drawing the upper cutting surface and the lower cutting surface towards each
other to define a cutting diameter;
engaging the fiber optic cable by the upper cutting surface substantially along
a first half of the circumference of the outer jacket;
engaging the fiber optic cable by the lower cutting surface substantially along
a second half of the circumference of the outer jacket;
substantially cutting through the first half of the circumference of the outer
jacket by the upper cutting surface;
substantially cutting through the second half of the circumference of the outer
jacket by the lower cutting surface;
disengaging the upper and lower cutting surfaces from the first and second
halves of the circumference of the outer jacket, respectively; and
removing the outer jacket from the portion of the fiber optic cable to be stripped
of the outer jacket.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of restricting the
distance that the fiber optic cable is able to be inserted through the opening.
The method of claim 1 or 2 further comprising the step of adjusting the
cutting diameter defined by the upper and lower cutting surfaces.
The method of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the steps of substantially cutting through
the first and second halves of the circumference of the outer jacket comprises the steps

of:
applying pressure to a first handle member to move the first handle member a
defined distance, said first handle member operably coupled to the lower cutting

surface; and
applying pressure to a second handle member to move the second handle
member a defined distance, said second handle member operably coupled to the upper

cutting surface.
The method of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein each of said upper and lower cutting
surfaces are comprised of a first blade and a second blade.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein each of said upper and lower cutting
surfaces include an arcuate-like shaped knife edge.
The method of any one of claims 2 to 6 wherein the step of restricting the distance that
the fiber optic cable is able to be inserted through the opening comprises the step of

positioning a cable stop within a frame.
The method of any one of claims 3 to 7 wherein the step of adjusting the cutting diameter
defined by the upper and lower cutting surfaces comprises the steps of:


controlling a distance that a first handle member is moved, the first handle
member operably coupled to the lower cutting surface; and
controlling a distance that a second handle member is moved, the second handle
member operably coupled to the upper cutting surface.
The method of claim 8 wherein the steps of controlling the distance that
the first and second handle members are moved comprises the step of positioning first

and second tabs within first and second slots, respectively, wherein said first and
second slots are defined by said first and second cutting surfaces, respectively.
The method of claim 9 wherein the step of positioning said first and
second tabs within said first and second slots comprises the step of manually rotating

said first and second tabs to align with said first and second slots.
The method of any of claims 1 to 10 wherein said step of removing the outer jacket
from the portion of the fiber optic cable to be stripped of the outer jacket includes the

steps of:

grasping the outer jacket of the portion of the fiber optic cable to be stripped
with an operator's hands; and
sliding the outer jacket of the portion of the fiber optic cable to be stripped off
of the fiber optic cable.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 11
wherein said upper cutting surface is attached to a first arm and said lower

cutting surface is attached to a second arm and wherein said first arm and said second
arm are pivotally mounted within a frame mounted to a support structure and said first

arm and said second arm are operably coupled to an actuator lever;
and wherein said step of drawing the upper cutting surface and lower cutting

surface towards each other to define a cutting diameter includes the step of moving said
actuator lever.
A fiber optic jacket stripping tool comprising:

a frame member, said frame member including a first support member and a
second support member;
a housing, said housing connected to said frame member at a first end of said
frame member, wherein said housing defines an opening which extends therethrough;
a first handle member, said first handle member pivotally attached to said first
support member and including a first handle extension member;
a second handle member, said second handle member pivotally attached to said
second support member and including a second handle extension member;
a first cutting surface, said first cutting surface attached to said first handle
member and disposed within said housing; and
a second cutting surface, said second cutting surface attached to said second
handle member and disposed within said housing.
The fiber optic jacket stripping tool of claim 13 further comprising a
cutting diameter control member, said cutting diameter control member rotatably

attached to said housing.
The fiber optic jacket stripping tool of claim 14 wherein said first and

second cutting surfaces define first and second slots, respectively, and wherein said
cutting diameter control member includes first and second tabs, said first and second

tabs receivable within said first and second slots.
The tool of claim 13, 14 or 15 wherein each of said
upper and lower cutting surfaces include an arcuate-like shaped knife edge.
The tool of claim 13, 14, 15 or 16 wherein each of said
upper and lower cutting surfaces are comprised of a first blade and a second blade.
The tool of claim 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 further comprising a
cable stop, said cable stop slidably mounted to said frame member and disposed

between said first support member and said second support member.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
