<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637219</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A THERMODILUTION CATHETER HAVING A SAFE, FLEXIBLE HEATING ELEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5028	A61B502	H05B354	A61B5026	A61B502	H05B358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	H05B	A61B	A61B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	H05B3	A61B5	A61B5	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermodilution catheter (100) having a heating filament (400) which is fabricated so as to be thin and flexible enough to avoid contact with the patient's blood. The heating filament is either inserted in a preformed catheter lumen, incorporated into a wall of the catheter body itself, or wrapped around the catheter body wall and surrounded by an external sheath (404). Generally, the covering of the heating filament is minimally thin so as to allow the heat from the heating filament (400) to be transferred to the surrounding blood and to minimally increase the overal cross-sectional area. Since the heating filament (400) does not directly touch the patient's blood, the outer surface may be made smooth so as to prevent inducement of blood clots. In addition, the heating filament (400) may be maintained at a safe temperature by forming the heating element of a flexible material having a high temperature coefficient of resistance, low thermal capacitance and high thermal conductivity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN MICHAEL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YELDERMAN MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN, MICHAEL, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YELDERMAN, MARK, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a thermodilution
catheter
having a flexible heating filament disposed therein for
applying heat to a patient's blood for purposes of measuring
cardiac output, volumetric blood flow, blood pressure, blood
volume, blood components, or the like.As is well known, catheters have been developed for
measuring
cardiovascular parameters such as cardiac output, blood
pressure, blood volume, blood components and the like.
Conventional catheters are made from various materials
including plastics and are typically inserted into various
body compartments, cavities and vessels to either deliver
therapeutic agents, diagnostic agents, or to measure directly
various physiologic parameters.Numerous techniques have been disclosed in the prior
art for measuring blood flow using catheters. For example,
in U.S. Patent No. 4,507,974, Yelderman describes a technique
for measuring blood flow by applying a stochastic excitation
signal to a system inlet and measuring the output signal at
a downstream system outlet. The blood flow rate is then
extracted by cross-correlating the excitation signal and the 
measured output signal. The problem addressed by systems of
this type is particularly difficult since the physiologic
blood vessels are elastic, thereby making classic fluid
measuring techniques unacceptably inaccurate. In fact,
because the blood vessels are elastic, blood flow cannot be
measured unless (1) the physical heart dimensions are measured
simultaneously with the blood velocity, (2) a technique is
used which is independent of the vessel geometry or (3) a
blood velocity technique is used which is calibrated by some
other technique. Examples of each of these techniques may be
found in the prior art.For example, a prior art approach for simultaneously
measuring blood velocity and vessel geometry is described by
Segal in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,733,669 and 4,869,263 and in an
article entitled "Instantaneous and Continuous Cardiac Output
Obtained With a Doppler Pulmonary Artery Catheter", Journal
of the American College of Cardiology, Vol. 13, No. 6, May
1989, Pages 1382-1392. Segal therein discloses a Doppler
pulmonary artery catheter system which provides instantaneous
diameter measurements and mapping of instantaneous velocity
profiles within the main pulmonary artery from which
instantaneous cardiac output is calculated. A similar
approach is taught by Nassi et al. in U.S. Patent No.
4,947,852. A comparable ultrasound technique is disclosed by
Abrams, et al. in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,671,295 and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermodilution catheter apparatus, comprising a flexible tubular
catheter member (10) adapted for introduction into a blood vessel of a

patient, a flexible beating filament (400) for applying a predetermined
quantity of heat to blood in said blood vessel and disposed with respect to

said catheter member (10) so as not to touch the patient's blood when said
catheter member (100) is inserted into the blood vessel, and temperature

detecting means (104,602) for detecting upstream or downstream
temperature variations of said blood as a result of application of said

predetermined quantity of heat to said blood;

   characterised in that the heating filament (400) is made of a metal
alloy

having a temperature coefficient of resistivity
greater than 0.001 Ω/Ω-°C, resistance of said heating

filament being proportional or inversely proportional to its temperature.
An apparatus as in Claim 1, further including means to reduce
power to said heating Filament (400,600) when resistance of said heating

filament exceeds a predetermined resistance amount.
An apparatus as in Claim 2, wherein said power reduction means
is adapted to reduce the power to said heating filament when the

temperature of said heating filament reaches approximately 52°C.
An apparatus as in any preceding claim, wherein said heating
filament (400) is comprised of approximately 70% nickel and 30% iron.
An apparatus as in Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said heating filament
(400) is comprised of approximately 29% nickel, 17% cobalt and 54%

iron. 
An apparatus as in any preceding claim, wherein said catheter
member (10) comprises a substantially cylindrical body wall portion (100)

and an outer sheath (404), said heating filament (400) being wrapped in
a thin layer about said body wall portion and enclosed by said sheath.
An apparatus as in Claim 6, further comprising a layer of material
with a high thermal conductivity disposed about said heating filament

(400) so as to create a more uniform surface temperature.
An apparatus as in Claim 6 or 7, wherein said body wall portion
(100) has a reduced diameter in a region where said heating filament (400)

is wrapped therearound such that the resulting total diameter in said region
is approximately equal to the diameter of said body wall portion in other

regions.
An apparatus as in Claim 6, 7 or 8, wherein said sheath (404) is a
flexible material formed by one of extrusion and blow molding.
An apparatus as in Claim 6, 7 or 8, wherein said sheath (404) is a
flexible material which shrinks to form-fit said heating filament (400) and

said body wall portion (100) when a sufficient quantity of heat is applied
thereto.
An apparatus as in any preceding claim, wherein said temperature
detecting means (104) comprises one of a thermistor and thermocouple

approximate to a distal end of said catheter member (10) and disposed
distally with respect to said heating filament (400).
An apparatus as in any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein said
temperature detecting means (602) comprises one of a thermistor or 

thermocouple disposed proximally with respect to said heating filament
(600).
An apparatus as in Claim 12, wherein a distal end of said catheter
member comprises a pigtail tip (604).
An apparatus as in ally preceding claim, further comprising at least
one set of electrical leads (308) attached to said heating filament (400) at

a first end thereof so as to apply power to said heating filament.
An apparatus as in Claim 14, wherein the opposite end of said set
of electrical leads (308) is connected to a cardiac output computer which

applies an appropriate power signal to said electrical leads when said
predetermined quantity of heat is to be applied to said blood.
An apparatus as in Claim 1, wherein said catheter member (10) has
at least one lumen through which said heating filament (400) is removably

inserted.
An apparatus as in Claim 16, wherein said heating filament (400)
is wrapped in a thin layer about a substantially cylindrical supporting

member (700), said supporting member and thin layer having a combined
outer diameter which is approximately equal to an inner diameter of said

at least one lumen.
An apparatus as in Claim 17, wherein said heating filament (400)
is approximately 5 to 10 centimeters in length and is disposed

approximately 10 centimeters from said temperature detecting means (104)
during measurement. 
An apparatus as in Claim 1, further comprising calibrating means
for calibrating both said heating filament (400,600) and said temperature

detecting means (104).
An apparatus as in Claim 19, wherein said calibrating means
comprises a memory contained at a proximal end of said catheter member

(10) for storing calibration information for either said heating filament or
both said heating filament (400,600) and said temperature detecting means

(104).
An apparatus as in Claim 20, wherein said calibration information
includes heating filament resistance at a given temperature, heating

filament heat transfer efficiency, temperature coefficient of resistivity and
thermistor or thermocouple information.
An apparatus as in Claim 21, wherein said memory is connected to
a cardiac output computer and said memory further stores a program

segment of a program used by said cardiac output computer to calculate
cardiac output of said patient, whereby calculation of the patient's cardiac

output cannot commence until said cardiac output computer is connected
to said memory and said program segment is transferred to said cardiac

output computer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
