<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIO FREQUENCY BROADCASTING SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING TWO LOW-COST GEOSYNCHRONOUS SATELLITES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B7185	H04B719	H04B715	H04J1300	H04J1300	H04B719	H04B708	H04B715	H04B7185	H04B708	H04H4090	H04L2700	H04L2700	H04B704	H04B706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04H	H04L	H04L	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04J13	H04J13	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04H40	H04L27	H04L27	H04B7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Over the past several years, proposals have been made in
the United States at the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and, internationally, at the International
Telecommunications Union (ITU) to broadcast radio programs
from geosynchronous satellites to receivers in mobile
platforms (e.g., automobiles) and in other transportable and
fixed environments. Since geosynchronous satellites are
located in near-equatorial orbits approximately 42,300
kilometers from the earth's surface, such satellites appear
stationary to an observer on the ground. The satellite views
roughly one-third of the earth's surface below it, which
allows radio broadcast coverage of such a large area or, by
using directional antennas on the satellite, a sub-area such
as a particular country. This potential national coverage
area of many tens of millions of square kilometers for
providing radio service throughout the continental United
States (or other country/region) is the main feature of
satellite radio broadcasting, since normal terrestrial AM/FM
radio stations typically cover a much smaller area.Radio broadcasting from satellites involves use of
special receivers in mobile or fixed platforms because of
technical implementation and frequency allocation/interference
requirements. Consequently, proposals for building such
systems have generally used UHF frequencies in the range of
about 300 to about 3,000 MHz. Fig. 1 shows a typical
satellite radio broadcasting system. Additional satellites 
can be used with the satellite system shown in Fig. 1 for
providing redundancy, additional channels or both. Fig. 1
shows the most important transmission path, the path from the
satellite to the mobile or fixed platforms. Since a mobile
platform requires an antenna which can receive satellite
signals from all azimuths and most elevation angles, the
mobile platform antenna gain must be low (e.g. 2-4 dBi gain is
typical). For this reason, the satellite must radiate large
amounts of radio frequency transmitter power so that the
mobile platform receiver can receive an adequate signal level.In addition to the need for a high power transmitter in
the satellite is the need for extra transmitter power, called
"transmission margin", to overcome multipath fading and
attenuation from foliage. Multipath fading occurs where a
signal from a satellite is received over two or more paths by
a mobile platform receiver. One path is the direct line-of-sight
or desired path. On other paths, the signal from the
satellite is first reflected from the ground,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for reducing multi-path fading, for reducing signal
attenuation from physical objects or for reducing satellite-based

transmitter power in a radio broadcasting system adapted to broadcast
signals having frequencies in the range of about 300 Mhz to about 3,000

Mhz comprising:

broadcasting a first signal from a first satellite source
travelling on a geosynchronous orbit;
substantially simultaneously broadcasting a second signal having
substantially the same content as said first signal from a second

satellite source on said geosynchronous orbit, said second satellite
source being spaced from said first satellite source a predetermined

number of degrees to reduce multi-path fading, to reduce signal
attenuation from physical objects in the paths of said first signal and

said second signal or to reduce satellite-based transmitter power; and
producing an output signal from said first signal and said second
signal at a plurality of fixed receivers and a plurality of mobile

receivers located at or near the surface of the earth.
The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring the
signal strengths of said first and said second signals, and selecting

the stronger signal from said first and said second signals.
The method of claim 1, further comprising combining said
first and said second signals to form said output signal.
The method of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said first and said
second signals are modulated sufficiently to resist multi-path fading.
The method of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein said
predetermined number of degrees is in the range of about 25 degrees to

abut 50 degrees. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first and
second signals are broadcast using spread spectrum modulation.
The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the first and
second signals are broadcast at substantially the same frequency.
The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the second
signal has a frequency different from the frequency of the first

signal.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first and
second signals are broadcast at a frequency in the range of about 300

Mhz to about 3,000 Mhz.
A UHF radio system adapted to broadcast signals having
frequencies in the range of about 300 Mhz to about 3,000 Mhz

comprising:

means for broadcasting a first signal from a first satellite
source travelling on a geosynchronous orbit;
means for broadcasting a second signal from a second satellite
source on said geosynchronous orbit, said second satellite source being

spaced from said first satellite source a predetermined number of
degrees to reduce multipath fading and to reduce signal attenuation

from physical objects in the paths of said first signal and said second
signal; and
a plurality of fixed receivers and a plurality of mobile
receivers for said first and said second signals located at or near the

surface of the earth, said receivers being adapted to produce an output
from said first and said second signals.
The system of claim 10 further comprising, in said receiver,
means for measuring the strengths of signals from said first and said

second satellite sources, and means for selecting the stronger signal
from said first and said second signals. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said receiver includes means
for combining said first and said second signals.
The system of claim 10, further comprising means for
modulating said first and said second signals to reduce multipath

fading.
The system of claim 10, wherein said second satellite source
is adapted to produce a second signal having a frequency different from

the frequency of said first signal.
The system of claim 10, wherein said first satellite source
comprises at least two separate satellites.
The system of claim 10, wherein said second satellite source
comprises at least two separate, satellites.
The system of claim 10, wherein said predetermined number
of degrees is in the range of about 25 degrees to about 50 degrees.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
