<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631629</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FUNGUS-RESPONSIVE CHIMAERIC GENE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01H500	C12N1582	C12N1582	A01H500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01H	C12N	C12N	A01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01H5	C12N15	C12N15	A01H5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Fungus-responsive chimaeric genes are used in the production of transgenic plants which can produce plant cells surrounding the fungus infection that become capable of killing, disabling or repelling the fungus or that are themselves killed or rendered unsuitable for the fungus to feed upon, thereby preventing the spread of the fungus infection.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAX PLANCK GESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAX-PLANCK-GESELLSCHAFT ZUR FOERDERUNGDER WISSENSCHAFTEN E.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTINI NORBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRITTMATTER GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTINI, NORBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRITTMATTER, GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the use, in a transgenic plant, of at least a portion of a
fungus-responsive prp1-1 promoter to induce (i.e., stimulate), in response to a fungus
infection of the plant, the expression of a gene or a DNA fragment substantially
selectively in cells of the plant around the site of the fungal infection. The use of the
prp1-1 fungus-responsive promoter of this invention is especially valuable in
transgenic plants for controlling a foreign gene or a DNA fragment that is to be
expressed selectivily in the cells of the plant which immediately surround the fungal
infection site so as to render the plant resistant to the infecting fungus, particularly a
plant-pathogenic fungus.This invention also relates to a first or fungus-responsive
chimaeric gene that can be used to transform a plant
and that contains a first foreign DNA that:
a) encodes a product which, when expressed in cells of the
plant immediately surrounding a fungal infection site, can
either i) kill or at least adversely disturb significantly
the plant cells immediately surrounding the fungal
infection site or ii) kill, disable or repel one or more
fungi in the fungal infection site; andb) is under the control of at least a portion of the
fungus-responsive prp1-1 promoter of this invention.This invention further relates to a cell of a plant, the
genome of which is transformed to contain the first
chimaeric gene and optionally a second or restorer chimaeric
gene; the second chimaeric gene contains a second promoter
that controls a second foreign DNA encoding a product which
can inhibit or inactivate the first foreign DNA or its
encoded product at least in cells of the plant other than
those immediately surrounding a fungal infection site,
particularly when the first foreign DNA encodes a product
that can kill or adversely disturb significantly such other
plant cells.This invention yet further relates to: a) the fungus-resistant 
transgenic plant, such as a Solanaceae (e.g.,
tomato or potato) or Brassicaceae (e.g., oilseed rape),
which is regenerated from the plant cell of this invention
transformed with the first and optionally the second
chimaeric genes of this invention, b) fungus-resistant
transgenic plants derived from the regenerated transgenic
plant and seeds of such plants, and c) plant cell cultures,
all of which consist essentially of the transformed plant
cells of this invention.The plants of this invention are characterized by the
fungus-responsive expression of the first chimaeric gene of
this invention in plant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A chimeric gene comprising the following operably linked regions:

a) a fungus-responsive promoter region, comprising a fungus-responsive
promoter region of the DNA sequence of SEQ ID No. 1;
b) a first foreign DNA region, encoding an RNA, protein or polypeplide which,
when expressed in plant cells, either:


1) kills or disturbs the functioning of said plant cells, or
2) kills, disables or repels said fungus; and
c) suitable 3' transcription termination and polyadenylation signals for
expressing said first foreign DNA.
The chimeric gene of claim 1, wherein said first foreign DNA encodes an
RNA, protein or polypeptide which, when expressed in plant cells, kills or

disturbs the functioning of said plant cells.
The chimeric gene of claim 1, wherein said fungus-responsive promoter
region comprises the DNA sequence of SEQ ID No. 1 from nucleotide 295 to

nucleotide 567.
The chimeric gene of claim 3, wherein said fungus-responsive promoter
region comprises the DNA sequence of SEQ ID No. 1 from nucleotide 295 to

nucleotide 696.
The chimeric gene of claim 4, wherein said fungus-responsive promoter
region comprises the DNA sequence of SEQ ID No. 1 from nucleotide 295 to

nucleotide 722.
The chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the fungus-responsive
promoter region further comprises a heterologous TATA-box region of

another plant-expressible promoter.
The chimeric gene of claim 6, wherein said heterologous TATA-box region is
the TATA-box region of a CaMV 35S promoter ranging from nucleotide -46 to

nucleotide +8.
The chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said foreign DNA
region is an antisense DNA encoding an RNA complementary to a gene

encoding a gene product essential for the functioning, metabolism or
development of said plant cells. 
The chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said first foreign DNA
region encodes a protein selected from the group of: an RNase, a DNase, a

protease, an enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of phytohormones, a
glucanase, a lipase, a lipid peroxidase, a plant cell wall inhlbitor, and a toxin.
The chimeric gene of claim 9. wherein said first foreign DNA region encodes
an RNase.
The chimeric gene of claim 10, wherein said first foreign DNA sequence
encodes barnase.
The chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said foreign DNA
sequence encodes a protein or peptlde selected from the group consisting of:

a chitinase, a β-1,3 glucanase, a protease inhibitor, a lectin, the antifungal
peptide CMIII from corn, an osmotin-like protein, an antifungal peptide from


Amaranthus caudatus
 seeds, an antifungal peptide from 
Mirabilis jalapa

seeds, an antifungal peptide from 
Aspergillus giganteus
 and an Rs-AFP
proteins obtained from radish.
The chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said fungus-responsive
promoter region is induced by a fungus belonging to the genus


Phytophtora
.
The chimeric gene of claim 13, wherein said fungus is 
Phytophtora infestans
.
The chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the foreign DNA
sequence is the coding sequence of an avirulence gene and/or a

corresponding resistance gene.
The chimeric gene of claim 15, wherein the foreign DNA sequence is the
coding sequence of 
avr
9 or 
Cf
9.
A plant cell comprising the chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 16.
The plant cell of claim 17, wherein said plant cell further comprises a second
chimeric gene comprising:


a) a plant-expressible promoter, which is capable of directing

transcription of a foreign DNA in at least cells of the plant other
than those immediately surrounding a fungus infection site, 
b) a second foreign DNA region encoding an RNA, protein or
polypeptide which can inhibit or inactivate the first foreign DNA

sequence or its encoded product;

wherein said plant-expressible promoter is operably linked to said second
foreign DNA region; and
c) a suitable 3' transcription termination and polyadenylation signal for
expressing said second foreign DNA in at least said other cells.
The plant cell of claim 18, wherein the plant-expressible promoter in said
second chimeric gene is a constitute promoter.
The plant cell of claim 19, wherein said constitutive promoter is a CaMV 35S
promoter or a 
nos
 promoter.
The plant cell of claim 18, wherein said first foreign DNA encodes bamase
and said second foreign DNA encodes barstar.
A plant consisting essentially of the plant cells of any one of claim 17 to claim
21.
The plant of claim 22, wherein said plant is selected from the group of alfalfa,
corn, cotton, sugar beet, brassica vegetables, oilseed rape, tomato, soybean,

wheat, potato or tobacco.
A seed of the plant of claim 22, consisting essentially of the plant cells of any
one of claim 17 to claim 21.
A method for rendering a plant resistant to one or more fungi, comprising the
step of integrating the chimeric gene of any one of claims 1 to 16 into the

nuclear DNA of said plant.
The method of claim 25, comprising further the step of: providing a second
chimeric gene to the cells of said plant, wherein said second chimeric gene

comprises:

a) a constitutive plant-expressible promoter, operably linked to
b) a second foreign DNA region encoding an RNA, protein or
polypeptide which can inhibit or inactivate the first foreign DNA

sequence or its encoded product; and
c) a suitable 3' transcription termination and polyadenylation signal
for expressing said second foreign DNA.
The method of claim 26, wherein the first foreign DNA encodes barnase and
the second foreign DNA encodes barstar.
The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein said fungus-responsive
promoter region is induced by a fungus belonging to the genus 
Phytophtora
.
The method of claim 28, wherein said fungus is 
Phytophtora infestans.
A method for identifying and isolating a fungus-responsive promoter whose
transcriptional activity is induced upon fungal infection in those cells

immediately surrounding the site of fungal infection, said method comprising
the step of: identifying a promoter sequence in the genomic DNA of a plant

using the promoter fragment of SEQ ID No. 1 between the nucleotide at
position 1 and the nucleotide at position 696 or a promoter-effective portion

thereof as a hybridization probe in a conventional manner, and isolating
promoter sequences which have essentially the same nucleotide sequence

as comprised in SEQ ID No. 1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
