<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631539</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAMING DEVICE WITH AN IMPROVED PAPER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J1158	B41J1158	B65H2000	B65H2028	G07B100	G07B100	G07C1500	G07C1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B65H	B65H	G07B	G07B	G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J11	B41J11	B65H20	B65H20	G07B1	G07B1	G07C15	G07C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gaming device (10) is shown having a controller (12) that controls the operation of the gaming device (10) and a printer (22) that records events on paper (30) in response to the controller (12). A first magazine (32) is provided for holding fan folded paper (30) to be input to the feed mechanism (24) of the printer (22) and a second magazine (23) is positioned relative to the paper output of the printer (12) to receive a printed record on at least a portion of the paper output from the printer (22). A third magazine (34) is provided for holding a third supply of fan folded paper (30) wherein an end of the paper (30) in the first magazine (32) is attached to an end of the paper held in the third magazine (34) so that when paper in one magazine is depleted, paper in the other magazine is automatically input to the printer's input feed mechanism (24).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GAMING DEVICE WITH AN IMPROVED PAPER SUPPLY SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a gaming device having a printer for recording gaming events on paper and more particularly to an apparatus and method for minimizing the need to replenish paper in a gaming device and for maximizing the flexibility of timing paper replenishment.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONGaming devices are. nown that include printers for recording various events on paper wound in a roll, the paper roll typically being mounted in the printer itself. Because the paper is mounted in the printer, the paper rolls employed are typically small requiring frequent replenishment which results in frequent interruption in the operation of the gaming device. Further, because the trailing end of the paper; i.e., the end on the inside of the roll is inaccessible, the time window within which a paper roll should ideally be replaced is very small. More particularly, the window for ideal paper replenishment is the time at which the paper roll becomes depleted. If the paper roll is replaced before it is completely depleted the paper remaining on the replaced roll is wasted. If the paper roll is not replaced soon after it is depleted, the down time of the gaming device increases. Further, if the paper roll is not replaced until it is completely depleted, the operator must make a special trip to the gaming device to replace the paper at times that may be inconvenient. ' 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention; the disadvantages of prior paper supply systems for known gaming devices, as discussed above, have been overcome. The system of" the present invention minimizes the need to replenish paper in a gaming device while maximizing the flexibility of timing paper replenishment.More particularly, the gaming device of the present invention includes a controller for controlling the operations of the gaming device and a printer that records gaming events on paper in response to the controller. Instead of utilizing paper rolls mounted inside the printer, the gaming device of the present invention utilizes fan folded paper held in a first magazine that is positioned with respect to the printer so that an end of the fan folded paper may be input to the paper input feed mechanism of the printer. A second magazine is positioned relative to the paper output of the printer to receive at least a portion of the fan folded paper output from the printer. Because the gaming device of the present invention utilizes fan folded
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. In a gaming device having a cabinet with an upper area and a pedestal area therebelow, said upper cabinet area housing a controller for controlling the operations of said gaming device and a printer for recording events on paper in response to said controller, said printer having a print head, a paper input feed mechanism and a paper output, a paper supply system comprising: a supply of fan folded paper having a leading end input to said paper input feed mechanism; a first magazine for holding said fan folded paper, said first magazine being positioned in said pedestal area of said cabinet; and a second magazine positioned relative to the paper output of said printer to receive at least a portion of the fan folded paper output from said printer.
2. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 including a third magazine for holding fan folded paper, a trailing end of the paper in the first magazine being attachable to an end of the paper held in said third magazine so that when paper in one magazine is depleted, paper in the other magazine is automatically input to said printer feed mechanism.
3. A gaming device as recited in claim 2 wherein each of said first and third magazines includes a floor, a backwall extending from said floor to maintain said paper in said magazine and an open front area opposite said backwall, said first and third magazines being positioned relative to each other such that the open front area in said first magazine faces the open front area in said 


third magazine.
4. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 wherein said fan folded paper is double ply paper capable of having information printed simultaneously on both plies by a single print head, and said second magazine receives only a single ply of the paper output from said printer.
5. A gaming device as recited in. claim 1 wherein said first magazine holds single ply fan folded paper and further includes a third magazine for holding single ply fan folded paper, the paper in said first magazine and third magazine being input to said printer feed mechanism simultaneously for simultaneous recording of said events on the paper from said first and third magazines.
6. In a gaming device having a controller for controlling the operation of said gaming device and a printer for recording events on paper in response to said controller, said printer having a paper input feed mechanism, a paper supply system comprising: a plurality of supplies of fan folded paper; and a plurality of magazines each magazine holding a supply of fan folded paper, the paper in each magazine having an end attached to paper in a different magazine such that when the paper in one magazine is depleted, the paper held in said different magazine is automatically input to said printer feed mechanism. 


 7. A gaming device as recited in claim 6. wherein said plurality of magazines includes a first magazine and a second magazine, each of said first and second magazines including a floor, a backwall from said floor to maintain said paper in said magazine and an open front area opposite said backwall, said first and second magazines being positioned relative to each other such that the open front area in said first magazine faces said open front area in said second magazine.
8. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein said first and second magazines are tilted in opposite directions such that the paper in each of said magazines rests on both the backwall and floor of the magazine.
9. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein said open front area in each of said magazines extends from the top of the magazine to substantially the floor of the magazine.
10. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein each of said magazines includes a frontwall disposed opposite said backwall and said open front area in each of said magazines forms a slot in said frontwall of the magazines.
11. A gaming device as recited in claim 6 having a housing with a first compartment and a second compartment separated from said first compartment, said first compartment storing said controller and said second compartment storing said plurality of paper magazines. 


 12. A gaming device as recited in claim 11 wherein said first and second compartments are separated by a wall having a passageway therein to allow paper from a magazine to pass through to said printer, the printer being contained in said first compartment.
13. A gaming device as recited in claim 12 wherein said passageway is shaped to inhibit access to said first compartment from said second compartment through said passageway.
14. A method of supplying paper to a printer of a gaming device comprising: supporting a first supply of fan folded paper on a first magazine such that a leading end and a trailing end of said first paper supply are accessible; supporting a second supply of fan folded paper on a second magazine such that a leading end and a trailing end of said second paper supply are accessible; feeding the leading end of the first paper supply to said printer; and attaching the trailing end of said first paper supply to the leading end of said second paper supply to allow said second paper supply to automatically be fed into said printer upon the depletion of said first paper supply.
15. A method of supplying paper to a printer of a gaming device, as recited in claim 14 further including supporting a third supply of fan folded paper on a third magazine; and feeding said third paper supply to said printer 


simultaneously with said first paper supply.
16. A method of supplying paper to a printer of a gaming device comprising: supporting a first supply of fan folded paper on a first magazine; supporting a second supply of fan folded paper on a second magazine; and simultaneously feeding the fan folded paper from said first supply and from said second supply to said printer to allow duplicate records of printed information to be provided by said printer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
