<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638159</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-FUNCTIONAL NOZZLE BLOW BOX
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21F504	D21F500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21F	D21F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21F5	D21F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air drying process for a paper machine is disclosed whereby air is impinged directly onto a paper web between top (2, 4, 6, 8) and bottom (1, 3, 5, 7) dryers on an open paper draw. This provides additional drying and machine speed increases due to improved controlling of the sheet flutter and improved drying via direct air impingement onto the sheet for all paper grades. The structure provides radial jet reattachment nozzles (20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30) to blow air onto the sheet while the paper web is not in contact with either cylinder surface and the fabric or felt (32). The nozzle stabilizes and supports the sheet to prevent flutter and bulging.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIELE ERIC W
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIELE, ERIC W.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIELE ERIC W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIELE, ERIC W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to paper machine
drying sections. More particularly, the
present invention relates to the open draw sections of
paper machine dryers where the paper web travels from
top cylinders to bottom cylinders and then again from
bottom cylinders to the upper cylinders, in an
unsupported fashion. The invention could also be
applied to a dryer section where the moist web is
supported by a fabric or felt in a single tier or unirun
system.In a papermaking process, a moist paper web, after
passing through mechanical water removal stations and a
series of press nips, continues to pass over a series
of heated cylinders that evaporates water form the web
to approximately 95% dryness. The paper web, in a
typical dryer section, is unsupported as it travels in
a serpentine fashion between upper and lower dryer
cylinder arrangements. A top and bottom fabric loop is
arranged to guide the web around the cylinders. A top
fabric or felt, guides the web around the group of top
cylinders, which are situated in a single row at a high
elevation, with felt turning rolls located between them
and a lower fabric or felt run is similarly situated at
the lower level. The web travels alternately between
top and bottom cylinders. The top fabric or felt run
disengages at the above location from the cylinders and 
the paper web, continuing to a fabric or felt turning
roll, passing through a series of cylinders and felt
rolls until the fabric is guided above the dryer
section via turning rolls of a guide and stretcher
arrangement in a closed loop fashion. A similar
arrangement is fashioned for the bottom dryer section,
creating an opposite fabric loop system for the lower
dryer group.The stretch or distance that the moist paper web
has to travel from the upper dryer group to the bottom
dryer group, unsupported by either cylinder or fabric,
is called the open draw.The conventional process through the industry is
to include the supply air via different pocket
ventilation systems using blow boxes of many and varied
systems behind the fabric or felt turning rolls (i.e.
above top felt turning rolls and below bottom felt
turning rolls). The air from these blow boxes has to
travel through the fabric in order to infiltrate the
pocket of the open draw. This requires high open
permeability of the fabric and, at high machine speed,
much of the air is deflected, requiring a high air
volume and high horsepower to force air through the
fabric. Another standard method is to introduce air
via the felt turning rolls, forcing air
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A paper machine drying section including a first
series of drying cylinders (2, 4, 6, 8) in a top run and a

second series of cylinders (1, 3,5, 7) in a bottom run,
upper and lower fabric loops (10, 12) cooperating with the

first and second series, respectively, of said drying
cylinders for guiding a paper web (P1) having a paper web

draw in a serpentine path around the surface of alternating
cylinders of said top and bottom runs of drying cylinders

with a dryer pocket between the cylinders of said first
series in the top run and the second series of cylinders in

the bottom run thereof, characterized by

apparatus (20 - 30) for supplying air directly onto
said paper web (P1) in said dryer pocket while said paper

web is not supported by cylinders, fabric or felt, said
apparatus including:
means (36 - 40) for supplying said air in a manner to
inhibit flutter, blow-away or breakage of said web and

including an elongated enclosure having a front face (44), said means supplying said air
to at least one nozzle box (42) located in said dryer

pocket (18) extending substantially the full width of said
dryer cylinder and said paper web draw, said at least one

nozzle box being adjacent to said paper web and including
a plurality of radial jet reattachment nozzles (20 -

30) located at spaced locations across said front face and
directed towards said paper web, said nozzle box providing

a plenum body (42) feeding each nozzle on said nozzle box
with an amount of air, and a perforated nozzle protection

shield (50) mounted on the front face of said nozzle box
and above said plurality of nozzles.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in claim 
1, wherein a plurality of nozzle boxes (42) are provided in

said dryer section and rows of nozzles (20 - 30) in one box
are aligned intermediate to the nozzles in an adjacent box

in an adjacent pocket with respect to the cross-machine
direction of said paper web for a more uni-form drying

thereof.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in claim 1 or
2, wherein said at least one nozzle box (42) is pivotally mounted (46) in

said dryer pocket whereby said nozzle box and said nozzles
thereon may be pivoted away from its operative position

adjacent said paper web providing access thereto for threading
of the paper and the like.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein each of said radial jet reattachment

nozzles (20 - 30) comprises a cylinder member secured in the
front face (44) of said nozzle box and directed outwardly

therefrom, and a head (74) having a stem (76) coaxially
positioned in said cylindrical portion and a head outwardly of

and overlying the outer end of said cylindrical portion
whereby air directed outwardly from said nozzle box through

said cylindrical or elongated portion is directed parallel to
said paper web by the position of said head.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in any
preceding claim including means (64) associated with said

nozzles for adjusting the airflow therefrom to blow away dust
particles from said paper web. 
A paper machine drying section as claimed in claim 5,
wherein said airflow adjusting means comprises means (64) for

axially sliding said stem in said nozzle body whereby said
head opens or closes the peripheral gap between the head and

the nozzle body.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in any
preceding claim further including means for adjusting the blow

box relative to the distance between the face of the blow box
and the paper web.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in any
preceding claim further including an elongated slot (54) in

the lower end of said nozzle box whereby air may be gently
moved away from the web.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in claim 1
further including an internal adjustment means whereby certain

individual nozzles can be closed or opened for air flow to
improve moisture profiling.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in claim 9,
wherein said airflow adjusting means comprises a peripheral

ring mounted on the outer surface of said nozzle body for
slideable movement therealong whereby said ring can be moved

to open or close the peripheral area between said nozzle head
and the adjacent rim of said nozzle body.
A paper machine drying section as claimed in claim 9,
wherein said airflow adjusting means comprises means for

axially sliding said stem in said nozzle body whereby said
head opens or closes the peripheral gap between the head and

the nozzle body to control pocket humidity.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
