<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629078</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for processing and reproducing image information
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K920	H04N1387	H04N140	G06T500	G06K932	G06K920	H04N1407	G06T500	G06K934	H04N1387	H04N1407	H04N140	G06T1160	G06K932	G06T1160	G06K934	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	H04N	H04N	G06T	G06K	G06K	H04N	G06T	G06K	H04N	H04N	H04N	G06T	G06K	G06T	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	H04N1	H04N1	G06T5	G06K9	G06K9	H04N1	G06T5	G06K9	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	G06T11	G06K9	G06T11	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Layout analysis is used in operating a digital reproduction apparatus. Digital 
image dot data corresponding to a document image to be reproduced are analysed 

by the apparatus and the layout of the document is determined therefrom. This is 
shown on a display. An operator can now select a specific layout element, such as 

a text column, by indicating it, and instruct the image processing unit of the 
apparatus to process only that element. The processing operations include colour 

printing, gradation changing, moving and enlargement/reduction. 
 
A layout analysis method suitable for this application comprises two steps. In 
a first step, the image information is searched for clusters of adjoining 

informationbearing image dots. These clusters, known as objects, each form a 
character, graphic element, photograph, etc. In the second step, the set of clusters 

is divided in an iterative process into text blocks, lines and words. Only objects 
which represent a character are used in these conditions. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OCE TECH BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OCE-TECHNOLOGIES B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURGER JOHAN HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSSEN EDWIN FRANCISCUS JOSEP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURGER, JOHAN HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSSEN, EDWIN FRANCISCUS JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to apparatus for reproducing an image, comprising
means for supplying digital image dot information representing said image,a memory for storing image dot information, andmeans for processing the supplied image dot information.
The term "image dot information" in this context denotes the density values of pixels
(image dots) disposed in an orthogonal raster and together corresponding to the
image.Apparatus for processing supplied digital image dot information are generally
known. In these known apparatus, a document is scanned by means of an
optoelectrical scanner and digital image dot data are generated which correspond to
the document image. These image dot data are stored in a memory, processed and
printed. Digital image dot data can also be supplied from another device, stored in the
memory, and be printed after processing. The processing is generally aimed at so
adapting the image data that a good print is obtained, e.g. converting grey value data
into halftone data, i.e. image data which can only have the value black or white for
each image dot.In addition, processing may be aimed at changing the appearance of the printed
image of the document according to an operator's choice. This is usually referred to as
editing. In that case, selection means, such as a digitising panel and an indicator pen,
can be used to indicate an area of the document, whereafter a processing function
instruction can be given to change the appearance of the indicated area.Such a system is disclosed in GB-A-2 515 106. Areas on the original document
which need a specific image processing method (in the example given: "thresholding"
or "dithering") are defined, by an operator, using an "original-setting device" having
scales at the sides. The operator notes the coordinates of the upper, lower, left and
right borders of the image area that has to be processed (areas are rectangular) and
enters these coordinates in a processing section, together with the required processing
method.A disadvantage of the conventional devices is that the areas to be processed 
must be indicated very accurately. If an area to be processed is indicated carelessly, a
part which should really also have been processed may easily be omitted.It would therefore be advantageous to base the selection of an area the visual
appearance of which is to be changed on an analysis of the lay-out of the document
image.To this end, an apparatus can additionally be provided with
segmentation means, connected to the memory, for automatically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for reproducing an image, comprising

means (201) for supplying digital image dot information representing said image,
a memory (208) for storing image dot information,
means (212) for processing the supplied image dot information,
means (207) for printing the processed image dot information on an image support,
segmentation means (209), connected to the memory (208), for automatically
making a layout-analysis of the image and correspondingly segmenting the digital

image dot information into layout elements,
operating means (211), connected to the segmentation means for receiving
therefrom results of the segmentation and being provided with:


means (202) for displaying said results to an operator,
first selection means (203) for selecting one or more layout elements found
during the segmentation, and
second selection means (205) for selecting a processing operation for changing the
visual appearance of an image,

said operating means (211) also being connected to the processing means (212) for
controlling the same in order to process a layout element selected by said first

selection means (203), in accordance with a processing operation selected by said
second selection means (205).
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing operation comprises
changing the grey value scale.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing operation comprises
changing the colour in the print on the image support.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing operation comprises
the introduction of a raster.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing operation comprises
changing the orientation.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing operation comprises
changing the location.
Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the said processing operation for
changing the location of a selected layout element comprises transferring said one or 

more layout elements to a separate image displayed on said displaying means (202).
Apparatus according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the said processing operation for
changing the location of a selected layout element comprises copying said layout

element into a separate image displayed on said displaying means (202).
Apparatus for processing digital image dot information representing an image,
comprising


means (201) for supplying digital image dot information representing said image,
a memory (208) for storing image dot information,
means (212) for processing the supplied image dot information,
segmentation means (209), connected to the memory (208), for automatically
segmenting the digital image dot information into layout elements,
operating means (211), connected to the segmentation means for receiving
therefrom results of the segmentation, and being provided with:


means (202) for displaying said results to an operator,
first selection means (203) for selecting one or more layout elements found during
the segmentation, and
third selection means (205) for selecting a transfer operation for transferring a layout
element to another location,

said operating means (211) also being connected to the processing means for
controlling the same in processing digital image dot information representing a layout

element selected by said first selection means (203), in accordance with a transfer
operation selected by said third selection means (205).
Apparatus in accordance with claim 9, wherein said processing means (212)
includes means for creating a receiving image, and means for copying or transferring a

selected layout element thereto.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 10, wherein said operating means (211)
includes a so-called "cut 
&
 paste" function, for an operator to command a copy or
transfer operation of a selected layout element to said receiving image.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 10, wherein said means (202) for
displaying said image displays the same together with said receiving image.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 10 or 12, wherein the processing means
(212) is adapted to compile a receiving image from layout elements transferred or 

copied thereto.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 9, also including printing means (207)
connected to said processing means (212) for printing digital image dot information

representing a selected layout element, on an image support.
Method of processing a document image, comprising the following steps:

having digital image dot information representing said image,
automatically segmenting said digital image dot information into layout elements,
presenting said image to an operator for selection of one or more of the layout
elements found in the segmenting step,
presenting for selection, to an operator, at least one transfer operation for
transferring a layout element to another location,
processing digital image dot information representing a selected layout element, in
accordance with a selected transfer operation.
Method according to claim 15, also comprising the step of creating a receiving
image, wherein said step of processing comprises copying or transferring a selected

layout element to said receiving image.
Method according to claim 16, further including displaying said receiving
image to an operator.
Method according to claim 16, further including compiling a receiving image
from layout elements transferred or copied thereto.
Method according to any of claim 15, wherein said digital image dot
information representing layout elements selected by the operator is outputted to a

printer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
