<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648399</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRONIC FILM EDITING SYSTEM USING BOTH FILM AND VIDEOTAPE FORMAT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2702	G11B27022	G11B27028	G11B27031	G11B27031	G11B27032	G11B27034	G11B2706	G11B2710	G11B2710	G11B2734	G11B2734	H04N701	H04N701	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for generating a digital representation of a video signal comprised of a sequence of video frames which each include two video fields of a duration such that the video plays at a first prespecified rate of frames per second. The sequence of video frames includes a prespecified number of redundant video fields. Redundant video fields in the video frame sequence are identified by a video processor, and the video frame sequence is digitized by an analog to digital convertor, excluding the identified redundant video fields. The digitized video frames are then compressed by a video compressor to generate a digital representation of the video signal which plays at a second prespecified rate of frames per second. Furthermore, an electronic film editing system is disclosed, which permits editing based on either video time code or film footage code.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVID TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVID TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR PATRICK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERS ERIC C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS MICHAEL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'C0NNOR, PATRICK, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERS, ERIC, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS, MICHAEL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTRONIC FILM EDITING SYSTEM USING BOTH FILM AND VIDEOTAPE FORMATBackground of the Invention This invention relates to techniques for electronically editing film. Film video and audio source material is frequently edited digitally using a computer system, such as the Avid/1 Media Composer from Avid Technology, Inc., of Tewksbury, Massachusetts, which generates a digital representation of a source film, allowing a fi m editor to edit the digital version, rather than the film source itself. This editing technique provides great precision and flexibility in the editing process, and is thus gaining popularity over the old style of film editing using a flatbed editor. The Avid/1 Media Composer accepts a videotape version of a source film, created by transferring the film to videotape using the so- called telecine process, and digitizes the videotape version for editing via manipulation by computer. The operation of the Media Composer is described more folly in copending application U.S.S.N. 07/866,829, filed April 10, 1992, and entitled Improved Media Composer. The teachings of that application are incorporated herein by reference. Editing of the digitized film version is performed on the Media Composer computer using CRT monitors for displaying the digitized videotape, with the edit details being based on videotape timecode specifications. Once editing is complete, the Media Composer creates an edited videotape and a corresponding edit decision list (EDL) which documents the videotape timecode specification details of the edited videotape. The film editor uses this EDL to specify a cut and assemble list for editing the source film. While providing many advantages over the old style flatbed film editing technique, this electronic editing technique is found to be 

cumbersome for some film editors who are unaccustomed to videotape timecode specifications.Summary of the Invention In general, in one aspect, the invention provides a system for generating a digital representation of a video signal comprised of a sequence of video -Tames which each include two video fields of a duration such that the video plays at a first prespecified rate of frames per second. The sequence of video frames includes a prespecified number of redundant video fields. In the invention, redundant video fields in the video frame sequence are identified by a video processor, and the video frame sequence is digitized by an analog to digital converter, excluding the identified redundant video fields. The digitized video frames are then
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. Method for generating a digital representation of a video signal comprised of a sequence of video frames, each frame including two video fields of a duration such that the video plays at a first prespecified rate of frames per second, a prespecified number of redundant video fields being included in the video frame sequence, comprising the steps of: identifying the redundant video fields in the video frame sequence; digitizing the video frame sequence excluding the identified redundant video fields; and compressing the digitized video frames to generate a digital representation of the video signal which plays at a second prespecified rate of frames per second.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of storing the digitized representation of the video signal on a digital storage apparatus.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the identifying step comprises assigning a capture mask value to each video field in the video frame sequence, the capture mask value of a field being a "0" if the field is redundant, and the capture mask value of a field being a "1" for all other video fields.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the digitizing step comprises processing the capture mask values, and based on the capture mask value for each video field, digitizing only the nonredundant video fields.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the compressing step comprises compressing the digitized video frames based on JPEG video 


compression.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the first prespecified video play rate is 29.97 frames per second and the second prespecified digital video play rate is 24 frames per second.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of increasing the rate of the analog video signal from 29.97 frames per second to 30 frames per second before the step of digitizing the video frame sequence.
8. The method of claim 6 wherein the analog video signal is a video representation of film shot at 24 frames per second, and whereby the digital video play rate of 24 frames per second corresponds to the 24 frames per second film shooting rate.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the analog video signal is a representation of film that is transferred to the video representation using a telecine apparatus.
10. Apparatus for generating a digital representation of a video signal comprised of a sequence of video frames, each frame including two video fields of a duration such that the video plays at a first prespecified rate of frames per second, a prespecified number of redundant video fields being included in the video frame sequence, comprising: a video processor for identifying the redundant video fields in the video frame sequence: an analog to digital convertor for digitizing the video frame sequence excluding the identified redundant video frames; and a video compressor for compressing the digitized video frames to 


generate a digital representation of the video signal which plays at a second prespecified rate of frames per second.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the video processor comprises a processor which assigns a capture mask value to each video field in the video frame sequence based on whether or not that field is redundant.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the analog to digital converter comprises a video frame grabber which processes the video frame sequence based on the capture mask values of the video fields to exclude the identified redundant video frames so that only the nonredundant video frames are digitized by the analog to digital converter.
13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the video compressor compresses the video frames based on JPEG video compression.
14. System for generating, from information in the form of fields occurring at a first prespecified rate and including redundant fields, a digital representation of the information excluding the redundant fields, whereby digitized fields occur at a second prespecified rate, comprising: apparatus for identifying the redundant fields; and apparatus for digitizing the information excluding the identified redundant fields.
15. Method for generating, from information in the form of fields occurring at a first prespecified rate and including redundant fields, a digital representation of the information excluding the redundant fields, 


whereby the digitized fields occur at a second prespecified rate, comprising: identifying the redundant fields, and digitizing the information excluding the identified redundant fields.
16. Electronic editing system for digitally editing fi m shot at a first prespecified rate and converted to an analog video representation at a second prespecified rate, comprising: analog to digital converting circuitry for accepting the analog video representation of the film, adjusting the rate of the analog video such that the rate corresponds to the first prespecified rate at which the film was shot, and digitizing the adjusted analog video to generate a corresponding digital representation of the film; digital storage apparatus for storing the digital representation of the film; and computing apparatus for processing the stored digital representation of the film to electronically edit the film and correspondingly edit the stored digital representation of the filτn
17. The system of claim 16 further comprising digital to analog converting circuitry for converting the edited digital representation of the film to an analog video representation of the film, adjusting the rate of the analog video from the first prespecified rate to the second prespecified video rate, and outputting the adjusted analog video.
18. The system of claim 16 wherein the analog video representation of the film accepted by the analog to digital converting circuity is an NTSC videotape. 


 19. The system of claim 16 wherein the apparatus for storing the digital representation of the film also stores a digitized version of a film transfer log corresponding to the digital representation of the fil
20. The system of claim 19 wherein the computing apparatus electronically edits the digitized version of the film transfer log in response to the electronic editing of the film.
21. The system of claim 16 further comprising display apparatus for displaying the digitized version of the film as the fil is electronically edited and displaying a metric for tracking the location of a segment of the film as the segment is displayed, the metric being based on either film footage code or video time code.
22. The system of claim 21 further comprising apparatus for digitizing an audio soundtrack corresponding to the film, and wherein the computing apparatus processes a digitized representation of the soundtrack in correspondence with electronic editing of the film 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
