<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655978</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CHECKING AN ENVELOPE FOR CONTENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B43M702	B07C100	B43M700	B07C116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B43M	B07C	B43M	B07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B43M7	B07C1	B43M7	B07C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for checking an envelope for contents is provided to determine whether or not an envelope has been completely emptied. The tchickness of the envelope (3) is measured at a plurality of points along the envelope. From the measured thickness, the thickness, or an integer multiple of the thickness, of the material of the envelope is determined. The thickness of the envelope measured at the plurality of points is compared with the determined material thickness, or integer multiple of the thickness, of the envelope. On the basis of that comparison, a determination is made as to whether or not the envelope has contents therein. The apparatus and method do not rely on measuring the opacity of the envelope.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STIELOW GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STIELOW GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON DAVID RUSSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARGE TIMOTHY ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, DAVID RUSSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARGE, TIMOTHY ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus and 
method for checking an envelope for contents. Many large commercial and government organisations 
have mail receiving departments which process large volumes 
of mailing envelopes. The envelopes are often opened 
automatically and held while the contents are manually 
removed. The waste envelope is then discarded. It is 
often desirable to check that the envelope has been 
properly emptied and that no residual contents remain in 
the discarded envelope. This process is known as 
"candling". Some previous candling processes have used 
optical detectors to measure the envelope opacity, it 
generally being the case that contents in an envelope 
increase the envelope opacity. However, these techniques 
have proved to be unreliable since the opacity of a 
particular envelope depends not only on the presence of 
contents, but also on the presence of printing and the 
fibre density of the envelope paper. A particular case is 
that of envelopes made of recycled paper, which may be 
almost opaque in the visible and near infra-red optical 
spectrum. According to a first aspect of the present invention, 
there is provided a method of checking an envelope for 
contents, the method comprising the steps of: 
   measuring the thickness of the envelope at a plurality 
of points along the envelope; 
   determining the thickness, or an integer multiple of 
the thickness, of the material of the envelope from said 
measured thickness; and, 
   comparing the thickness of the envelope measured at 
the plurality of points with the determined material 
thickness, or integer multiple of the thickness, of the 
envelope and determining on the basis of such comparison 
whether or not the envelope has contents therein.  
 It has been found that the thickness of the material 
of envelopes is extremely well controlled by paper 
manufacturers (which opacity is not) and the present 
invention takes advantage of this in measuring the envelope 
thickness. As well as looking for paper contents (such as 
cheques) remaining in an envelope, the present invention 
may be used to check for envelopes containing staples, 
pins, badges, or other similar relatively thin objects. A mechanical thickness gauge may be used to measure 
the thickness of the envelope. The mechanical thickness 
gauge may include a single roller. Alternatively, in some 
circumstances, it may be preferable to use a plurality of 
rollers, for example, three rollers. The or each roller 
may be supported to pivot about a pivot
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of checking an envelope (3) for contents 
(31), the method comprising the steps of:
 
   measuring the th
ickness of the envelope (3) at a 
plurality of points along the envelope;
 
   determining the thickness, or an integer multiple of 

the thickness, of the material of the envelope from said 
measured thickness; and,
 
   comparing the thickness of the envelope measured at 

the plurality of points with the determined material 
thickness, or integer multiple of the material thickness, of the 

envelope and determining on the basis of such comparison 
whether or not the envelope has contents therein. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein a mechanical 
thickness gauge (4,5) is used to measure the thickness of 

the envelope. 
A method according to claim 2, wherein the mechanical 
thickness gauge comprises a single roller (4). 
A method according to claim 2, wherein the mechanical 
thickness gauge comprises a plurality of rollers (7). 
A method according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the 
or each roller (4) is supported to pivot about a pivot 

point (6), the thickness of the envelope (3) being measured 
by monitoring pivotable movement of the roller as it passes 

over the envelope. 
A method according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the 
or each roller (4) is supported by a flexible strip (12). 
A method according to claim 2, wherein the mechanical 
thickness gauge is a stylus (11) which is supported to 

pivot about a pivot point (6), the thickness of the  
 

envelope (3) being measured by monitoring pivotable 
movement of the stylus as it passes over the envelope. 
A method according to claim 2, wherein the mechanical 
thickness gauge is a flexible strip (13) which is fixed at 

one end and which contacts the envelope. 
A method according to any of claims 2 to 8, wherein 
movement of the mechanical thickness gauge is monitored by 

optical means (7,8,9). 
A method according to any of claims 2 to 8, wherein 
movement of the mechanical thickness gauge is monitored by 

detecting movement of a magnet which is displaced as the 
thickness of the envelope is measured. 
A method according to claim 6 or claim 8, wherein 
movement of the mechanical thickness gauge is monitored by 

a strain gauge (14) fixed to the flexible strip (12,13). 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness 
of the envelope (3) is measured by a non-contact method. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein a position 
sensitive camera (23) detects movement of a light beam 

reflected from the surface of the envelope (3) as the light 
beam moves over the envelope (3). 
A method according to any of claims 1 to 13, wherein 
the length of the envelope is measured. 
Apparatus for checking an envelope for contents, the 
apparatus comprising:
 
   means (4,5,6,7) for measuring the thickness of an 

envelope (3) at a plurality of points along the envelope;
  
 

   means (10) for determining the thickness, or an 
integer multiple of the thickness, of the material of the 

envelope from said measured thicknesses; and,
 
   means (10) for comparing the measured thickness of the 

envelope with the determined material thickness, or integer 
multiple of the material thickness, of the envelope and determining 

on the basis of such comparison whether or not the envelope 
has contents therein. 
Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the thickness 
measuring means comprises a mechanical thickness gauge 

(4,5,6,7). 
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the 
mechanical thickness gauge includes a single roller (4). 
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the 
mechanical thickness gauge includes a plurality of rollers 

(4). 
Apparatus according to claim 17 or claim 18, wherein 
the or each roller (4) is pivotably mounted on a support 

(1). 
Apparatus according to claim 17 or claim 18, wherein 
the or each roller (4) is supported by a flexible strip 

(12). 
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the 
mechanical thickness gauge is a stylus (11) which is 

supported to pivot about a pivot point (6), the thickness 
of the envelope (3) being measured by monitoring pivotable 

movement of the stylus as it passes over the envelope. 
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the 
mechanical thickness gauge is a flexible strip (13) which 

is fixed at one end and which contacts the envelope.  
 
Apparatus according to any of claims 16 to 22, 
comprising optical means (7,8,9) for monitoring movement of 

the mechanical thickness gauge. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 16 to 22, wherein 
movement of the mechanical thickness gauge is monitored by 

detecting movement of a magnet which is displaced as the 
thickness of the envelope is measured. 
Apparatus according to claim 20 or claim 22, 
comprising a strain gauge (14) fixed to the flexible strip 

(12,13) for monitoring movement of the mechanical thickness 
gauge. 
Apparatus according to claim 15, comprising means 
(21,22,23) for measuring the thickness of the envelope (3) 

by a non-contact method. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 15 to 26, further 
comprising means for transporting envelopes through the 

thickness measuring means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
