<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652528</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integrated computer system and method for processing medical informations and patient data.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	G06F1900	G06F1900	G06Q1000	G06Q1000	G06Q5000	G06Q5000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	G06Q	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06F19	G06F19	G06Q10	G06Q10	G06Q50	G06Q50	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention involves a hospital-based 
integrated medical computer system for processing medical 

and patient information and for evolving medical 
knowledge, diagnoses and prognoses. It includes at least 

one processor including a memory and a plurality of 
medical data banks connected thereto, and a plurality of 

separate processor hardware modules at least indirectly 
connected to the memory. The modules include a 

communication module, at least one switching module, an 
administrative module and a knowledge base module. There 

is also hardware, firmware and software in the processor 
hardware modules to enable the modules to perform at least 

the following functions: for the communication module, to 
control all functional processes of the other modules, the 

main memory and the processor, so that they effectively 
communicate with one another; for the switching module(s), 

to select and switch between selected information as it 
becomes relevant to a process of solving a particular 

problem; for the administrative module, to perform 
housekeeping functions, including multitasking control 

with resource allocation, real-time multitasking and 
scheduling of tasks; and, for the knowledge base module, 

to operate knowledge processing functions and to store 
information in the medical data banks. In preferred 

embodiments, there are general patient databases, 
physician access point units, patient access point units, 

and service facilities. In other embodiments, a plurality 
of processors are included with their own memories and 

modules and are linked together to establish a processor 
unit. In processor net embodiments, there may be one or 

more separate integrated services digital networks 
dedicated to predetermined medical related functions. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHAMED SYED V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE VICTOR B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHAMED, SYED V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE, VICTOR B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to architecture for an 
integrated medical computer system and more specifically 
to a system utilizing one or more processors having 
separate modules for predetermined functions. Unlike data 
processing of conventional computer systems and unlike 
call processing switching systems, the present invention 
system is a significant improvement over modern electronic 
switching systems and includes separate modules for 
communication, switching and administration as, well as 
the addition of one or more knowledge modules coupled with 
a plurality of medical data banks. United States Patent No. 4,899,839 describes a method 
of monitoring a patient's medicine compliance. It 
involves weighing a container of medicine to determine a 
starting weight on a scale which is connected to a 
computer with a display unit and storing the starting 
weight in the computer followed by reweighing the 
container of medicine after a predescribed dosage is 
consumed to determine a second weight. The computer then 
determines the difference between the starting and said 
second weight to store a dosage unit weight. The computer 
is programmed to calculate compliance required weights of 
the container for each dosage administration for the 
prescription period of the medicine. The container of 
medicine is reweighed from time to time on the scale to 
compare actual weight with compliance required weight to 
determine compliance and the computer visually displays 
the compliance results on the display unit to permit 
compliance monitoring. Optionally, other patient 
characteristics are also monitored and feedback is  
 
provided. United States Patent No. 5,016,172 is also directed 
to patient compliance and a status monitoring system. It 
involves utilizing an automatic compliance monitoring 
device which stores compliance information and which may 
be connected to a computer with a display unit. The 
compliance monitoring device or the computer is programmed 
to calculate compliance requirements of the container e.g. 
by number of cap openings, by dispensing count or by 
weight information obtained by the automatic compliance 
monitoring device, for each dosage administration for the 
prescription period. The automatic compliance monitoring 
device is periodically, occasionally, or randomly 
connected to the computer to compare actual usage with 
compliance required to determine compliance results on the 
display unit to permit compliance monitoring on a monitor 
at a remote location. Optionally,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hospital-based integrated medical computer system for processing 
medical and patient information and for evolving medical knowledge, diagnoses and 

prognoses which comprises: 

(a) at least one processor, including a memory and a plurality of 
medical data banks connected thereto, and a plurality of separate processor hardware 

modules at least indirectly connected to said memory, said modules including a 
communication module, at least one switching module, an administrative module 

and a knowledge base module; 
(b) hardware, firmware and software in said processor hardware 
modules to enable the modules to perform at least the following functions: 
(i) for the communication module, to control all functional processes of 
the other modules, the main memory and said at least one processor, so that they 

effectively communicate with one another; 
(ii) for said at least one switching module, to select and switch between 
selected information as it becomes relevant to a process of solving a particular 

problem; 
(iii) for the administrative module, to perform housekeeping functions, 
including multitasking control with resource allocation, real-time multitasking and 

scheduling of tasks; and, 
(iv) for the knowledge base module, to operate knowledge processing 
functions and to store information in said medical data banks. 
The hospital-based integrated medical computer system of claim 1 
wherein said system further includes a general patient database connected to at least 

one of said memory and said processor hardware modules. 
The hospital-based integrated medical computer system of claim 1 
wherein said system further includes a plurality of physician-based, remotely located 

physician access point units connected to said processor for operating said system 
from remote sources. 
The hospital-based integrated medical computer system of claim 1 
wherein said medical data banks include a plurality of subareas of knowledge, and 

said knowledge base module includes a plurality of subprocesses, and said 
communication module has software to further control communication between the 

 
subareas of the medical data banks and the knowledge base module and to control 

the subprocesses as they pertain to a particular medical problem and to 
systematically organize inputs and outputs of the subprocesses. 
The hospital-based integrated medical computer system of claim 1 
wherein said system further includes a plurality of remotely located patient access 

point units connected to said processor for operating said system from remote 
sources by patients for predetermined purposes. 
A method of operating a hospital-based integrated medical computer 
system for processing medical and patient information and for evolving medical 

knowledge, diagnoses and prognoses which comprises: 

(a) operating at least one processor, which includes a memory and a 
plurality of medical data banks connected thereto, and a plurality of separate 

processor hardware modules at least indirectly connected to said memory, said 
modules including a communication module, at least one switching module, an 

administrative module and a knowledge base module; 
(b) operating hardware, firmware and software in said processor 
hardware modules to perform at least the following functions: 
(i) for the communication module, controlling all functional processes 
of the other modules, the main memory and said at least one processor, so that they 

effectively communicate with one another; 
(ii) for said at least one switching module, selecting and switching 
between selected information as it becomes relevant to a process of solving a 

particular problem; 
(iii) for the administrative module, performing housekeeping functions, 
including multitasking control with resource allocation, real-time multitasking and 

scheduling of tasks; and, 
(iv) for the knowledge base module, operating knowledge processing 
functions and to store information in said medical data banks. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said system further includes a general 
patient database connected to at least one of said memory and said processor 

hardware modules. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said system further includes a plurality 
 

of physician-based, remotely located physician access point units connected to said 
processor for operating said system from remote sources. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said medical data banks include a 
plurality of subareas of knowledge, and said knowledge base module includes a 

plurality of subprocesses, and said communication module has software to further 
control communication between the subareas of the medical data banks and the 

knowledge base module and to control the subprocesses as they pertain to a 
particular medical problem and to systematically organize inputs and outputs of the 

subprocesses. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the software for the communication 
module includes the ability to select and collate subprocesses of the knowledge base 

module and the data from the medical data banks towards solving a particular 
medical query in a perceptive manner. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
