<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613548</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERFORATED PLATES FOR CRYOGENIC REGENERATORS AND METHOD OF FABRICATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21C2322	B21C2322	B21C3700	B21C3704	B21D5302	B21D5304	F25B914	F25B914	F28F2100	F28F2108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21C	B21C	B21C	B21C	B21D	B21D	F25B	F25B	F28F	F28F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21C23	B21C23	B21C37	B21C37	B21D53	B21D53	F25B9	F25B9	F28F21	F28F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Perforated plates (10) having very small holes (14) with a uniform diameter throughout the plate thickness are prepared by a "wire drawing" process in which a billet of sacrificial metal is disposed in an extrusion can of the plate metal, and the can is extruded and restacked repeatedly, converting the billet to a wire of the desired hole diameter. At final size, the rod is then sliced into wafers, and the wires are removed by selective etching. This process is useful for plate metals of interest for high performance regenerator applications, in particular, copper, niobium, molybdenum, erbium, and other rare earth metals. Er3Ni, which has uniquely favorable thermophysical properties for such applications, may be incorporated in regions of the plates by providing extrusion cans (20) containing erbium and nickel metals in a stacked array (53) with extrusion cans of the plate metal, which may be copper. The array is heated to convert the erbium and nickel metals to Er3Ni. Perforated plates having two sizes of perforations (38, 42), one of which is small enough for storage of helium, are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENDRICKS JOHN B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENDRICKS JOHN B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKS JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKS JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PERFORATED PLATES FOR CRYOGENIC REGENERATORS AND METHOD OF FABRICATIONOrigin of the Invention This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE-FG05-90-ER81018 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.Cross Reference of Related Application This application is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/530,873, filed May 29, 1990, which is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/375,709, filed July 5, 1989.Field of the Invention This invention relates to perforated plates for cryogenic regenerators and to methods of fabricating such plates.Background of the InventionRegenerators are periodic-mass-flow heat exchangers in which a fluid is periodically pumped back and forth through a matrix. During one part of a flow cycle, the matrix absorbs heat from the fluid, and when flow is reversed, heat is transferred from the matrix to the fluid. Two key factors in operation of these devices are the heat exchange between the fluid and the matrix and the heat storage capacity of the matrix. These factors can be characterized by numerical coefficients as follows:(a) heat exchange-hA (b) heat storage-Cwhere h is the heat transfer coefficient (SI units- 
- 2 -watts/m2.K) , A is the heat transfer area (SI units-m2), and the C is the matrix heat capacity (SI units-Joules/kg.K) .There are two additional secondary factors for regenerator operation, namely, pressure drop (ΔP) (SI units for pressure-Pa) across the regenerator due to frictional losses and void volume (VV) (SI units for void volume-m ) of the regenerator. The pressure drop must be overcome in order to drive the fluid through the regenerator. This requires work, and this work is not recoverable, so that it is a loss to the cycle. The void volume of the regenerator causes the output mass flow of the regenerator to be less than the input mass flow. The difference is required to "fill" the void volume. In addition, -it means that all the mass flow does not flow entirely through the regenerator. Some fraction of that will only traverse a part of the regenerator, and this part will undergo a partial heat exchange process. In an "ideal" case, the value of hA will be very large when compared to the capacity rate, (mc.) of the fluid. Here m is the mass fluid flow, and cp is the heat capacity of the fluid (SI units: m-kg/sec; - - Joules/kg.K). In the ideal case, the value of the matrix heat capacity, C, must be large when compared to the product τmCp where τ is the "blow" period or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims 1. A process for making perforated plates having holes with a uniform diameter throughout the thickness thereof which comprises: providing a first extrusion can of a selected plate metal; disposing a cylindrical billet of a selected sacrificial metal within said can and in axial alignment with the can; extruding or drawing the billet-containing can whereby the can and billet are elongated and reduced in diameter; stacking a plurality of reduced-diameter, extruded or drawn billet-containing cans in a second extrusion can of said plate metal, with the extruded or drawn cans in axial alignment with one another and with the second can; extruding or drawing the second can whereby the sacrificial metal billets therein are further elongated and reduced in diameter to form wires; repeating said stacking and drawing or extrusion steps a plurality of times until the diameter of said wires is reduced to correspond to a desired perforation diameter; slicing the resulting final extruded or drawn can perpendicular to the axis thereof to obtain wafers of a desired thickness; and selectively etching the wafers to remove the sacrificial metal wires whereby holes through the wafers are produced.
2. The process as defined in claim 1 including the step of converting each extruded or drawn can into hexagonal shape prior to stacking for re-extrusion.
3. The process as defined in claim 2 wherein the hexagonal extruded or drawn cans have a uniform size and are stacked in a hexagonal array, with sides of the cans in intimate contact along the length 


 thereof .
4. The process as defined in claim 3 including the steps of evacuating and sealing each can prior to extrusion or drawing.
5. The process as defined in claim 4 including the step of preheating each sealed can prior to extrusion or drawing.
6. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the plate metal is copper or molybdenum and the sacrificial metal is niobium or a niobium alloy.
7. The process as defined in claim 6 wherein the wafers are etched with hydrofluoric acid.
8. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the plate metal is niobium, the sacrificial metal is copper, and the wafers are etched with nitric acid.
9. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the plate metal is erbium, the sacrificial metal is niobium or a niobium alloy, and the wafers are etched with hydrofluoric acid.
10. A process for preparing a composite perforated plate comprising a perforated matrix of a selected plate metal and inclusions of Er
3
Ni which comprises: providing a first extrusion can of said plate metal.; disposing a cylindrical billet of selected sacrificial metal in said can in axial alignment with the can; extruding or drawing the billet-containing can whereby the billet and can are elongated and reduced in diameter; 


 stacking a plurality of reduced-diameter, extruded or drawn billet-containing cans in a second extrusion can of said plate metal, with the extruded or drawn cans in axial alignment with one another and with the second can; extruding or drawing the second can whereby the sacrificial billets therein are further elongated and reduced in diameter; stacking a plurality of extruded or drawn cans containing wires of sacrificial metal having a predetermined diameter in a third extrusion can in alternating relation with elongated solid bodies of the same size as the extruded cans and'containing erbiumn and nickel metals in intimate contact with one another; extruding or drawing said third can whereby said plate metal is merged with said elongated bodies, and said wires are further reduced in diameter; heating said extruded or drawn third can at a temperature of 565°C to 800°C where said erbium and nickel react to form Er
3
Ni; slicing the heated can into wafers of a desired thickness; and etching the wafers to remove said sacrificial metal.
11. The process as defined in claim 10 wherein each of said extruded or drawn cans is converted to hexagonal shape prior to being stacked, and said elongated body has a hexagonal shape and dimensions equal to the dimensions of the shaped extruded cans.
12. The process as defined in claim 11 wherein said elongated bodies comprise an axially disposed metal mandrel, alternating sheets of erbium and nickel wound around the mandrel, and an outer containers made of said plate metal. 


 13. The process as defined in claim 12 wherein said plate metal is copper.
14. The process as defined in claim 13 wherein said sacrificial metal is niobium or a niobium alloy.
15. A perforated plate for a heat exchanger comprising a matrix of a metal selected from the group consisting of copper, niobium, molybdenum, nickel, erbium, and other rare earth metals, said plate being penetrated by a multiplicity of holes having a uniform diameter throughout the plate thickness.
16. The perforated plate as defined in claim 15 wherein said metal is copper.
17. The perforated plate as defined in claim 15 wherein said holes have a diameter of 1 to 300 microns.
18. The perforated plate as defined in claim 17 wherein said plate has an open area of 1 to 40 percent.
19. The perforated plate as defined in claim 17 including Er
3
Ni disposed at spaced-apart locations in the matrix of the plate between perforated portions thereof.
20. The perforated plate as defined in claim 15 wherein said holes are formed by etching of sacrificial wires provided in the plate matrix and reduced in diameter by repeated extrusion and stacking steps.
21. The perforated plate as defined in claim 15 including perforations of a first diameter sized to retain helium therein and a second diameter sized to 


retain helium therein and a second diameter sized to allow passage of a working fluid therethrough.
22. The perforated plate as defined in claim 21 wherein the plate is comprised of copper, the first diameter is 0.6 to 0.8 microns, and the second diameter is 10 to 30 microns. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
