<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657689</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Staged air, low NOx burner with internal recuperative flue gas recirculation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23C900	F23C604	F23C600	F23C706	F23C900	F23C700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23C9	F23C6	F23C6	F23C7	F23C9	F23C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gas-fired burner 10 incorporating a mixing chamber for mixing 
air, fuel, and recirculated flue gas with reduced heat loss from the 

recirculated flue gas is disclosed. The burner is configured for the staged 
introduction of combustion air to provide a fuel-rich combustion zone and 

a fuel-lean combustion zone. Internal recirculating flue gas channels 80 
deliver cooled flue gas to the primary fuel-rich combustion zone. A valve 

assembly 150 may be provided to control the flow of flue gas. 
Secondary air passages 40 concentrically arranged within the 

recirculating flue gas channels 80 deliver superheated, staged air to the 
secondary fuel-lean combustion zone. Heat is transferred from the hot 

flue gas to the counterflowing cooler secondary air. The burner achieves 
reduced NO
x
 emission levels in high temperature applications which use 
preheated combustion air with no or minimal loss in thermal efficiency 

from flue gas recirculation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GAS RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GAS RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORELAND DONALD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORELAND, DONALD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of gas-fired burners for furnaces 
and boilers and more particularly to burners for reducing NOx emission 
levels from combustion occurring in furnaces and boilers. Combustion processes which burn fossil fuels introduce emissions 
into the atmosphere which have been linked with harmful effects. 
Environmental regulations have been enacted to limit the concentrations 
of these emissions in the exhaust gases from combustion processes. 
Such emissions include nitrogen oxides or NOx, primarily NO and NO2. 
Preferably, NOx emission levels should be significantly below 100 parts 
per million (ppm). NOx emissions arise from nitrogen present in the combustion air 
and from fuel-bound nitrogen in coal or fuel oil if such fuels are burned. 
Conversion of fuel-bound nitrogen to NOx depends on the amount and 
reactivity of the nitrogen compounds in the fuel and the amount of 
oxygen in the combustion zone. Conversion of fuel-bound nitrogen is not 
present in processes using fuels such as natural gas, which contain no 
fixed nitrogen compounds. Conversion of atmospheric nitrogen, N2 present in the combustion 
air to NOx (thermal NOx) is temperature dependent. In general, the 
greater the flame temperature in the combustion zone, the greater the 
resultant NOx content in the emissions. NOx conversion increases 
substantially at temperatures greater than 1800 K if 02 is present. Many industrial processes, such as forging, reheating, steel 
blooms, and melting of glass or aluminum, are carried out in high 
temperature, gas-fired furnaces. In such high temperature processes, air  
 
used in the combustion process is frequently preheated. Preheating the 
air reduces the amount of fuel needed, increasing thermal efficiency, but 
increases the temperature of the flame, which increases NOx content. 
Thus, a higher temperature burner which is capable of reducing NOx 
emissions without sacrificing thermal efficiency is needed. One way of reducing NOx content which has been effective in 
processes using nitrogen bearing fuels is to create a fuel-rich combustion 
zone followed by a fuel-lean combustion zone. This can be achieved by 
staging the introduction of air into the combustion chamber. The 
fuel-rich zone contains less than the theoretical or stoichiometric amount 
of oxygen. Thus, less oxygen is available to convert the nitrogen to NOx. Recirculating flue gas into the flame is another technique to limit 
NOx emissions. The recirculated flue gas reduces the oxygen 
concentration in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gas-fired burner (10) comprising: 

a housing (12) adapted to be mounted to an opening in a furnace; 
a jet pump (44) within said housing (12), said jet pump (44) including a jet 

pump body (46, 48) defining a suction chamber (50), a mixing chamber (52), 
and a diffuser (54) formed in said body (48), said mixing chamber (52) being 

formed downstream from said suction chamber (50), said diffuser (54) 
being formed downstream from said mixing chamber (52), said diffuser (54) 

further having an exit for communication with the furnace, said diffuser 
(54) further comprising a combustion chamber for primary zone partial 

combustion; 
an air inlet port (16) on said housing (12) for supplying air under 
pressure to said housing (12); 
a jet pump primary air nozzle (38) within said housing (12) 
interconnecting said air inlet port (16) and said suction chamber (50) for 

forcing air through a primary air passage (36), within said jet pump primary 
air nozzle (38), and into said suction chamber (50); 
a fuel inlet port (14) on said housing (12) and terminating in a fuel 
nozzle (26) for directing fuel into said jet pump (44); 
a plurality of recirculating flue gas channels (80) formed in said jet 
pump body (46, 48) for directing flue gases from the furnace into said 

suction chamber (50), said recirculating flue gas channels (80) having an 
entrance (84) for communication with the furnace and an exit in 

communication with said suction chamber (50); 
a plurality of secondary air passages (40), each of said plurality of 
secondary air passages (40) being disposed within a respective one of said 

recirculating flue gas channels (80), each of said secondary air passages 
being further connected to said air inlet port (16), each of said plurality of 

secondary air passages (40) having an exit (82) for communication with the 
furnace; 
whereby air under pressure, passing through said primary air  
 

passage (36) and, in turn, through said jet pump primary air nozzle (38), and fuel 
gas under pressure passing through said fuel nozzle (26), create a suction for 

drawing recirculating flue gas through said plurality of recirculating flue gas 
channels (80) and said suction chamber (50) and into said mixing chamber (52) for 

mixing with the air and fuel to provide a fuel-rich combustion zone in said 
diffuser (54), whereby air under pressure passing through said plurality of 

secondary air passages (40) mixes with the primary flame extending from said 
diffuser (54) to produce a fuel-lean combustion zone in the furnace, thereby 

reducing NO
x
 content, and whereby the air passing through said secondary 
air passages (40) is heated by the recirculating flue gas passing through said 

recirculating flue gas channels (80). 
The gas-fired burner (10) of Claim 1 wherein said fuel nozzle (26) is 
coaxially mounted within said jet pump air nozzle (38) and said air inlet port (16) 

terminates in an air chamber (34), said air chamber (34) surrounding said fuel 
nozzle (26). 
The gas-fired burner (10) of Claims 1 or 2 wherein said primary air 
passage (40) and said jet pump primary air nozzle (38) and said secondary air 

passages (40) are sized to direct at least forty percent of the total combustion 
air through said primary air passage (36) and said jet pump primary air nozzle 

(38). 
The gas-fired burner 10 of any of Claims 1-3 further comprising a pilot 
light tube (74) extending through said housing (12) to said diffuser (54) to ignite an 

air/fuel mixture within said diffuser (54). 
The gas-fired burner (10) of any of Claims 1-4 further comprising an 
open area (86) at the termination of each of said plurality of recirculating flue 

gas channels (80), each of said open areas in communication with said suction 
chamber (50). 
The gas-fired burner 10 of any of Claims 1-5 further comprising heat 
transfer elements (88) mounted exteriorly to said secondary air passages (40) 

within said recirculating flue gas channels (80), whereby heat transfer from the  
 

flue gas to the secondary air is enhanced. 
The gas-fired burner (10) of any of Claims 1-6 further comprising a 
valve assembly (150) in communication with said air inlet port (16) to control the 

flow of flue gas into said suction chamber (50). 
The gas-fired burner (10) of any of Claims 1-7, further comprising a 
plurality of cold air jets (120) each adjacent one of said plurality of 

recirculating flue gas channels (80), said cold air jets (120) in communication 
with a source of cold air, whereby a flow of cold air through said cold air jets 

(120) blocks introduction of flue gas through said recirculating flue gas 
channels (80). 
A method of burning gaseous fuel for high temperature applications 
comprising the steps of: 


providing air under pressure; 
introducing the air into a burner housing (12); 
dividing the air within the burner housing (12) into a primary air stream 
and a secondary air stream; 
introducing the primary air stream through a primary air nozzle (38) 
into a suction chamber (50); 
using the primary air flowing through the suction chamber (50) to draw 
flue gas from a furnace through a recirculating flue gas channel (80), formed 

internally in the burner housing (12), and into a mixing chamber (52) wherein 
the primary air, fuel and recirculating flue gas mix to form a fuel-rich 

combustible mixture; 
introducing the fuel-rich combustible mixture into and through a 
diffuser (54) attached to the furnace to raise the pressure of the mixture up to 

the pressure in the furnace for introduction of the mixture to the furnace and  
 

burning said fuel-rich combustible mixture in the diffuser (54) and furnace to 
form a fuel-rich combustion zone generally within and immediately outside 

the diffuser (54); 
preheating the secondary air stream by passing it adjacent the 
recirculating flue gas stream; and 
introducing the preheated secondary air steam into the furnace to penetrate 
the flame extending from the diffuser to provide a fuel-lean combustion zone 

within the furnace. 
The method of Claim 9 wherein at least forty percent of the 
combustion air is divided into the primary air stream. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
