<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644548</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integrated memory cube, structure and fabrication.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C500	G11C500	H01L25065	H01L25065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C5	G11C5	H01L25	H01L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated memory cube structure and method of fabrication 
wherein stacked semiconductor memory chips are integrated by a 

controlling logic chip such that a more powerful memory 
architecture is defined with the functional appearance of a 

single, higher level memory chip. A memory/logic cube is 
formed having N memory chips and at least one logic chip, with 

each memory chip of the cube having M memory devices. The 
controlling logic chip coordinates external communication with 

the N memory chips such that a single memory chip architecture 
with N × M memory devices appears at the cube's I/O pins. A 

corresponding fabrication technique includes an approach for 
facilitating metallization patterning on the side surface of 

the memory subunit. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERTIN CLAUDE LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDBERG ERIK LEIGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWELL WAYNE JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALTER HOWARD LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLEY JR GORDON ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERTIN CLAUDE LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDBERG ERIK LEIGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWELL WAYNE JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALTER HOWARD LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLEY JR GORDON ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to high density 
electronic packaging which permits optimization of device 
performance within a given volume. More particularly, the 
invention relates to an integrated memory cube structure and 
method of fabrication wherein stacked semiconductor memory 
chips are integrated with controlling logic such that a more 
powerful memory architecture having the functions of a single, 
higher level memory chip is presented to external circuitry. Conventionally, integrated circuit devices, such as memory 
devices, have been made from wafers of semiconductor material 
which include a plurality of integrated circuits. After a 
wafer is made, the circuits are separated from each other by 
dicing the wafer into small chips. Thereafter, the chips are 
bonded to carriers of various types, electrically 
interconnected by wires to leads and packaged. By way of improvement, high density electronic packaging 
modules having multiple semiconductor chips have become 
popular. For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,525,921 and 4,646,128 
by Carson et al. disclose structure and fabrication techniques 
for producing one type of high density electronic processing 
package. Each of these patents describes a semiconductor chip 
stack consisting of multiple integrated circuit chips 
adhesively secured together. A metallized pattern is provided 
on one of the side surfaces of the stack for electrical 
connection of the stack to external circuitry.  This metallization pattern typically includes both individual 
contacts and bused contacts. The stack is positioned on an 
upper surface of a substrate such that electrical contact is 
made between the stack metallization pattern and a substrate 
surface metallization pattern. Traditionally, computer memory systems are assembled from many 
types of memory chips, such as, DRAMs, SRAMs, EPROMs and 
EEPROMs. The number of storage devices per memory chip 
technology generation varies but increases over time with more 
devices per chip being delivered with each succeeding 
generation, thereby providing greater memory capacity. When a 
next generation memory chip becomes available, the number of 
chips needed to make a given memory system is correspondingly 
reduced. With fewer memory chips needed, the resultant memory 
system becomes physically smaller. Next generation DRAM memory chips have traditionally increased 
by 4× the number of bits compared with the current generation 
technology. For example, assume that the current generation of 
memory chips
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An integrated memory cube which emulates a single 
memory chip architecture, said integrated memory 

cube comprising: 
a combination memory chip and logic chip stack including 


(i) N memory chips (wherein N ≧ 2) each having M memory 
devices (wherein M ≧ 2), along with two 

substantially parallel planar main surfaces and an 
edge surface, 
(ii) a logic chip electrically connected to each of the N 
memory chips for coordinating external communication 

with the N memory chips of the stack, said logic 
chip also having two parallel planar main surfaces 

and an edge surface, and 
(iii) at least one planar main surface of each chip in t 
the stack being coupled to a planar main surface of 

an adjacent chip in the stack, the edge surfaces of 
the N memory chips and the edge surface of the logic 

chip aligning to form at least one side surface of 
the stack, said stack also having an end surface 

disposed parallel to the planar main surfaces of the 
chips in the stack, said electrically connected 

logic chip and N memory chips having an integrated 
memory architecture to emulate single memory chip 

structure with N × M memory devices. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein one 
of said two parallel planar main surfaces of said 

logic chip comprises an upper surface of the logic 
chip, and wherein said upper surface of the logic 

chip includes an array of contact pads, at least 
some of said contact pads of said array of contact 

pads comprising I/O contacts for external circuitry 
connection to the stack. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 2, wherein the 
logic chip is disposed at an end of the stack such 

that the upper surface of the logic chip comprises 
the end surface of the stack. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 3, further 
comprising a lead frame secured to the stack 

adjacent its end surface, said lead frame having an 
inner opening extending therethrough such that at 

least a portion of the array of contact pads on the 
upper surface of the logic chip remains exposed. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 4, further 
comprising conventional wirebonding electrically 

connecting the lead frame and at least some of the 
exposed contact pads of the array of contact pads on 

the upper surface of the logic chip. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 3, further 
comprising a spacer layer disposed on the end 

surface of the stack, said spacer layer having an 
inner opening extending therethrough and sized to 

expose at least a portion of the contact pads on the 
upper surface of the logic chip, said spacer layer 

having a thickness sufficient to allow formation of 
T-connects along the at least one side surface of 

the stack adjacent to the upper surface of the logic 
chip. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 6, further 
comprising a lead frame secured to on exposed 

surface of the spacer layer, said lead frame also 
having an inner opening extending therethrough sized 

such that the contact pads exposed through the 
spacer layer are also exposed through the lead 

frame. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 7, further 
comprising conventional wirebonding electrically 

connecting the lead frame and at least some of the 
exposed contact pads on the upper surface of the 

logic chip. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 2, wherein at 
least two of said contact pads of said array of 

contact pads are electrically interconnected for 
logic function programming. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein the logic 
chip includes logic means for holding each of said N 

memory chips of the stack in a sleep mode in 
response to a control command received from external 

circuitry. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein the logic 
chip is electrically connected to receive an address 

signal from external circuitry and wherein the logic 
chip includes logic means for decoding the address 

signal to identify at least one memory chip of the N 
memory chips having a memory device addressed by the 

address signal. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein the logic 
chip includes logic means for sequentially 

refreshing each of the N memory chips in the stack. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 12, wherein the logic 
means for sequentially refreshing includes a counter 

connected to sequentially track which memory chip of 
said N memory chips in the stack is to be refreshed. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein the logic 
chip includes logic means for regulating a received 

voltage to an on-chip voltage for powering at a 
desired level. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein N equals 
four. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein the N 
memory chips each comprise a RAM chip. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 1, wherein at least 
some of the N memory chips include transfer metallurgy 

extending to the at least one side surface of the stack, 

and wherein the integrated memory cube further comprises 
a metallization pattern disposed on the stack's at least 

one side surface and electrically connecting the transfer 
metallurgy extending thereto. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 17, wherein the 
metallization pattern disposed on the stack's at 

least one side surface electrically connects with 
the transfer metallurgy extending to the at least 

one side surface of the stack via T-connects. 
The integrated memory cube of claim 18, wherein the logic 
chip is disposed adjacent to the end surface of said 

stack and includes transfer metallurgy extending to 
the at least one side surface of the stack, and 

wherein the integrated memory cube further comprises 
a spacer layer covering the logic chip and having an 

edge aligned with the at least one side surface of 
the stack, the spacer layer having a width and 

thickness sufficient to allow T-connects between the 
transfer metallurgy on the logic chip extending to 

the at least one side surface of the stack and the 
metallization pattern disposed on the at least one 

side surface of the stack. 
A method for fabricating an integrated memory cube which 
emulates a single memory chip architecture, said 

fabricating method comprising the steps of: 

(a) providing N memory chips (wherein N ≧ 2) each having 
M memory devices (wherein M ≧ 2), along with two 

substantially parallel planar main surfaces and an 
edge surface; 
(b) providing a logic chip having two substantially 
parallel planar main surfaces and an edge surface; 
(c) forming a stack by securing the N memory chips and 
the logic chip together such that at least one 

planar main surface of each chip in the stack is 
coupled to a planar main surface of an adjacent chip 

in the stack, and such that the edge surfaces of the 
memory chips and the edge surface of the logic chip 

align to form at least one side surface of the 
stack, the stack also having an end surface disposed 

parallel to the planar main surfaces of the chips in 
the stack; and 
(d) electrically interconnecting the logic chip and the N 
memory chips, said logic chip coordinating external 

communication with the N memory chips of the stack 
so that an integrated memory structure exists which 

emulates the functional characteristics of a single 
memory chip structure with N × M memory devices. 
The fabricating method of claim 20, wherein the 
electrical interconnecting step (d) includes 

disposing a metallization pattern on the at least 
one side surface of the stack to electrically 

interconnect the logic chip and the N memory chips. 
The fabricating method of claim 21, wherein each of the N 
memory chips and the logic chip provided in said 

steps (a) 
&
 (b), respectively, include transfer 
metallization extending to the at least one side 

surface of the stack, and wherein the electrical 
interconnecting step (d) further includes the step 

of forming T-connects along at least one side 
surface of the stack to electrically interconnect 

the metallization pattern with at least some of the 
transfer metallurgies extending to the at least one 

side surface of the stack. 
The fabricating method of claim 22, wherein said stack 
forming step (c) includes forming the stack such 

that the logic chip comprises an end chip in the 
stack adjacent to the end surface of the stack, and 

wherein said fabricating method further comprises 
the step of disposing a spacer layer on the end 

surface of the stack so that the electrical 
connecting step (d) includes electrically connecting 

the stack's side surface metallization pattern to 
the transfer metallurgy extending from the logic 

chip to the at least one side surface of the stack 
using T-connects. 
The fabricating method of claim 23, wherein said 
providing step (b) includes providing a logic chip 

having an upper surface with an array of contact 
pads disposed thereon, and further comprising the 

step of preforming the spacer layer disposed on the 
end surface of the stack, said preforming of the 

spacer layer including providing an inner opening 
extending through the spacer layer such that when 

the spacer layer is disposed on the end surface of 
the stack at least some of the array of contact pads 

on the upper surface of the logic chip remain 
exposed. 
The fabricating method of claim 24, further comprising 
the step of securing a lead frame to an exposed 

surface of the spacer layer, the lead frame having 
an inner opening extending therethrough such that 

the contact pads exposed through the spacer layer 
remain exposed. 
The fabricating method of claim 25, wherein said 
electrical interconnecting step (d) includes forming 

conventional wirebonds between at least some of the 
exposed contact pads on the upper surface of the 

logic chip and the lead frame. 
The fabricating method of claim 21, wherein said step of 
disposing a metallization pattern on the at least 

one side surface of the stack includes the steps of: 
forming multiple stacks, each stack having N memory chips 

and a logic chip secured together such that a planar 
main surface of each chip in the stack is coupled to 

a planar main surface of an adjacent chip in the 
stack, each stack having an end surface and at least 

one side surface;
 

forming an extended stack of the multiple stacks by 
disposing a segmentation material between the end 

surfaces of adjacent stacks in the extended stack, 
said segmentation material being removable upon 

applying of a predefined treatment to the extended 
stack, said extended stack being formed such that 

the at least one side surfaces of the multiple 
stacks align in a common plane; 

forming a metallization pattern on the at least one side 
surfaces of the multiple stacks in the extended 

stack; and 
disassembling the extended stack by applying the 

predefined treatment to the extended stack such the 
segmentation material is removed, thereby separating 

the multiple stacks with the metallization patterns 
disposed thereon. 
The fabricating method of claim 27, wherein the extended 
stack forming step includes placing parylene between 

end surfaces of adjacent stacks in the extended 
stack. 
The fabricating method of claim 20, further comprising 
the step of testing and burning-in each of the N 

memory chips and the logic chip prior to said stack 
forming step (c). 
The fabricating method of claim 20, further comprising 
the step of providing and electrically connecting 

I/O leads to the logic chip and encapsulating the 
stack such that said I/O leads extend therefrom. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
