<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632348</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Volume holographic storage system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F129	G02F129	G03H104	G03H104	G03H110	G03H126	G03H126	G11B700	G11B700	G11B70065	G11C1304	G11C1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11C13	G11C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A phase encoded volume holographic storage system uses a phase 
encoding multiplexer 40 that generates truly binary phases of light in 

the reference beam. The phase encoding multiplexer comprises a liquid 
crystal device having an array of liquid crystal cells 71, 73 that 

convert the reference beam into an array of parallel beamlets 65, 67 of 
light. Each cell in the array has electrodes patterned as two sets of 

parallel fingers, with each set forming a diffraction grating 83, 85. 
The sets of fingers are interdigitally spaced so that fingers on the two 

sets are spaced apart a distance equal to one-half the grating period. 
Means are provided for activating only one of the diffraction gratings 

in each cell at any one time. Thus each beamlet of light exiting each 
cell when one of the diffraction grating patterns is activated is 

precisely 180 degrees out of phase with the light exiting the cell when 
the other complementary diffraction grating pattern is activated. The 

phase modulator is connected to a data controller that activates each 
electrode in each cell of the array according to predetermined 

orthogonal codes, thereby permitting multiple pages of data to be 
recorded in the holographic medium with each page being recorded 

according to a different one of the phase codes from the reference beam. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINCERBOX GLENN TAVERNIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINCERBOX, GLENN TAVERNIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to three-dimensional or "volume" 
holographic storage systems, and in particular to such systems which use 
phase-encoded reference beams to record the superposed images or pages 
in the holographic recording material. In a volume hologram, interference of radiation from an object or 
signal beam and a reference beam produces an interference structure of 
maximum and minimum field intensities that generates in the holographic 
medium a like structure with maximum and minimum change in some optical 
property, such as refractive index. If the hologram is considered 
thick, i.e., the thickness of the medium is much greater than the 
spacing of the recorded structure, diffraction from the recorded 
structure is highly sensitive to changes in either the angle or 
wavelength of illumination. A reconstructing beam that is incident on 
the structure created in the medium will then reconstruct an exact image 
of the object, provided the reconstructing beam is coincident with and 
of the same wavelength as the original reference beam. This requirement 
makes it possible to record many images or pages, superposed in the 
medium, by varying the angle of incidence (angular multiplexing) or the 
wavelength (wavelength multiplexing) of the reference beam, or both. 
These multiple images or pages can then be read out of the medium by a 
reconstructing beam directed at the same angle of incidence and with the 
same wavelength. Angular multiplexing of the reference beam in volume hologram 
systems is accomplished with some type of beam deflection mechanism, 
such as a galvanometer mirror or an acousto-optic device. Galvanometers 
are relatively slow and require a servo control system to maintain a 
given access direction. Acousto-optic devices have limited angular 
range and must be used in both the signal and reference beams because 
they introduce a wavelength shift in the deflected beam. In both 
mechanisms any error in angular direction will cause adjacent holograms  
 
to be reconstructed along with the desired hologram, and the resulting 
crosstalk will reduce data reliability. Wavelength multiplexing requires some means for control of the 
wavelength of the recording beams. While this can be done with tuning 
of certain diode lasers, these lasers operate in a region of the 
spectrum where there are few materials available for the holographic 
medium. An alternative is to use large and expensive dye lasers that 
are not practical for compact data storage devices. More recently, a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A volume holographic storage system comprising: 
   a holographic medium (10); 

   a light source (20); 
   means (24) for forming the light from the light source into a 

signal beam (28) and a reference beam (26); 
   means (30) located within the signal beam for modulating the light 

in the signal beam; 
   means (40) located within the reference beam for modulating the 

phase of light in the reference beam for each modulation of light in the 
signal beam, the phase modulating means including means (62, 63) for 

dividing the reference beam of light into a plurality of parallel 
beamlets of light (65, 67) and means (83, 85) for generating binary 

complementary phases for each of the beamlets of light; 
   means (32) for directing the modulated signal beam to the medium; 

   means (66) for directing the reference beamlets of light to the 
medium to record a hologram in the medium by interference with the 

modulated signal beam; and 
   means (35) optically coupled with the medium for detecting the 

recorded hologram. 
The system according to claim 1 wherein the means for generating 
complementary phases for each of the beamlets of light comprises means 

for generating complementary diffraction gratings. 
The system according to claim 2 wherein the phase generating means 
further comprises: 

   a plurality of light transmissive cells (71, 73), each cell being 
optically aligned with a corresponding reference beamlet of light and 

having formed therein two diffraction gratings displaced from each other 
by one-half a grating period, each of the gratings being switchable 

between states of diffraction and non-diffraction; and 
   means coupled to the two diffraction gratings for activating only 

one of the two diffraction gratings at any one time; whereby only one of 
the gratings is substantially diffracting at any one time. 
The system according to claim 3 wherein the cells are liquid 
crystal cells. 
The system according to claim 4 wherein each diffraction grating 
comprises a liquid cr
ystal cell electrode having a pattern of parallel 
fingers, the two patterns forming the two diffraction gratings in each 

cell being arranged with their fingers interdigitally spaced by one-half 
the spacing of the fingers in each diffraction grating. 
The system according to any of claims 3 to 5 wherein the beamlet 
generating means is a lens array, each lens of the array being aligned 

with a corresponding cell. 
The system according to any of claims 3 to 6, wherein the means 
for activating the cells further comprises means for activating all of 

the cells simultaneously according to a predetermined digital code, each 
code corresponding to a single modulation of the signal beam. 
The system according to claim 7, wherein the means for modulating 
the light in the signal beam comprises a spatial light modulator for 

modulating the light in the signal beam into a plurality of points of 
light representative of digital data, and further including a controller 

coupled to the spatial light modulator and the phase modulating means 
for transmitting a page of digital data to the spatial light modulator 

and for activating one or the other of the diffraction gratings in each 
of the cells according to one of a plurality of predetermined codes. 
A binary phase modulator (40) for a volume hologram system having 
a light source (20) which generates a reference beam of light, the 

modulator comprising: 
   a plurality of adjacent light transmissive cells (71, 73) for 

dividing the reference beam (26) into a plurality of parallel light 
beamlets (65, 67), each cell having formed therein two diffraction 

gratings (83, 85) spaced apart by one-half the grating period, each of 
the gratings being switchable between states of substantially 

diffracting and non-diffracting to light. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
