<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0417928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Endovascular support device and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F206	A61F200	A61F206	A61F286	A61F282	A61F284	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An endovascular support device (10) 
for treatment of chronic restenosis or other 

vascular narrowing is disclosed together 
with a method of manufacture and a 

method for delivering a plurality of 
such devices to an affected area of a vessel. In 

a preferred embodiment, the endovascular 
support device comprises a unitary wire-­

like structure configured to form a 
plurality of upper and lower peaks (12,14) which may be 

compressed for delivery to an affected 
area of a coronary or peripheral vessel in a 

human, and then expanded to maintain a passageway through the vessel. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to medical devices, and particularly 
relates to implantable devices for treating narrowing of coronary or peripheral vessels 
in humans. Cardiovascular disease, including atherosclerosis, is the leading cause of death 
in the U.S. The medical community has developed a number of methods for treating 
coronary heart disease, some of which are specifically designed to treat the 
complications resulting from atherosclerosis and other forms of coronary arterial 
narrowing. The most impelling development in the past decade for treating atherosclerosis 
and other forms of coronary narrowing is percutaneous transluminal coronary 
angioplasty, hereinafter referred to simply as "angioplasty" or "PTCA". The objective  
 
in angioplasty is to enlarge the lumen of the affected coronary artery by radial 
hydraulic expansion. The procedure is accomplished by inflating a balloon within the 
narrowed lumen of the coronary artery. Radial expansion of the coronary artery 
occurs in several different dimensions and is related to the nature of the plaque. 
Soft, fatty plaque deposits are flattened by the balloon and hardened deposits are 
cracked and split to enlarge the lumen. The wall of the artery itself is also stretched 
when the balloon is inflated. PTCA is performed as follows: A thin-walled, hollow guiding catheter is 
typically introduced into the body via a relatively large vessel, such as the femoral 
artery in the groin area or the brachial artery in the arm. Access to the femoral 
artery is achieved by introducing a large bore needle directly into the femoral artery, 
a procedure known as the Seldinger Technique. Once access to the femoral artery 
is achieved, a short hollow sheath is inserted to maintain a passageway during 
PTCA. The flexible guiding catheter, which is typically polymer coated, and lined with 
Teflon, is inserted through the sheath into the femoral artery. The guiding catheter 
is advanced through the femoral artery into the iliac artery and into the ascending 
aorta. Further advancement of the flexible catheter involves the negotiation of an 
approximately 180 degree turn through the aortic arch to allow the guiding catheter 
to descend into the aortic cusp where entry may be gained to either the left or the 
right coronary artery, as desired. After the guiding catheter is advanced to the ostium of the coronary artery to 
be treated by PTCA, a flexible guidewire is inserted into the guiding catheter through 
a balloon and advanced to the area to be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An endovascular support device suitable for implantation 
within a coronary or other vessel within the huma
n body 
comprising a unitary member (10) configured to provide a 

plurality of upper and lower peaks (12, 14), the unitary member 
being capable of being compressed onto the outer surface of a 

catheter for delivery to an affected area of a vessel and then 
expanded by inflation of the catheter to maintain the affected 

area of a vessel at a diameter larger than if the support 
device were not implanted, characterised in that the unitary 

member is of wire-like material and has no joints. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the wire-like 
material is surgical stainless steel. 
The device of claim 2 wherein the 
stainless steel is plated with platinum. 
The device of claim 1, 2, or 3 wherein the number 
of peaks is between 3 and 10. 
The device of claim 4, wherein the number 
of peaks is four. 
The device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said member comprises a plurality of N substantially straight segments (16) of 

wire-like material, each segment having first and second ends wherein the 
first end of the first segment is connected to the first end of a second 

segment, the second end of the second segment is connected to the second 
end of the third segment, the first end of the third segment is connected to 

the first end of the fourth segment, and so on until the second end of the Nth  
 

segment is connected to the second end of the first segment, with no 
segment overlapping any other segment and the plurality of segments being 

capable of being compressed onto a catheter for delivery to an affected area 
of a vessel and then forcibly expanded to maintain the affected area of a 

vessel at a diameter larger than if the support device were not implanted. 
The device of claim 6, wherein the value of N is between six and 
twenty. 
The device of claim 6 or 7, wherein the plurality of segments of wire-like 
material are formed as a single unit and then bent to form the plurality of 

segments. 
A method of manufacturing an endovascular support device 
comprising: 


forming a toroid from a unitary member of a first 
material having no joints; 
plating the toroid with a second material having higher 
lubricity than the first material; 
bending the toroid to form a plurality of upper and lower 
peaks; 
stripping off the second material from the toroid; and 
reducing the diameter of the bent toroid to a desired 
size. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
