<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POLYCRYSTALLINE LITHIUM METAL OXIDE FIBERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01F700	C01F702	C01F714	C04B35622	C04B35622	D01F908	D01F908	D01F910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01F	C01F	C01F	C04B	C04B	D01F	D01F	D01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01F7	C01F7	C01F7	C04B35	C04B35	D01F9	D01F9	D01F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for preparing polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fibers of the formula LixMyOz by filling micromold fibers of a desired inner diameter and length with a mixture composed of the desired metal salts or solutions of salts or alkoxides, optionally containing additional solvents, binders, plasticizers, and deflocculants, firing the filled micromold fibers at elevated temperatures but below temperatures of lithium oxide volatilization in air for at least one hour to simultaneously burn-out the micromold and yield the polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fiber.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FMC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIN, CHARLES C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIANEZA-KULLBERG, TERESITA, NAILA, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWE, GREGORY, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDONALD, DANIEL, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "POLYCRYSTALLINE LITHIUM METAL OXIDE FIBERS*This invention describes polycrystalline lithium metal oxide ceramic fibers of the formula LixMvOz, where M is aluminum, silicon, or a transition metal with atomic numbers ranging from 22-31 and 40-52 and methods for their manufacture.Ceramic fibers are recognized as having utility in a variety of industrial composites. Composite materials are desired combinations of two or more con¬ stituent materials to form a bonded structure that has mechanical, physical and chemical advantages over each individual constituent. In particular, ceramic matrix composites contain a matrix component that may be a ceramic oxide and a reinforcing material like a ceramic fiber. Some of the various applications of these com¬ posites are cutting tools, armor, engine parts, electronic devices, catalysts, and medical implants. Electrolyte tiles in molten carbonate fuel cell prepared from gamma lithium aluminate powder and lithium carbonate/potassium carbonate electrolyte could be improved by incorporating suitable reinforcing fibers in the tiles. A typical tile is about 1 m2 in area and from 0.5-2 mm in thickness. Reduction in tile thickness is desirable in order to reduce electrical resistance. This can be achieved by the addition of reinforcement fibers to increase the strength and durability of the tile structure and the overall life- time of the cell. Such reinforcing fibers must not only have high strength but the fibers must also be compatible with the matrix material, and be thermally stable at temperatures up to at least 650°C under the molten carbonate fuel cell environment. Alumina fibers have been tested but formation of lithium aluminate 

occurred. Ideally, lithium aluminate fibers are the best choice for the molten carbonate fuel cell electro¬ lyte tile. Other applications may potentially require other lithium aluminum oxide fibers such as lithium pentaaluminate, lithium dialuminate, or other lithium metal oxide fibers.Methods developed for the production of ceramic fibers include spinning, colloidal evaporation, vapor deposition, and drawing from a melt. Non-oxide fibers like silicon carbide fibers have been prepared by these processes but limitations have been observed when applied to compositions containing glass-forming oxides. An example is the production of ceramic refractory fibers like alumina-silica, alumina, and zirconia by a blowing method wherein a stream of the molten material is subjected to a jet of air or steam. The disadvantages of this method are the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for preparing polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fibers characterized by filling micromold fibers of a desired inner diameter and length with a fluid suspension of lithium oxides of the formula
Li
x
M
y
O
z
 wherein M is selected from aluminum, silicon or a metal having an atomic number of 22 to 31 or 40 to 52 or 72 to 84, the values of x, y and z being determined by the oxidation number of M, a solvent and optionally con¬ taining additional solvents, binders, plasticizers, and deflocculants, firing the filled micromold fibers at elevated temperatures but below temperatures of lithium oxide volatilization in air for at least one hour to simultaneously burn-out the micromold and yield the polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fiber.
2. A method for preparing polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fibers of the formula Li
x
MyO
z
 characterized by filling micromold fibers of a desired inner diameter and length with a fluid mixture of a lithium salt and a metal salt in a solvent and optionally containing binders, plasticizers, deflocculants and additional solvents, placing the filled micromold fibers in a graphite cylinder containing lithium hydroxide or lithium oxide powder, firing the filled micromold fibers at elevated temperatures above temperatures of lithium oxide volatilization for at least 5 minutes under an inert atmosphere followed by firing in air at temperatures from 500-1000°C for at least one hour to burn-out the micromold and yield the polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fiber.
3. The method of Claim 2 characterized in that the metal M component in the lithium metal oxide fiber of the formula Li
x
MyO
z
 is selected from aluminum, silicon, and metals with atomic numbers 22-31, 40-52, 


and 72-84 .
4. The method of Claim 2 characterized in that the lithium metal oxide fiber is a lithium aluminate fiber and the lithium salt is selected from lithium hydroxide monohydrate and lithium nitrate, and the aluminum salt is selected from aluminum hydroxide, alumina, aluminum nitrate, or aluminum alkoxide.
5. The method of Claim 2 characterized in that the first firing temperatures are at least 1000°C and close to the melting point of the lithium metal oxide fiber.
6. The method of Claim 2 characterized in that the first firing time is preferably 20 minutes to one hour and under an inert atmosphere such as nitrogen or argon.
7. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the solvent is selected from water, ethanol, trichloroethylene and mixtures thereof.
8. The method of Claim 2 characterized in that the burn-out of the micromold is achieved by a second firing at 500-1000°C for at least one hour, but preferably at 1000°C for 30 minutes.
9. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that C-shaped carbon fibers or hollow carbon fibers are used as micromolds.
10. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the micromold fibers are filled by ultrasonifi- cation or by capillary action.
11. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the fiber micromolds may have dimensions at least
10 microns inner diameter and at most 2 cm long.
12. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the resulting polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fibers have dimensions at least 5 microns inner diameter and 100 microns long. 


 - Il ¬
ls. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the polycrystalline lithium metal oxide fibers may be cut to the desired length by physical means.
14. The method of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the oxide used to make lithium aluminate fibers is gamma lithium aluminate or alpha lithium aluminate.
15. The method of claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the metal component M in the formula Li
x
M
y
O
z
 is selected from transition metals whose atomic number are 22-31, 40-52 and 72-84. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 21 December 1993 (21 .12.93 ) ; original cl aims 1 -15 repl aced by amended cl aims 1 -12 (2 pages ) ]
1. A method of preparing polycrystalline 
7
-lithium aluminate fibers of the formula
5 LiA10
2
characterized by filling micromold fibers with a fluid suspension of a lithium salt and an aluminum component selected from alumina and aluminum salts or a lithium
10 aluminate dispersion in a solvent, placing the filled micromold fibers in a non-reactive container containing lithium hydroxide or lithium oxide powder, heating the container containing the filled micromold fibers in an inert atmosphere at elevated temperatures above
15 temperatures of lithium oxide volatilization for at least 5 minutes to saturate the inert atmosphere with lithium oxide and to convert the fluid mixture to 
7
-lithium aluminate fibers followed by firing in air to burn-off the micromolds and yield the polycrystalline
20 
7
-lithium aluminate fibers.
2. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the lithium salt is selected from lithium hydroxide monohydrate, lithium nitrate, lithium carbonate, lithium peroxide, lithium oxide and lithium alkoxides
25 and the aluminum component is selected from alumina, aluminum hydroxide, aluminum nitrate, or aluminum alkoxides.
3. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the first firing temperatures are at least 1000°C and
30 below the melting point of the 
7
-lithium aluminate fiber.
4. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the first firing time is 20 minutes to one hour and under an inert atmosphere.
35 5. The method of claim 1 characterized in that 


the solvent is selected from water, ethanol, trichloroethylene and mixtures thereof.
6. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the burn-off of the micromolds is achieved by a second firing at 500-1000°C for at least one hour in air.
7. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the micromolds are selected from C-shaped carbon fibers or hollow carbon fibers.
8. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the micromold fibers are filled by ultrasonification or by capillary action.
9. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the fiber micromolds dimensions are at least 5 microns inner diameter. 10. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the resulting polycrystalline 
7
-lithium aluminate fibers have dimensions at least 5 microns diameter and are at least 100 microns long.
11. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the lithium aluminate used to make 
7
-lithium aluminate fibers is selected from beta lithium aluminate, gamma lithium aluminate, alpha lithium aluminate or mixtures thereof.
12. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the micromolds are made of carbon and the burn-off of the carbon micromolds is achieved by a second firing of at least 1000°C for at least thirty minutes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
