<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637969</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENT IN METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR STERILIZING OBJECTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L204	A61L206	A61L226	A61L226	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	A61L2	A61L2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrangement (10) for sterilizing objects (22) in which a quantity of liquid (20) and one or more objects to be sterilized are introduced into a pouch (16) formed of flexible sheet material at least partially transparent to microwave radiation whereupon the pouch is sealed to form a gas-tight assembly (14). The gas-tight assembly is situated in an inner rigid cavity (26a) of an enclosure which is at least partially formed of material that is substantially transparent to microwave radiation. The enclosure is irradiated with microwave radiation which passes into the cavity and then into the gas-tight pouch assembly situated therein to vaporize the liquid to produce an atmosphere of hot vapor under pressure in the pouch. The pouch expands under pressure until the sheet material of which it is formed presses against the rigid inner surfaces of the enclosure cavity. At least a part of the gas-tight pouch assembly may be surrounded with microwave radiation shielding (24) which divides the interior of the pouch into shielded (38a) and unshielded (38b) interior portions, the object to be sterilized being situated in the shielded pouch portion while the liquid to be vaporized is situated in the second unshielded pouch portion.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLEXICLAVE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUTNER, BARRY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATOWICKI, DANIEL, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVEMENT IN METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR 8TERILI2ING OBJECTSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/692,736 filed April 29, 1991, which is a continuation of Seri No. 07/274,768 filed November 22, 1988, now U.S. Patent 5,039,495, which is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/184,246 filed April 21, 1988, now U.S. Patent 5,019,344.This invention relates generally to methods and apparatus for disinfecting or sterilizing objects, and more particularly, to meth and apparatus for disinfecting or sterilizing objects, such as dent and medical instruments. As used hereinbelow, the terms "sterilizi "sterilization", and the like will be used in their broadest sense should be understood to mean the killing of bacteria and spores, as well as the killing of bacteria to the extent necessary for a par¬ ticular purpose, and may include the process of "disinfection."The need for effective sterilization of dental instruments, su as dental handpieceε, is more important today than ever before due the realization of the significant potential for infection via dent procedures and the increase in the rate of transmission of serious diseases by blood and saliva. However, from a practical viewpoint, only must the sterilization procedure be effective, it must also be rapid, i.e., have a short turn-around or cycle time. Thus, it will understood that the quantity of any one instrument that a practitioI or institution must purchase and have available for use will depend the frequency of treatments requiring that instrument and on the turn-around time required to sterilize the instrument. In the case 

of dental handpieces, which generally are required for most treat¬ ments performed in the dental operatory, an extended sterilization cycle means that a larger inventory of available handpieces must be maintained. The high cost of dental handpieces, on the other hand, often limits the number of available handpieces, which in turn may result in hasty and therefore ineffective attempts at, or even dispensing with, lengthy sterilization procedures. This of course is unacceptable.Heat sterilization methods, such as steam heat (autoclave) , dry heat, and chemical vapor, are generally preferred over cold immersion methods, which are generally not effective unless glutaraldehyde is used and the instrument is immersed for 7 - 10 hours. Chemical vapor sterilization has the advantages of minimal corrosion of burs and other sharp instruments (steam sterilization or immersion in most
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. Apparatus for sterilizing at least one object by vapor under pressure, comprising: a pouch formed of flexible, substantially vapor- impermeable sheet material at least partially transparent to micro¬ wave radiation, said pouch being receivable of said at least one object; liquid receivable within said pouch; means for irradiating said pouch with microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation to vaporize said liquid to produce an atmosphere of hot vapor under pressure; and shielding means associated with said pouch for dividing the interior of said pouch into a first interior portion which is substantially free of said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said irradiating means and a second interior portion which is exposed to said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said irradiating means, said first interior portion being receivable of said at least one object to be sterilized and said second interior portion being receivable of said liquid, whereby upon irradiating said pouch with microwave radia¬ tion, said at least one object situated in said first interior por¬ tion of said pouch is substantially entirely shielded from said radiation, and said liquid situated in said second interior portion is exposed to said radiation whereupon it is heated and then vapo¬ rized thereby, whereupon said at least one object is sterilized under the effect of vapor under pressure. 


 2. Apparatus as recited in Claim 1 wherein said shielding means are formed of microwave radiation shielding material, and are adapted to substantially surround at least part of said pouch to shield said first interior portion thereof from said microwave electromagnetic radiation upon irradiating said pouch with said radiation.
3. Apparatus as recited in Claim 2 wherein said shielding means comprise at least one shield member formed of microwave radiation shielding material.
4. Apparatus as recited in Claim 3 wherein said shielding means comprise a pair of said shield members.
5. Apparatus as recited in Claim 2 further including means for positioning said shielding means to substantially surround at least part of said pouch to shield said first interior portion thereof.
6. Apparatus as recited in Claim 5 wherein said means for positioning said shielding means comprise an enclosure having an interior cavity for receiving said pouch.
7. Apparatus as recited in Claim 6 wherein said shielding means comprise at least one shield member. 


 8. Apparatus as recited in Claim 7 wherein said shielding means comprise a pair of shield members.
9. Apparatus as recited in Claim 6 wherein said enclosure comprises means for holding said pouch in said interior cavity.
10. Apparatus as recited in Claim 9 wherein said shielding means comprise at least one shield member, and said enclosure further comprises means for holding said at least one shield member to sur¬ round at least a part of said pouch to shield said first interior portion thereof.
11. Apparatus as recited in Claim 5 wherein said shielding means positioning means comprise a pair of cover members operatively associated with each other and defining a closed interior space bet¬ ween them, and means for holding said pouch in said interior space.
12. Apparatus as recited in Claim 11 wherein said shielding means comprise a pair of shield members, and said shielding means positioning means further comprise means for holding each of said shield members on a respective one of said cover members so that when said cover members are operatively associated with each other said shield members define an interior subspace between them to substan¬ tially surround said first interior portion of said pouch.
13. Apparatus as recited in Claim 12 wherein each of said shield members has a substantially concave configuration. 


 14. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said liquid comprises water.
15. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said liquid comprises hydrogen peroxide.
16. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 further including means for elevating said first interior portion of said pouch with respect to said second interior portion of said pouch.
17. Apparatus for sterilizing at least one object by vapor under pressure, comprising: a pouch formed of flexible substantially vapor-impermeable sheet material at least partially transparent to microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation, said pouch having a sealable opening through which said at least one object can be introduced into the interior thereof; liquid receivable within said pouch; means for irradiating said pouch with microwave radiation to vaporize said liquid to produce an atmosphere of hot vapor under pressure; and shielding means qomprising at least one shield member formed of microwave electromagnetic radiation shield material defin¬ ing a shielded space in which at least a part of said pouch is situated to define a first interior pouch portion which is substan¬ tially free of said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said irradiating means and a second interior pouch portion 


which is exposed to said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said irradiating means, said first interior portion being receivable of said at least one object to be sterilized and said second interior portion being receivable of said liquid, whereby upon irradiating said pouch with microwave radia¬ tion, said at least one object situated in said first interior por¬ tion of said pouch is substantially entirely shielded from said radiation, and said liquid situated in said second interior portion is exposed to said radiation whereupon it is heated and then vaporized thereby, whereupon said at least one object is sterilized under the effect of vapor under pressure.
18. Apparatus as recited in Claim 17 wherein said at least one shield member includes inwardly facing rigid surface means defining said shielded space, and wherein upon irradiating said pouch and vaporizing said liquid, an overpressure is created within said pouch which causes said pouch to expand such that said sheet material thereof presses against said inwardly facing surface means of said at least one shield member under pressure.
19. Apparatus as recited in Claim 18 further including means for holding said at least one shield member and pouch such that said at least one shield member defines said shielded space and divides the interior of said pouch into said first and second interior portions. 


 20. Apparatus as recited in Claim 18 further including enclo¬ sure means for defining an interior cavity and for holding said pouch in said cavity and positioning said at least one shield member to define said shielded space to divide the interior of said pouch into said first and second interior portions, and so that said sheet material of said pouch presses against said inwardly facing surface means of said at least one shield member upon expansion of said pouch during irradiation.
21. Apparatus as recited in Claim 20 wherein said enclosure means comprise a housing including a pair of cover members opera¬ tively associated with each other, means provided on said cover members for holding said pouch and positioning said at least one shield member.
22. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said shielding means comprise a pair of shield members, and wherein each of said shield members is fixed to a respective one of said cover members.
23. Apparatus as recited in Claim 22 wherein each of said shield members is substantially concave.
24. Apparatus as recited in Claim 17 further including enclo¬ sure means for defining an interior cavity and for holding said pouch in said cavity and positioning said at least one shield member to divide the interior of said pouch into said first and second interior portions. 


 25. Apparatus as recited in Claim 24 wherein said at least one shield member includes inwardly facing, substantially rigid surface means defining said shielded space, and wherein upon irradiating said pouch and vaporizing said liquid, an overpressure is created within said pouch which causes said pouch to expand such that said sheet material thereof presses against said inwardly facing surface means of said at least one shield member.
26. Apparatus as recited in Claim 24 further including means for providing an indication visible from the exterior of said enclosure means that said pouch has expanded under pressure.
27. Apparatus as recited in Claim 26 wherein said indication means comprise a member movably mounted on said enclosure means and adapted to be engaged by said sheet material of said pouch as said pouch expands under pressure.
28. Apparatus as recited in Claim 24 further including means for locking said enclosure means to prevent access to said interior cavity when said pouch has expanded under pressure.
29. Apparatus as recited in Claim 28 wherein said locking means comprises a member movably mounted on said enclosure means and adapted to be engaged by said sheet material of said pouch as said pouch expands under pressure. 


 30. Apparatus for sterilizing at least one object by vapor under pressure, comprising: a pouch formed of flexible substantially vapor-impermeable sheet material at least partially transparent to microwave radiation, said pouch being receivable of said at least one object; liquid receivable within said pouch; means for irradiating said pouch with microwave radiation to vaporize said liquid to produce an atmosphere of hot vapor under pressure; and enclosure means formed of microwave radiation transparent material having inwardly facing substantially rigid surfaces defining an interior cavity, said enclosure means including means for holding said pouch in said cavity, and wherein upon irradiating said pouch with microwave radiation, said liquid receivable within said pouch is exposed to said radiation whereupon it is heated and then vapo¬ rized thereby, whereupon an overpressure is created within said pouch which causes said pouch to expand until said sheet material thereof presses against said inwardly facing surfaces of said enclosure means defining said interior cavity, to thereby prevent further expansion of said pouch.
31. Apparatus as recited in Claim 30 further including shield¬ ing means associated with said pouch for dividing the interior of said pouch into a first interior portion which is substantially free of said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said irradiating means and a second interior portion which is exposed to said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said 


irradiating means, said first interior portion being receivable of said at least one object to be sterilized and said second interior portion being receivable of said liquid.
32. Apparatus as recited in Claim 31 wherein said shielding means is associated with said enclosure means and substantially surrounds at least part of said pouch to shield said first interior portion thereof from said microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by said irradiating means.
33. Apparatus as recited in Claim 32 wherein said shielding means comprise at least one shield member associated with said enclosure means, said at least one shield member having inwardly facing surfaces comprising at least in part said inwardly facing surfaces of said enclosure means which define said interior cavity.
34. Apparatus as recited in Claim 33 wherein said shielding means comprise a pair of substantially concave shield members having end portions which cooperate to substantially divide said first and second interior pouch portions from each other.
35. Apparatus for use in sterilizing objects by vapor under pressure, comprising; an enclosure which is selectively openable and closable and defining an interior cavity in its closed condition; and 


 shielding means for dividing said interior cavity into, a first sub-cavity which is substantially shielded from microwave radiation and a second sub-cavity which is substantially unshielded from microwave radiation.
36. Apparatus as recited in Claim 35 further including means for locking said enclosure in said closed condition.
37. Apparatus as recited in Claim 35 wherein said shielding means comprise at least one shield member formed of microwave radiation shielding material.
38. Apparatus as recited in Claim 35 wherein said enclosure comprises a pair of cover members operatively associated with each other, at least one of said cover members having a depression formed therein for defining said interior cavity.
39. Apparatus as recited in Claim 38 wherein said shielding means comprise at least one shield member, each shield member being situated in a respective one of said depressions to define said first shielded sub-cavity when said enclosure is in said closed condition.
40. Apparatus as recited in Claim 39 wherein said shielding means comprise a pair of shield members.
41. Apparatus as recited in Claim 40 wherein each of such shield members is substantially concave. 


 42. Apparatus as recited in Claim 35 wherein said shielding means comprise a coating of microwave radiation shield material deposited on inner surfaces of said enclosure defining said first sub-cavity.
43. A method for sterilizing at least one object by vapor under pressure comprising the steps of: introducing at least one object to be sterilized and a quantity of liquid into a pouch formed of material at least partially transparent to microwave radiation through a sealable opening therein, said quantity of liquid being sufficient so that when said pouch opening is sealed to form a gas-tight assembly and said liquid is vaporized, an overpressure is created within said pouch which will cause said pouch to expand; sealing said pouch opening to form a gas-tight assembly; introducing said gas-tight assembly into an interior cavity of an enclosure which is formed of material substantially transparent to microwave radiation, said interior cavity being defined by inwardly facing surfaces; and irradiating said gas-tight assembly with microwave elec¬ tromagnetic radiation to vaporize said liquid to produce an atmos¬ phere of hot vapor under pressure in said pouch so that said pouch expands until said material of which said pouch is formed presses against said inwardly facing surfaces which define said interior cavity whereupon further expansion of said pouch is prevented, whereby said at least one object situated within said gas-tight assembly is sterilized under the effect of vapor under pressure. 


 44. A method for sterilizing at least one object by vapor . under pressure comprising the steps of: introducing at least one object to be sterilized and a quantity of liquid into a pouch formed of material at least partially transparent to microwave radiation through a sealable opening there¬ in, said quantity of liquid being sufficient so that when said pouch opening is sealed to form a gas-tight assembly and said liquid is vaporized, an overpressure is created within said pouch which will cause said pouch to expand; sealing said pouch opening to form a gas-tight assembly; surrounding at least part of said gas-tight assembly with shielding means for dividing the interior of said pouch into a first interior portion which is substantially free of said microwave radia¬ tion during irradiation of said pouch by irradiating means and a second interior portion which is exposed to microwave radiation during irradiation of said pouch by irradiating means, said first interior portion being receivable of said at least one object to be sterilized, and said second interior portion being receivable of said liquid; and irradiating said gas-tight assembly with microwave radia¬ tion while said at least one object is shielded from said radiation to vaporize said liquid which is unshielded from said radiation to produce an atmosphere of hot vapor under pressure in said pouch, whereby said at least one object situated within said gas-tight assembly is sterilized under the effect of vapor under pressure. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
