<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0904029</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DENTAL IMPLANT SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C800	A61C800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C8	A61C8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implant body (12) has a non-round cross-sectional shape, for example ovoidal (12) or rectangular (12'). Lateral surfaces (32) of the implant (12) include threaded portions (38) of a circular cylinder (36) such that the implant (12), although non-round in cross section, can threadably engage a tapered circular opening (40) in the jaw bone (18) leaving lateral spaces (50). Bone grows into the spaces (50) between the implant (12) and the jawbone socket (40). The implant (12) is shaped similarly to the root structure of a natural tooth and can be oriented, about its longitudinal axis (26), at any angle relative to the general curvature of the jawbone (18) where the implant (12) is seated. A more natural appearance of the mouth is achieved; prosthetic teeth may be positioned closer together without loss of strength between the implant and the jawbone. A non-round abutment post (64) of corresponding cross section to prevent rotation of the abutment (16) relative to the implant (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEISSMAN BERNARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEISSMAN, BERNARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISSMAN BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISSMAN, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DENTAL IMPLANT SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to a dental prosthesis and more particularly to a dental prosthesis that includes an implant in the bone of a person's jaw. It is not uncommon, when it is desired or necessary to replace a missing tooth or teeth, that the gum is opened, a hole is drilled, and an implant is embedded in the bone structure beneath the gum. The earliest dental implants used for supporting missing teeth were cylindrical screws that were threaded into a prepared hole in the jawbone. An extended section protruded above the bone and soft tissue for attachment to and support of crowns and other restorations. The screw type implants were made of chrome-cobalt alloy or rust-free stainless steel in a variety of sizes and lengths. The protruded portion above the bone and soft tissues were of varying constructions and shapes. The opening in the jawbone was made with conventional spiral drills or with water cooled diamond coated high speed instruments. Additionally, loose mobile teeth were stabilized by similar screw forms placed in the canal of the loose tooth and driven through the tooth apex into the underlying bone .After many years of using screw type implants, a new implant design was introduced to accommodate different locations and jaw sizes, especially, in narrow cross sections of the lower jawbone, and to provide greater stability and support. The new design, generically known as a blade- implant, had a rectangular form and was manufactured in 

various thicknesses and lengths with an array of indentations, deformations or perforations through its cross sections. The blade implants were made of various metal alloys and were initially cast by the lost wax process or milled from solid material in accordance with individual needs.Blade implants were installed in longitudinally prepared troughs cut along the jawbone ridge to a desired depth. The implant was held frictionally in the bone after being gently hammered into place. After installation and suturing of the surgical site, a protruding buttress was prepared using known dental procedures for fitting a crown supporting single or multiple tooth replacements.Both the early screw type and the later blade implants were loaded and put to use by allowing the patient to chew and function in a conventional manner immediately after installation of the implant. The blade implants, enjoyed a long period of use and considerable success. They were replaced as a preferred device when the presently popular
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS
1. A dental implant system for connection in the jawbone of a patient, comprising: an implant having an elongated body said body having a rongitudinal axis and a proximal surface generally transverse to said longitudinal axis, said proximal surface having a non-round peripheral edge as viewed along said axis, and an opening extending from said proximal surface axially into said body, said opening having a non-round cross section.
2. A dental implant system as in claim 1, wherein said peripheral edge is one of generally rectangular and ovoidal.
3. A dental implant system as in claim 1, wherein said non-round cross section of said opening is one of generally rectangular, ovoidal and key-hole shaped.
4. A dental implant system as in claim 2, wherein said non-round cross section of said opening is one of generally rectangular, ovoidal and key-hole shaped. 5. A dental implant system as in claim 1, wherein a lateral exterior surface of said body includes portions of a common circular cylindrical surface for engagement in a circular hole formed in a jawbone, said cylindrical surface being concentric with said longitudinal axis, at least one body cross section between said proximal surface and a distal end of said body being non-round.
6. A dental implant system as in claim 5, wherein said cylindrical surface portions are threaded for threaded engagement in said circular hole formed in a jawbone. 


 7. A dental implant system as in claim 1, further comprising a screw tip, extended concentrically with said longitudinal axis at a distal end of said elongated body for self-engagement in said jawbone when said implant is inserted into a prepared jawbone opening, said distal end being stabilized when engaged in said jawbone.
8. A dental implant system as in claim 5, wherein a cross section of said body has a periphery including an arcuate portion corresponding to said common circular cylindrical surface, a chordal distance between opposite ends of said arcuate portion subtending an angle not exceeding approximately 180° relative to said longitudinal axis.
9. A dental implant system as in claim 1, further comprising an abutment having a core at a first end for connection to a prosthetic tooth crown, and a post at a second end for extending into said opening in said implant body, a cross section of said post corresponding in shape to said non-round cross section of said opening, said post when seated in said opening being non-rotatable relative to said body about said longitudinal axis.
10. A dental implant system as in claim 1, wherein a distal end of said opening includes a chamber, said chamber having a generally circular cylindrical wall.
11. A dental implant system as in claim 10, wherein said chamber has a groove in said chamber wall, said groove encircling said longitudinal axis, said groove having a depth and a width to cradle an O-ring therein, said depth being less than a cross sectional diameter of said O-ring. 


 12. A dental implant system as in claim 10, further comprising an abutment having a core at a first end for connection to a prosthetic tooth crown, and a post at a second end for extending into said opening in said implant body, a cross section of said post corresponding in shape to said non-round cross section of said opening, said post when seated in said opening being non-rotatable relative to said implant body about said longitudinal axis.
13. A dental implant system as in claim 11, further comprising an abutment having a core at a first end for connection to a prosthetic tooth crown, and a post at a second end for extending into said opening in said implant body, a cross section of said post corresponding in shape to said non-round cross section of said opening, said post when seated in said opening being non-rotatable relative to said implant body about said longitudinal axis.
14. A dental implant system as in claim 12, wherein said post includes a circular cylinder extending from an end of said post away from said core, said cylinder being receivable in said implant chamber when said abutment seats in said implant body.
15. A dental implant system as in claim 13, wherein said post includes a circular cylinder extending from an end away from said core, said cylinder being receivable in said implant chamber when said abutment seats in said implant body, a cylindrical surface of said cylinder having a groove with a depth and width to receive therein an O-ring, said 


 post groove being positionable in opposition to said implant chamber groove when said abutment is seated in said implant.
16. A dental implant system as in claim 15, further comprising an O-ring seated in at least one of said implant chamber groove and said post groove.
— 17. A dental implant system as in claim 9, further comprising connection means for engaging said abutment with said implant, said connection means releasably engaging said abutment only at an end of said post away from said core. 18. A dental implant system as in claim 10, wherein said circular cylindrical wall of said implant chamber is threaded.
19. A dental implant system as in claim 18, further comprising a screw for engaging said threaded chamber wall, and a cover for seating on said proximal surface of said implant and for covering said hole in said proximal surface, said screw extending through said cover and threadably engaging said threaded chamber wall, said cover being tightened on said proximal surface by rotation of said screw in a first direction and released from said proximal surface by rotation of said screw in an opposite second direction.
20. A dental implant system as in claim 19, wherein said cover is shaped to form gum tissues over an implant to better receive an abutment and crown, when said cover is applied to said implant during tissue healing after installation of said implant in a jawbone. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
