<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615619</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETOMETER OF INCREASED SENSITIVITY, SELECTIVITY AND DYNAMIC RANGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2772	G01N2772	G01R3312	G01R3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and methods are disclosed which provide increased sensitivity, selectivity, and dynamic range for non-contact measurement of actual physical and/or kinematic properties of conducting and magnetic materials. The apparatus and methods are based upon various methods for increasing sensitivity, selectivity and dynamic range through proper construction of a magnetometer sensor and for proper selection of operating point parameters for the application. A measurement apparatus for measuring one or more MUT (12) properties includes an electromagnetic winding structure (2) which, when driven by an electric signal, imposes a magnetic field in the MUT (12) and senses an electromagnetic response. An analyzer (14) is provided for applying the electric signal to the winding structure. A property estimator (26) is coupled to the winding structure and translates sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected properties of the material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASSACHUSETTS INST TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDFINE NEIL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELCHER JAMES R DI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDFINE, NEIL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELCHER, JAMES, R. +DI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAGNETOMETER OF INCREASED SENSITIVITY, SELECTIVITY AND DYNAMIC RANGEi- *~ Background of the InventionThe technical field of this invention is magnetometry and, in particular, the nondestructive electromagnetic interrogation of materials of interest to deduce their physical properties and to measure kinematic properties such as proximity. The disclosed invention applies to both conducting and magnetic media.Conventional application of magnetometers, specifically eddy current sensors, involves the excitation of a conducting winding, the primary, with an electric current source of prescribed temporal frequency. This produces a time-varying magnetic field at the same frequency. The primary winding is located in close proximity to the material under test (MUT) , but not in direct contact with the MUT. This type of nondestructive electro¬ magnetic interrogation is sometimes -called near field measurement. The excitation fields and the relevant spatial and temporal variations of those fields are quasistatic. The magnitude and phase (or the real and imaginary parts) of the impedance measured at the terminals of the primary winding (i.e., the measured voltage at the primary winding terminals divided by the imposed current) or the*- transimpedance (i.e., the voltage measured at a\ secondary winding terminals divided by the imposed 

 current in the primary winding) is used to estimate the MUT properties of interest.The time-varying magnetic field produced by the primary winding induces currents in the MUT that produce their own magnetic fields. These induced fields have a magnetic flux in the opposite direction to the fields produced by the primary. The net result is that conducting MUTs will tend to exclude the magnetic lux produced by the primary windings. The measured impedance and transimpedance at the terminals of the sensor windings is affected by the following: the proximity to the MUT, the physical properties (e.g., permeability and conductivity) of the MUT and the spatial distribution of those properties; the geometric construct of the MUT; other kinematic properties (e.g», velocity) of the MUT; and the existence of defects (e.g., cracks, corrosion, impurities).The distribution of the currents induced within conducting MUTs and the associated distribution of the magnetic fields in the MUT, in the vicinity of the MUT, and within the conducting primary and secondary windings are governed by the basic laws of physics. Specifically, Ampere's and Faraday's laws combined with Ohm's law and the relevant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
An apparatus for measuring one or more properties of a material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure comprising a meandering primary winding which imposes a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal for exciting multiple spatial surface current density modes, the meandering primary winding providing a prescribed dominant spatial wavelength associated with the imposed magnetic field, the winding structure further comprising a secondary winding which senses fields produced by a dominant spatial wavelength surface current density mode and at least one shorter wavelength mode for obtaining electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to the winding structure; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for translating electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more properties of the material based on a modelled response to the dominant spatial mode and the shorter wavelength modes.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the secondary windings are separated from the primary winding by a gap and the primary winding has a width which is greater than the gap width. 



3. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the measured property is conductivity of the material.
4. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the measured property is complex permeability of the material.
5. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein a property is measured for a spatial distribution of the property near the surface of the material.
6. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the primary winding has a spatial wavelength that is on the same order or smaller than the skin depth at a selected operating frequency.
7. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the property estimator provides independent estimates of conductivity and permeability.
8. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the estimator provides an estimate of conductivity distribution in a material.
9. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the estimator provides an estimate of permeability distribution in the material.
10. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the primary and secondary windings together form a meandering pattern. 


 11. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the winding structure further comprises a conducting backplane located adjacent to the primary and secondary windings.
12. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the winding structure further comprises a permeable substrate located adjacent to the primary and secondary windings.
13. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising a plurality of secondary windings each independently sensing different spatial modes.
14. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 13 wherein secondary windings are located in a different plane than the primary winding.
15. An apparatus as claimed in Claim l wherein the property estimator accesses a property estimation grid for translating the sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of the preselected properties of the material.
16. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic structure is capable of being adapted to conform to a curved surface of the material.
17. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the sensed responses are obtained at a plurality of proximities to the material. 


18. An apparatus as claimed in Claim l comprising: a pair of meandering electromagnetic winding structures positioned on opposite sides of the material, each meandering winding structure being capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response.
19. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the electric signal applied to the winding structure has its temporal excitation frequency proximal to a transverse diffusion effect characteristic frequency of the winding structure.
20. A method of measuring one or more properties of a material comprising: forming an electromagnetic winding structure comprising a meandering primary winding; applying an electric signal to the winding structure to impose a magnetic field in the material for exciting multiple spatial surface current density modes; with a secondary winding, sensing fields produced by a dominant spatial wavelength surface current density mode and at least one shorter wavelength mode imposed by the primary winding; and translating electromagnetic responses of the secondary winding into estimates of one or more properties of the material based on a 


 modelled response to the dominant spatial mode and the shorter wavelength modes.
21. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the step of translating comprises accessing a property estimation grid characterizing the winding structure and the material.
22. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the electromagnetic responses are translated into substantially independent proximity and conductivity estimates at a single preselected temporal excitation frequency.
23. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the step of translating comprises translating into substantially independent estimates of conductivity and permeability at a single preselected temporal excitation frequency.
24. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the step of translating comprises translating into distributed estimates of spatially distributed properties of the material.
25. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the step of translating comprises translating into an estimate of complex permeability.
26. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the step of translating comprises translating into estimates of one or more preselected dispersive properties of each layer of a layered material. 


27. A method as claimed in Claim 20 further comprising obtaining sensed responses at a plurality of proximities to the material.
28. A magnetometer for measuring one or more properties of a material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure comprising a primary winding capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and one or more secondary windings for sensing an electromagnetic response, the secondary windings being separated from the primary winding by a gap wherein the primary winding has a width which is substantially greater than the gap width; an analyzer for applying an electric signal to the primary winding for imposing the magnetic field in the material; -and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for translating sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected properties of the material.
29. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 28 wherein the primary and secondary windings form a meandering pattern in a single plane.
30. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 28 wherein the winding structure further comprises a plurality of layered primary and secondary windings capable of imposing magnetic fields in 


 the material and sensing electromagnetic responses.
31. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 28 wherein the secondary windings sense electromagnetic responses for each of a plurality of temporal excitation frequencies of the electric signals.
32. An apparatus for measuring one or more properties of a material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to the primary winding -structure, the electric signal having its temporal excitation frequency being proximal to a transverse diffusion effect characteristic .frequency of the winding structure; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for translating sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected properties of the material.
33. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 32 wherein the property estimator accesses a property estimation grid for translating the sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of the preselected properties of the material, the property characterizing the winding structure and the material. 


34. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 32 wherein the electromagnetic structure is capable of being adjusted to vary its position and orientation relative to the material, electromagnetic responses being sensed by the electromagnetic structure for each position and orientation of the electromagnetic structure relative to the material.
35. A magnetometer for measuring one or more properties of a material comprising: an electromagnetic structure capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to the structure to define a spatial wavelength associated with the imposed magnetic field in the material; and a property estimator coupled to the electromagnetic structure for translating sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected properties of the material, wherein the sensed responses are obtained at a plurality of proximities to the material.
36. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 35 wherein the electromagnetic structure comprises a plurality of electromagnetic windings arranged into a meandering pattern. 


37. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 35 wherein the property estimator accesses a property estimation grid for translating the sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of the preselected properties of the material.
38. A magnetometer apparatus as claimed in Claim 35 wherein the electromagnetic structure is capable of being adapted to conform to a curved surface of the material.
39. A magnetometer for measuring a geometric property and the conductivity of a material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to the winding structure to define a spatial wavelength associated with the imposed magnetic field in the material, the electric signal having a preselected temporal excitation frequency; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for receiving sensed responses, the property estimator accessing a property estimation grid for translating sensed responses into substantially independent geometric property and conductivity estimates at the single preselected temporal excitation frequency. 


40. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 39 wherein the geometric property is the actual or effective thickness of a surface layer of the material.
41. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 39 wherein the geometric property is the proximity of the winding structure, to the material.
42. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 39 wherein the property estimator generates the property estimation grid by successively implementing a model, which for each implementation provides a prediction of an electromagnetic response for a proximity and conductivity based on a set of properties characterizing the winding structure and the material.
43. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 39 wherein the winding structure is formed of a plurality of electromagnetic winding elements arranged into a meandering pattern.
44. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 39 wherein the winding structure is capable of being adapted to conform to a curved surface of the material.
45. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 39 wherein the analyzer applies multiple electric signals each having a single preselected temporal excitation frequency to the. inding structure 


 for measuring the dependence of conductivity on temporal excitation freguency.
46. A magnetometer for measuring complex permeability of a material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material and sensing an electromagnetic response, the winding structure comprising a plurality of meandering electromagnetic windings; an analyzer for applying an electric signal to the winding structure to define a spatial wavelength associated with an imposed magnetic field in the material, the electric signal having a preselected temporal excitation frequency; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for receiving sensed responses, the property estimator providing a response prediction table for translating sensed responses into complex permeability estimates of the material, the property estimator generating the prediction table by successively implementing a model which 
*
 provides for each implementation a prediction of a response for a value of complex permeability based on a set of properties characterizing the winding structure and the material.
47. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 44 wherein the model provides a response prediction for 


 complex permeability based on a set of properties comprising winding structure dimensions, winding structure geometry, winding structure physical properties, the temporal excitation frequency of the electric signal, winding structure proximity to the material, material dimensions and material physical properties.
48. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 44 wherein the winding structure is capable of being adapted to conform to a curved surface of the material.
49. An apparatus for measuring one or more properties of a material comprising: a pair of meandering electromagnetic winding structures positioned on opposite sides of the material, each meandering winding structure being capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to each meandering winding structure to define respective spatial wavelengths associated with the imposed magnetic fields in the material; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structures for translating electromagnetic responses from each of the pair of meandering winding structures into estimates of one or more properties of the material. 


 50. A magnetometer for measuring one or more preselected properties of a material having a curved surface comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure capable of being adapted to conform to the curved surface of the material, the winding structure comprising a plurality of meandering electromagnetic windings for imposing a magnetic field in a material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying an electric signal to the winding structure to define a spatial wavelength associated with the imposed magnetic field in the material, the electric signal having a preselected temporal excitation frequency; and a property estimator providing a property estimation grid for translating sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected properties of the material.
51. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 48 wherein the winding structure is capable of being adapted to surround the material.
52. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 48 wherein the winding structure is capable of being spiralled around the material.
53. A magnetometer as claimed in Claim 48 wherein the winding structure is spiralled around a 


 magnetic or insulating core to obtain measurements on a separate material.
54. A magnetometer for measuring one or more dispersive properties of a layered material comprising: an electromagnetic structure capable of imposing a magnetic field in the layered material when driven by an electric signal and sensing an electromagnetic response; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to the electromagnetic structure to define a spatial wavelength associated with the imposed magnetic field in the material, the electric signal having a preselected temporal excitation frequency; and a property estimator coupled to the structure for translating sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected dispersive properties of each layer of the layered material.
55. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 52 wherein the electromagnetic structure comprises a plurality of electromagnetic windings forming a meandering pattern.
56. An apparatus for measuring distributed properties of a material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure for imposing an electromagnetic field in the material when driven by electric signals and sensing an electromagnetic response, the 


 winding structure comprising a primary winding and a plurality of secondary windings; an analyzer for applying the electric signal to the winding structure; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for translating electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more properties of the material.
57. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 54 wherein at least one secondary winding is disposed in a plane other than that of the primary winding.
58. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 54 wherein the estimator models each layer as a series of sublayers with each sublayer having homogeneous properties.
59. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 54 wherein the sensor is operable in both the magnetoquasistatic and electroquasistatic regimes.
60. An apparatus for measuring one or more properties of the material comprising: an electromagnetic winding structure comprising a primary winding capable of imposing a magnetic field in the material when driven by an electric signal and one or more secondary windings for sensing an electromagnetic response, the winding having a spatial wavelength that is on the same order or 


 smaller than the skin depth of measurement at a selected operating frequency; an analyzer for applying an electric signal to the primary winding at the selected operating freguency for imposing the magnetic field in the material; and a property estimator coupled to the winding structure for translating sensed electromagnetic responses into estimates of one or more preselected properties of the material.
61. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 58 wherein the property estimator provides independent estimates of conductivity and permeability.
62. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 58 wherein the estimator provides an estimate of conductivity distribution in a material.
63. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 58 wherein the estimator provides an estimate of permeability distribution to the material.
64. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 57 wherein the primary and secondary windings together form a meandering pattern.
65. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 57 further comprising a plurality of secondary windings each independently sensing different spatial modes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
