<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615429</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPINAL IMPLANT AND METHOD FOR INSTALLING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1768	A61B1770	A61B1770	A61B1786	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTIFEX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTIFEX, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER GREGG S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAFELI PAUL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER, GREGG, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAFELI, PAUL, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Spinal Implant and Method For InstallingBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of Application Serial No. 719,191, filed on June 21, 1991.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a spinal implant that holds and stabilizes the vertebrae of a vertebral column.DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ARTWhen the vertebrae of a backbone are fused together it is critical that the vertebrae are in proper orientation with respect to each other and remain thar way throughout the fusing process . One present method of insuring alignment is to attach a plate to the vertebrae, which holds the skeletal members in position during the fusing process . The plate is attached to each vertebrae by screws that are screwed into the pedicle of each vertebra. The plate has holes or slots that fit over the screws, wherein two nuts are located on each side of the plate to fasten the same to the screws .Because the spine is curved, the plate must have a radius to conform to the shape of the vertebral column . To create such a curvature, the plate is usually bent by the surgeon in the operating room before the installation of the implant. The 

 formation of the plate and the assembly of the implant is inexact, such that the plate and screws are typically at an angle to each other. This lack of perpendicularity causes the nuts to engage the member in an uneven manner, wherein it has been, found that the nuts would break at the threads of the screws after installation.Another type of spinal implant includes screws that have a lug at one end. The screws are screwed into the pedicles and a preformed rod is inserted through the lugs to connect the vertebrae together. The hole diameter of the lug is larger than the diameter of the rods, so that absolute 'perpendicularity between the two members is not required. The rod is secured to the screws by set screws which are inserted through the lugs and engage the rod. Set screws are not the most rigid means of attachment, wherein there is a possibility that the rod will disengage from the screws and allow the vertebrae to move relative to each other. Therefore it would be desirable to have an easy to install rigid spinal implant r that would not require perpendicularity between the screws and the tie rod. 
SVMMftRY OF THE .INVENTIONThe present invention is a spinal implant that has a rod that connects and stabilizes the vertebrae of a vertebral column. The implant has screws that are attached to the pedicles of the vertebrae. Each screw has a clamp with a first bore
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is :
1. A spinal implant for stabilizing the vertebrae of a vertebral column, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a pair of pedicles, comprising: at least two clamps each having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod adapted to be inserted into and extend through said second bores; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion adapted to be attached to the pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion adapted to extend through said first bore; at least two first nuts adapted to thread onto said second threaded portion of said screws, each said screw has one first nut adapted to engage said second flange of said clamp; and at least two second nuts adapted to thread onto said second portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut adapted to engage said first flange of said clamp.
2. The spinal implant as recited in claim 1, wherein said rod and said second bore have approximately the same diameter. 


 3. The spinal implant as recited in claim 1, wherein said first and second nuts have an annular flange adapted to engage said second and first flanges respectively, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
4. The spinal implant as recited in claim 1, wherein said first and second nuts each have two annular flanges adapted to engage said second and first flanges respectively, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
5. The spinal implant as recited in claim 1, wherein said second threaded portion of said screw and said first bore are of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw.
6. A spinal implant for stabilizing the- vertebrae of a vertebral column, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a pair of pedicles, comprising: at least two clamps each having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; 


 a rod adapted to be inserted into and extend through said second bores; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion adapted to be attached to the pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion adapted to extend through said first bore, said second threaded portion and said first bore being of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw; at least two first nuts adapted to thread onto said second threaded portion of said screws, each said screw has one first nut with an annular flange adapted to engage said second flange of said clamp such that said annular flange deflects to lock said first nut onto said clamp; and at least two second nuts adapted to thread onto said second portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut with an annular flange adapted to engage said first flange of said clamp such that said annular flange deflects to lock said first nut onto said clamp .
7. A spinal implant for stabilizing the vertebrae of a vertebral column, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a first and second pedicle, comprising: at least two clamps, each said clamp having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, 


 said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod that extends through said second bores, said rod having a bend radius approximating the curvature of the vertebral column; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion attached to the first pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion that extends through said irst bore such that each said screw has a clamp attached thereto; at least two first nuts attached to said second portion of said screws, each said first screw having one first nut that engages said second flange of said clamp such that said second flange is deflected; and at least two second nuts attached to said second portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut engaging said first flange of said clamp such that said first flange is deflected; whereby said nuts deflect said first and second flanges so that said clamp is pressed onto said rod such that said rod is held in firm engagement by said clamp.
8. The spinal implant of claim 7, further comprising a second set of clamps, screws, rod and nuts assembled as described in claim 7, said screws of said second set being attached to the second pedicles of the vertebrae, whereby there are two spinal implants attached to the vertebral column.
9. The spinal implant, as recited in claim 7, wherein said rod and said second bore have approximately the same diamete . 


 10. The spinal implant as recited in claim 7, wherein said first and second nuts have an annular flange that engages said second and first flanges respectively, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
11. The spinal implant as recited in claim 7, wherein said first and second nuts each have two annular flanges, wherein one of said two annular flanges engages said second and first flanges respectively, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
12. The spinal implant as recited in claim 7, wherein said second threaded portion of said screw and said first bore are of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw.
13. A method for attaching a spinal implant to the vertebrae of a vertebral column to stabilize the vertebrae, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a first and second pedicle, comprising the steps of: providing; at least two clamps each having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said 


 clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod adapted to be inserted into and extend through said second bores; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion adapted to be attached to the pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion adapted to extend through said first bore; at least two first nuts adapted to thread onto said second threaded portion of said screws, each said screw has one first nut adapted to engage said second flange of said clamp; at least two second nuts adapted to thread onto said second threaded portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut adapted to engage said first flange of said clamp; attaching said screws to the first pedicle of at least two vertebra such that each vertebra has one screw; screwing said first nuts onto said second threaded portion of said screws, such that each screw has one first nut; inserting said rod into said second bores of said clamps; placing said clamps and said rod onto said screws such that said second portion of said screws is inserted through said first bores of said clamps; screwing said second nuts onto said second threaded portion of said screws, such that each screw has one second nut, each said second nut being screwed onto said second threaded portion until said second nut engages said first flange of said clamp and said first nut engages said second flange of said clamp; and 



 tightening said first and second nut of each screw such that said first and second flanges are deflected, pressing said clamp onto said rod, whereby said rod is securely fastened to the vertebrae to hold the vertebrae in place .
14. The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising the step of bending said rod before said clamp an said rod are placed on said second threaded portion, such that said rod approximates the curvature of the vertebral column.
15. The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising providing a second set of clamps, rod, screws and nuts and attaching said screws of said second set to the second pedicle of at least two vertebra and following the steps recited in claim 13, whereby there are two spinal implants attached to the vertebral column.
16. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein said first rod and said second bore have approximately the same diameter.
17. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein said first and second nuts have an annular flange adapted to engage said second and first flanges respectively, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp. 


 18. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein said first and second nuts each have two annular flanges adapted to engage said second and first flanges respectively, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
19. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein said second threaded portion of said screw and said first bore are of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw.
20. A spinal implant for stabilizing the vertebrae of a vertebral column, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a pair of . pedicles, comprising: at least two clamps each having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod adapted to be inserted into and extend through said second bores; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion adapted to be attached to the pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion adapted to extend through said first bore, each said screw further having a shoulder between said first and second threaded portions; and 


 at least two second nuts adapted to be threaded onto said second portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut adapted to engage said first flange of said clamp.
21. The spinal implant as recited in claim 20, wherein said shoulder is hexagonal in shape.
22. The spinal implant as recited in claim 20, wherein said rod and said second bore have approximately the same diameter.
23. The spinal implant as recited in claim 20, wherein said second nuts each have an annular flange adapted to engage said first flanges, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nut onto said clamp.
24. The spinal implant as recited in claim 20, wherein said second nuts each have two annular flanges adapted to engage said first flanges, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
25. The spinal implant as recited in claim 20, wherein said second threaded portion of said screw and said first bore are of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° 


 about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw.
26. A spinal implant for stabilizing the vertebrae of a vertebral column, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a pair of pedicles, comprising: at least two clamps each having a first bore and a second bore
*
 essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod adapted to be inserted into and extend through said second bores; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion adapted to be attached to the pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion adapted to extend through said first bore, each said screw further having a hexagonally shaped shoulder between said first and second threaded portions, said second threaded portion and said first bore being of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw; and at least two second nuts adapted to be threaded onto said second portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut with an annular flange adapted to engage said first flange of said clamp such that said annular flange deflects to lock said first nut onto said clamp. 


 27. A. spinal implant for stabilizing the vertebrae of a vertebral column, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a first and second
"
 pedicle, comprising: at least two clamps, each said clamp having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod that extends through said second bores, said rod having a radius approximating the curvature of the vertebral column; at least two -'screws, each said screw having a first threaded portion attached to the first pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion that extends through said first bore such that each said screw has a clamp attached thereto, each said screw further having a shoulder that engages said second flange of said clamp; at least two second nuts attached to said second portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut engaging said first flange of said clamp such that said first flange is deflected; whereby said nut and said shoulder deflect said first and second flanges so that said clamp is pressed onto said rod such that said rod is held in firm engagement by said clamp. 


 28. The spinal implant of claim 27, further comprising a second set of clamps, screws, rod and nuts assembled as described in claim 7, said screws of said second set being attached to the second pedicles of the vertebrae, whereby there are two spinal implants attached to the vertebral column.
29. The spinal implant as recited in claim 27, wherein said rod and said second bore have approximately the same diameter.
30. The spinal implant as recited in -claim 27, wherein said second nuts each have an annular flange that engages said first flanges, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clam .
31. The spinal implant as recited in claim 27, wherein said second nuts each have two annular flanges, wherein one of said two annular flanges engages said first flanges, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
32. The spinal implant as recited in claim 27, wherein said second threaded portion of said screw and said first bore are of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw. 


 33, A method for attaching a spinal implant to the vertebrae of a vertebral column to stabilize the vertebrae, wherein the vertebral column has a curvature along at least one vertical axis and each vertebra has a first and second pedicle, comprising the steps of: providing; at least two clamps each having a first bore and a second bore essentially perpendicular to said first bore, said clamp further having a slit extending to said second bore, wherein said slit defines a first flange and a second flange, said clamps further having said first bore extending through said first and second flanges; a rod adapted to be inserted into and extend through said second bores; at least two screws, each said screw having a first threaded- portion adapted to be attached to the pedicle of a vertebra and a second threaded portion adapted to extend through said first bore, each said screw further having a shoulder between said first and second threaded portions; at least two second nuts adapted to thread onto said second threaded portion of said screws, each screw having one second nut adapted to engage said first flange of said clamp; attaching said screws to the first pedicle of at least two vertebra such that each vertebra has one screw; inserting said rod into said second bores of said clamps; placing said clamps and said rod onto said screws such that said second portion of said screws is inserted through said first bores of said clamps; 


 screwing said second nuts onto said second threaded portion of said screws, such that each screw has one second nut, each said second nut being screwed onto said second threaded portion until said second nut engages said first flange of said clamp and said second flange of said clamp engages said shoulder; and tightening said second nut of each screw such that said first and second flanges are deflected, pressing said clamp onto said rod, whereby said rod is securely fastened to the vertebrae to hold the vertebrae in place.
34. The method as recited in claim 33, further comprising the step of bending said rod before said clamp and said rod are placed on said second threaded portion, such that said rod approximates the curvature of the vertebral column.
35. The method as recited in claim 33, further comprising providing a second set of clamps, rod, screws and nuts and attaching said screws of said second set to the second pedicle of at least two vertebra and following the steps recited in claim 13, whereby there are two spinal implants attached to the vertebral column.
36. The method as recited in claim 33, wherein said first rod and said second bore have approximately the same diameter.
37. The method as recited in claim 33, wherein said second nuts each have an annular flange adapted to engage said first flanges, said annular flanges being constructed such that said 


engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
38. The method as recited in claim 33, wherein said second nuts each have two annular flanges adapted to engage said first flanges, said annular flanges being constructed such that said annular flanges deflect when said nuts are turned into tight engagement with said clamp, locking said nuts onto said clamp.
39. The method as recited in claim 33, wherein said second threaded portion of said screw and said first bore are of such dimensions that said clamp can rotate up to 30° about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said screw. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
