<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658799</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for inspecting an assembly, and electrical inspection apparatus for a flash unit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B1902	G03B1505	B07C5344	G03B4300	G03B1505	G03B1904	G03B4300	B07C534	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	B07C	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	B07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B19	G03B15	B07C5	G03B43	G03B15	G03B19	G03B43	B07C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An inspection system for assemblies, especially for 
flash units of used film packages as to if the flash units are 

reusable. The inspection system circulates pallets each holding 
a flash unit in a predetermined posture around a plurality of 

inspection stations for various inspection items. Inspection 
data detected in each inspection station is written in a memory 

of the pallet through a data communication system disposed in 
each pallet and each inspection station. A computer reads the 

memory for classifying the flash unit on the basis of the 
inspection data on all inspection items and writes 

classification data in the memory. A plurality of electrical 
inspection apparatuses are disposed in the inspection system 

for simultaneously inspecting electrical properties of a 
plurality of flash units. Each inspection apparatus has proving 

pins, an actuator and a photo-sensor which are moved into their 
operative positions when the pallet holding the flash unit is 

stopped at the inspection apparatus, wherein the inspection 
apparatus charges a main capacitor with a high D.C. voltage 

while measuring the voltage of the main capacitor. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHIKAWA FUSAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORI RYO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTA HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHIKAWA, FUSAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORI, RYO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTA, HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and system
for inspecting an assembly consisting of a plurality of parts,
especially for inspecting a flash unit. More particularly, the
present invention relates to a method and apparatus for
inspecting electrical properties of a flash unit of a
recovered lens-fitted photographic film package as to if the
flash unit is reusable.Lens-fitted photographic film packages (hereinafter
referred to simply as film packages) are now on the market. As
disclosed in U.S.P. No. 4,884,087, the film packages are
preloaded with a 135-type photographic film cassette
(hereinafter referred to as film cassette) defined by the
International Standard Organization (ISO) version 1007, 1979. A
package housing of the film package is constitute of a main
section loaded with the film cassette, a front cover secured in
front of the main section, and a rear cover secured behind the
main section. The main section includes a shutter mechanism, a 
taking lens. The film package is intended to be forwarded to a
photo-lab in its entirety after photography. In the photo-lab,
a photofinisher removes the cassette with the exposed photo
film, treats the photo film in development and printing while
using a conventional photofinishing system, to produce photo-prints.
The photo-prints and the developed photo film are
returned to the user.Also a film package with a built-in flash device is
disclosed, e.g. in U.S.P. No. 5,315,484.Meanwhile, in the interest of environmental
protection or the reduction of industrial waste, public concern
is now directed to recycling parts of industrial products. Also
the used film packages are recovered from the photofinishers,
and disassembled and inspected by the manufacturer or the like,
and reused in new film packages or melted for use as raw
materials. To this end, film packages suitable for reuse have
recently been proposed. For example, in the film package
disclosed in U.S.P. No. 5,315,484, exposure mechanisms
including a shutter, film advancing and frame counting
mechanisms are assembled into a shutter unit which may also be
referred to as a photo-taking unit. Also a flash device is
formed as an independent assembly having a flash tube, a main
capacitor and other electric components or parts mounted on a
printed circuit board, so as to be reusable in a new film
package.In order to reuse an assembly, the assembly must be 
inspected as to if the assembly operates normally. Also the
flash unit and the photo-taking unit of the film package must
be inspected regarding
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for inspecting assemblies (17), each constituted of a plurality of items,
comprising the steps of.


holding each assembly by a pallet (50, 151) in a predetermined state;
circulating a plurality of said pallets (50, 151), each having a data memory (77) and
a data communication system (74, 75, 76);
inspecting each of said assemblies (17) with respect to a plurality of inspection
items;
judging and classifying each of said assemblies (17) according to inspection data;
and
discharging said assemblies (17) from said pallets (50, 151) while being stored in a
plurality of groups according to said classification data;
characterized in that

the step of inspecting an assembly (17) comprises the steps of:

inspecting a specific inspection item of the assembly (17) at a specific inspection
station (55, 56, 61) of a plurality of inspection stations and thereby obtaining a

specific measured value (Xn) of a certain kind from each of said inspection stations;
transforming said measured value (Xn) into a dimensionless integer value (Ln)
of a predetermined size range;
transmitting and writing said integer value (Ln) to said data memory (77) of said
pallet (50,151); and 
in that

the step of judging and classifying of an assembly (17) comprises the steps of:

reading and receiving all of said specific integer values (Ln) from said data
memory (77) of the corresponding pallet (50,151);
comparing each of said specific integer values (Ln) with specific predetermined
integer threshold values for each inspection item; thereby 
making a judgement on the acceptability of each inspected item according to the
comparison data;
classifying said assembly (17) according to judgement data of all of said
inspected items;
transmitting judgement data and classification data into the data memory (77) of
the corresponding pallet (50, 151).
A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising
the steps of:


collecting all data written in said data memory of
said data management device of said pallets in a control

device; and
making a data base from said data in said control
device.
A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said
assemblies are recovered from used articles for recycling, and

are classified into reusable, reparable and not-reusable ones.
A method as recited in claim 3, further comprising
the steps of:


writing career data of said assembly in said data
memory of said data management device before transporting said

pallet to said inspection stations;
reading said career data from said data memory in
each of said inspection stations; and
selecting appropriate inspection conditions based on
said career data before executing each inspection.
A method as recited in claim 4, further comprising
the step of sorting those assemblies which are classified

reparable, according to which part needs repairs with reference
to said judgment data written in said data memory.
An apparatus for inspecting assemblies (17) each constituted of a plurality of items,
comprising:


a plurality of pallets (50, 151) having a data management device (72) comprising
a data memory (77) and a data communication system (74,75) for allowing to

read and write said data memory (77), each pallet (50,51) holding an
assembly (17) in a predetermined state;
a circulating device for circulating said pallets (50, 151) around to the following

devices;
an inspection device which obtains measurement data of a plurality of items of
said assemblies (17);
a judging and control device (73,113) which judges and classifies said
assemblies (17) on the results of the inspection stations (55, 56, 61); and
a discharging device (58,59,60) which reads said classification data from said
data memory (77) and discharges said assembly from said pallet (50,151)

into one of a plurality of assembly storage sections (140,141,144) which is
designated by said classification data written in said data memory (77),
characterized in that

said inspection device is constituted of a plurality of independent inspection stations
(55, 56, 61); each therof comprising:


a measuring means which obtains a specific measured value (Xn) of a certain
kind for a specific item of the assembly (17);
a calculating means which transforms said measured value (Xn) into a
dimensionless integer value (Ln) of a predetermined size range; 
a transmitting means which writes said integer value (Ln) into said data memory
(77) of said pallet (50,151); and 
in that

said judging device comprises:

a receiving means for reading all of said specific integer values (Ln) from said
data memory (77) of the corresponding pallet (50,151);
a comparing means which compares each of said specific integer values (Ln)
with specific predetermined integer threshold values for each inspection item;
a judgement means which makes on the acceptability of each inspected item
according to the comparison data;
a classifying means which classifying said assembly (17) according to judgement
data of all of said inspected items; and
a transmitting means for writing said judgement data and said classification data
into the data memory (77) of the corresponding pallet (50, 151).
 
classification data.  
An apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein said
judging device (113) is disposed in each of said inspection

stations (61), and said judgment data is written in said data
memory in each inspection station.
An apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein said
judging device is included in said control device (73), and

said control device reads said measurement data from said data
memory and then writes said judgment data in said data memory

after said pallet goes through all of said inspection stations.
An apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein said
assembly has electric parts, and there are a plurality of

electrical inspection stations (61) for simultaneously
inspecting a plurality of said assemblies about electrical 

properties thereof, said plurality of electrical inspection
stations being disposed in each of a plurality of parallel

branches which diverge from and converge into a circular path
of said pallets.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
