<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637279</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIFT-TAB FOR PEELABLE LABELS AND SURFACES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31D100	B31D102	G09F302	G09F302	G09F310	G09F310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31D	B31D	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31D1	B31D1	G09F3	G09F3	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Peelable labels or peelable multi-ply cover elements (110) containing separation interfaces (S) are provided with built-in starting tabs by pre-peeling in paths or swaths extending in the machine direction along the separation interfaces and then reassembling the separated surfaces in contiguous relationship and die-cutting the labels or cutting or perfing the cover elements.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVERY DENNISON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREEDMAN MELVIN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREEDMAN, MELVIN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LIFT-TAB FOR PEELABLE LABELS AND SURFACESThe present application is a continuation- in-part of application Ser. No. 07/874,198 filed April 24, 1992. This invention relates to peelable labels of the kinds intended to be peeled apart by the consumer or ultimate user, for example to remove contaminating inks so that labelled bottles or other containers can be efficiently recycled, or to remove non-sticky promotional redeemable coupons or the like forming the outer plies of facepieces of labels applied to consumer products. The first-mentioned kind of peelable labels may be referred to as peelable in-mold labels. The latter kind of peelable labels may be referred to as dry pick-off labels. ("Dry" refers to the fact that when the facepiece, such as a coupon, is removed from the label, neither side of the removed facepiece is ' sticky.) The invention has application to in-mold labels having a bonded but peelable separation interface such as"those disclosed in pending application of common assignee U.S. Ser. No. 07/839,369, filed February 21, 1992, which in turn refers to pending application of common assignee U.S. Ser. No. 07/756,556 filed September 9, 1991. The disclosures of both such applications are incorporated by reference as if fully repeated herein. The invention also has application to pressure-sensitive labels having a peelable interface, such as the labels having "peelable interface 17" described in Freedman U.S. Patent 4,837,088 to common assignee, and to "renewable surface" products having similar interfaces, also 

described in such patent, the disclosures of which are incorporated by re erence as if fully repeated herein. In labels and renewable surface products of these general types, there is a need to make the removal of the peel-off portion of the label or surface as convenient as possible, so that ease of use .will tend to attract consumers to buy the labelled products, or renewable-surface products, in the expectation that recycling of the labelled container, or removal of the redemption coupon or the like, or renewal of the renewable surface, will be easily and conveniently accomplished. Starting the peeling action at the bonded separation interface can be difficult, particularly in the case of in-mold labels where the labels literally form an inlay in the container wall so that the front surface of the label is flush with the face of the container wall. Without a starting tab, in order to start the peeling action, the edge of the label must be pried or a blunt knife or similar tool
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of providing cut-to-shape two- ply peelable adhesive labels which are adapted to be bonded to substrates such as bottles or other articles and which are provided with starting tabs for peeling the plies apart after the labels are applied to the substrates, including the steps of: combining web layers to provide a flexible two-ply web which includes label facestock at one side and adhesive at the other and further includes, at the boundary between said plies, a pair of contacting interior faces peelably bonded to each other but having sufficient strength of bond to withstand separation under forces imposed incident to die-cutting of said web, whereby said faces constitute a peelable separation interface, printing and drying said web either simultaneously with or subsequent-±o said combining steps, peeling said plies apart at said interface and selectively along the machine-direction to define an unbonded swath or swaths extending in the machine direction, the total width of said unbonded swath or swaths being substantially less than the width of said two-ply web, whereby the majority of said peelable interface remains unpeeled, said peeling step being performed subsequent to said combining steps, bringing the peeled-apart portions of said plies back together to re-establish a substantially contiguous relationship of one of said plies to the other at said unbonded swath or swaths, tout without 


rebonding therebetween, to thereby establish substantial contiguity of the adjacent ply faces at said unbonded swath or swaths, and simultaneously with or following said last-named step, forming individual flexible labels from said adhesive two-ply stock by die-cutting through both said plies to define labels whose areas each have a minor edge portion intersecting an unbonded swath and a major remaining portion outside of any unbonded swath and containing unpeeled portions of said separation interface.
2. A method as in claim 1, said step of peeling said plies apart at said interface including drawing said plies past footed cutter means, with the footed cutter means being in cutting relationship with one of the plies and with the footed cutter means extending through said one ply and supporting associated cutter foot means between the plies, the cutter foot means being in separating relation with the plies whereby the cutter foot means generates at least part of said separation swath means as said drawing of said plies occurs.
3. A method as in claim 1, said combining step including coextruding a pair of films of unlike material defining said pair of contacting interior faces.
4. A method as in claim 1, the charges for said pair of films being respectively polyethylene homopolymer and polypropylene homopolymer. 


 5. The method of claim 1, in which said combining step includes coextruding at least two layers to form one of said two plies, the charge for one of said two layers comprising olefin polymer and the charge for the other of said two layers comprising a blend of olefin polymers and copolymers of olefin monomers with ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid or ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid ester comonomers such as the ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer.
6. An article of manufacture comprising a blow-molded plastic container, a two-ply label adhesively bonded to the wall of said container, said plies each comprising one or more film layers, said plies being in contact with each other and presenting to each other surfaces of different composition at a pair of contacting interior faces joined at said separation interface, one of said plies comprising printable in-mold label facestock, the other of said plies comprising an adhesive bonding said ply to said container, said plies adhering to each other at said separation interface with a peel- strength in the range of about 30 to 200 grams per two-inch width at 90 degrees peel throughout a majority of the area but less than all the area of said label, the peel strength between said plies along an edge area of said label being substantially less than the peel strength at said majority of the label area to thereby provide a starting tab for separation of the outer of said two plies. 


 7. An article of manufacture as in claim 6, said peel strength throughout a majority of said area being in the range of about 50 to 150 grams per two- inch width at 90 degrees peel.
8. An article of manufacture as in claim 6 said peel strength throughout a majority of said area being in the range of about 55 to 75 grams per two-inch width at 90 degrees peel.
9. An article of manufacture as in claim 6, said peel strength along an edge area of said label being less than.
10._ An article of manufacture as in claim 6, said label with its starting tab being inlaid in the wall of said container.
11. An article of manufacture as in claim 6, wherein said surfaces of different composition are formed of different polyolefins.
12. An article of manufacture as in claim 6, wherein said surfaces of different composition are formed as a coextrudate of different polyolefins.
13. An article of manufacture as in claim 6, wherein said surfaces of different composition are formed of either polyethylene homopolymer or polypropylene homopolymer. 


 14. An article of manufacture as in claim 6, wherein at least one of said plies includes a plurality of film layers, said film layers including a layer of olefin polymer and a layer comprising a blend of olefin polymers and copolymers of olefin monomers with ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid or ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid ester comonomers such as the ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer.
15. A method of providing peelable, multi- ply cover elements which are adapted to be bonded to substrates such as trays or other articles and then peeled off one ply at a time, and which are provided with starting tabs for initiating the peeling of each ply, including the steps of: combining web layers to provide a flexible multi-ply web which comprises a set of plastic-web plies, with each pair of adjacent plies of the set having, between them, a corresponding pair of contacting interior faces peelably bonded to each other but having sufficient strength of bond to withstand separation under forces imposed incident to cutting of said web, whereby said pairs of contacting faces of said pairs of adjacent plies constitute peelable separation interfaces, peeling said pairs of adjacent plies apart at said interfaces along the machine-direction to define an unbonded swath extending in the machine direction between each said adjacent pair, the widths of said unbonded swaths being substantially less than the widths of their associated peelable interfaces, whereby 


the majority of said peelable interface widths remain unpeeled, said peeling step being performed subsequent to said combining steps, bringing the peeled-apart portions of said plies back together to re-establish a substantially contiguous relationship of adjacent pairs of plies to each other at said unbonded swaths, but without rebonding therebetween, to thereby establish substantial contiguity of the adjacent ply faces at said unbonded swaths, and combining an adhesive layer with said multi-ply web before or after said aforesaid steps.
16. A method as in claim 15, including forming individual cover elements by cutting or perfing said multi-ply web at least in the cross direction to divide it at least lengthwise into individual cover elements.
17. A method as in claim 16, said dividing step being carried out simultaneously with or following said step of bringing said peeled-apart portions together.
18. An article of manufacture comprising a flexible multi-ply web comprising a set of plastic-web plies, each pair of adjacent plies of the set having, between them, a corresponding pair of contacting faces peelably bonded to each other, whereby said pairs of contacting faces of said pairs of adjacent plies constitute peelable separation interfaces, said plies each comprising one or more film layers, said plies 


being in contact with each other and presenting to each other surfaces of different composition at said separation interfaces, said plies adhering to each other at said separation interfaces with peel strengths in the range of about 30 to 200 grams per two-inch width at 90 degrees peel throughout a majority of the area but less than all the area of each said separation interfaces, said separation interfaces having edge areas associated with a lateral edge of said multi-ply web, the peel strengths between said plies along said edge areas being substantially less than the peel strengths at each said majority of the label area, and an adhesive layer below the lowermost of said plastic- web plies.
19.- An article as in claim 18 in which said lateral edge of said multi-ply web is stepped whereby, at said edge, one of each adjacent pair of plies extends laterally beyond the other.
20. An article as in claim 19, in which said multi-ply web is divided at least lengthwise into individual cover elements by cuts or perfs as least in the cross direction. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
