<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649479</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COATING A GLASS SUBSTRATE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C16455	C03C1700	C23C1652	C23C1644	C23C1644	C03C1723	C23C1634	C03C17245	C23C1652	C23C1634	C23C16453	C03C1700	C23C16455	C23C16453	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C03C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C03C	C23C	C03C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C03C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C03C17	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C03C17	C23C16	C03C17	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C03C17	C23C16	C23C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) for applying a coating to a substrate comprising a gas distributor (14) having an outlet (30) disposed adjacent to the substrate for directing a gaseous reactant mixture to the surface of the substrate. A plurality of drop tubes (24) are provided which communicate with and are spaced along the length of the distributor for supplying the gaseous reactant mixture to the distributor. The apparatus includes means for determining the uniformity of the thickness of the coating (38) which is applied to the substrate along its width. Finally, there is a means for supplying one or more of the reactants or an inert gas (36) to one or more of the drop tubes to alter the concentration of one or more of the reactants in the gaseous reactant mixture flowing through one of more drop tubes. The rate of deposition of the coating in the proximity of such drop tubes is thereby altered to improve the uniformity of the coating deposited.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIBBEY OWENS FORD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIBBEY-OWENS-FORD CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN RONALD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN, RONALD D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and
apparatus for coating a substrate, particularly a glass
substrate. More particularly, the invention relates to a
continuous chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process for
producing coated glass for vehicles or architectural
windows, and the apparatus for producing such coated
glass.Chemical vapor deposition processes are well known in
the art of coating substrates. The substrate is coated by
directing a flow of a gaseous reactant mixture toward the
surface of the substrate to cause the reactant mixture to
deposit the desired coating on the substrate surface. The
physical form of the coating reactants employed in such
processes may be liquid, vapor, liquids or solids
dispersed in gas mixtures, aerosols, or vaporized or
vaporous coating reactants dispersed in gas mixtures.One of the problems associated with CVD processes
relates to the production of a coating of uniform
thickness along the width of the substrate. In certain
instances, such as the application of a reflective metal
oxide coating to a sheet of glass, the requirement that
the coating have a uniform thickness is especially
important, since small variations in the coating thickness
can result in the glass sheet having non-uniform color.
For example, variations in thickness of the metal oxide
coating of 25nm (one millionth of an inch) can produce an unaesthetic
appearance in the glass. Generally, in order to produce a coating having a
constant thickness, it is necessary that the gaseous
reactant mixture be uniformly applied to the entire sheet
of glass. Various means have been proposed for applying
the gaseous reactant mixture in a uniform manner to a
sheet of glass. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,504,526
discloses an apparatus which comprises a plurality of
serially arranged, individual passageways interconnecting
an inlet and an outlet positioned adjacent the glass
sheet. Each of the individual passageways includes a
portion having a cross sectional area different from the
cross sectional area of adjacent passageways, causing the
velocity of the fluid flowing through the passageways to
vary.In U.S. Patent No. 4,535,000, Gordon describes a
chemical vapor deposition process for applying a thin
metal nitride film on a glass substrate. Gordon suggests
the use of multiple coaters as a means of obtaining a
uniform coating, since the non-uniformities of one coater
will not usually match those of the other coaters, and
there will tend to be some cancellation of thickness
errors from the different coaters.As
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of applying a coating to a surface of a
moving ribbon of hot glass comprising:


a) providing a coating gas distributor extending
across the width of the ribbon to be coated,
b) supplying a gaseous coating mixture comprising
at least one gaseous reactant to said distributor at

supply locations spaced along the length of the
distributor,
c) directing a gaseous coating mixture from the
distributor over the surface of the moving ribbon of hot

glass to form a coating on the hot glass surface,
d) measuring at least one optical property of the
coated product at spaced locations across the coated

width, and
e) selectively varying the concentration of said at
least one gaseous reactant in the gaseous coating mixture

supplied at one or more of said spaced supply locations in
response to a detected lack of uniformity of the coating

to improve said uniformity.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
gaseous coating mixture is supplied to the gas distributor

by means of a plurality of drop tubes in communication
with and spaced along the length of the distributor, and

one or more reactants or an inert gas is supplied to one
or more of the individual drop tubes in response to an

observed lack of uniformity to alter the concentration of
one or more reactants in the gaseous reactant mixture

flowing through such drop tubes thereby altering the rate 
of deposition of the coating in the proximity of such drop

tube to improve the uniformity of thickness of the
coating.
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein a
gaseous precursor coating mixture of constant composition

is initially supplied to said drop tubes via a supply
header.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
concentration of said at least one gaseous reactant is

selectively varied by adding additional reactant or
additional inert gas to the gaseous reactant mixture

supplied at one or more of said spaced supply locations.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein said gaseous coating mixture consists of

one or more gaseous reactants and an inert carrier gas.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein the thickness of the coating is determined

at spaced locations across the coated width and the
concentration of said at least one gaseous reactant is

varied in response to a detected lack of uniformity of the
coating thickness to improve the uniformity of the

thickness of the coating deposited.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein the thickness of the coating is determined

indirectly by measuring reflected color. 
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the
thickness of the coating is determined indirectly by

measuring glass side reflected color.
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
thickness of the coating is determined indirectly by

measuring the b* component of the glass side reflected
color.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein the thickness of the coating applied to

the substrate is determined indirectly by measuring
transmittance.
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 9,
wherein the reflected color is measured using a

photometer.
A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the
reflected color is measured using an online scanning

photometer.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein one or more gaseous reactants or an inert

gas is supplied to one or more of the spaced supply
locations by means of a mass flow controller. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein one or
more gaseous reactants is supplied to one or more

individual spaced supply locations proximate an area where
the thickness of the coating deposited was observed to be

comparatively small compared with a pre-determined thickness range.
A method as defined in claim 13 or claim 14,
wherein an inert gas is supplied to one or more individual

spaced supply locations proximate an area where the
thickness of the coating deposited was observed to be

comparatively large compared with a pre-determined thickness range.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein a gaseous mixture comprised of a titanium

tetrahalide, a reducing agent, and an inert carrier gas is
supplied to a gas distributor by means of a plurality of

drop tubes in communication with and spaced along the
length of the distributor.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein a gaseous mixture comprised of titanium

tetrachloride and ammonia in helium as an inert carrier
gas is supplied to a gas distributor by means of a

plurality of drop tubes in communication with and spaced
along the length of the distributor.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding
claims, wherein the selective variation is controlled by a

programmable controller connected to measuring means
arranged to measure said optical property. 
A method of applying a coating to a surface of a
substrate, comprising the steps of:


a) supplying a gaseous reactant mixture, comprised
of one or more reactants and an inert carrier gas, to a

gas distributor by means of a plurality of drop tubes in
communication with and spaced along the length of the

distributor;
b) forming a coating on the substrate by directing
the gaseous reactant mixture to the surface of the

substrate from an outlet formed in the distributor
adjacent the surface of the substrate;
c) determining the thickness of the coating applied
to the substrate at various positions along the width of

the substrate; and
d) supplying one or more of the reactants or an
inert gas to one or more of the individual drop tubes, in

response to a significant lack of uniformity in coating
thickness observed in step c, to alter the concentration

of one or more of the reactants in the gaseous reactant
mixture flowing through such drop tube, thereby altering

the rate of deposition of the coating in the proximity of
such drop tube to improve the uniformity of the thickness

of the coating deposited.
An apparatus for applying a coating to a
substrate by a chemical vapor deposi
tion process,
comprising:


a) a gas distributor having an outlet disposed
adjacent to the substrate to be coated for directing a

gaseous reactant mixture comprised of one or more
reactants and an inert carrier gas to the surface of the

substrate;
b) a plurality of drop tubes communicating with and
spaced along the length of said distributor for supplying

the gaseous reactant mixture to said distributor;
c) measuring means for determining the uniformity
of the thickness of the coating applied to the substrate

along the width of the substrate;
d) flow control means for supplying one or more of
the reactants or an inert gas to one or more of said drop

tubes to alter the concentration of one or more of the
reactants in the gaseous reactant mixture flowing through

said drop tube, thereby altering the rate of deposition of
the coating in the proximity of such drop tube to improve

the uniformity of the thickness of the coating deposited.
An apparatus as defined in claim 20, including a
header for initially delivering a gaseous precursor

coating mixture of constant composition to all said drop
tubes. 
An apparatus as defined in claim 20 or claim 21,
further comprising a programmable controller connected to

said measuring means which automatically activates said
flow control means in response to receiving a signal from

the measuring means.
An apparatus as defined in any of claims 20 to
22, wherein said measuring means comprises a photometer.
An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein
said photometer comprises an online scanning photometer.
An apparatus as defined in any of claims 20 to
24, wherein said flow control means comprises a mass flow

controller.
An apparatus as defined in any of claims 20 to
25, wherein a plurality of said drop tubes are provided

with side arms connected to said flow control means via
individual supply lines.
An apparatus as defined in claim 26, wherein
each of said drop tubes is provided with a side arm

connected to said flow control means via an individual
supply line.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
