<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616268</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Toner container and toner replenishing device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1508	G03G1508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A toner container (11) is rotatably mounted to a toner 
replenishing device for discharging toner thereto upon 

rotation of the toner container. The toner container (11) 
includes a cylindrical member (12) for containing toner to be 

discharged. A cap member (13) covers the mouth portion (16) of the 
cylindrical container (11) and is rotationally mounted thereon. 

A shutter (18) selectively closes an opening (17) of the cap member (13). 
When the toner container (11) is mounted to the toner 

replenishing device and rotationally driven thereby, the 
cap member (13) is prevented from rotation and the shutter (18) is 

opened to permit discharge of toner. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH COMPANY, LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANAGISAWA TAKAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANAGISAWA,TAKAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a toner container, a
toner replenishing system and a cap member for a copying machine, a
facsimile or a printer, especially, to a container which
rotates while being held in a toner replenishing device and
to a toner replenishing device which rotates a toner
container held thereby, to replenish toner.Such a toner container and a toner replenishing device
are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,611,730, as shown in Fig. 7
(a). In this toner container 1, an opening which is formed
on an end of a cylindrical member 2 is covered with a screw
cap 3 during transportation or storage. The toner
container is attached to the toner replenishing device
after the toner container is shaken sufficiently and the
cap 3 is taken off, as shown in Figs. 7 (b) and (c). On a
peripheral wall of this cylindrical member is formed a gear
4 which is supplied with a torque from the toner
replenishing device. Furthermore, a spiral rib 5 extends
along the inner wall of the cylindrical member 2 to
gradually feed toner toward the mouth side of the
cylindrical member in response to the rotation of the
cartridge. Japanese Patent Application JP-A-63-50876 discloses a toner
replenishing device to which toner container 1 may be
attached. An axis is provided on the toner container
holder. The toner container on a toner container holder is
pivoted around the axis of the toner container holder. An
outlet cleaning member for cleaning a toner discharging
outlet is fixed to the axis of toner container holder. A
rotating mechanism in the toner replenishing device rotates
upon rotation of the toner container holder and stops in a
position where the cleaning member closes a connecting
mouth between the toner container and the replenishing
device when the toner container holder is pivoted to a
position where the empty toner container may be taken off
for replacing.Fig. 8 shows a toner container which is different from
the toner container of the type described above. There, the
toner container 2 does not rotate, and a toner transporting
member 6 is provided within the toner container 2. The
toner transporting member 6 is rotationally driven by an
engaging member 7 which extends through an end wall of the
toner container 2. A toner discharging mouth of the toner
container is formed in the peripheral wall of the toner
container and a shutter 8 for opening and closing the toner
discharging mouth is provided on the peripheral wall.
Since this toner container incorporates a separate toner 
transporting member 6, it is expensive which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A toner container (11) rotatably mountable to a toner replenishing device for discharging
toner to the toner replenishing device upon rotation of the toner container,

comprising:

a cylindrical member (12) for containing toner to be discharged, said cylindrical
member having a mouth portion (16) adjacent to one end thereof; and
a cap member (13) covering the mouth portion, said cap member having an
opening (17) through which toner can be discharged;

characterized in that said cap member (13) is rotationally movably mounted
relative to said cylindrical member (12) and does not rotate with respect to the toner

replenishing device in spite of the rotation of the cylindrical member (12) such that
said cap member (13) remains stationary when said cylindrical member (12) is rotated

when the container is mounted to the toner replenishing device and in that
a shutter (18) is mounted to said cap member so as to selectively close said
opening (17).
A toner container according to claim 1, including a seal member (23) provided on
said cap member (13) so as to seal a space between said cap member (13) and said

shutter (18).
A toner container according to claim 1, including a seal member (23) provided
on said shutter (18) so as to seal a space between said cap member (13) and

said shutter (18). 
A toner container according to claim 1, wherein said shutter (18) has a sector
shape.
A toner container according to claim 1, including a drive element (14)
coupled to said cylindrical member for transmitting rotational torque to said cylindrical

member when said cylindrical member is mounted to the toner replenishing
device.
A toner container according to claim 5, wherein said drive element (14)
comprises a gear mounted circumferentially on said cylindrical member.
A toner container according to claim 1 including a seal member (25) sealing
a gap between said cylindrical member and said cap member (13).
A toner container according to claim 7 including low friction material for
the peripheral surface of said cap member at said gap.
A toner container according to claim 7, wherein said seal member (25) includes
a low friction material.
A toner container according to claim 1 including annular projections (13a) on
said cylindrical member (12) and said cap member (13), which projections cooperate

to retain said cap member (13) mounted on said cylindrical member (12) while
permitting said cap member (13) to rotate on said cylindrical member (12).
A toner container according to claim 10 including a seal member (25) sealing
a gap between said cylindrical member (12) and said cap member (13).
A toner replenishing system comprising:

a toner container (11) including a cylindrical member (12) for containing toner to
be discharged, said cylindrical member (12) having a mouth portion (16) adjacent 

to one end thereof, said toner container further comprising a cap member (13)
covering the mouth portion, said cap member having an opening (17) through which

toner can be discharged; and
a toner replenishing device onto which said cylindrical member may be rotatably
mounted,
a drive element (14) coupled to said cylindrical member for transmitting
rotational torque to said cylindrical member (12) when said cylindrical member is

mounted to the toner replenishing device; and
a drive portion (31) on said toner replenishing device which rotationally drives
said drive element (14);

characterized in that said cap member (13) is rotatably movably mounted
relative to said cylindrical member and does not rotate with respect to the toner replenishing

device in spite of the rotation of the cylindrical member (12) such that
said cap member can remain stationary when said cylindrical member is rotated, in

that
a shutter (18) is mounted to said cap member so as to selectively close said
opening, and in that
said toner replenishing device includes a holder portion (32) which receives
the cap member (13) when said cylindrical member is rotatably mounted thereto,

said toner replenishing device further comprising a portion (32a) which prevents
rotation of sa
id cap member when said cylindrical member is rotatably mounted
thereto, and a shutter opening portion (33;34) which opens said shutter when said cylindrical

member is rotatably mounted thereto.
A toner replenishing system according to claim 12, including a seal member (23)
on said the cap member (13) to seal a gap between said cap member (13) and said

shutter (18).
A toner replenishing system according to claim 12, including a seal member
(23) on said shutter (18) to seal a gap between said cap member (13) and said shutter

(18). 
A toner replenishing system according to claim 12, wherein said shutter
opening portion comprises:


a shutter connecting mechanism engaging said shutter (18) when said cylindrical
member (12) is mounted to said toner replenishing device, said shutter connecting

mechanism being mounted on an axis (33a) for rotation to open said shutter;
an operating portion (34) external of said holder portion; and
a coupling member (33) connecting said operating portion to said axis such that
said shutter (18) can be opened by a force applied externally to said coupling member

(33).
A toner replenishing system according to claim 12 including a spring (47) biasing
said shutter (18) into a closed position.
A toner replenishing system according to claim 12, wherein said holder portion
includes a section plate (35) partitioning a space in said holder portion and a

connection opening (36) in said section plate.
A toner replenishing system according to claim 17, wherein said shutter (18)
includes an engaging portion (22) which fits through said connection opening (36) and into

said space when said cylindrical member (12) is rotatably mounted to said toner replenishing
device.
A toner replenishing system according to claim 18, wherein said shutter
opening portion includes a shutter connecting mechanism in said space and engaging

said engaging portion when said cylindrical member (12) is mounted to said toner
replenishing device, said shutter connecting mechanism being mounted for rotation

so as to rotate said engaging portion of said shutter engaged therewith to open said
shutter (18), wherein said connection opening is shaped to prevent passage of said

engaging portion rotated by said shutter connecting mechanism so that said toner
container cannot be removed from said toner replenishing device when said shutter

is opened. 
A cap member (13) for use with a cylindrical member (12) of a toner container (11) rotatably
mountable to a toner replenishing device for discharging toner to the toner replenishing

device upon rotation of the toner container, characterized by

a cap element having a rotational mounting part which is cooperable
with said cylindrical member (12) for rotatably mounting said cap member (13) to

said cylindrical member and which does not rotate with respect to the toner replenishing
device in spite of the rotation of the cylindrical member (12) such that said

cap member (13) can remain stationary when said cylindrical member (12) is
rotated when the container is mounted to said toner replenishing device;
a cap opening (17) in said cap member (13) for discharging toner when said
cap member (13) is mounted to said cylindrical member;
a shutter (18) for opening or closing said cap opening; and
an engaging portion (22) associated with said shutter for engaging with a
shutter connecting mechanism of the toner replenishing device when said cap member is

mounted to said cylindrical member (12) mounted to the toner replenishing device.
A cap member according to claim 20, wherein said cap opening has a sector
shape.
A cap member according to claim 20, wherein said shutter (18) has a sector
shape.
A cap member according to claim 20, including a guide (24) mounted to said cap
element for guiding said shutter (18).
A cap member according to claim 20, including a seal member (23) provided
on said shutter (18) so as to seal a space between said cap member (13) and said

shutter (18).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
