<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656128</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR PREPARING ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION IMAGED MATERIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24C100	B24C104	G03F712	G03F712	G03F720	G03F720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24C	B24C	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24C1	B24C1	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A manufacturing process for producing a controllable membrane (28) within a layer of a light-sensitive material (20) laminated on a support (22) comprising steps: exposing the light-sensitive material layer (20) with light irradiation in presence of an image transfer means to produce unrevealed image (26) in said light-sensitive layer, and re-exposing the unrevealed image (26) to light radiation (24) on the side opposite to light sensitive material layer with respect to the support (22) in the absence of an image transfer means for a time sufficient to produce the integral membrane (28) within the unrevealed image (26).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIRKHOLM JAMES G
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIRKHOLM, JAMES G.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIRKHOLM JAMES G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIRKHOLM, JAMES G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR PREPARING ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION IMAGED MATERIALThis invention relates to a process for preparing electromagnetic radiation imaged material and to an article of manufacture comprising an adherent sheet-like photoresist laminate which can be transferred to a surface to introduce a pattern into the surface using a particulate etchant such as a sandblast.More particularly, the invention relates to a photoresist laminate which can be adherently applied to the surface of an object or material, for the purpose of revealing or exposing in the surface of the object or material, a pattern. The resist laminate contains a layer of photoresist composition which when exposed to light a specific desired pattern can be developed when the resist is applied to the surface of the object or material, the pattern can be selectively revealed by the action of an etchant.Over the years a great deal of interest has been focused on the art of etching patterns into surfaces of objects. Such patterns can be decorative, informative, can be for the purpose of providing nonskid surface properties, can be useful in forming copper printed wiring board pat¬ terns, and can be useful in many other application where a specific pattern is desired.Grit blasting has been effected in the past by employing a pattern mask prepared manually from rubber, paper, or various plastics and attaching the pattern mask to the article to be etched employing an adhesive. This method is time consuming and cannot be used to etch fine image details on a repetitive basis.In the past, expensive metal templates have been held or 

 attached to the surfaces and grit blasted at the templates to produce the etch. This method, since the templates must have small metal parts holding the template together, cannot produce fine detail. Ad- ditionally the metal template loses its shape with repeated use, and distorts the design.The surface of the article can also be etched by silk screen printing an image in relief onto a very fine sticky backing paper. This method requires a very strong ink image. The sticky backing paper is dampened and adhered to the surface. The ink image is then grit blasted. The grit material must, however, penetrate through the paper and its adhesive before affecting the surface. During this time, the ink image must withstand the grit blasting. The resultant image is more of a frost than an etch, and is best suited for producing large numbers of etched items since the method is too costly for etching small numbers of items.Die cut
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for preparing an electromagnetic radiation imaged material for use in applying a pattern to a surface, the process comprising exposing a layer of a radiation-sensitive material to said radiation in the presence of an image transfer means to produce an unrevealed image in said material, and exposing the material to said radiation in the absence of said image transfer means for sufficient time to produce an integral membrane of radiation-exposed material within the unrevealed image.
2. A process according to claim 1, wherein the exposure in the absence of the image transfer means is performed after the exposure in the presence of the image transfer means.
3. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the layer of radiation-sensitive material forms part of a laminate optionally including a substrate transparent to said radiation.
4. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein one exposure to radiation is carried out from the opposite side of the layer to the side of the other exposure.
5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the electromagnetic radiation is light.
6. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the radiation-sensitive material is capable of changing from a soluble form prior to exposure to an insoluble form after exposure.
7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the material is adapted to be adhered to the surface for said pattern application.
ET 


 8. A process according to claim 7 when dependent upon claim 3, wherein the substrate is adapted to be manually removed from the imaged material prior to said pattern application.
9. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the radiation-sensitive starting material is pre-exposed to said radiation for sufficient time to form a protective integral surface membrane of radiation- exposed material to facilitate storage of the material prior to use in preparing the imaged material.
10. A process according to any one of the preceding claims for preparing an imaged material for use in etching a pattern to a surface by means of a particulate etchant.
11. An electromagnetic-radiation imaged material when prepared by a process according to any one of the preceding claims.
12. An electromagnetic-radiation imaged laminate when prepared by a process according to claims 3.
13. A process for applying a pattern to a surface, comprising removing unexposed material from the imaged material or laminate of claim 11 or claim 12 to create a revealed image in the material, subsequently locating the imaged material to the surface, and treating the imaged material with means adapted to break the integral membrane within the image and to eat into the surface to apply the image to the surface as the desired pattern.
14. A process for preparing an imaged material for use in applying a pattern to a surface, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
15. A process for applying a pattern to a surface, UTESHEET 


 substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 5 and 6 of the accompanying drawings.
16. An electromagnetic-radiation imaged material substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
17. An electromagnetic-radiation imaged laminate substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
18. A manufacturing process of producing a controllable integral membrane in photosensitive laminates for transfer, comprising the steps of: exposing the photosensitive laminate to an imaging exposure means with an image transfer means to produce an unrevealed image; re-introducing the photosensitive laminate to said imaging exposure means without the said image transfer means for a specific period of time to produce the integral membrane; revealing the unrevealed image by means of a washout device; and revealing the integral membrane.
19. A manufacturing process of producing a controllable integral membrane in photosensitive laminates for transfer, comprising the steps of: exposing the photosensitive laminate to an imaging exposure means for a specific period of time without use of any image transfer means to produce the integral membrane; depositing the exposed photosensitive laminate in exposure proof means; removing the stored, exposed photosensitive laminate from storage and exposing same to said imaging exposure means with an image transfer means to produce an un¬ revealed image; revealing the unrevealed image by means of a washout
TITUTE SHEET 


device; and revealing the integral membrane.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
