<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658818</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Toner compositions with compatibilizer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G9087	G03G909	G03G908	G03G909	G03G9087	G03G908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G9	G03G9	G03G9	G03G9	G03G9	G03G9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A toner composition comprised of the reaction product of resin 
particles containing hydroxyl, or acid groups, and an alkylene-glycidyl 

methacrylate polymer; pigment particles, and a wax component. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUSHIKIN BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUSHIKIN, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is generally directed to toner and developer
compositions, and more specifically the present invention is directed to
toner compositions, including magnetic, single component, two
component and colored toner compositions containing a wax component.Toners with waxes, such as polypropylene and polyethylene, are
known. One problem associated with some of these toners, especially
when the toner resin is a polyester, is that the wax component releases
from the toner and adversely effects the toner characteristics, such as the
toner triboelectric characteristics. For example, there are illustrated in U.K.
Patent Publication 1,442,835, the disclosure of which is totally incorporated
herein by reference, toner compositions containing resin particles and
polyalkylene compounds, such as polyethylene and polypropylene, of a
molecular weight of from about 1,500 to about 20,000, reference page 3,
lines 97 to 119, which compositions prevent toner offsetting in electrostatic
imaging processes. Additionally, the '835 publication discloses the addition
of paraffin waxes together with, or without a metal salt of a fatty acid,
reference page 2, lines 55 to 58. Also, in U.S.-A-4,997,739, there is
illustrated a toner formulation including polypropylene wax with a Mw of
from about 200 to about 6,000 to improve hot offset. In addition, many
patents disclose the use of metal salts of fatty acids for incorporation into
toner compositions, such as U.S.-A-3,655,374. Also, it is known that the
aforementioned toner compositions with metal salts of fatty acids can be
selected for electrostatic imaging methods wherein blade cleaning of the
photoreceptor is accomplished, reference U.S.-A-3,635,704, the
disclosure of which is totally incorporated herein by reference.
Additionally, there are illustrated in U.S.-A-3,983,045 three component
developer compositions comprising toner particles, a friction reducing
material, and a finely divided nonsmearable abrasive material, reference
column 4, beginning at line 31. Examples of friction reducing materials
include saturated or unsaturated, substituted or unsubstituted, fatty acids
preferably of from 8 to 35 carbon atoms, or metal salts of such fatty acids; 
fatty alcohols corresponding to said acids; mono and polyhydric alcohol
esters of said acids and corresponding amides; polyethylene glycols and
methoxy-polyethylene glycols; terephthalic acids; and the like, reference
column 7, lines 13 to 43.The following United States Patents are mentioned: 4,795,689
which discloses an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A toner composition comprising the reaction product of resin particles containing
hydroxyl or acid groups and an alkylene-glycidyl methacrylate copolymer, colorant

particles and a wax component, with the proviso that polyester resins having free
carboxyl groups, an acid value of from 10 to 100 and a number-average molecular

weight of from 1000 to 5000 are excluded.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 1 wherein the resin particles
consist of a polyester containing hydroxyl groups.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the copolymer is an
ethylene glycidyl methacrylate containing from 3 to 20, percent preferably from 6 to

10 percent, glycidyl methacrylate.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the copolymer is a
polyethylene-glycidyl methacrylate.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 1 wherein the resin of the resin
particles is selected from the group consisting of polyamides, polyester-amides,

and polyimides.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the polyester results
from the condensation reaction of dimethylterephthalate, 1,2-propanediol, 1-3-butanediol,

and pentaerythritol; or wherein the polyester results from the
condensation reaction of dimethylterephthalate, 1,2-propanediol, diethylene glycol,

and pentaerythritol.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 1 wherein the colorant is carbon
black, magnetite, or mixtures thereof. 
The toner composition in accordance with claim 1 wherein the colorant is selected
from the group consisting of magenta, cyan, yellow, and mixtures thereof.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the wax has a weight
average molecular weight of from about 1,000 to about 10,000.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 1 wherein the wax is a polyolefin,
or a mixture of polyolefins.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 10 wherein the polyolefin is
polyethylene or polypropylene.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the wax is a polyolefin,
or mixture of polyolefins comprised of polyethylen and polypropylene.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the wax is present in an
amount of from about 1 to about 10 weight percent.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the wax is present in an
amount of from about 2 to about 7 weight percent.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 containing a charge enhancing
additive selected from the group consisting of distearyl dimethyl ammonium methyl

sulfate, a cetyl pyridinium halide, and stearyl phenethyl dimethyl ammonium tosylate.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein negative charge
enhancing additives are present.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the polyester resin is the
reaction product of propoxylated bisphenol A fumaric acid which has been

crosslinked with peroxide to form from about 5 to about 40 weight percent of gel.
The toner composition in accordance with claim 2 wherein the reaction is 
accomplished by melt mixing at between 110°C and 200°C, preferably between

140°C to 180°C.
A developer composition comprising the toner composition of claim 1 and carrier
particles.
A developer compostion comprising the toner composition of claim 2, and carrier
particles.
The developer composition in accordance with claim 20 wherein the carder
particles comprise a core with a polymeric coating thereover.
The developer composition in accordance with claim 20 wherein the carrier
particles comprise a core with a mixture of polymeric coatings thereover.
The developer composition in accordance with claim 22 wherein the carrier
particles comprise a steel or a ferrite core with a coating thereover selected from

the group consisting of polychlorotrifluoroethylene-co-vinylchloride copolymer, a
polyvinylidene fluoropolymer, a terpolymer of styrene, methacrylate, and an organo

silane, fluorinated ethylene-propylene copolymers, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
A method for obtaining images which comprises generating an electrostatic latent
image on a photoconductive imaging member, subsequently affecting development

of this image with the toner composition of claim 1, thereafter transferring the image
to a permanent substrate, and optionally permanently affixing the image thereto.
A method for obtaining images which comprises generating an electrostatic latent
image on a layered photoconductive imaging member, subsequently affecting

development of this image with the toner composition of claim 2, thereafter
transferring the image to a permanent substrate, and optionally permanently

affixing the image thereto.
A process for making a toner composition according to claim 1 which comprises
melt mixing the components of the composition. 
The process in accordance with claim 26, wherein the melt mixing is accomplished
with an extruder or a Banbury mixer.
The process in accordance with claim 27 wherein the wax component is effectively
permanently dispersed and no free wax particles are seperated from the toner

particles during subsequent pulverization and classification.
The process in accordance with claim 27 wherein the melt temperature of the toner
composition at discharge in an extruder is from 10°C to 50°C above the melting

point of the wax component.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
