<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631419</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An electronic mail system having integrated voice messages
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M350	H04M353	H04L1258	H04L1258	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a computer network (105) having a plurality of interconnected 
terminals (107,108,109) and a shared memory device (106) for storing 

digital data, a message handling system for sending and retrieving both 
voice and text messages over the computer network. A voice message is 

input either through a phone (101) associated with one of the computer 
terminals or via a remote phone. The voice message is converted into a 

digital voice file which is stored on the shared memory device 
corresponding to the intended recipient's mailbox. Thereby, one mailbox 

can contain both voice and text messages. The same message handling 
mechanism is used for handling both voice and text messages. A list of 

the messages currently stored for each mailbox can be pulled for display 
by their respective terminals. A selected voice message may be selected 

for playback over the phone. Likewise, a text message may be selected 
for display by the terminal. Call answering and remote playback 

functions are also provided. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VMX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VMX INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HYDE-THOMSON HENRY C A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HYDE-THOMSON, HENRY C.A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to the field of voice 
processing. More particularly, the present invention relates to a 
mechanism for integrating voice messaging with an electronic text 
messaging system. Since the advent of telephone communications, callers have 
frequently failed to make contact with the person they are calling 
either because that person is on another line, away from the 
phone, or otherwise preoccupied. Time and effort are wasted by 
playing telephone tag. This problem is especially acute in the 
business environment as customers are faced with unanswered 
calls, extended waits on hold, unconveyed important information, 
etc. Communication within an organization between employees is 
also a problem because of availability at the same time of the 
people who need to communicate. Time zone differences, 
especially in regards to international calls, particularly aggravate 
this issue. Traditionally, a caller who cannot get hold of the person 
they are trying to contact could leave a message with a  
 
receptionist or secretary. However, written messages are 
notoriously prone to inaccuracies and are practically limited in 
length. Furthermore, this approach only works during business 
hours when the receptionist or secretary is available to pick up 
the incoming call. In response to the shortcomings of handwritten messaging, 
electronic voice and text messaging systems have been developed. 
A number of voice and text messaging systems are known in the 
art and are commercially available. A voice messaging system is 
used to automate the answering of incoming calls from the outside 
telephone network and the taking of messages when the 
extensions are not answered by the called parties. Voice message 
systems are also used for people using any standard DTMF (Dual 
Tone Multi-Frequency) phone to call the voice message system 
and create messages that are then addressed and sent to one or 
more select other users of the system. Such voice messaging 
systems incorporate features, such as the recording of voice 
messages for users in what are known as "mailboxes". Commonly, 
voice messaging systems may also be accessed by users calling 
from PBX extensions or from the telephone network over 
incoming trunks to access their mailbox to listen to voice 
messages. In most known voice messaging systems, answering of 
incoming trunk calls by the voice messaging system is 
accomplished by instructing the PBX to direct the incoming calls to  
 
a group of extensions. Voice ports of the voice
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An integrated text and voice messaging system, 
comprising: 


a plurality of personal computers (107, 108, 109) coupled together for 
receiving and sending messages and for inputting commands to 

control said integrated text and voice messaging system; 
a plurality of telephones (101a, 101b, 101c) associated with said plurality of 
personal computers (107, 108, 109..) for playing and recording voice messages, 

wherein said plurality of telephones (101a, 101b, 101c) are coupled to a telephone 
switching system (102); 
a voice gateway computer (103) coupled to said switching system (102) 
and said personal computers (107, 108, 109), said voice gateway computer (103) 

including voice processing circuits for converting voice signals to 
digital data and also converting said digital data to said voice 

signals; 
a plurality of telephone trunk lines (110, 111, 112) connected to said 
switching system (102) in order to connect to said voice gateway 

computer (103) for providing remote telephone access for entering 
commands from a remote telephone; 
a data server computer (106, 106b) coupled to said plurality of personal 
computers (107, 108, 109) for storing data accessible from said plurality of 

personal computers (107, 108, 109) and said voice gateway computer (103);  
 
a plurality of shared files stored on said data server computer (106, 106b) 
containing information regarding both text and voice messaging; 
characterized by 
a plurality of addresses, each of said addresses 

specifying a single mail box where said voice 
and said text messages are to be stored for a 

user of the system. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 1 further comprising a means for limiting access to said text 

and voice message system to a user from said remote telephone 
only upon entering a valid password stored by said plurality of 

shared files, wherein said password gains access to both text and 
voice messages. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 1 wherein said data server computer comprises a mailbox 

corresponding to each user and said messages having either a 
textual or a voice format are stored according to a recipient's 

mailbox. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 3 further comprising: 


a means for converting a voice message to a digital voice 
file; 
a means for attaching said digital voice file to an electronic 
mailing document so that said voice file can be accessed through 

said mailbox. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 4 further comprising: 


a means for accessing said mailbox for counting a number of 
voice Ales in said mailbox; 
a means for informing said number of said voice files 
corresponding to said mailbox to said user of said remote 

telephone. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 5, wherein said informing means also informs the user of a 

number of new voice files and a number of saved voice files. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 1, wherein said commands from said remote telephone 

include saving, erasing, replying, and forwarding of a selected 
voice message. 
The integrated text and voice messaging system of 
Claim 1 further comprising a single directory containing 

information regarding a user's E-mail address, voice mail address, 
and extension number. 
A method of integrating voice messages with text 
messages in an electronic mailing system, wherein a message 

handling mechanism handles both voice and text files  
 

corresponding to said voice and text messages, said method 
characterized by 

the steps of: 

utilizing a directory which contains a plurality of addresses, 
each of said addresses specifying a single mail box where said 

voice and said text messages are to be stored for a user of said 
integrated text and voice messaging system; 
accessing the electronic mailing system through a telephone; 
receiving commands from said telephone for controlling said 
electronic mailing system. 
The method of Claim 9 further comprising the steps of: 

recording a voice message as a digital voice file; 
entering one of said addresses from said telephone 
corresponding to said single mailbox; 
updating said mailbox with information regarding said voice 
file. 
The method of Claim 10, wherein said commands 
include a command for playing a voice message stored in said 

mailbox over said telephone. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said commands include a 
command for erasing a voice message stored in said mailbox.  

 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said commands include a 
command for saving a voice message stored in said mailbox. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said commands include a 
command for forwarding a voice message stored in said mailbox. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said commands include a 
command for replying to a voice message stored in said mailbox. 
The method of Claim 10 further comprising the step of 
storing a security code which grants access to both text messages 

and voice messages of a particular mailbox. 
The method of Claim 10 further comprising the steps 
of: 


accessing said mailbox to determine a number of voice files 
in said mailbox; 
informing a user of said telephone of said number of voice 
files in said mailbox. 
A method of integrating voice messages with text 
messages in an electronic mailing system characterized by the steps of: 


utilizing a directory which contains a plurality of addresses, 
each of said addresses specifying a single mailbox where said  

 
voice messages and said text messages are to be stored for a user 

of said integrated text and voice messaging system; 
receiving a forwarded incoming telephone call; 
determining a called party's extension number; 
recording a voice message from said incoming telephone call 
as a digital voice file; 
determining said single mailbox address from said extension 
number; 
updating said mailbox with information regarding said voice 
file. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
