<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650519</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR MODULATING THE CONCENTRATION OF DISSOLVED GASES IN LIQUID MEDIA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F100	B01F100	C02F302	C02F302	C02F334	C02F334	C12M104	C12M104	C12M302	C12M302	C12N500	C12N500	C12N504	C12N504	C12N506	C12N506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F1	B01F1	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C12M1	C12M1	C12M3	C12M3	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process is provided for modulating the concentration of dissolved gases in liquid media, especially liquid media which are associated with biological materials e.g. aqueous culture media for cells, and waste products such as polluted water and sewage which are characterised by the presence of microorganisms. The process utilises a liquid transfer medium to effect the desired modulation and selecting physical properties of the liquid transfer medium and the manner in which the transfer medium is manipulated to facilitate the transfer of gases. The transfer medium (132) is transferred between zones (112, 114) operated at different temperatures in which the transfer medium exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, gas dissolves in the transfer medium in a zone (114) where the transfer medium is in the liquid state and separation of gas from the transfer medium takes place in a separate zone (112).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEALTH LAB SERVICE BOARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY SERVICE BOARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR ROBERT JEFFREY GEDDES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TINSLEY ANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR, ROBERT, JEFFREY, GEDDES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TINSLEY, ANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR MODULATING THE CONCENTRATION OF DISSOLVED GASES IN LIQUID MEDIAThis invention relates to processes for modulating the concentration of dissolved gases in liquid media, especially liquid media which are associated with biological materials e.g. aqueous culture media for cells, and waste products such as polluted water and sewage which are characterised by the presence of microoganisms.Many biochemical, chemical and physical proce: ,.s require normally gaseous substances to be dissolved in liquid media. Similarly many processes exist in which it is necessary to remove dissolved gases from liquid media. In practice it is often difficult to modulate the concentration of dissolveα gaseous components in a controlled manner. Thus for example the rate at which gases can be dissolved can depend upon factors which are difficult to control, for example bubble size and residence time, agitation conditions and properties of the liquid medium such as surface tension and viscosity.The present invention overcomes such problems by utilising a liquid transfer medium to effect the desired modulation and selecting physical properties of the liquid transfer medium and the manner in which the transfer medium is manipulated to facilitate the transfer of gases. 

In more specific aspects, this invention relates to processes for culturing cells in an aqueous growth medium. The invention particularly relates to procedures wherein an organic liquid which is immiscible with water is used for promoting transfer of gas to or from the growth medium.The expression "process of culturing cells" as used herein is intended to encompass any procedure wherein prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells are grown or maintained in υitvo. Such procedures include the growth, or maintenance under steady state conditions, of unicellular organisms or organisms in which the cells grow in the form of mycelia. They also include the growth, or maintenance under steady state conditions, of cells derived from multicellular organisms. Furthermore, the procedures encompassed by the term "process of culturing cells" include procedures carried out under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions suitable for maintaining cells in a viable state as well as procedures where cells enter the retardation or stationary phase, become senescent and even eventually die.The processes of the invention thus includes procedures wherein cells are grown under aerobic or anaerobic conditions wherein cell multiplication occurs, with cell numbers and/or cell mass increasing. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for modulating the concentration of a dissolved gas in a liquid medium wherein transfer of gas to or from the medium is promoted by use of aii organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the liquid medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that the organic fluid is transferred between zones operated at different temperatures in which the fluid exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, gas dissolves in the organic fluid in a zone where the organic fluid is in the liquid state and separation of gas from the organic fluid takes place in a separate zone.
2. A process according to Claim 1 wherein separation of gas from the organic fluid takes place in a zone where the organic fluid is converted from the liquid to the gaseous state.
3. A process according to Claim 2 wherein gas is evolved as the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state.
4. A process for modulating the concentration of a dissolved gas in a liquid medium wherein transfer of gas to or from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the liquid medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that the organic compound is transferred between zones operated at different temperatures in which the compound exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, whereby gas dissolves in the organic fluid in a zone where the organic fluid is in the liquid state, and is evolved when the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state.
5. A process according to any preceding claim wherein organic fluid in the liquid state and containing dissolved gas is contacted with the liquid medium and dissolved gas is transferred to the liquid medium. 


6. A process according to any preceding cliam wherein organic fluid in the liquid state and containing dissolved gas is contacted with the liquid medium whereby the organic fluid is converted to the gaseous state, dissolved gas is evolved and evolved gas dissolved in the liquid medium.
7. A process according to any preceding claim wherein organic fluid in the liquid state is contacted with the liquid medium, the organic fluid is converted to the gasous state while in contact with the liquid medium and organic fluid in the gaseous state and liquid medium are separated from one another.
8. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the liquid medium is at a temperature above the boiling point of the organic fluid.
9. A process for modulating the concentration of a dissolved gas in a liquid medium wherein transfer of gas to the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the liquid medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that:
(i) the organic compound in the liquid state is contacted with the gas in a first zone operated at a temperature below the boiling point of the organic compound to form a solution of the gas in the organic liquid,
(ii) solution from step (i) is transferred to a second zone operated at a temperature above the boiling point of the organic liquid wherein the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state with evolution of gas,
(iii) gas evolved in step (ii) contacts the liquid medium and dissolves therein,
(iv) organic fluid in the gaseous state from step (ii) is separated from the liquid medium,
(v) separated organic fluid in the gaseous state from step (iv) is condensed, and
(v) organic fluid in the liquid state from step (iv) is utilised to dissolve gas in step (i). 


10. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the gas is oxygen
11. A process according to any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein organic fluid in the liquid state is contacted with liquid medium and dissolved gas contained in the liquid medium is transferred to the organic liquid.
12. A process according to Claim 11 wherein organic fluid in the gaseous state is contacted with liquid medium, the organic fluid is converted to the liquid state while in contact with the liquid medium and organic fluid in the liquid state and liquid medium are separated from one another.
13. A process according to Claim 11 or Claim 12 wherein organic fluid in the liquid state and containing dissolved gas is separated from the liquid medium and transferred to a separate zone where the organic fluid is converted to the gaseous state, and dissolved gas is evolved and separated from the organic fluid.
14. A process according to any of Claims 11 to 13 wherein liquid medium is at a temperature below the boiling point of the organic fluid.
15- A process for modulating the concentration of a dissolved gas in a liquid medium wherein removal of gas from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the liquid medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that:
(i) the organic compound in the liquid state is contacted with the liquid medium in a first zone operated at a temperature below the boiling point of the organic compound whereby gas dissolved in the liquid medium is transferred to the organic liquid, to form a solution of the gas in the organic liquid. 


 (ii) solution from step (i) is transferred to a second zone operated at a temperature above the boiling point of the organic liquid wherein the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state with evolution of gas,
(iii) gas evolved in step (iii) is separated from the organic fluid,
(iv) organic fluid in the gaseous state from step (ii) is condensed, and
(v) organic fluid in the liquid state from step (iv) is contacted with liquid medium in step (i).
16. A process for modulating the concentration of a dissolved gas in a liquid medium wherein transfer of gas to or from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the liquid medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that the organic compound is transferred between zones operated at different temperatures in which the compound exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, whereby gas dissolves in the organic fluid in a zone where the organic fluid is in the liquid state, and the organic fluid undergoes a change of state between the liquid and gaseous states while in contact with the liquid medium.
17. A process according to Claim 16 wherein the organic fluid is converted from the liquid to the gaseous state while in contact with the liquid medium.
18. A process according to Claim 16 wherein the organic fluid is converted from the gaseous to the liquid state while in contact with the liquid medium.
19. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the liquid medium is an aqueous medium.
20. A process according to Claim 19 wherein the liquid medium is an aqueous growth medium for a biological material. 


21. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the modulation of the concentration of dissolved gas comprises a step of one of the following biological procedures:
(i) growth of prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells,
(ii) maintaining prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells under culture conditions leading to the production of a desired metabolite,
(iii) maintaining prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells under culture conditions leading to the elimination of an undesired substance,
(iv) maintaining prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells under culture conditions leading to conversion of a substance added to a culture medium to a chemically modified form,
(v) maintaining a mixed population of prokaryotic and/or eukaryotic cells under culture conditions leading to selective survival, proliferation, inhibition or death of one or more members of th population,
(vi) degradation of waste materials,
(vii) treatment of waste materials,
(viii) sequestration of heavy metals.
22. A process of culturing cells in an aqueous growth medium wherein transfer of gas to or from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the aqueous growth medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that the organic fluid is transferred between zones operated at different temperatures in which the fluid exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, gas dissolves in the organic fluid in a zone where the organic fluid is in the liquid state and separation of gas from the organic fluid takes place in a separate zone.
23. A process according to Claim 22 wherein separation of gas from the organic fluid takes place in a zone where the organic fluid is converted from the liquid to the gaseous state. 


24. A process according to Claim 23 wherein gas is evolved as the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state.
25. A process of culturing cells in an aqueous growth medium wherein transfer of gas to or from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the aqueous growth medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that the organic compound is transferred between zones operated at different temperatures in which the compound exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, whereby gas dissolves in the organic fluid in a zone where the organic fluid is in the liquid state, and is evolved when the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state.
26. A process according to any of Claims 22 to 25 wherein organic fluid in the liquid state and containing dissolved gas is contacted with the aqueous growth medium and dissolved gas is transferred to the aqueous growth medium.
27. A process according to any of Claims 22 to 26 wherein organic fluid in the liquid state and containing dissolved gas is contacted with the aqueous growth medium whereby the- organic fluid is converted to the gaseous state, dissolved gas is evolved and evolved gas dissolved in the aqueous growth medium.
28. A process according to c. Claims 22 to 27 wherein organic fluid in the liquid stat-, -is contacted with the aqueous growth medium, the organic fluid is converted to the gasous state while in contact with the aqueous growth medium and organic fluid in the gaseous state and aqueous growth medium are separated from one another.
29. A process according to any of Claims 22 to 28 wherein aqueous growth medium is at a temperature above the boiling point of the organic fluid. 


30. A process of culturing cells in an aqueous growth medium wherein transfer of gas to the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the aqueous growth medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that:
(i) the organic compound in the liquid state is contacted with the gas in a first zone operated at a temperature below the boiling point of the organic compound to form a solution of the gas in the organic liquid,
(ii) solution from step (i) is transferred to a second zone operated at a temperature above the boiling point of the organic liquid wherein the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state with evolution of gas,
(iii) gas evolved in step (ii) contacts the aqueous growth medium and dissolves therein,
(iv) organic fluid in the gaseous state from step (ii) is separated from the aqueous growth medium,
(v) separated organic fluid in the gaseous state from step (iv) is condensed, and
(v) organic fluid in the liquid state from step (iv) is utilised to dissolve gas in step (i) .
31. A process according to any of Claims 22 to 30 wherein the gas is oxygen
32. A process according to any of Claims 22 to 25 wherein organic fluid in the liquid state is contacted with aqueous growth medium and dissolved gas contained in the aqueous growth medium is transferred to the organic liquid.
33- A process according to Claim 32 wherein organic fluid in the gaseous state is contacted with aqueous growth medium, the organic fluid is converted to the liquid state while in contact with the aqueous growth medium and organic fluid in the liquid state and aqueous growth medium are separated from one another. 


34. A process according to Claim 3 or Claim 33 wherein organic fluid in the liquid state and containing dissolved gas is separated from the aqueous growth medium and transferred to a separate zone where the organic fluid is converted to the gaseous state, and dissolved gas is evolved and separated from the organic fluid.
35- A process according to any of Claims 32 to 34 wherein aqueous growth medium is at a temperature below the boiling point of the organic fluid.
36. A process of culturing cells in an aqueous growth medium wherein removal of gas from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the aqueous growth medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that:
(i) the organic compound in the liquid state is contacted with the aqueous growth medium in a first zone operated at a temperature below the boiling point of the organic compound whereby gas dissolved in the aqueous growth medium is transferred to the organic liquid, to form a solution of the gas in the organic liquid,
(ii) solution from step (i) is transferred to a second zone operated at a temperature above the boiling point of the organic liquid wherein the organic fluid passes from the liquid to the gaseous state with evolution of gas,
(iii) gas evolved in step (iii) is separated from the organic fluid,
(iv) organic fluid in the gaseous state from step (ii) is condensed, and
(v) organic fluid in the liquid state from step (iv) is contacted with aqueous growth medium in step (i) . 


37- A process of culturing cells in an aqueous growth medium wherein transfer of gas to or from the medium is promoted by use of an organic fluid, which when in the liquid state is immiscible with the aqueous growth medium and is capable of dissolving the gas, characterised in that th
'
e organic compound is transferred between zones operated at different temperatures in which the compound exists respectively in the liquid and the gaseous states, whereby gas dissolves in the organic fluid in a zone where the organic fluid is in the liquid state, and the organic fluid undergoes a change of state between the liquid and gaseous states while in contact with the aqueous growth medium.
38. A process according to Claim 37 wherein the organic fluid is converted from the liquid to the gaseous state while in contact with the aqueous growth medium.
39» A process according to Claim 37 wherein the organic fluid is converted from the gaseous to the liquid state while in contact with the aqueous growth medium.
40. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the organic fluid comprises a perfluorochemical (PFC) .
41. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the organic fluid comprises a perfluorochemical (PFC) .
42. A process according to Claim 4l wherein the PFC is a perfluorocarbon having the formula
C F, (I) n 2n-x ' wherein n is a positive integer from 1 to 30, and x is minus 2, zero or a positive even integer from 2 to 20. 


43. A process according to Claim 4l wherein the PFC is a compound represented by the general formulae
0 N F,_ . ,
ττ
>
 n (2n-x+m) (II) n m (2n-x) , or (III)
C S F„ . (IV) n m (2n-x) '
wherein wherein n is a positive integer from 1 to 30, x is minus 2, zero or a positive even integer from 2 to 20 and m is from 1 to 6.
44. A process according to Claim 4l wherein the PFC is a perfluoroalkane, a perfluorocycloalkane or a perfluoro- alkyltetrahydrofuran.
45. A process according to Claim 4l wherein the PFC is selected from the following (including mixtures thereof): perfluoropentanes (C..F.._) ; perfluorohexanes (C^-F-
j
,); perfluoro(methylcyclohexane) (C-F. ) ; perfluoro(dimethylcyclohexane)
(C
8
F
16
);
 perfluorodecalin (cis- and/or tvans-C. ~F. rx) ; and perfluoro(methyldecalin) (cis- and/or trans-C
11
F
20
) .
46. A process according to Claim 4l wherein the PFC is a per- fluorinated alkane, ether or tertiary amine.
47. A process according to Claim 4l wherein the PFC is perfluoro(2-n-butyltetrahydrofuran) , perfluoro(2-n-propyl- tetrahydropyran) or perfluorotri-n-butylamine. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
