<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO BEVERAGE DISPENSERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3124	A47J3136	A47J3140	A47J3140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J31	A47J31	A47J31	A47J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JEANS EDWARD LEWIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JEANS, EDWARD LEWIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEANS EDWARD LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEANS, EDWARD LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "Improvements relating to Beverage Dispensers"This invention relates to beverage dispensers and in particular to an infusible product brewing dispenser.In recent years, the common sight of the tea lady has all but disappeared in factories and offices throughout the country. This has been brought about by the introduction of vending machines which offer a wide range of snacks such as, chocolate bars, crisps, etc. and also by the introduction of beverage dispensers, whether they be vending machines or not.Such beverage dispensers offer a wide range of hot and cold drinks and are viewed upon as being very convenient, since they are able to dispense drinks immediately and may operate 24 hours a day. Another factor is the ease by which they may be operated and maintained. The beverage dis¬ pensers are self-contained units with the only requirement being a supply of diluent, typically water, and the need for supplies, such as drink ingredients and plastic cups, to be replenished at frequent intervals. One of the problems, which is well known, with such beverage dispensers is the poor quality of drinks which are often dispensed, and reasons for this will be explained later.Conventional infusible product dispensers, for example tea and coffee dispensers, use a one-pass extraction process, i.e. water is mixed with the infusible product and the extract then passes out through the infusible product so 

as to extract further flavour from the infusible product before being dispensed into a cup.As such systems largely expose the infusible ingredient to extracted liquor to brew, for example, the tea or coffee, it is necessary to use sufficient of the tea or coffee to provide a finished product of sufficient strength of flavour as a high concentration gradient is not maintained during this extraction process. As a result high residence times are necessary and in practice, finely divided infusible products associated with small pore filtersr either in the form of paper or stainless steel, are used. As a consequence of the use of finely divided ingredients and small pore filters of relatively small surface area, it is necessary to use high filtration pressures to ensure that the flow rate is of an acceptable level.Disadvantages of the conventional method are that as the beverage is created by a single pass under pressure of the extracted liquor through the infusible product, high quality beverages are not always obtained. Also the use of high pressure to force the water through the ingredients and the filter, usually
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A brewing dispenser comprising support means to hold a filter pouch containing an infusible product, and flushing means for passing a quantity of water to make a beverage through the said filter pouch.
2. A method for brewing an infusible product, compris¬ ing positioning a filter pouch containing an infusible product within a holder and using flushing means to pass a quantity of water to make a beverage through the said filter pouch.
3. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the flushing means is a concertina, a piston and cylinder device, or another form of pump, utilized to draw water into the pump and then force or push the liquid through the infusible product in the filter pouch.
4. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 3, wherein the pump operates to pass the water through the filter pouch as it is drawn into the pump. 5. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 3 or Claim 4, wherein the pump acts as a metering device to determine the amount of dispensed beverage.
6. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to any one of Claims 3 to 5, wherein inlet and outlet passageways for the liquid incorporate respective non-return valves.
7. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to 


 16
Claim 6, wherein one or each valve is formed by a conical member with a plurality of circumferential raised rings on the outer face of the cone and biased into a closed position on a correspondingly conically shaped sleeve member. 8. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 7, wherein the rings on the sleeve are formed from a resilient material which will form a seal with the respective other member formed from a hard material.
9. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the filter pouch is a closed bag of filter material incorporating the infusible produc .
10. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the filter pouch is a perforated region in a feed belt or in a reciprocatable member with an associated filter membrane.
11. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 10, wherein the filter pouch is defined by sheets of filter material enclosing a charge of infusible product positioned above said perforated region.
12. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to any one of Claims 1 to 11, wherein indexing means is provided for moving a new filter pouch into position on the support means after dispensing of a beverage through a previous filter pouch.
13. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 12, wherein a camming arrangement is provided for creating sequential operation of the indexing means for 


 17
positioning a filter pouch in position on the support means and operation of the flushing means prior to the next operation of the indexing means to position a new filter pouch on the support means. 14. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to Claim 13, wherein a single drive mechanism operates to control the functions of ingredient feeding, operational timing and metering of the amount of dispensed beverage.
15. A brewing dispenser or brewing method according to any one of Claims 1 to 14, wherein the inlet of the flushing means at the support means for the filter pouch is a perforated plate.
16. A web comprising or incorporating water-pervious material defining windows in the form of regularly-spaced filter pouches in the same plane as the web, and each enclosing a charge of an infusible product, the web having bands of water-impervious material between the pouches to isolate the pouches from each other.
17. A web according to Claim 16, wherein the water- impervious material extends around each pouch and/or across the width of the web.
18. A web according to Claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the web is provided with a plurality of regularly spaced apart slots or other indexing means, whereby the web can be advanced and its position detected.
19. A web comprising or incorporating water-pervious material defining windows in the form of regularly-spaced filter pouches in the same plane as the web, and each 


 18
enclosing a charge of an infusible product, the web being provided with a plurality of regularly spaced apart slots or other indexing means, whereby the web can be advanced and its position detected. 20. A web according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein the pouches are formed from filter paper.
21. The combination of a web according to any one of Claims 16 to 20, stored within a closed container with one end of the web projecting through a dispensing outlet of the container, the dispensing outlet preferably being in the form of a flexible seal.
22. The combination according to Claim 21, wherein the container is of rectangular form with the web folded in a stack or of drum-like form with the web coiled within the drum.
23. A valve formed by a conical member with a plurality of circumferential raised rings on the outer face of the cone and biased into a closed position on a correspondingly conically shaped sleeve member. 24. A valve according to Claim 23, wherein the rings on the sleeve are formed from a resilient material which will form a seal with the respective other member formed from a hard material.
25. A brewing dispenser, a brewing method, a continuous filter web, a web and container combination, or valve substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
