<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BWR control rod handling tooling and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21C1900	G21C1902	G21C1906	G21C1910	G21C1919	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21C19	G21C19	G21C19	G21C19	G21C19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tool set and a method of using those tools in combination is 
disclosed that are 

especially well adapted to the function of rearranging and/or replacing 
the control rods and fuel 

supports in a boiling water reactor. The tool set includes a grapple (40) 
that is capable of 

simultaneously picking up both a control rod and its associated fuel 
support. A separate 

unlatching tool (90) is provided for pulling the control rod's release 
handle in order to decouple the 

control rod from a control rod drive. A storage rack (150) that may be 
mounted in the reactor 

pressure vessel is provided for storing a fuel support and a pair of 
control rods when the 

positions of selected control rods are being shifted about the reactor 
core area. In the method 

aspect of the invention, the unlatching tool (90) is used to pull the 
control rod's release handle. 

Thereafter, the grapple (40) lifts the control rod and its associated 
fuel support as a unit. When 

rearranging the positions of the control rods, a first control rod and 
its associated fuel support 

are placed in the storage rack (150). Then a second control rod/fuel 
support assembly is removed in a 

similar manner and the second control rod is placed in the storage rack 
(150). Thereafter, the first 

control rod may be removed from the storage rack (150) and placed in the 
position formally occupied 

by the second control rod, with the same fuel support that was removed 
from the second location. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOWDLEY BALASUBRAMANIAN SRIKAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOPWASKEY FRED CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORTEGA FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITLING ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOWDLEY, BALASUBRAMANIAN SRIKANTIAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOPWASKEY, FRED CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORTEGA, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITLING, ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to tooling and a process for inserting, 
rearranging and/or removing the control rods in a boiling water reactor pressure vessel. The control rods in a boiling water reactor contain an absorbent material that when 
positioned in the reactor core can be used to slow the fission rate of the nuclear fuel. However, 
the absorbent material is subject to degradation after extended use. Therefore, it is periodically 
necessary to replace the control rods. Since different regions of the reactor core have different 
levels of irradiation fluence, in order to reduce expenses, it is common to periodically 
reposition the control rods within the core to maximize their useful life. In order to pull a control rod out of its associated core location, it is also necessary to 
pull out the associated fuel support since the control rod's velocity limiter cannot slide past an 
installed fuel support. Therefore, the tools commonly used to reposition and/or replace the 
control rods include a first grapple for lifting the fuel support. A second grapple is then used 
for uncoupling the control rod from its associated control rod drive and lifting the uncoupled  
 
control rod. Operators that use just these two tools have been known to occasionally drop the 
control rod. Therefore, a third grapple tool is often used to grab the top bail handle of the 
control rod when the control rod is being lifted. When the control rods are being rearranged, it is customary to set the fuel support on 
the reactor pool floor in a sheltered area. The control rod is then taken out of the pressure 
vessel and placed in a fuel pool located adjacent the pressure vessel. When the control rod is to 
be reinserted, it must be transferred back from the fuel pool to the pressure vessel. When the 
fuel support is to be reinserted, it must be picked up from the floor. These transferring 
motions take a relatively long time and in the case of the control rods result in the undesirable 
exposure of a radioactive component. Accordingly, it is an objective of the present invention to provide an improved tool set 
and an improved method for rearranging and/or replacing control rods in a boiling water 
reactor. To achieve the foregoing and other objects and in accordance with the purpose of the 
present invention, a tool set and a method of using those tools is disclosed that is especially 
well adapted to the function of rearranging and/or replacing the control rods and fuel supports 
in a boiling water reactor. In a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A grapple for moving control rods and fuel supports used in the core of a boiling 
water nuclear reactor, the grapple comprising: 

   a frame; 
   a sliding bar that is slidably coupled to the frame; 

   a control rod holding mechanism carried by the sliding bar for grabbing a bail handle 
of a control rod; and 

   a fuel support holding mechanism carried by the frame for grasping a fuel support. 
A grapple as recited in claim 1 wherein the control rod holding mechanism includes 
a hook support mounted on a distal end of the sliding bar, a control rod hook coupled to the 

hook support and actuating means for moving the control rod hook between a withdrawn 
position and an extended position, whereby in the extended position, the control rod hook is 

suited to grasp a control rod bail handle. 
A grapple as recited in claim 2 wherein the actuating means includes an air cylinder, 
wherein a first end of the air cylinder is coupled to the sliding bar by a bracket mechanism and 

the second end of the air cylinder is coupled to the control rod hook.such that actuation of the 
air cylinder will cause the hook to pivot relative to the frame between the withdrawn position 

and the extended position. 
A grapple as recited in claim 3 wherein the hook support includes a header plate 
carried by the distal end of the slider and a cage suspended f
rom the header plate, the control 
rod hook being pivotally coupled to the cage. 
A grapple as recited in claim 1 wherein the fuel support holding mechanism includes 
a guide, a plunger assembly that is moveable relative to the guide, and a pivot bar that is 

 
pivotally coupled to the guide in a manner such that the pivot bar can be pivoted between an 

engaging position wherein the fuel support mechanism is capable of engaging a fuel support in 
a supporting manner and a withdrawn position wherein the fuel support mechanism is capable 

of releasing the fuel support. 
A grapple as recited in claim 5 wherein: 
   the pivot bar includes a hook member positioned on a first side of the pivot; 

and 
   the plunger assembly is arranged to pivot the pivot bar based upon movements of 

the plunger in order to move the hook member between the withdrawn and engaging positions. 
A grapple as recited in claim 6 wherein the pivot bar includes an inclined surface 
positioned on a second side of the pivot and the plunger assembly includes: 

   a contact member arranged to slide along a portion of the pivot bar that includes at 
least a portion of the inclined surface in order to move the hook member between the 

withdrawn and engaging positions in response to movements of the plunger assembly; and 
   a contact pad adapted to seat in a tapered flow hole opening when a fuel support is 

engaged by the fuel support holding mechanism. 
A grapple as recited in Claim 1 wherein a pair of opposed fuel support holding 
mechanisms are provided. 
A grapple as recited in Claim 4 wherein the fuel support holding mechanism 
includes a guide, a plunger assembly that is moveable relative to the guide, and a pivot bar that 

is pivotally coupled to the guide in a manner such that the pivot bar can be pivoted between an 
engaging position wherein the fuel support mechanism is capable of engaging a fuel support in 

a supporting manner and a withdrawn position wherein the fuel support mechanism is capable 
of releasing the fuel support. 
An unlatching tool for pulling a control rod release handle carried by a control rod 
for decoupling the control rod from a control rod drive in a boiling water nuclear reactor, the 

unlatching tool comprising: 
   an elongated housing having an end cap at a distal end and a hoist cable attachment 

on its proximal end; 
   a positioning projection for contacting an external component to help position the 

unlatching tool during use; 
   an unlatching finger pivotally mounted to the elongated housing near the distal end 

of the elongated housing; and 
   a mechanism for actuating the unlatching finger, the actuating mechanism including 

an actuating rod slidably mounted in the elongated housing for movement in a longitudinal 
direction parallel to the length of the elongated housing and a linkage that couples the finger to 

the actuating rod, wherein the actuating mechanism is adapted to move the finger between a 
withdrawn position wherein the finger is substantially parallel with the elongated housing and 

an extended position wherein the finger extends substantially perpendicular to the housing such 
that it can readily engage the control rod release handle. 
An unlatching tool as recited in claim 10 wherein the actuating mechanism further 
comprises an actuator for moving the actuating rod between a first and a second longitudinal 

position, whereby the finger is remotely moved between the withdrawn and extended positions 
by moving the actuating rod between the first and second positions. 
An unlatching tool as recited in claim 11 wherein the actuator is an air cylinder. 
A fuel support and control rod storage rack for use in a boiling water reactor 
pressure vessel when the position of selected control rods are being shifted about the reactor 

 
core, the storage rack comprising: 

   a frame; 
   a pair of control rod holders that are carried by the frame wherein each control rod 

holder includes a control rod seat that is shaped to receive a socket of a control rod velocity 
limiter; and 

   a fuel support storage seat for holding a fuel support. 
A storage rack as recited in claim 13 wherein: 
   the frame includes a top plate and a bottom plate; 

   the fuel support storage seat has a cruciform shaped surface upon which a fuel 
support may be set; and 

   the storage rack further comprises a bail handle attached to the top plate for use 
during installation and removal of the storage rack. 
A storage rack as recited in claim 13 wherein: 
   the frame includes a bottom plate that supports the control rod seats; and 

   each control rod support includes a trough shaped retaining wall and a retaining 
mechanism for preventing a control rod from falling through the open side of the trough shape 

retaining wall. 
A storage rack as recited in claim 13 further comprising: 
   a safety catch carried by the frame, the safety catch being capable of latching onto a 

guide rod within the pressure vessel; 
   a foot carried by the frame, the foot being capable of sitting on the upper rim of a 

shroud disposed within the pressure vessel; and 
   a pin that extends from a bottom surface of the frame, the pin being arranged to slide 

into a guide hole when the storage rack is properly positioned within a pressure vessel. 
A method of removing a control rod and a fuel support from the core area of a 
boiling water reactor having a reactor pressure vessel, the method comprising the steps of: 


a) installing a temporary storage rack in the reactor pressure vessel; 
b) pulling a release handle of the control rod using an unlatching tool; 
c) lifting the control rod and an associated fuel support as a unit from the core area 
using a single grapple tool that is separate from the unlatching tool; and 
d) placing the control rod and its associated fuel support in the temporary storage rack. 
A method as recited in claim 17 further comprising the steps of: 

e) repeating the steps (b) and (c) as set forth in claims 17 with respect to a second 
control rod and a second fuel support; 
f) placing the second control rod in the storage rack; 
g) removing the first control rod from the storage rack and installing the first control 
rod in the position formally occupied by the second control rod. 
A method as recited in claim 18 wherein the second fuel support is installed with the 
first control rod in step (g). 
A method as recited in claim 19 further comprising he steps (e)-(g) to rearrange the 
position of a plurality of control rods within the reactor core area. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
