<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648319</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUID LINE CONNECTOR FITTING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L3700	F16L37098	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L37	F16L37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluid line connector fitting is provided which has first and second generally tubular members (10, 14), one end (16) of the second member (14) being slidably receivable within the first member (10). Releasable locking means (46) are also provided to prevent withdrawal of the second member (14) from the first member (10). The locking means (46) are releasable by the action of a release means which reacts to the longitudinal movement of the second member (14) towards the first member (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARDEN ARNOLD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARDEN, ARNOLD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARDEN ARNOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARDEN, ARNOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Fluid Line Connector FittingFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to connector fittings for attaching a fluid line to another component in a fluid system. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn fluid systems, such as systems for delivering air or hydraulic fluid, it is frequently necessary to attach flexible tubing which acts as a conduit for the fluid to a component of the system which may receive fluid from the tubing or act as a fluid source for the tubing. Various connectors for accomplishing this have been devised. Such connectors typically have a first member threadedly connectable to the component and provision for attaching the tubing to the first member. Prior devices typically embody a compression fitting which interacts with the first member to cause the tubing to be pressed against the first member. The compression fitting may also include a ferrule at the junction of the first and second members and the tubing.Ideally, a fluid line connector fitting should give a fluid tight seal, allow for easy disconnection of the tubing from the first member and be reusable many times over without significant deterioration of its fluid sealing capabilities. Prior fluid line connector fittings have not optimized all three of these parameters simultaneously. The prior fluid line connector fittings which form a fluid tight seal have typically required tools for connection or considerable force to remove the tubing from the first member. Prior fluid connector fittings which are easy to disassemble have typically not provided optimal fluid sealing capabilities.SUBSTITUTE SHEET. 

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONA fluid line connector fitting is provided comprising: a first generally tubular member; a second generally tubular member one end of which is slideably receivable within said first said generally tubular member; releasable locking means for connecting said first and second members to prevent withdrawal of said second member from said first member; and release means reacting to longitudinal movement of said second member towards said first member for releasing said releasable locking means.Further objects and advantages will appear from the following description, taken together with the accompanying drawings. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGSFig. 1 shows an exploded view of a fluid line connector fitting according to the present invention; Fig. 2 is a cross-sectional view through a fluid line connector fitting according to the present invention showing the locking mechanism engaged; andFig. 3 is a partial sectional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM;
1. A fluid line connector fitting comprising: a first generally tubular member; a second generally tubular member, one end of which is slidably receivable within said first generally tubular member and the opposite end of which is connectable to a fluid line; releasable locking means for connecting said first and second members to prevent withdrawal of said second member from said first member; release means reacting to longitudinal movement of said second member towards said first member for releasing said releasable locking means; a generally tubular sleeve carrying a part of said releasable locking means and a part of said release means and having a generally tubular first end for extending around said fluid line and at least one resilient member extending away from said first end; a further part of said releasable locking means being carried by said first member; and a further part of said release means being carried by said second member.
2. A fluid line connector fitting comprising: a first generally tubular member; a second generally tubular member, one end of which is slidably receivable within said first generally tubular member and the opposite end of which is connectable to a fluid line; releasable locking means for connecting said first and second members to prevent withdrawal of said second member from said first member; release means reacting to longitudinal movement of said second member towards said first member for releasing said releasable locking means; a generally tubular sleeve carrying a part of 


said releasable locking means and a part of said release means and having a generally tubular first end for extending around said fluid line and at least one resilient member extending away from said first end; a further part of said releasable locking means being carried by said first member; a further part of said release means being carried by said second member; said releasable locking means including at least one tab extending inwardly from said resilient member and a corresponding recess extending into the outer surface of said first member for receiving each said tab; and said release means including at least one cam extending outwardly from along the length of said second member which acts against a cam follower extending inwardly from said sleeve.
3. A fluid line connector fitting as claimed in claim 2 wherein: the outer face of each said tab has a bevelled face which engages an edge of said first member to urge each said tab radially outwardly when said sleeve is urged toward said first member; the inner face of each said tab slopes toward said first end of said sleeve; the outermost face of each said recess has an undercut which engages said inner face of said tab to prevent said tab from expanding radially outwardly when said sleeve is urged away from said first member.
4. A fluid line connector fitting as claimed in claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the end of said sleeve surrounding said fluid line and said second member are provided with co-operative longitudinal stop means which prevent withdrawal of said fluid line and said second member through said first end. 


5. A fluid line connector as claimed in claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein: the end of said sleeve surrounding said fluid line and the portion of said second member surmounted by said tube are provided with cooperating longitudinal stop means which prevent withdrawal of said fluid line and said second member through said first end, said longitudinal stop means comprising respective cooperating surfaces on the interior of said sleeve and on the exterior of a fluid line mounted on and frictionally engaging said second member, at least one of said surfaces being tapered.
6. A fluid line connector fitting as claimed in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein the end of said first member facing away from said second member is threaded for connection with a correspondlingly threaded member.
7. A fluid line connector fitting as claimed in claims 1, 2 or 3 further having a seal extending between said first and second members.
8. A fluid line connector fitting as claimed in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein the end of said first member facing away from said second member is threaded for further connection onto a correspondlingly threaded member and a seal extends between said first and second members.
9. A fluid line connector as claimed in claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein: the end of said sleeve surrounding said fluid line and the portion of said second member surmounted by said tube are provided with cooperating longitudinal stop means which prevent withdrawal of said tube and said second member through said first end, said longitudinal stop means comprising respective cooperating surfaces on 


 - li ¬ the interior of said sleeve and on the exterior of a tube mounted on and frictionally engaging said second member, at least one of said surfaces being tapered; and a seal extends between said first and second members. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
