<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621748</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SOWING SEED
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01C700	A01C708	A01C700	A01C716	A01C708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01C	A01C	A01C	A01C	A01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01C7	A01C7	A01C7	A01C7	A01C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of sowing seed (including fertilised pellets, particles, crystals and the like) comprises accelerating the seed to a speed in the supersonic range and directing the so moving seed to impinge on penetrable sowing ground so that the seed penetrates the ground to approximately the desired depth. The operation is carried out in a relatively low pressure environment and a feature of the operation is that the seed can penetrate the ground without substantial damage to the seed. Appropriate apparatus is provided to accelerate the seed to the supersonic speed range in a low pressure environment, and in one example this comprises a rotor wheel (30) receiving seed appropriately from a supply source (40), a sufficient rotary speed being imparted to the wheel for the necessary acceleration of the seed which is discharged via an outlet (35) in the wheel. Alternative apparatus comprises a low pressure fluid source (9) for seed acceleration via a ducting system (3, 4) and in another example electrostatically charged seed is accelerated by an electrical conductor system (55 A, B).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAXWELL DAVIDSON LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAXWELL DAVIDSON LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDSON MAXWELL WINGATE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDSON, MAXWELL, WINGATE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus 
for sowing seed and the like such as fertiliser pellets, 
particles, crystals etc. (all referred to as seed for 
convenience). G.B.-A- 1136771 describes a method of sowing seed 
comprising projecting seed into the ground at at least 
supersonic speed; this enables the seed to be sown quickly 
and conveniently, and the method dispenses with the need to 
plough or turn the soil before sowing which is advantageous. 
GB-A-1136771 provides the preamble of the independent 
claims of the appended claim set. The apparatus described 
in GB-A-1136771 for achieving this method comprises a seed 
discharging chamber including a discharge nozzle, the 
chamber receiving seed from a suitable seed storage 
container and a high pressure air source e.g. a compressor 
is connected to the discharge chamber and selectively 
operable to cause expulsion of seed from the chamber via the 
nozzle. For controlled discharge of seed, the nozzle walls 
can be of flexible material and the throat of the nozzle of 
a size slightly smaller than a single seed, the high 
pressure air forcing seed individually through the flexible 
nozzle throat. To enable effective operation, the above 
apparatus has used air at a pressure of 180 p.s.i. This is 
disadvantageous due to the relatively high cost of providing 
a compressor to produce such high pressure, and it is also a 
serious drawback to deliver the seed prior to sowing into 
such a high pressure environment. It is the principal 
object of the present invention to obviate or mitigate these 
disadvantages. This object is met by providing a method of sowing seed 
satisfying the characterising clause of the appended claim 
1. A preferred apparatus for carrying out the inventive 
method is set out in appended claim 2. According to a further aspect of the present invention 
apparatus for carrying out the above inventive method is in 
accordance with appended claim 10.  
 Preferably the fluid pressure source comprises a 
positive displacement machine. Preferably the machine is a 
lobed blower, of the Roots type, but other forms of blower 
are possible, for example sliding vane or other centrifugal 
machines, to produce a desired pressure environment of 8 
p.s.i. to 40 p.s.i. (gauge) (55.16 Kn/m2 to 275.8 Kn/m2). In a preferred embodiment, the ducting system includes 
a venturi throat and a delivery conduit leads from a seed 
storage container to said throat whereby seed is ingressed 
into the throat from the container by reduced pressure 
co
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of sowing seed comprising accelerating the 
seed to impinge on penetrable ground at a speed in the 

supersonic range so that the seed penetrates the ground 
without substantial seed damage to approximately the desired 

depth, characterised in that the seed is passed in a 
relatively low pressure fluid environment of pressure no 

greater than 40 p.s.i. (275.8 Kn/m
2
) gauge in an inlet 
passage, (3, 36, 53) to means for accelerating the seed to a 

speed in the supersonic range in said low pressure 
environment which accelerating means comprises either a 

pressure source (7) suitable to produce a fluid pressure 
environment of at least 8 p.s.i. gauge (55.16 Kn/m
2
) and no greater than 
40 p.s.i. gauge (275.8 Kn/m
2
) or means (30) 
for imparting a centrifugal force on the seed or means (50, 

55A) for electrostatically charging the seed by charged 
conductor means. 
Apparatus for sowing seed by accelerating seed to 
impinge on penetrable ground so that the seed penetrates the 

ground to approximately the desired depth, said apparatus 
comprising a seed holding device (30) including means to 

accelerate seed to a supersonic speed range and outlet means 
(35) from the seed holding means (30) for the discharge of 

seed onto the ground for penetration of the seed into the 
ground, and supply means (40, 46) to supply seed to said 

seed holding device (30), characterised in that said seed 
holding device (30) operates in a relatively low pressure 

environment of less than 40 p.s.i. gauge (275.8 Kn/m
2
) and 
accelerates the seed by centrifugal force effect to the 

supersonic speed range. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterised in 
that said seed holding device (30) comprises a rotor. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, characterised in 
that the rotor comprises a pair of closely spaced plates 

(31, 32) defining annular chamber means (38), seed being 
supplied to a central zone of said annular chamber means 

(38).  
 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, characterised in 
that said rotor is housed in a stationary casing (34) 

provided with outlet means (35) for the accelerated seed. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 4 or 5, characterised 
in that a series of radial plates (39) are provided between 

the rotor plate pair (31, 32) to define an annular series of 
chambers (38A) each open at its outer end. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6, 
characterised in that supply means (40, 46) supply seed to 

an axial inlet (36) of the rotor (30) at a predetermined 
vector (V) which is adjustable both in velocity and 

direction. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, characterised in 
that the supply means (40) comprise a feed device having an 

inlet (43) and an outlet (44) discharging into the axial 
inlet (36) of the rotor (30), said feed devices being 

adjustable to provide said adjustable vector. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, characterised in 
that the supply means comprises a rotary wheel device (46). 
Apparatus for sowing seed by accelerating seed in a 
pressure fluid environment to impinge on penetrable ground 

so that the seed penetrates the ground to approximately the 
desired depth, said apparatus comprising a ducting system 

(3, 4) for seed having a discharge nozzle (20) of 
convergent/divergent form adapted for discharging seed 

towards the ground, and seed accelerating means connected to 
said ducting system (3, 4) to accelerate the seed to 

supersonic velocity at discharge from the nozzle (20) for 
penetration into the ground characterised in that the seed 

accelerating means comprises a low pressure source of fluid 
(7) producing a fluid pressure environment of at least 8 

p.s.i. (55.16 Kn/m
2
) and no greater than 40 p.s.i. (275.8 
Kn/m
2
) gauge. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, characterised in 
that the fluid pressure source (7) comprises a positive 

displacement machine. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, characterised in 
that the machine is a lobed blower, for example of the Roots  

 
type, or a sliding vane machine or a centrifugal machine, to 

produce a desired pressure environment of 8 p.s.i. (55.16 
Kn/m
2
) to 40 p.s.i. (275.8 Kn/m
2
) gauge. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12, 
characterised in that the ducting system includes a venturi 

throat (20A) and a delivery conduit (19) leads from a seed 
storage container (17) to said throat (20A) whereby seed is 

ingressed into the throat (20A) from the container (17) by 
red
uced pressure conditions in the throat, so that a regular 
flow of seed can pass to the discharge of the ducting 

system. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, characterised in 
that the discharge of the ducting system comprises said 

convergent/divergent nozzle nozzles with a throat having a 
width substantially greater than the diameter of the seed to 

be discharged. 
Apparatus a claimed in claim 14, characterised in 
that the throat width is approximately three times the seed 

diameter. 
Apparatus for sowing seed by accelerating seed to 
impinge on penetrable ground so that the seed penetrates the 

ground to approximately the desired depth, said apparatus 
comprising seed conduit means (53) for discharging seed into 

penetrable ground for seed sowing, and means to accelerate 
the seed in the conduit (53) to the supersonic speed range 

characterised in that the seed is accelerated in a 
relatively low pressure environment of less than 40 p.s.i. 

(275.8 Kn/m
2
) gauge and in that the means to accelerate the seed 
to the supersonic speed range comprises means (50) to 

electrostatically charge seed and conductor means (55A, 55B) 
to accelerate the electrostatically charged seed to said 

supersonic speed. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, characterised in 
that seed movement is tracked by radio wave detection means 

to ensure that seed is sown in the desired direction. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
