<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610428</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MUSCLE CONTROL AND MONITORING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M110	A61M110	A61M112	A61N136	A61N136	A61N1365	A61N1365	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for monitoring the performance of skeletal muscle used in a skeletal muscle powered cardiac assist system. The longest term monitoring is performed by an oxygen sensor which determines the adequacy of circulatory support to the skeletal muscle. An adequately supported skeletal muscle can offer the desired cardiac assistance chronically. Insufficient support indicates that the skeletal muscle will easily fatigue if adequate vascularization is not achieved. If the circulatory support is chronically insufficient, the risk of ischemia becomes high and additional surgical intervention may be required. A somewhat shorter term concern is the adequacy of the conditioning needed to render a fast twitch skeletal muscle useful in assisting the slow twitch myocardium. A pressure transducer is used to measure conditioning sufficiency. A third type of monitoring provides an indication of changes in cardiac requirements utilizing an activity sensor. This indication of cardiac requirements may be used to vary skeletal muscle loading by adjusting duty cycle. The shortest term monitoring and control technique uses a temperature sensor to monitor efficiency of skeletal muscle cardiac assist. Efficiency may be improved by adjusting the phase relationship between cardiac contraction and skeletal muscle stimulation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANDJEAN PIERRE ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANDJEAN, PIERRE, ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MUSCLE CONTROL AND MONITORING SYSTEMCROSS REFERENCES TO CO-PENDING APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation-in-part of the following commonly assigned U.S. Patent Applications:Serial No. 07/446,593, filed December 6, 1989, entitled "Muscle Fitness Detection by Colorimetry"; Serial No. 07/446,594, filed December 6, 1989, entitled "Muscle Stimulator with Variable Duty Cycle"; Serial No. 07/446,592, filed December 6, 1989, entitled "Muscle Output Monitor byIntramuscular Temperature Variation Measurement"; and Serial No. 07/446,811, filed December 6, 1989, entitled "Muscle Contraction Control by Intramuscular Pressure Monitoring".BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION l. Field of the invention - The present invention relates generally to cardiac assist systems and more particularly, relates to control and monitoring of cardiac assist systems which are powered by skeletal muscle.2. Description of the Prior Art - Cardiac assist systems do not replace the human heart, but merely supplement it. Many techniques have been proposed using a variety of mechanical power sources. Typically these required some form of percutaneous energy transfer because of the difficulty in storing sufficient energy subcutaneously. Such systems are cumbersome and inconvenient for the patient, and are prone to infection along the percutaneous energy transfer path.A technique holding a great deal of promise is to power the cardiac assist system from a surgically modified skeletal muscle. The cardiac assist system is thus powered by normal biochemical processes. U.S. Patent No. 4,813,952 issued to Khalafalla teaches a number of configurations of a skeletal muscle powered cardiac assist system. 

 One problem peculiar to a skeletal muscle powered cardiac assist system is that the skeletal muscle must be conditioned to with stand the constant load of continuous contraction/relaxation demanded of the myocardium. U.S. Patent No. 4 ,411,268 issued to Cox teaches a technique for conditioning the skeletal muscle. Whereas the apparatus of Cox is effective to accomplish this conditioning, his system has no provisions for feedback to permit the self-regulation of the conditioning regimen or for chronically monitoring the stability of the skeletal muscle following the conditioning process. In practice this necessitates the attention of highly skilled medical personnel to monitor the operation of the skeletal muscle with sophisticated instrumentation and to exercise manual control of the stimulation parameters with pulse generator programming
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. A cardiac assist system for assisting a natural hea having ventricles which contract at a ventricular rate, f use with a surgically prepared muscle responsively coupled the circulatory system, the cardiac assist system comprisin a. control means coupled to the heart and to t muscle for stimulating the muscle and f causing it to contract in synchrony with sa ventricles of said heart; and b. means, responsively coupled to the muscle, f monitoring a parameter indicative of adequa of circulatory support to the muscle.
2. The cardiac assist system according to claim 1 where said monitoring means comprises: a. means for sensing circulatory conditions of the muscle; and b. means, responsively coupled to said sensing mean for storing data from said sensing means.
3. A cardiac assist system according to claim 2 wherein sa sensing means is an oximeter.
4. A cardiac assist system according to claim 3 wherein sa oximeter is a two wavelength reflectance oximeter.
5. The cardiac assist system according claim 1, wherein sa monitoring means includes means for sensing the relative le of oxygen in the muscle.
6. The cardiac assist system according to claims 2 furth including means for telemetering out the data stored by sa storing means. 


 7. The cardiac assist system according to claim 6 furth including means for telemetering out the data stored by sa storing means.
8. A cardiac assist system for assisting a natural hea having ventricles which contract at a ventricular rate, f use with a surgically prepared skeletal muscle responsive coupled to the circulatory system, the cardiac assist syst comprising: a. control means, coupled to the heart and to t skeletal muscle, for stimulating the musc and for causing it to contract in synchro with the ventricles of the heart; and b. means, responsively coupled to the muscle, f measuring a parameter indicative of t efficacy of contraction of the muscle.
9. The cardiac assist system according to claim 8 furth including means, responsively coupled to said measuring mea and to said control means, for adjusting the timing of sa control means to improve the efficacy of contraction of t muscle.
10. The cardiac assist system according to claim 8, wherein said measuring means includes a temperature sensor.
11. Method of assisting cardiac activity comprising: a. surgically preparing a muscle; b. positioning the muscle such that the contraction the muscle assists cardiac activity; c. stimulating the muscle to contract; and d. measuring the efficiency of the contraction the muscle. 


12. Method according to claim 11, wherein said step stimulating the muscle includes automatically modifying least one physiological parameter associated with t contraction of the muscle, in response to the result of sa measuring step, and repeating both said stimulating step a said measuring step.
13. The cardiac assist system according to claim 8 furth including: a. a pulse generator electrically coupled to sa measuring means to stimulate the heart and t muscle upon demand; b. electrode means, electrically coupled to sa pulse generator and to the muscle, for sensing least one of said physiological paramet associated with the contraction of the muscle; a c. said electrode means being further electrical coupled to the muscle for stimulating the muscle response to said sensed physiological parameter.
14. The cardiac assist system according to claim 8 where said physiological parameter is temperature.
15. The cardiac assist system according to claim 13, where said electrode means includes a first and second electrode and wherein said first electrode senses temperature temperature variations of the muscle, and wherein said seco electrode stimulates the muscle in response to said sens temperature or temperature variations.
16. The cardiac assist system according to claim 12, where a second physiological parameter is the oxygen level in t muscle. 


 17. A cardiac assist system for assisting a natural hea having ventricles which contract at a ventricular rate, f use with a surgically prepared muscle responsively coupled the circulatory system, the cardiac assist system comprisin a. means coupled to the heart and to the skelet muscle for stimulating the muscle and for causi it to contract in synchrony with at least o ventricle of the heart; and b. means, responsively coupled to said stimulati means and to the muscle, for defining the timing contractile response of the muscle.
18. The cardiac assist system according to claim 17 wherei said stimulating means includes means for conditioning th muscle.
19. The cardiac assist system according to claim 18 wherei said de ining means includes means for determining the effec of said conditioning means.
20. The cardiac assist system according to claim 19 wherei said determining means further comprises a pressur transducer.
21. The cardiac assist system according to claim 17 wherei said stimulating means includes a pulse generator electricall coupled to said determining means for stimulating the hear and the muscle upon demand, and further including: a. electrode means, electrically coupled to sai pulse generator and to the muscle, for sensing a least one physiological parameter associated wit the contraction of the muscle; and 


 b. said electrode means being further electrical coupled to the muscle for stimulating the muscle response to said sensed physiological parameter.
22. The cardiac assist system according to claim 17 where said physiological parameter is the contractility of t muscle, and wherein said timing determining means includes delay timer.
23. The cardiac assist system according to claim 22 where said electrode means includes a first and second electrode and wherein said first electrode includes a pressu transducer for enabling said pulse generator to measure t timing and extent of contraction and relaxation of the muscl and wherein said second electrode stimulates the muscle response to measurement from said first electrode.
24. The cardiac assist system according to claim 12 where a second physiological parameter is the contractility of t muscle.
25. The cardiac assist system according to claim 24 where a third physiological parameter is the oxygen level in t muscle.
26. A cardiac assist system for assisting a natural hea having ventricles which contract at a ventricular rate, f use with a surgically prepared muscle responsively coupled the circulatory system, the improvement being characteriz by:
a. means coupled to the heart and to the muscle f stimulating the muscle to contract in synchro with at least one ventricle of the heart 


 accordance with a plurality of parameters stimulation; and b. means, responsively coupled to said stimulati means and to the muscle, for sensing cardi demand.
27. The cardiac assist system according to claim 26 furth including means, responsively coupled to said stimulati means and to said sensing means, for varying at least one said plurality of parameters of stimulation of sa stimulating means.
28. The cardiac assist system according to claim 27 where one of said plurality of parameters of stimulation includ pulse amplitude.
29. The cardiac assist system according to claim 27 where one of said plurality of parameters of stimulation includ duty cycle.
30. The cardiac assist system according to claim 27 where one of said plurality of parameters of stimulation includ number of pulses per burst.
31. The cardiac assist system according to claim 27 where one of said plurality of parameters of stimulation includ pulse width.
32. The cardiac assist system according to claim 27 where one of said plurality of parameters of stimulation include pulse interval.
33. An apparatus for assisting cardiac activity of a hear having a surgically prepared skeletal muscle mechanicall coupled to the heart such that contraction of the muscl 


provides hemodynamic assistance to the heart, the improveme being characterized by: a. a first electrode for sensing contractions of t natural human heart; b. a pulse generator electrically coupled to sa first electrode for generating a stimulation sign in response to sensing of cardiac contractions said first electrode; c. a second electrode electrically coupled to sa pulse generator and to the muscle for coupling sa stimulation signal to said skeletal muscle to cau a contraction of the muscle in synchrony with least one ventricle of the heart in accordance wi a plurality of parameters of stimulation; and d. a plurality of sensors coupled to the muscle f sensing a plurality of physiological paramete associated with the contraction of the muscle.
34. The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein: a. a first physiological parameter is t contractility of muscle; b. a second physiological parameter is the oxyg level in the muscle; c. a third physiological parameter is the temperatu of the muscle; and d. a fourth physiological parameter is a paramet relating to the stimulation signal.
35. An assist system for assisting an organ, for use with surgically prepared muscle, the assist system comprising: a. control means coupled to the organ and to t muscle for stimulating the muscle and for causi it to contract in a predetermined sequence; and 


111 b. means, responsively coupled to the muscle, monitoring a parameter indicative of adequacy circulatory support to the muscle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
