<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615979</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Partial esters of acidic polysaccharides.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K872	A61K873	A61K4736	A61K4736	A61K4738	A61K4738	A61K4748	A61K4748	A61L1516	A61L1528	A61L1700	A61L1710	A61L3104	A61L3104	A61Q1900	A61Q1900	C08B1100	C08B1112	C08B3100	C08B3112	C08B3700	C08B3708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61Q	A61Q	C08B	C08B	C08B	C08B	C08B	C08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K8	A61K8	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61L15	A61L15	A61L17	A61L17	A61L31	A61L31	A61Q19	A61Q19	C08B11	C08B11	C08B31	C08B31	C08B37	C08B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
New polysaccharide esters are disclosed, and 
more precisely partial esters of acidic polysaccharides 

chosen from the group formed by 
carboxymethylcellulose
, 

carboxymethyl starch
 and 
carboxymethylchitin
. 
These new esters and some esters of the 

type already known are useful as medicaments, for 
the manufacture of pharmaceutical and cosmetic 

preparations, in the field of biodegradable plastic 
materials and, therefore, for the manufacture of 

medical, surgical and sanitary articles, as well as 
numerous other industrial sectors in the place of 

acidic polysaccharides now in common use. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIDIA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIDIA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns new polysaccharide esters 
and more precisely partial esters of acidic polysaccharides 
chosen from the group formed by carboxymethylcellulose, 
carboxymethylchitin and carboxymethyl starch (also referred to hereinafter 
as "carboxymethylamide"). The invention also includes the use of 
these new esters and some esters of the type already known for new uses and 
more precisely as medicaments, for the manufacture of 
pharmaceutical and cosmetic preparations, in the sector 
of biodegradable plastic materials and, therefore, for 
the manufacture of medical, surgical and sanitary 
articles, in galenicals and in numerous industrial 
sectors in the place of acidic polysaccharides now in 
use, such as alginic acid, especially in the food 
industry. The invention also includes the articles 
resulting from these various uses. The esters according to the present invention include 
partial esters. In the partial esters 
the nonesterified carboxy groups may be salified with 
metals or organic bases. The carboxymethyl derivatives of the abovesaid natural 
polysaccharides, can be obtained by methods described in 
literature, essentially by treatment of the same with haloacetic  
 
acids, such as chloracetic acid, or their 
salts. The polysaccharides used in these preparation 
methods and which are therefore the basis of the 
new esters of the present invention, may have a 
wide range of molecular weights, such as those of 
the various types of amides, of cellulose and 
chitin present in natural materials. There are already reports in literature of "carboxymethylcellulose 
esters" prepared by alkylation of 
the carboxy hydroxyl with diazomethane or with the 
alcohol corresponding to the alkyl groups to be 
introduced in the presence of a strong acid. In 
this way partial esters are obtained which do not 
however seem to be pure esters. Thus, in the German 
patent No. 957,938 carboxymethylcellulose is 
esterified at about 0°C with alcohol (methyl, 
propyl, butyl and octyl) and gasseous hydrochloric 
acid. In the case of methyl alcohol the reaction is 
effected over a period of 48 hrs, long enough for 
the glucoside structures present in the polysaccharide 
to be destroyed and no longer remain intact 
(see: Methanolysis of Polysaccharides; Carbohydrate 
Research 168 (1987) 103-109). The same can be said of the products obtained 
according to the procedure described in U.S. patent 
No. 2,912,430. The preparation procedure for the 
methyl ester of carboxymethylcellulose described in 
LATV;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Partial esters of acidic 
polysaccharides chosen from the group formed by 

carboxymethylcellulose, carboxymethyl starch and 
carboxymethylchitin with alcohols of the aliphatic, 

araliphatic, cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic series 
and salts of such partial esters with inorganic or 

organic bases, with the exception of the partial 
esters of carboxymethylcellulose with ethylene or 

propylene glycol and carboxymethyl starch with 
methyl or benzyl alcohols. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 1, in which alcohols of 

the aliphatic series have a maximum of 34 carbon 
atoms and are unsubstituted or substituted by one 

 
or two functional groups chosen from the group 

formed by amino, hydroxy, mercapto, aldehydo, keto, 
carboxy, hydrocarbyl and dihydrocarbylamino, ether, 

ester, thioether, thioester, acetal, ketal, 
carbalkoxy groups, carbamidic and substituted 

carbamidic groups by one or two alkyl groups with 
the hydrocarbyl radicals in these functionally 

modified groups having a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, 
and in which such alcohols of the aliphatic series 

may be interrupted in the carbon atom chain by 
heteroatoms chosen from the group formed by oxygen, 

sulfur and nitrogen. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 2, wherein said alcohol of 

the aliphatic series has a maximum of 12 carbon 
atoms; said hydrocarbyl radicals have a maximum of 

4 carbon atoms; and wherein said amino or 
substituted carbamidic groups may also be 

alkyleneamino groups or alkylenecarbamidic groups 
with a maximum of 8 carbon atoms. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 3, wherein said alcohol is 

 
ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, 

tert-butyl alcohols, an amyl, pentyl, hexyl or 
octyl alcohol. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 3, wherein said alcohol is 

glycerin. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 3, wherein said 

esterifying alcohol is tartronic alcohol, lactic 
acids, glycolic acid, malic acid, a tartaric acid 

or citric acid. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 3, wherein the esterifying 

alcohol is aminoethanol, aminopropanol, 
n-aminobutanol or dimethyl or diethyl derivatives 

thereof in the amino function, choline, 
pyrrolidinylethanol, piperidinylethanol, 

piperazinylethanol or the corresponding derivatives 
of n-propyl or n-butyl alcohols, or 

monothioethyleneglycol or its lower 
alkylderivatives in the mercapto function. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 3, wherein the esterifying 

 
alcohol component is a higher aliphatic alcohol 

chosen from the group formed by cetyl, myricyl 
alcohols, citronellol, geraniol, nerol, nerolidol, 

linalool, farnesol, and phytol. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 1, wherein the alcohols of 

the araliphatic series are those with only one 
benzene residue and in which the aliphatic chain 

has a maximum of 4 carbon atoms and in which the 
benzene residue may be substituted by between 1 and 

3 methyl or hydroxy groups, by halogen atoms, and 
in which the aliphatic chain may be substituted by 

one or two functions chosen from the group formed 
by free amino or mono- or diethyl groups or by 

pyrrolidine or piperidine groups. 
Esters of acid polysaccharides and their 
salts according to claim 9, wherein the alcohol is 

chosen from the group formed by benzyl alcohol, 
phenethyl alcohol, ephedrine and adrenaline. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and 
their salts according to claim 1, wherein the 

alcohols of the cycloaliphatic or aliphatic-cycloaliphatic 
 

or heterocyclic series respectively 
derive from mono- or polycyclic hydrocarbons with a 

maximum of 34 carbon atoms and are unsubstituted or 
substituted by one or more functional groups chosen 

from the group formed by amino, hydroxy, mercapto, 
aldehydo, keto, carboxy, hydrocarbyl and 

dihydrocarbylamino, ether, ester, thioether, 
thioester, acetal, ketal, carbalkoxy, carbamidic 

and substituted carbamidic groups by one or two 
alkyl groups with the hydrocarbyl radicals in these 

functionally modified groups having a maximum of 6 
carbon atoms, and which may be interrupted in the 

carbon atom chain by heteroatoms chosen from the 
group formed by 

 
and 

which may have one or more bonds, including 
aromatic structures. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and 
their salts according to claim 11, in which the 

alcohols are monocyclic having a maximum of 12 
carbon atoms and the ring having between 5 and 7 

carbon atoms possibly substituted by between one 
and three inferior alkyl groups. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and 
their salts according to claim 11, in which the 

polycyclic alcohols are sterines, cholic acids, or 
steroid alcohols. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and 

their salts according to claim 11, in which the 
alcohols are chosen from the group formed by 

alkaloids, phenethylamines, phenothiazine drugs, 
thioxanthenes, anticonvulsivants, antipsychotics, 

antiemetics, analgesics, hypnotics, anorexics, 
tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, coronary 

vasodilators, adrenergic blockers, narcotic 
antagonists, antineoplastics, antibiotics, 

antivirals, peripheral vasodilators, carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitors, antiasthmatics, 

antiinflammatories and sulfamidics. 
Esters of acidic polysaccharides and 
their salts according to any one of claims 1-14, in 

which at least 5% and at the most 95% of all the 
carboxy groups are esterified. 
Salts of partial esters according to any 
one of claims 1-15, wherein said inorganic 

base is an alkaline metal, an alkaline earth metal, 
magnesium or aluminum. 
Sodium or ammonium salts according to 
claim 16. 
Salts of partial esters according to any 
one of claims 1-15 , wherein said organic 

base is an aliphatic, araliphatic, cycloaliphatic 
or heterocyclic amino base. 
Salts of partial esters according to 
claim 18, in which the amines are therapeutically 

acceptable bases. 
Salts of partial esters according to 
claim 19 in which the amines are chosen from the 

group formed by: alkaloids, peptides, 
phenothiazines, benzodiazepines, thioxantenes, 

hormones, vitamins, anticonvulsivants, 
antipsychotics, antiemetics, anesthetics, 

hypnotics, anorexics, tranquilizers, muscule 
relaxants, coronary vasodilators, antineoplastics, 

antibiotics, antibacterials, antivirals, 
antimalarials, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, 

 
nonsteroid antiinflammatories, vasoconstrictors, 

cholinergic agonists, cholinergic blockers, 
adrenergic agonists, adrenergic blockers, and 

narcotic antagonists. 
Salts of partial esters according to 
claim 19, in which the amines are pharmacologically 

inactive and are chosen from the group formed by 
mono-, di- and tri-alkylamines with a maximum of 8 

carbon atoms, arylalkylamines with a maximum of 8 
carbon atoms in the aliphatic part and with a 

benzene group as the aromatic part, optionally 
substituted by between 1 and 3 methyl groups or 

halogen atoms or hydroxy groups, alkyleneamines 
with cycles of between 4 and 6 carbon atoms, 

optionally interrupted in the cycle of heteroatoms 
chosen from the group formed by O and S, and amines 

of all these types substituted by amino or hydroxy 
functions. 
An ester of an acidic polysaccharide 
according to claim 1, wherein said ester is a 

compound chosen from the group formed by an ethyl, 
isopropyl, benzyl, p-bromo-benzyl, and mirystyl 

ester of carboxymethylchitin. 
An ester of an acidic polysaccharide 
according to claim 1, wherein said ester is a 

compound chosen from the group formed by an ethyl, 
isopropyl, benzyl, p-bromo-benzyl, and mirystyl 

ester of carboxymethylcellulose. 
A pharmaceutical preparation containing 
as an active ingredient a partial ester of 

carboxymethylcellulose with ethylene or propylene 
glycol or a partial ester of carboxymethyl starch 

with methyl or benzyl alcohol, or a 
pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof, together 

with a pharmacologically acceptable excipient. 
A pharmaceutical preparation containing 
as an active ingredient an ester or a salt thereof 

according to any one of claims 2-22. 
A pharmaceutical preparation according to 
one of claims 24 and 25 for parenteral 

administration. 
A pharmaceutical preparation or 
medicament which comprises: 


1) a pharmacologically active substance or 
an association of pharmacologically active 

substances; and 
2) a vehicle comprised of a partial 
ester of carboxymethylcellulose, of 

carboxymethylchitin or of carboxymethyl starch 
or a salt of such partial esters with an 

inorganic or organic base. 
A pharmaceutical preparation or 
medicament which comprises a partial ester 

of carboxymethylcellulose, of carboxymethylchitin 
or of carboxymethyl starch with an alcohol and salts 

of such partial esters with inorganic or organic 
bases, in which at least one of said alcohols and 

said base is therapeutically active. 
A pharmaceutical preparation or 
medicament according to any one of claims 27 and 

28, in which the active substance is for topical 
use. 
Therapeutic use of partial 
esters of acidic polysaccharides chosen from the 

group formed by carboxymethylcellulose, 
carboxymethyl starch and carboxymethylchitin with 

alcohols of the aliphatic, araliphatic, 
cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic series and salts of 

such partial esters with inorganic or organic bases. 
Use of an ester of an acidic 
polysaccharide chosen from the group formed by 

carboxymethylcellulose, carboxymethyl starch and 
carboxymethylchitin with alcohols of the aliphatic, 

araliphatic, cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic series 
and their salts with inorganic or organic bases in 

the cosmetic field. 
Use of an ester of an acidic 
polysaccharide chosen from the group formed by 

carboxymethylcellulose, carboxymethyl starch and 
carboxymethylchitin with alcohols of the aliphatic, 

araliphatic, cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic series 
and their salts with inorganic or organic bases in 

one of the following fields: 

1) food industry 
2) paper industry 
3) adhesive products 
4) printing 
5) textile dyeing 
6) preparation of sanitary, medical and 
surgical articles 
7) galenics, for the preparation of capsules 
and microcapsules 
8) biology, for the immobilization of enzymes 
9) emulsifiers for glazes, polishes, antifoam 
agents, lactics and stabilizers in the 

ceramics and detergent industries. 
Sanitary and surgical articles containing 
an ester of an acidic polysaccharide chosen from 

the group formed by carboxymethylcellulose, 
carboxymethyl starch and carboxymethylchitin with 

alcohols of the aliphatic, araliphatic, 
cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic series or their 

salts of such partial esters with inorganic or 
organic bases. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to claim 33, which comprises a partial 

ester of an acidic polysaccharide according to any 
one of claims 2-23. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of a film. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of a thread. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of suture 

threads for surgical operations. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of films for 

use as artificial skin in dermatology. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of capsules for 

subcutaneous implant of medicaments. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of 

microcapsules for subcutaneous, intramuscular or 
intraveneous injection. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of solid 

inserts to be removed after a certain period of 
time. 
Sanitary and surgical articles according 
to one of claims 33-34, in the form of sponges for 

the medication of injuries and lesions. 
A process for the preparation of a 
partial ester of acidic polysaccharides which 

comprises treating a quaternary ammonium salt of a 
polysaccharide with an etherifying agent in an 

aprotic solvent and, optionally, salifying free 
carboxy groups in said partial esters. 
A process according to claim 43, wherein 
said solvent is dimethylsulfoxide. 
A process according to claim 43, wherein 
said quaternary ammonium salt is a lower 

tetraalkylammonium salt. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
