<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649518</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STANNOUS OXIDE FORCE TRANSDUCER AND COMPOSITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01C1010	H01C1000	G01L120	G01L120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01C	H01C	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01C10	H01C10	G01L1	G01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pressure transducer includes a base ply (12), a resistance ply disposed on the base ply and at least two spaced apart conductors (26, 28) juxtaposed in relation to the resistance ply whereby at least one of the conductors may be pressed against the resistance ply. The resistance ply is made by spraying or silk screening a mixture of a continuous matrix conductive resin (18) and a stannous oxide particulate (16) and then curing the composition to form a solid resistance ply having a surface with a multiplicity of micro-protrusions formed by the stannous oxide particulate.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERLINK ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERLINK ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANIGER STUART I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANIGER, STUART, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to pressure
transducers and compositions for making pressure
transducers and in particular to transducers having a
variable resistance layer made from a composition of
stannous oxide particulate intermixed with a continuous
matrix conductive resin which is applied in a thin layer
to a surface and thereafter cured to form the resistance
layer.Pressure responsive transducers are known. For
example, U.S. Patent No. 3,806,471 to Mitchell describes
a typical pressure transducer wherein conduction paths
through a volume of a thick compressible layer would be
increased thereby decreasing the resistance through the
layer in response to application of an external force.
These volume type pressure transducers were subject to
many disadvantages including the size of the transducer
and the relative rapid degeneration in performance.An improved pressure transducer relying on
variable contact across the surface of a thin layer is
disclosed in Eventoff U.S. Patent Nos. 4,489,302 and
4,314,227. While the Eventoff transducer provided
significant improvement in pressure transducers,
problems still remained. For example, performance
characteristics varied widely depending on the
characteristics of the composition and the care with
which the manufacturing process was carried out. Even
under stringent process controls, performance varied
widely requiring that each transducer be tested in
advance of use to determine if the transducer would meet
specifications in those applications for which
predictable performance was required.Although in many applications the need to
maintain precise performance specifications was
unnecessary and hence wide variations in performance
were tolerable, many applications required precise, 
repeatable and predictable performance. Furthermore,
certain applications required performance
characteristics to remain the same regardless of
environmental factors such as heat and humidity.In order to solve the problems with prior
resistance plies and compositions and achieve the above
advantages, numerous attempts over a period of more than
seven years were made using different particulate
materials and particulate and resin compositions.
However, the performance deficiencies set forth above
were not solved. Accordingly, the need for a pressure
transducer which not only would be largely immune to
manufacturing variations so as to be able to manufacture
transducers with repeatable and predictable performance
characteristics remained. Further, it was desired to
have a transducer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transducer having a resistance which varies in response
to the amount of applied force comprising:


a base ply (12);
a resistance ply (14) disposed on the base ply, the
resistance ply comprising:

   a continuous matrix conductive resin (18); and a
stannous oxide particulate (16) interspersed in the

continuous matrix of conductive resin to form a
surface with a plurality of microprotrusions (34)

formed by the stannous oxide particulate;
at least two spaced apart conductors (26,28;40,48) electrically
interconnected across the resistance ply to enable

electrical conduction through the resistance ply, at
least one of the conductors being sufficiently bendable

and juxtaposed opposite the surface of the resistance
ply for being pressed thereagainst, the resistance to

electrical current conducting through the resistance
ply varying in response to the amount of force applied

to press the at least one conductor against the surface
of the resistance ply.
The transducer of claim 1 wherein there are two
conductors (26,28), both conductors being juxtaposed opposite

the surface of the resistance ply, the resistance ply
being electrically interconnected in shunt orientation

across the two conductors.
The transducer of claim 1 wherein there are two
conductors (40,48), one positioned on each side of the

resistance ply whereby electrical current is conducted
through the resistance ply.
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the conductive
resin further comprises a non-conductive resin base and

molecular sized carbon particulate mixed therein. 
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the stannous oxide
particulate has a particle size in the range of about

0.5 to 10 microns (.0005 to .0100 mm).
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the weight ratio
of stannous oxide in the conductive resin is in the

range of 4 parts stannous oxide particulate to 1 part
conductive resin to about 1 part stannous oxide to 5

parts conductive resin.
The transducer of claim 1 wherein the resistance ply
has a thickness of about .0002 to .001 inches (.0050 to .0250 mm).
The transducer of claim 4 wherein weight ratio of
carbon to non-conductive resin is in the range of one

part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive resin
base to one part carbon to four parts non-conductive

resin base. 
A composition of matter for being disposed in an thin layer
for forming a resistance ply juxtaposed between at least two

conductors, the thin layer defining a surface against which at
least one of the conductors may be pressed, the resistance ply

having a resistance which varies in response to the amount of
force with which the at least one conductor is pressed against

the surface of the resistance ply, the composition of matter
comprising:


a conductive resin (18) ; and
stannous oxide particulate (16) interspersed through the
conductive resin and forming a plurality of

microprotrusions (34).
The composition of matter of claim 9 wherein the
conductive resin further comprises a non-conductive

resin base and molecular sized carbon particles
interspersed therein. 
The composition of matter of claim 9 wherein the
stannous oxide particulate has a particulate size in the

range of about 0.5 to 10 microns (.0005 to .0100 mm).
The composition of matter of claim 10 wherein the
stannous oxide particulate has a particulate size in the

range of about 0.5 to 10 microns (.0005 to .0100 mm).
The composition of matter of claim 9 wherein the
weight ratio of stannous oxide in the conductive resin

is in the range of 4 parts stannous oxide particulate to
1 part conductive resin to about 1 part stannous oxide

to 5 parts conductive resin.
The composition of matter of claim 10 wherein the
weight ratio of stannous oxide in the conductive resin

is in the range of 4 parts stannous oxide particulate to
1 part conductive resin to about 1 part stannous oxide

to 5 parts conductive resin.
The composition of matter of claim 11 wherein the
weight ratio of stannous oxide in the conductive resin

is in the range of 4 parts stannous oxide particulate to
1 part conductive resin to about 1 part stannous oxide

to 5 parts conductive resin.
The composition of matter of claim 12 wherein the
weight ratio of stannous oxide in the conductive resin

is in the range of 4 parts stannous oxide particulate to
1 part conductive resin to about 1 part stannous oxide

to 5 parts conductive resin.
The composition of matter of claim 9 wherein weight
ratio of carbon to non-conductive resin is in the range

of one part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive 
resin base to one part carbon to four parts non-conductive

resin base.
The composition of matter of claim 10 wherein
weight ratio of carbon to non-conductive resin is in the

range of one part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive
resin base to one part carbon to four parts

non-conductive resin base.
The composition of matter of claim 11 wherein
weight ratio of carbon to non-conductive resin is in the

range of one part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive
resin base to one part carbon to four parts

non-conductive resin base.
The composition of matter of claim 12 wherein
weight ratio of carbon to non-conductive resin is in the

range of one part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive
resin base to one part carbon to four parts

non-conductive resin base.
The composition of matter of claim 13 wherein
weight ratio of carbon to non-conductive resin is in the

range of one part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive
resin base to one part carbon to four parts

non-conductive resin base.
The composition of matter of claim 16 wherein
weight ratio of carbon to non-conductive resin is in the

range of one part carbon to one hundred parts non-conductive
resin base to one part carbon to four parts

non-conductive resin base.
A transducer having a resistance which varies in
response to the amount of applied force comprising:


a first base ply (42); 
a first conductor (40) disposed on the first base ply;
a second base ply (46) in facing relationship to the
first base ply;
a second conductor (48) disposed on the second base ply;
a first resistance ply (44) disposed on the first
conductor and a second resistance ply (45) disposed on

the second conductor and the first and second
resistance plies comprising:

   a continuous matrix conductive resin (18); and a
stannous oxide particulate (16) interspersed in the

continuous matrix of conductive resin to form a
surface with a plurality of microprotrusions (34)

formed by the stannous oxide particulate;
the two conductors to enable electrical conduction
through the first and second resistance plies, the

first and second resistance plies juxtaposed
opposite each other for being pressed together, the

resistance to electrical current conducting through
the first and second plies varying in response to

the amount of force applied to press the surfaces of
the first and second resistance plies together.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
