<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630969</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vectors containing nucleotide sequences of a plasmid isolated from Lactobacillus curvatus, proteins coded by the genome of these vectors, and the use of such vectors in processes for the production of polypeptides.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14195	C07K14335	C12N121	C12N121	C12N1574	C12N1574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C12N1	C12N1	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to nucleic acids comprising all or part of the nucleotide sequence of 

a plasmid isolated from 
Lactobacillus curvatus
. 
The invention relates more particularly to the use of such nucleic acids as vectors for 
transformation of host cells, for example in fermentation processes. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EUROP COMMUNITIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMUNAUTE ECONOMIQUE EUROPEENNE (CEE)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENRICH BERNHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN JUERGEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLAPP ROLAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENRICH, BERNHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN, JUERGEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLAPP, ROLAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to vectors for the transformation of cellular hosts such as 
lactobacilli, said vectors comprising all or part of the nucleotide sequence of a plasmid isolated 
from Lactobacillus curvatus. The invention also relates to processes for the production of predetermined polypeptides 
by transformation of appropriate cellular hosts with said vectors. The invention relates more 
particularly to the use of said vectors in fermented foodstuff preparation processes. The invention also relates to proteins coded by the genome of said vectors. In recent years there has been an upsurge in interest into the possibility of genetically 
manipulating lactic acid bacteria (McKay et al., 1990). Many species are now transformable by 
using the electroporation technique and thus become amenable to recombinant DNA 
technology. A strategy for the construction of cloning vectors, is to use the origins of 
replication of small multicopy cryptic plasmids from lactobacilli and to incorporate selectable 
markers. Very little is known about the replication mode of plasmids in lactobacilli. 
Characterizations of plasmids isolated from different Lactobacillus species (Bates and Gilbert, 
1989; Cocconelli et al. 1991; Josson et al., 1990; Leer et al, 1992; Skaugen, 1989) have 
revealed that they may belong to the group of single-stranded (ss) DNA plasmids that replicate 
via a RCR mechanism (Gruss and Ehrlich, 1989; Te Riele et al., 1986). The nucleotide 
sequence data indicate that all Lactobacillus plasmids analysed so far have a similar 
organization as ssDNA plasmids from other Gram positive bacteria. All plasmids encode a site 
specific nuclease, the Rep protein, which produces a specific single stranded nick at the plus 
origin, that allows initiation of synthesis of the leading DNA strand. Depending on the 
similarity of plus origin sequences, the various plasmids have been classified into three groups 
(Gruss and Ehrlich, 1989). Several Lactobacillus plasmids contain palindromic structures 
which resemble the minus origin (MO) of replication in ssDNA plasmids. The MOs are 
involved in the conversion of ssDNA into double-stranded (ds) DNA. These nonessential 
regions have been distinguished into three classes (Gruss and Ehrlich, 1989) but additionally 
MOs of Lactobacillus plasmids have been described, which have no homology to MOs of other 
ssDNA plasmids (Leer et al., 1992). Since inserts of foreign DNA might influence plasmid 
stability (Gruss and Ehrlich, 1988) efforts were made to isolate large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Nucleic acid characterized in that it comprises: 

all or part of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 1, or its 
complementary sequence, 
or a nucleotide sequence susceptible to hybridize with all or part of the preceeding 
nucleotide sequences, more particularly a nucleotide sequence which differs from the 

preceeding ones by addition and/or suppression and/or substitution of one or several 
nucleotides, 
 
   said nucleic acid, when constituting the genome of a vector, allows this latter to replicate 

in a cellular host. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises the nucleotide 
sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 1, or fragments of said nucleotide sequence these 

fragments, alone or in combination with one or several other fragments of said nucleotide 
sequence, being still able to allow the replication of said vector. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that it comprises all or 
part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 780 and the 

nucleotide located at the position 1909 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 
1. 
Nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that it comprises 
all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 813 

and the nucleotide located at the position 869 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ 
ID NO: 1, and more particularly the TACTACGA sequence located at positions 848-855, 

corresponding to a potential plus origin of replication. 
Nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that it comprises 
all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 305 

and the nucleotide located at the position 640 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ 
ID NO: 1, and more particularly the sequence located at positions 574-640, corresponding to a 

potential minus origin of replication. 
Nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that it comprises 
all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 1049 

and the nucleotide located at the position 1216 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ 
ID NO: 1, and coding for a protein of 56 amino acids represented by SEQ ID NO: 2. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 6, characterized in that it comprises also all or part of 
the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 1027 and the 

nucleotide located at the position 1048 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 
1, and more particularly the sequence AGGGA at positions 1036-1040, corresponding to a 

potential ribosome binding site. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 6 or claim 7, characterized in that it comprises also all 
or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 958 and 

the nucleotide located at the position 1026 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID 
NO: 1, and corresponding to a promoter. 
Nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that it comprises 
all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 1303 

and the nucleotide located at the position 1965 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ 
ID NO: 1, and coding for a protein of 221 amino acids represented by SEQ ID NO: 3. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 9, characterized in that it comprises also all or part 
of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 1286 and the 

nucleotide located at the position 1302 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 
1, and more particularly the sequence TAAGG at positions 1286-1290, corresponding to a 

potential ribosome binding site. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 9 or claim 10, characterized in that it comprises also 
all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 1217 

and the nucleotide located at the position 1285 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ 
ID NO: 1, and more partcularly the sequences at positions 1219-1232 and positions 1263-1269, 

corresponding to a promoter. 
Nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 11, characterized in that it 
comprises all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the 

position 2000 and the nucleotide located at the position 2437 of the nucleotide sequence 
represented by SEQ ID NO: 1, and coding for a protein of 146 amino acids represented by 

SEQ ID NO: 4. 
Nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 12, characterized in that it 
comprises all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the 

 
position 2448 and the nucleotide located at the position 2475 of the nucleotide sequence 

represented by SEQ ID NO: 1, corresponding to a potential translational promoter. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises all or part of the 
nucleotide sequence delimited by the nucleotide located at the position 781 and the nucleotide 

located at the position 2423 of the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NO: 1. 
Protein comprising the 56 amino acids sequence represented by SEQ ID 
NO: 2, and coded by the nucleic acid according to claim 6, this protein being able to allow
 the 
replication of a vector, the genome of which codes for such a protein, in a cellular host, or 

fragments or muteins (which differ from said protein by addition and/or substitution and/or 
suppression of one or several amino acids) thereof, provided that said fragments or muteins are 

still able to allow the replication of said vector. 
Protein comprising the 221 amino acids sequence represented by SEQ ID 
NO: 3, and coded by the nucleic acid according to claim 9, this protein being able to allow the 

replication of a vector, the genome of which codes for such a protein, in a cellular host, or 
fragments or muteins (which differ from said protein by addition and/or substitution and/or 

suppression of one or several amino acids) thereof, provided that said fragments or muteins are 
still able to allow the replication of said vector. 
Protein comprising the 146 amino acids sequence represented by SEQ ID 
NO: 4, and coded by the nucleic acid according to claim 12, this protein being able to allow 

the replication of a vector, the genome of which codes for such a protein, in a cellular host, or 
fragments or muteins (which differ from said protein by addition and/or substitution and/or 

suppression of one or several amino acids) thereof, provided that said fragments or muteins are 
still able to allow the replication of said vector. 
Nucleic acids characterized in that they code for all or part of a protein according to 
claims 15 to 17. 
Vector, such as plasmid, susceptible to replicate in a cellular host, characterized in 
that its genome comprises a nucleic acid according to any one of claims 1 to 14 or 18. 
Vector according to claim 19, characterized in that it corresponds to plasmids 
pJK355, represented by SEQ ID NO: 5, and pJK356, represented by SEQ ID NO: 6, used for 

the transformation of the strain LK1 of Lactobacillus casei, these strains thus transformed 
 

being deposited at the Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen (DSM), on May 27th 1993, 
under the number 8322 and the number 8323, respectively. 
Vector according to claim 19 or 20, characterized in that it contains in one (or 
several) of its site(s) non essential for its replication one (or several) heterologous sequence(s) 

coding for a predetermined polypeptide. 
Vector according to claim 21, characterized in that said predetermined polypeptide is 
chosen among polypeptides produced by species and strains susceptible to be used as starter 

organisms in fermentation processes, and more particularly lactic acid bacteria, such as 
Lactococcus, Streptococcus and Lactobacillus, susceptible to produce aminopeptidase such as 

X-Prolyl-dipeptidyl-aminopeptidase (PepX) from Lactobacillus delbrückii ssp. lactis or 
polypeptides derived thereof. 
Cellular host, such as lactobacilli, transformed by a vector according to any one of 
claims 19 to 22. 
Process for the production of a predetermined polypeptide characterized in that it 
comprises the following steps: 


the culture in an appropriate medium of a cellular host according to claim 23, 
the recovery of the predetermined polypeptide produced by the above said cellular host 
from the above said culture medium, 
the purification of the polypeptide thus obtained. 
Fermentation process characterized in that it comprises the culture in an appropriate 
medium, of a cellular host according to claim 23. 
Process for the preparation of fermented foodstuff, and more particularly of sausage 
or cheese, which comprises a step of treatment of food material to be fermented, such as milk, 

with an appropriate amount of at least one of the transformed cellular host according to claim 
23. 
Process according to claim 26, characterized in that it also comprises a step of 
treatment of food material to be fermented, such as milk, with other species and strains 

susceptible to be used as starter organisms in fermentation processes, and more particularly 
lactic acid bacteria, such as Lactococcus, Streptococcus and Lactobacillus, susceptible to 

produce an aminopeptidase useful in fermentation processes, such as PepX protein. 
Foodstuff, and more particularly cheese or sausage, such as obtained by the process 
according to any one of claims 25 to 27. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
