<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618869</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FORM-FILL-SEAL PACKAGING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B910	B65B920	B65B5110	B65B5110	B65B5126	B65B5130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B9	B65B9	B65B51	B65B51	B65B51	B65B51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vertical form-fill-seal packaging machine (1) controlled by a controller (500) for receiving input data defining the package length, cycle time and sealing time and for controlling the feed of the packaging material (W) as a function of the input data, the machine having a measuring roll (19) for feeding the material forward in package length increment which is also operable to maintain the material tracking properly, further having a control (M1) maintaining the material under substantially constant tension, rapid controllable sealing jaw (5) operation, a readily retractable longitudinal seam sealer (15), and a stripper (401) operable independently of the sealing jaws.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYSSEN MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYSSEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHERNEY DALE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS KEITH W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOVACS LLOYD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHERNEY, DALE M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS, KEITH W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOVACS, LLOYD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FORM-FILL-SEAL PACKAGING APPARATUSBrief Summary of the InventionThis invention relates to form-fill-seal packaging apparatus and more particularly to a vertical form-fill-seal packaging machine, i.e., a machine in which a web of flexible packaging material is guided from a supply roll of the material over a forming shoulder at which it is formed into tubing and the tubing is intermittently fed downward, the web being sealed to form a longitudinal tube seam, product to be packaged is provided in the tubing, and the tubing is sealed at package length intervals and cut into individual packages.The invention is especially concerned with a vertical form-fill-seal machine of the type shown in U. S. Patent No. 4,288,965 of Robert C. James issued September 15, 1981 to Hayssen Manufacturing Company of Sheboygan, Wisconsin, U.S.A. entitled Form-Fill-Seal Packaging Method and Apparatus. That patent is the subject of Reexamination Certificate BI 4,288,965. Many machines of the type shown therein have been sold by HayssenManufacturing Company under the name ULTIMA. This invention involves improvements thereover, said James U.S. patent being incorporated herein by reference.The machine shown in said James patent comprises a downwardly extending tubular mandrel for delivery of product to be packaged downwardly therethrough and out of the lower end of the mandrel, and a forming shoulder for forming a web of packaging material into tubing around the mandrel. Measuring rolls are operable intermittently to pull a web of the material from a supply in package length increments and feed the web forward in such increments on successive feed cycles to the forming shoulder. The margins of the web are sealed together to form a longitudinal tubing seam. A pair of belts engaging the 

tubing on the mandrel are operable intermittently to pull the web over the forming shoulder and to draw the tubing down on the mandrel one package length and feed the tubing downwardly off the lower end of the mandrel in a package length increment on each feed cycle. Sealing means is operable intermittently to seal the tubing below the lower end of the mandrel, being opened for the downward feed of the tubing on each feed cycle and closed on the tubing on a dwell of the tubing between successive feed cycles. Product to be packaged is delivered downwardly through the mandrel and out of its lower end into the tubing. As shown in the James patent, the measuring rolls are driven via a' drive including an electric clutch-brake unit, the clutch of this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An intermittently operating form, fill and seal machine for making packages from a web of material, the machine comprising:
means for forming the web into tubing;
means for moving the web over the web forming means;
jaws for sealing the tubing;
means for moving the jaws relative to one another to open and close the jaws; and
a controller for receiving input data defining the package length, cycle time and sealing time and for controlling the operation of the web moving means as a function of the input data, whereby the web is moved one package length within the time remaining in each cycle time taking into account the sealing time.
2. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller includes means for simultaneously operating the jaw moving means and the web moving means for at least a portion of each cycle time so that the web moving means and jaw moving means operate in overlapping time periods within each cycle time.
3. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller receives input data defining a closing time during which the jaw moving means closes the jaws, wherein 


the controller controls the operation of the jaw moving means such that the closing time occurs immediately before the sealing time, and wherein the controller includes means for operating the web moving means to move the web during the closing time.
4. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller receives input data defining an opening time during which the jaw moving means opens the jaws, wherein the controller controls the operation of the jaw moving means such that the opening time occurs immediately after the sealing time, and wherein the controller includes means for operating the web moving means to move the web during the opening time.
5. The machine of claim 4 wherein the controller receives input data defining a closing time during which the jaw moving means closes the jaws, wherein the controller controls the operation of the jaw moving means such that the closing time occurs immediately before the sealing time, and wherein the controller includes means for operating the web moving means to move the web during the closing time.
6. The machine of claim 5 wherein the controller includes means for receiving input data defining the amount of opening and closing of the jaws by the jaw moving means and means for operating the jaw moving means as a function of the received data.
7. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller includes means for receiving input data defining the amount of opening and closing of the jaws by the jaw moving means and means for operating the jaw moving means as a function of the received data. 


 8. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller includes means for controlling the acceleration or deceleration of the web moving means within a preset range and for controlling the velocity of the web moving means below a preset maximum velocity.
9. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller includes means for controlling the operation of the web moving means so that the web moving means accelerates the web from zero velocity to a peak velocity and then decelerates the web to zero velocity within the time remaining in each cycle time taking into account the sealing time.
10. The machine of claim 1 wherein the controller includes a memory for storing a plurality of preset data sets defining minimum and maximum acceleration and deceleration and a maximum web velocity and wherein the controller includes means for controlling the operation of the web moving means in response to a selected data set in the memory.
11. The machine of claim 1 for use in combination with a product feed means providing a product feed signal wherein the controller receives the product feed signal and includes means for controlling the operation of the web moving means in response thereto so that the product feed means provides product feed signals as soon as the product feed means is ready to deliver product for the packages and the machine is responsive to the product feed signal wherein at least some consecutive cycle times vary.
12. The machine of claim 1 for use in combination with a product feed means providing a product feed signal to the controller and wherein the controller 


includes means for varying the actual cycle time in response to the received product feed signal whereby at least some consecutive cycle times vary.
13. A machine as set forth in claim 1 having a web measuring roll; means for driving the web measuring roll intermittently to feed a package length increment of the web forward toward the forming means, means mounting the measuring roll for movement relative to said forming means to steer the web to maintain it in a path aligned with the forming means, means for sensing deviation of the web one way or the other from said path, and means responsive to said sensing means on its sensing a deviation to move the measuring roll to steer the web back into said path.
14. A machine as set forth in claim 1 comprising a frame, a downwardly extending tubular mandrel carried by the frame for delivery of product to be packaged therethrough and out of the lower end of the mandrel, said means for forming the web acting to form it into the tubing surrounding the mandrel, variable speed means for feeding the tubing downwardly on the mandrel and thereby pulling the web over the forming means under tension, means for sensing the tension in the web upstream from said forming means, and means responsive to said sensing means for varying the speed of said variable speed means for maintaining the tension in the web at a substantially constant predetermined value.
15. A machine as set forth in claim 1 having first and second sealing jaws, the first jaw being movable toward and away from the second between an open position clear of the tubing and a closed position in sealing engagement with the tubing, the means for having the jaws comprising means for moving the first jaw toward the 


second jaw relatively rapidly to a nearly closed position, and means for completing the movement of said first jaw from said nearly closed position to said closed position and exerting pressure on the tubing for sealing it.
16. A machine as set forth in claim 1 comprising a frame, a downwardly extending tubular mandrel carried by the frame for delivery of product to be packaged therethrough and out of the lower end of the mandrel, said means for forming the web acting to form it into the tubing surrounding the mandrel with the edges of the web lapping, the tubing being fed downwardly on the mandrel in package length increments with a dwell between successive web feed cycles, and means for sealing together the lapping margins of the web comprising an arm pivoted for swinging movement on a vertical axis on the frame of the apparatus at one side of the mandrel, a platen housing horizontally slidable on the arm for movement lengthwise of the arm, said arm with the housing therein being swingable on said axis between an operative position wherein said housing is in front of the mandrel and a retracted position wherein the housing is off to one side from in front of the mandrel, a sealing platen carried by the housing, means in the housing for moving the platen from a retracted position relative to the mandrel into sealing position engaging the lapping margins of the web on the mandrel for sealing said margins together during a dwell of the tubing between web feed cycles.
17. A machine as set forth in claim 1 wherein the means for forming the web into tubing acts to form it with the tubing extending downwardly, and the tubing is fed downwardly, said jaws being operable in a generally horizontal fixed plane, the tubing being intermittently fed downwardly between the jaws one package length increment when the sealing members are open, the jaws then 


closing on the tubing; said machine further having a pair of stripper members operated independently of the jaws movable relative to one another from an open position with respect to the tubing to a closed position squeezing the tubing, and movable while in their open position from a lowered position below the jaws generally vertically upward between the opened jaws to a raised position above the jaws, then movable generally horizontally to their closed position and down in their closed position to their lowered position for stripping product from within the region of the tubing to be sealed.
18. A machine as set forth in claim 1 having a downwardly extending tubular mandrel and wherein the means for forming the web into tubing forms it into the tubing surrounding the mandrel, and having web measuring means operable intermittently to pull the web from a supply and measure successive package length increments of the web as it is pulled from the supply to establish the package length and intermittently feed the web forward in said package length increments on successive web feed cycles to said forming means, said means for moving the web over the forming means comprising means for intermittently pulling the tubing down on the mandrel during each web feed cycle at the same time that each package length increment is intermittently fed forward to the forming means, the jaws being opened for the downward feed of the tubing on each web feed cycle and closed on the tubing below the lower end of the mandrel on a dwell of the tubing between successive web feed cycles, and wherein the controller controls the web measuring means to measure out package length according to the input data.
19. A machine as set forth in claim 18 having means mounting the measuring roll for movement relative to said forming means to steer the web to maintain it in a 


path aligned with the forming means, means for sensing deviation of the web one way or the other from said path, and means responsive to said sensing means on its sensing a deviation to move the measuring roll to steer the web back into said path.
20. A machine as set forth in claim 18 having variable speed means for feeding the tubing downwardly on the mandrel and thereby pulling the web over the forming means under tension, means for sensing the tension in the web upstream from said forming means, and means responsive to said sensing means for varying the speed of said variable speed means for maintaining the tension in the web at a substantially constant predetermined value.
21. A machine as set forth in claim 18 comprising first and second sealing jaws, the first jaw being movable toward and away from the second between an open position clear of the tubing and a closed position in sealing engagement with the tubing, the means for moving the jaws comprising means for moving the first jaw toward the second jaw relatively rapidly to a nearly closed position, and means for completing the movement of said first jaw from said nearly closed position to said closed position and then exerting pressure on the tubing for sealing it.
22. A machine as set forth in claim 18 having means for sealing together lapping margins of the web comprising an arm pivoted for swinging movement on a vertical axis at one side of the mandrel, a platen housing horizontally slidable on the arm for movement lengthwise of the arm, said arm with the housing therein being swingable on said axis between an operative position wherein said housing is in front of the mandrel and a retracted position wherein the housing is off to one side 


from in front of the mandrel, a sealing platen carried by the housing, means in the housing for moving the platen from a retracted position relative to the mandrel into sealing position engaging the lapping margins of the web on the mandrel for sealing said margins together during a dwell of the tubing between web feed cycles.
23. A machine as set forth in claim 18 having a pair of stripper members operated independently of the jaws movable relative to one another from an open position with respect to the tubing to a closed position squeezing the tubing, and movable while in their open position from a lowered position below the jaws generally vertically upward between the opened jaws to a raised position above the jaws, then movable generally horizontally to their closed position and down in their closed position to their lowered position for stripping product from within the region of the tubing to be sealed.
24. Apparatus for measuring, feeding and guiding a web being fed forward from a supply to a forming means in a vertical form-fill-seal packaging machine, said apparatus comprising a measuring roll, means mounting the measuring roll for movement relative to said forming means to steer the web to maintain it in a path aligned with the forming means, means for driving the measuring roll intermittently to feed forward a package length increment of the web, means for sensing deviation of the web one way or the other from said path, and means responsive to said sensing means on its sensing a deviation to move the measuring roll to steer the web back into said path.
25. Apparatus as set forth in claim 24 wherein the means for driving the measuring roll is carried by the measuring roll mounting means and movable therewith. 



 26. Apparatus as set forth in claim 24 having a fixed support and wherein the means mounting the measuring roll for movement relative to said forming means comprises a roll carrier mounted for pivotal movement on the fixed support about an axis extending generally at right angles to the measuring roll, the means responsive to the deviation sensing means comprises means for pivoting the roll carrier and the measuring roll one way or the other on said axis for steering the web back into said path.
27. Apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein the means for driving the measuring roll comprises a motor carried by said pivoted roll carrier.
28. Apparatus as set forth in claim 27 wherein said pivot axis extends generally through the center of length of the measuring roll.
29. Apparatus for forming, filling and sealing packages comprising a frame, a downwardly extending tubular mandrel carried by the frame for delivery of product to be packaged therethrough and out of the lower end of the mandrel, means for forming a web of packaging material into tubing surrounding the mandrel, a web measuring roll, means for intermittently driving the web measuring roll to feed a package length increment of the web forward toward the forming means, variable speed means for feeding the tubing downwardly on the mandrel and thereby pulling the web over the forming means under tension, means for sensing the tension in the web upstream from said forming means, and means responsive to said sensing means for varying the speed of said variable speed means relative to the speed of the measuring roll for maintaining the tension in the web at a substantially constant predetermined value. 


 30. Apparatus as set forth in claim 29 wherein said sensing means comprises a roll over which the web is guided on its way to said forming means, and transducer means supporting said roll for sensing the tension of the web and operable to transmit an electrical signal proportional to the tension for varying the speed of said variable speed means relative to the speed of the measuring roll for maintaining the tension in the web at a substantially constant predetermined value.
31. Apparatus as set forth in claim 30 wherein said variable speed means comprises a pair of belts for feeding the tubing downwardly on the mandrel, and programmable drive means for driving the belts, said electrical signal varying the speed of the programmable drive means to vary the speed of the belts for maintaining the tension in the web at a substantially constant predetermined value.
32. Sealing jaw apparatus for forming seals at package length intervals across tubing of packaging material in a vertical form-fill-seal packaging machine, comprising first and second sealing jaws, the first jaw being movable toward and away from the second between an open position clear of the tubing and a closed position in sealing engagement with the tubing, and a drive for said first jaw comprising means for moving the first jaw toward the second jaw relatively rapidly to a nearly closed position, and means for completing the movement of said first jaw from said nearly closed position to said closed position and exerting pressure on the tubing for sealing it.
33. Sealing jaw apparatus as set forth in claim 32 wherein said first means comprises an electric-motor-driven crank mechanism, and said second 


means comprises expansible chamber means operable when the first means has driven said first jaw to its said nearly closed position, to complete the closing of first jaw.
34. Sealing jaw apparatus as set forth in claim
33 wherein the crank mechanism, when actuated to drive the first jaw to its said nearly closed position, is at dead center and thereby held against return movement to take the reaction of the expansible chamber means as the expansible chamber means completes the movement of the first jaw from said nearly closed position to said closed position.
35. Sealing jaw apparatus as set forth in claim
34 having means mounting the first jaw for horizontal sliding movement between its said open and closed positions, and wherein the expansible chamber means comprises at least one air cylinder having a piston reciprocable therein, one of the cylinder and the piston being connected to and movable with the first jaw, the crank mechanism comprising a crank means, an electric motor for driving the crank means and link means interconnecting the crank means and the other of the cylinder and piston, the crank means being rotatable in one direction from a jaws-open position to a jaws-nearly-closed position, the connection of the link means to the said one of said cylinder and piston and the connection between the link means and the crank means and the axis of the crank means being aligned in the dead center position when the crank means rotates to the jaws-nearly-closed position.
36. Sealing jaw apparatus as set forth in claim
35 wherein the second jaw is movable by said crank means toward and away from said first jaw. 


 37. Apparatus for forming, filling and sealing packages comprising a frame, a downwardly extending tubular mandrel carried by the frame for delivery of product to be packaged therethrough and out of the lower end of the mandrel, means for forming a web of packaging material into tubing surrounding the mandrel with the edges of the web lapping, the tubing being fed downwardly on the mandrel in package length increments with a dwell between successive web feed cycles, and means for sealing together the lapping margins of the web comprising an arm pivoted for swinging movement on a vertical axis on the frame of the apparatus at one side of the mandrel, a housing horizontally slidable on the arm for movement lengthwise of the arm, said arm with the housing therein being swingable on said axis between an operative position wherein said housing is in front of the mandrel and a retracted position wherein the housing is off to one side from in front of the mandrel, a sealing platen carried by the housing, means in the housing for moving the platen from a retracted position relative to the mandrel into sealing position engaging the lapping margins of the web on the mandrel for sealing said margins together during a dwell of the tubing between web feed cycles.
38. Apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein the housing is freely slidable on the arm to an outer position relative to the arm, and having means associated with the housing and the arm for then adjusting the position of the housing on the arm.
39. Apparatus as set forth in claim 38 wherein means for moving the platen comprises expansible chamber means mounted in the housing.
40. Apparatus for forming, filling and sealing packages comprising: 


 means for forming flexible packaging material into tubing, the tubing extending downwardly;
means for feeding the tubing downwardly; means for transversely sealing the tubing at package length intervals, a quantity of the product with which the packages are to be filled being delivered into the tubing during an interval of time between successive sealing operations; said transverse sealing means comprising a pair of sealing members and means for moving said sealing members relatively to one another between an open position clear of the tubing and a closed position in sealing engagement with the tubing; said sealing members being operable in a generally horizontal fixed plane, the tubing being intermittently fed downwardly between the sealing members one package length increment when the sealing members are open, the sealing members then closing on the tubing; and a pair of stripper members operated 
'
 independently of the sealing members movable relative to one another from an open position with respect to the tubing to a closed position squeezing the tubing, and movable while in their open position from a lowered position below the sealing members up between the opened sealing members to a raised position above the sealing members, then movable to their closed position and down in their closed position to their lowered position for stripping product from within the region of the tubing to be sealed.
41. Apparatus as set forth in claim 40 wherein the stripper members are carried by a carriage movable up and down by expansible chamber means.
42. Apparatus as set forth in claim 40 wherein 


the stripper members are movable between their open and closed positions by expansible chamber means carried by the carriage.
43. Apparatus as set forth in claim 42 wherein the stripper members are movable between their open and closed positions by endless belt and pulley means carried by the carriage.
44. Apparatus as set forth in claim 43 having expansible chamber means for driving the carriage.
45. Apparatus as set forth in claim 40 wherein the stripper members are carried by a carriage movable up and down by cam means driven by expansible chamber means.
46. Apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein the cam means is a linear cam means reciprocable on a fixed track extending transversely with respect to the carriage.
47. An intermittently operating form, fill, and seal machine for making packages from a web of material, a machine for use with a product feed means for weighing a predetermined amount of product to be delivered to the machine and packaged within the package, said product feed means providing a product feed signal as soon as a preset amount of product is available, the machine comprising: means for forming the web into tubing; means for moving the web over the web forming means; jaws for sealing the tubing; means for moving the jaws to open and close the jaws; and a controller for receiving the product feed signal, for controlling the operation of the web moving 


means as a function of the product feed signal and for varying the actual cycle time in response to the received product feed signal whereby at least some consecutive cycle times vary.
48. The machine of claim 9 wherein the web of material includes registration marks and wherein the machine further comprises means for detecting the registration marks within a preset window and wherein the means for controlling the operation of the web moving means includes means for determining the deceleration as a function of the position of the registration mark relative to the window.
49. The machine of claim 48 wherein the determining means comprises means for determining a constant deceleration. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
