<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618338</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic switch assembly for motorized window system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05F1512	E05F1512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05F	E05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05F15	E05F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A universal electrical control (22) selectively drives either plural 
motorized window 

operators (18) for opening or closing one or more windows (12), or a 
motorized window operator (18) and 

plural motorized locks (20) for opening, closing and locking a window 
(12). The electrical control 

comprises an interface circuit (26) for connection to plural output 
devices comprising either 

motorized window operators or motorized window locks. An input switch 
(24) commands 

window movement to an open or close position. A control circuit is 
connected to the 

interface circuit and the input switch (24) and includes an 
initialization mode for determining if 

each output device is a motorized window operator or a motorized lock, 
and output drive 

mode operable in response to a command from the input switch for 
driving the output devices 

through the interface circuit in a lock sequence or a window sequence 
dependent upon the 

initialization mode respectively determining if a motorized window lock 
is connected or is 

not connected to the interface circuit. The lock sequence comprises 
opening any lock prior 

to opening the window and closing the window prior to closing the lock. 
The window 

sequence comprises driving the plural motorized window operators in a 
select desired sequence. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUTH HARDWARE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUTH HARDWARE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMILLAN SCOTT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMILLAN, SCOTT D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to windows and, more particularly, to an electronic 
switch assembly for a motorized window system. A window typically includes a fixed frame and a movable sash. The sash is 
usually mounted either for slidable movement relative to the frame or is hinged for pivotal 
movement, to open or close the window. One example of such a window is a casement 
window. Typically, a casement window is provided with a window operator to aid in 
manually opening and closing the window. An example of such a window operator is shown 
in Tucker, U.S. Patent No. 4,840,075, owned by the assignee of the present application. 
Such a window operator includes a rotatable shaft driving a linkage mechanism for selectively 
moving the sash relative to the frame to open or close the window. A handle is secured to 
the shaft using a set screw for ease of operation. In addition to the described casement window operator, various forms of 
window operators have been used for awning type windows in which the operator also 
includes a rotatable shaft. Similarly, certain skylight windows include a skylight window 
operator such as shown in Tacheny et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,521,993, also owned by the 
assignee of the present application. A skylight window operator also includes a rotatable 
shaft normally driven by a pole. The skylight window operator can also be used in 
connection with a double hung window in which the sash is slidably mounted in the frame, 
as by the window operator chain raising and lowering the sash. Each of the described window operators is well suited for its intended 
application. Nevertheless, with skylight windows the use of a manual operator may be 
problematic due to inaccessibility of the operator. To satisfy these concerns, motorized 
window operators have been used for skylight window operators, such as disclosed in the 
above-mentioned Tacheny et al. application, as well as Berner et al. U.S. Patent No. 
4,945,678, also owned by the assignee of the present application.  Having found success with motorized skylight window operators, there exists 
a desire to provide motorized operators for other types of windows, such as casement 
windows, awning windows or double hung windows. In connection with such desires, it is 
important to consider the millions of such window operators already installed and in use for 
which such motorized functionality is desired. To satisfy this desire, a motorized drive for 
a manual window operator has been developed as described in Midas, application
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A universal electrical control for selectively 
driving either plural motorized window operators for 

opening or closing one or more windows or a motorized 
window operator and plural motorized locks for opening, 

closing and locking a window, the electrical control 
comprising: 

   an interface circuit for connection to plural output 
devices comprising either motorized window operators or 

motorized window locks; 
   input means for commanding window movement to an open 

or close position; 
   a control circuit connected to said interface circuit 

and said input means and including initialization means for 
determining if each said output device is a motorized 

window operator or a motorized lock, and output drive means 
operable in response to a command from said input means for 

driving said output devices through said interface circuits 
in a lock sequence or a window sequence dependent on said 

initialization means respectively determining if a 
motorized window lock is connected or is not connected to 

said interface circuit, said lock sequence comprising 
opening any lock prior to opening the window and closing 

the window prior to closing the lock, the window sequence 
comprising driving the plural motorized window operators in 

a select desired sequence. 
An electrical window operator control for driving 
plural motorized window operators for opening or closing 

one or more windows or motorized locks for locking a 
window, the electrical control comprising: 

   an interface circuit for connection to plural output 
devices comprising either motorized window operators or 

motorized window locks; 
   input means for commanding window movement to an open 

or close position;
 

   a control circuit connected to said interface circuit 
and said input means and including initialization means for 

driving each said output device to cycle said output device 
to determine time to open or close the window or open or 

close the lock, said time being used to determine actual 
position according to subsequent length of time any such 

output device is driven, and output drive means operable in 
response to a command from said input means for driving 

said output devices through said interface circuits until 
actual position reaches a position commanded by said input 

means. 
A control as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein 
said output drive means drives any said motorized window 

operator to one of a plurality of select window open 
positions according to a length of time an open command is 

received from said input means. 
A control as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 
further comprising a power source and all output devices 

are powered from said power source. 
A control as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 
further comprising current sense means for sensing current 

drawn by said interface circuit in powering any said output 
device. 
A control as claimed in claim 5 wherein said 
initialization means is operatively associated with said 

current sense means for driving each said output device and 
determining if such driven output device is a motorized 

window operator or a motorized lock in accordance with 
current sensed by said current sense means. 
A control as claimed in claim 5 wherein said 
initialization means is operatively associated with said 

current sense means for driving each said output device to 
 

a full open position as determined by sensed current and 
then driving such output device to a full closed position 

and then full open position and determining length of time 
to open or close the window for using in determining window 

position. 
A control as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 
wherein said output drive means drives any said motorized 

window operator to a select window open position and 
further comprising means for varying said select position 

if a select high current level is sensed prior to the 
window opening to the select position. 
A motorized window operator system comprising: 
   a motorized window operator mountable to a window for 

opening or closing the window, the window including a sash 
movable relative to a frame; 

   a motorized lock mountable to the window for securing 
the sash closed against the frame; 

   a bridge circuit for connection to both said 
motorized window operator and said motorized window lock; 

   input means for commanding window movement to an open 
or close position; 

   a control circuit connected to said bridge circuit 
and said input means and including position command means 

for setting a desired window position in response to a 
command from said input means, and output drive means for 

driving said output devices through said bridge circuit in 
a select sequence, said sequence comprising opening said 

lock prior to opening the window to the desired window 
position and closing the window prior to closing the lock. 
A system as claimed in claim 9 further comprising 
current sense means for sensing current drawn by said 

bridge circuit in powering any said output device. 
A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said current 
sense means is connected to said control circuit and said 

output drive means is operable to close said window until a 
high current is sensed by said current sense means. 
A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein said 
motorized lock includes a switch contact in series with 

said motorized window operator, said switch contact opening 
to shut off said motorized operator when said window is 

closed and said output drive means is de-energized if a 
loss of current is sensed by said current sense means. 
A system as claimed in claim 12 wherein said 
motorized lock includes a diode connected across said 

switch contact so that said output drive means can open 

said window when said contact is open. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
