<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645769</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Signal encoding or decoding apparatus and recording medium
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1902	G11B2000	G11B2000	H04B166	H04B166	G10L1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G11B	G11B	H04B	H04B	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L19	G11B20	G11B20	H04B1	H04B1	G10L19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and an apparatus for encoding an input signal including the steps of
breaking down (601) the input signal into frequency components, separating (602) the

frequency components into a first signal made up of a plurality of tonal components and
a second signal made up of other components, the number of the frequency components

making up the tonal components being variable, encoding the first signal and encoding
the second signal, are disclosed. Also disclosed are a method and an apparatus for

decoding the encoded signals, and a recording medium (609) on which the encoded
signals are recorded. Tonal signals may be encoded efficiently depending on the

manner of distribution of their spectral energy to assure more efficient encoding on the
whole. If the signals compression coded in this manner are recorded on the recording

medium, the recording capacity may be employed effectively. Also, high-quality
acoustic signals may be obtained on decoding signals reproduced from the recording

medium (609).

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUTSUI KYOYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUTSUI, KYOYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a signal encoding and decoding
apparatus in which input digital data is encoded, transmitted,
recorded, reproduced and decoded by high efficiency encoding and
decoding to produce playback signals, and to a recording medium
for recording the encoded signals.There are a wide variety of techniques for high efficiency
encoding of audio or speech signals. In sub-band coding (SBC),
which is of the non-frame-forming system, the frequency band of
the audio signal on the time axis is divided into plural sub-bands
for encoding without forming the signal into frames along
the time axis prior to coding. In transform encoding, which is
of the frame-forming system, each frame of digital signals
representing the audio signals on the time axis is converted by
an orthogonal transform into a block of spectral coefficients
representing the audio signal on the frequency axis. In a
combination of sub-band coding and transform coding, the digital
signal representing the audio signal are divided into a plurality
of frequency ranges by sub-band coding, and transform coding is
applied to each of the frequency ranges.Known filters for dividing a frequency spectrum into a
plurality of frequency ranges include the quadrature mirror
filter (QMF), as discussed in, for example, R.E. Crochiere, 
Digital Coding of Speech in Sub-bands, 55 BELL SYST. TECH. J.,
No.8, (1976). The technique of dividing a frequency spectrum
into equal-width frequency ranges is discussed in Joseph H.
Rothweiler, Poly-Phase Quadrature Filters -A New Sub-band Coding
Technique, ICASSP 83 BOSTON.Known techniques for orthogonal transform include the
technique of dividing the digital input audio signal into frames
of a predetermined time duration, and processing the resulting
frames using a fast Fourier transform (FFT), discrete cosine
transform (DCT) or modified DCT (MDCT) to convert the signals
from the time axis to the frequency axis. Discussion of a MDCT
may be found in J.P. Princen and A.B. Bradley, Sub-band/Transform
Coding Using Filter Bank Based on Time Domain Aliasing
Cancellation, ICASSP 1987.By quantizing the signals divided by a filter into sub-bands
or the signals converted by orthogonal transform into blocks of
spectral coefficients, it becomes possible to control the
frequency band susceptible to quantization noise and to effect
encoding with acoustically higher efficiency by taking advantage
of masking effects. Encoding with still higher efficiency may
be achieved by normalizing each band with, for example, the
maximum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for encoding an input signal comprising the steps of:

breaking down (601) the input signal into frequency components;
separating (602) the frequency components into a first signal made up of a plurality
of tonal components and a second signal made up of other components, the number of

the frequency components making up the tonal components being variable;
encoding (603) said first signal;
encoding (604) said second signal; and
encoding information indicating the number of the frequency components making up
each tonal component.
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said breaking down is orthogonal
transform.
The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of
encoding said first signal comprises the step of quantizing said first signal.
The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of
encoding said first signal comprises the step of normalizing said first signal.
The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising the
step of grouping (605) said tonal components each made up of the same number of the

frequency components into code strings.
The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said input signal
is an acoustic signal.
An apparatus for encoding an input signal comprising:

means (601) for breaking down the input signal into frequency components; 
means (602) for separating the frequency components into a first signal made up
of a plurality of tonal components and a second input signal made up of other

components, the number of the frequency components making up the tonal
components being variable;
means (603) for encoding said first signal;
means (604) for encoding said second signal; and
means (602) for encoding information indicating the number of the frequency
components making up each tonal component.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said breaking down is orthogonal
transform.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 or 8, wherein said first encoding
means (603) includes means for quantizing said first signal.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein said first encoding
means (603) includes means for normalizing said first signal.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, further comprising means
(605) for grouping said tonal components each made up of the same number of the

frequency components into code strings.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein said input signal is
an acoustic signal.
A signal recording medium on which an encoded signal is recorded, said signal
being formed by the steps of:


breaking down (601) an input signal into frequency components;
separating (602) the frequency components into a first signal made up of a plurality
of tonal components and a second signal made up of other components, the number of

the frequency components making up the tonal components being variable;
encoding (603) said first signal; 
encoding (604) said second signal;
encoding (606) information indicating the number of the frequency components
making up each tonal component; and
recording (608) the encoded first signals, the encoded second signals and the
encoded information indicating the number of frequency components making up each

encoded tonal component on the recording medium (609).
The signal recording medium as claimed in claim 13, wherein said breaking down
is orthogonal transform.
The signal recording medium as claimed in any one of claims 13 or 14, wherein the
step of encoding (603) said first signal comprises quantizing said first signal.
The signal recording medium as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the
step of encoding (603) said first signal comprises normalizing said first signal.
The signal recording medium as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 16, formed by
the additional step of grouping (605) said tonal components each made up of the same

number of the frequency components into code strings.
The signal recording medium as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein the
input signal is an acoustic signal.
A signal recording medium on which encoded signals are recorded, wherein

   information on plural tonal components (603) and information on noisy components
(604) are recorded separately therein, and wherein

   said information on said tonal components includes information indicating the
number of frequency components making up each tonal component.
The signal recording medium as claimed in claim 19, wherein said information on
said tonal component includes one of information on normalization coefficients and

information on quantization precision. 
The signal recording medium as claimed in claims 19 or 20, wherein the
information on said tonal components is recorded according to groups of information on

the tonal components having the same number of the frequency components making up
each tonal component.
A method for decoding an encoded signal comprising the steps of:

decoding (702) a first signal made up of plural tonal components to generate a first
decoded signal;
decoding (703) a second signal made up of noisy components to generate a second
decoded signal; and
combining (704) said first and second decoded signals and inverse transforming
(705) the combined signals, or separately inverse transforming (712, 713) said first and

second decoded signals and combining (714) the inverse transformed signals, the
combining and inverse transforming step being performed on the basis of information

indicating the number of the frequency components making up each tonal component.
The method as claimed in claim 22, wherein said combining and inverse
transforming step comprises inverse orthogonal transforming said first and second

decoded signals.
The method as claimed in claims 22 or 23, wherein the step of decoding the first
signal comprises dequantizing said first signal.
The method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein the step of decoding
the first signal comprises denormalizing said first signal.
The method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein said first signal is
grouped according to groups of information on the tonal components having the same

number of the frequency components making up each tonal component.
The method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 26, wherein the signal obtained
by said inverse transforming step is an acoustic signal. 
An apparatus for decoding an encoded signal comprising:

first decoding means (702) for decoding a first signal made up of plural tonal
components to generate a first decoded signal;
second decoding means (703) for decoding a second signal made up of noisy
components to generate a second decoded signal; and
combining and inverse transforming means (711) for combining said first and second
decoded signals and inverse transforming the combined signals, or separately inverse

transforming said first and second decoded signals and combining the inverse
transformed signals, the combining and inverse transforming means performing the

combining operation on the basis of information indicating the number of the frequency
components making up each tonal component.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 28, wherein said combining and inverse
transforming means comprises inverse orthogonal transforming means for inverse

orthogonal transforming said first and second decoded signals.
The apparatus as claimed in claims 28 or 29, wherein said first decoding means
comprises dequantizing means for dequantizing said first signal.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 28 to 30, wherein said first decoding
means comprises denormalizing means for denormalizing said first signal.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 28 to 31, wherein said first signal is
grouped according to groups of information on the tonal components having the same

number of the frequency components making up each tonal component.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 28 to 32, wherein an output of said
combining and inverse transforming means is an acoustic signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
