<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644818</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CUTTING INDEX TABS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D300	B26D314	B26D520	B26D534	B26D701	B26D701	B26F102	B26F112	B42F2100	B42F2112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26F	B26F	B42F	B42F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D3	B26D3	B26D5	B26D5	B26D7	B26D7	B26F1	B26F1	B42F21	B42F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of realizing an index in one edge of a book comprises the steps that a number of sheets which are to be allocated an index tab are counted off and provided with recesses for forming the index tabs, and that this is repeated until the intended number of index tabs has been formed. At least certain of the sheets are provided with a machine-readable code and the sheets are flipped through, whereupon the flip operation is arrested when the code indicates that the correct sheet has been located. An apparatus for realizing an index in one edge of a book comprises a holder device (4) for the sheets (1) of the book, a punch (11) for punching recesses in the edge of the sheets (1) for forming index tabs, counter means (14, 15) for counting, in the book, such numbers of sheets as are to be allocated each index tab and provided with corresponding recesses. The counter means include a machine-readable code on the sheet (1) and a reader herefor, a flip wheel (14) and a sheet holder (15) and a control unit which arrests the flip operation when the reader has located the correct sheet.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PETTERSEN OLA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PETTERSEN, OLA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETTERSEN OLA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETTERSEN, OLA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CUTTING INDEX TABSTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to a method for realizing an index in one edge of sheets arranged in a stack, for example a telephone directory or the like, comprising the steps that a first number of sheets to be allocated a first index tab is counted off from the stack, that these sheets are provided in their edges with recesses of a first size and/or location, that a second number of sheets to be allocated a second index tab is counted off from the stack, and that these sheets are provided in their edges with recesses of a second size and/or location, and that this procedure is repeated until the intended number of index tabs has been completed.The present invention also relates to an apparatus for realizing an index in one edge of sheets arranged in a stack, for example a telephone directory or the like, comprising a holder device for the stack, a punch, cutter or guillotine device for making recesses in the edge of the sheets for forming index tabs, counter means for counting off from the stack such determined numbers of sheets as are to be allocated each index tab and provided with recesses in correspondence therewith.BACKGROUND ARTMany different fields of technology suffer from the problem of counting the number of sheets included in a stack or counting off from a stack a given number of sheets. By way of concrete example of such technology, mentioned might be made of banknote counting machines.In equipment for banknote counting, the banknotes are counted in that each individual note is grasped by a suction nozzle or suction cup which lifts up a part of the banknote from the stack or wad without breaking the wad. The counting of the banknotes is effected in that the number of movement strokes of the suction nozzle or suction cup is registered. 

If operational reliability is not 100%, substantial errors will be obtained using this technology in the registered quantity if, for example, certain banknotes are leapfrogged such that the suction nozzle moves empty during one or more working cycles. Thus, in such a design and construction, large cumulative errors may occur.In banknote counting, it is also known to break up a wad of banknotes and displace the banknotes with the aid of a transfer mechanism which peels off banknote after banknote from the wad. According to this prior art technology, each banknote is registered as displaced from the one stack or wad to the other, for which reason the risk of cumulative errors of the above- outlined
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of realizing an index in one edge (3) of sheets arranged in a stack (1), for example a telephone directory or the like, comprising the steps that a first number of sheets to be allocated a first index tab is counted off from the stack (1), that these sheets are provided in their edges (3) with recesses of a first size and/or location, that a second number of sheets to be allocated a second index tab is counted off from the stack, and that these sheets are provided in their edges (3) with recesses of a second size and/or location, and that this procedure is repeated until the intended number of index tabs has been completed, characterized in that at least certain of the sheets are provided with a machine-readable code (17); that, on the counting-off operation, the sheets are flipped through one or more at a time, the code being read off; and that the flip operation is arrested when the code indicates that the correct sheet has been located through the flip operation.
2. The method as claimed in Claim 1 , characterized in that the sheet in the process of being counted off is held with a portion thereof in a position against the stack; and that the sheets in a complete number of counted-off sheets are transferred together, for example bent, to a position where the recess is made in their edge.
3. The method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the stack (1) is held positionally fixed along a portion (2) which is substantially parallel with that edge portion (3) where the recesses are made; that the stack (1), between the positionally fixed portion and that portion where the flip operation is carried out, is held bent at an angle; that counted-off sheets are bent back towards or past the direction of the sheets in the positionally fixed portion for realizing the recesses; and that recessed sheets are bent further an additional angle when the recesses have been made.
4. The method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the a relative displacement between the stack (1) and that device (11) which makes the recesses takes place between the making of the different recesses. 


5. The method as claimed in any one of Claims 3 or 4, characterized in that the the stack (1) is displaced parallel with its plane of extent in one insertion direction (6); that the stack is positionally fixed and bent; that the bent stack is pivoted to a treatment position where counting-off of the sheets takes place and the recesses are made; and that the sheets are bent back towards straight position and at least partly pivoted back from the treatment position whereafter the stack is released and removed.
6. The method as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims, characterized in that the flip operation is achieved in that a wheel (14) is brought into contact with the stack (1) and set in rotation.
7. The method as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims, characterized in that the code (17) is placed on those portions of the sheets which are removed on making the recesses.
8. An apparatus for realizing an index in one edge of sheets arranged in a stack (1), for example a telephone directory or the like, comprising a holder device (4, 5) for the stack (1), a punch, cutter or guillotine device (11) for making recesses in the edge of the sheets for forming index tabs, counter means (14, 15, 17, 18) for counting off from the stack (1) such predetermined numbers of sheets as are to be allocated each index tab and provided with recesses in correspondence therewith, characterized in that said counter means include a machine-readable code (17) on at least certain of the sheets, a reader (18) for sensing the code, a flip device (14, 15) which, on counting off of sheets, is operative to flip the sheets one or more at a time, and a control unit which is operative to arrest the flip device (14, 15) when the reader (18) has registered the correctly flipped sheet and to restart the flip operation when the flipped sheet has been displaced.
9. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that the holder device includes a table (4) for supporting the stack (1), there being disposed, along one edge portion of the table, a clamping device (5) for positionally fixing a portion of the stack (1), and there being disposed, a distance from the clamping device (5), and carried by or together with the table (4), the reader (18), the flip device (14) and a sheet holder for fixedly 


retaining against the table (4) portions of sheets in the process of being counted.
10. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 or 9, characterized in that the flip device includes a wheel (14) drivable by drive means (40), the wheel being urged against those sheets which are to be flipped through, the wheel (14) being drivable in one direction in which its point of contact with the sheets moves towards the portion of the stack (1) fixedly retained by the holder device. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
