<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649458</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AQUEOUS LUBRICATION AND SURFACE CONDITIONING FOR FORMED METAL SURFACES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D5126	B21D5126	C10M10700	C10M10734	C10M17300	C10M17300	C10M17302	C10M17302	C10N1006	C10N1008	C10N1010	C10N1012	C10N1016	C10N3006	C23C2205	C23C2234	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10N	C10N	C10N	C10N	C10N	C10N	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D51	B21D51	C10M107	C10M107	C10M173	C10M173	C10M173	C10M173	C10N10	C10N10	C10N10	C10N10	C10N10	C10N30	C23C22	C23C22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lubricant and surface conditioner for formed metal surfaces, particularly beverage containers, reduces the coefficient of static friction of said metal surfaces and enables drying said metal surfaces at a lower temperature. The conditioner is formed by contacting the metal surface with an aqueous composition that includes a water-soluble organic material selected from a phosphate ester, alcohol, fatty acid including mono-, di-, tri-, and polyacids; fatty acid derivatives such as salts, hydroxy acids, amides, esters, ethers and derivatives thereof; and mixtures thereof.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AWAD SAMI B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY TIMM L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROCHFORT GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AWAD, SAMI, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY, TIMM, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROCHFORT, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionAQUEOUS LUBRICATION AND SURFACE CONDITIONING FOR FORMED METAL SURFACESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to processes and compositions which accomplish at least one, and most preferably all, of the following related objectives when applied to formed metal surfaces, more particularly to the surfaces of cleaned aluminum and/or tin plated cans: (i) reducing the coefficient of static friction of the treated surfaces after drying of such surfaces, without adversely affecting the adhesion of paints or lac¬ quers applied thereto; (ii) promoting the drainage of water from treated surfaces, without causing "water-breaks", i.e., promoting drainage that results in a thin, continuous film of water on the cans, instead of distinct water droplets separated by the relatively dry areas called "water-breaks" between the water droplets; and (iii) lowering the dryoff oven temperature required for drying said surfaces after they have been rinsed with water. Discussion of Related Art The following discussion and the description of the invention will be set forth primarily for aluminum cans, as these represent the largest volume area of application of the invention. However, it is to be understood that, with the obviously necessary modifications, both the discussion and the description of the invention apply also to tin plated steel cans and to other types of formed metal surfaces for which any of the above stated intended purposes of the invention is practically interesting.Aluminum cans are commonly used as containers for a wide variety of prod¬ ucts. After their manufacture, the aluminum cans are typically washed with acidic cleaners to remove aluminum fines and other contaminants therefrom. Environmental considerations and the possibility that residues remaining on the cans following acidic cleaning could influence the flavor of beverages packaged in the cans has led to an interest in alkaline or acid cleaning to remove such fines and contaminants. However, such cleaning of aluminum cans generally results in differential rates of metal surface etch on the outside versus on the inside of the cans. For example, optimum conditions 

required to attain an aluminum fine-free surface on the inside of the cans usually leads to can mobility problems on conveyors because of the increased roughness on the outside can surface.Aluminum cans that lack a low coefficient of static friction (hereinafter often abbreviated as "COF") on the outside surface usually do not move past each other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A process comprising the steps of cleaning a metal can with an aqueous acidic or alkaline cleaning solution, drying the cleaned can, and subsequently conveying the cleaned and dried can via automatic conveying equipment to a location where it is lac- quered or decorated by printing or both, characterized by contacting at least one exter¬ ior surface of said metal can, prior to the last drying of said exterior surface before automatic conveying, with a lubricant and surface conditioner forming composition, thereby forming a film on the can surface to provide the surface of the can after dry¬ ing with a coefficient of static friction that is not more than 1.5, preferably not more o than 1.2, more preferably not more than 1.0, still more preferably not more than 0.80, and that is less than would be obtained on a can surface of the same type without such film coating, said lubricant and surface conditioner forming composition being an aqueous solution comprising water-soluble organic material selected from the group consisting of alkoxylated or non-alkoxylated castor oil triglycerides, hydrogenated s castor oil derivatives, alkoxylated and non-alkoxylated amine salts of a fatty acid in¬ cluding mono-, di-, tri-, and poly-acids; alkoxylated and non-alkoxylated amino fatty acids, alkoxylated and non-alkoxylated fatty amine N-oxides, alkoxylated and non- alkoxylated quaternary ammonium salts, oxa-acid esters, and water-soluble alkoxylated and non-alkoxylated polymers and mixtures thereof, and also comprising at least one o of the elements selected from zirconium, titanium, cerium, aluminum, iron, tin, vanadium, tantalum, niobium, molybdenum, tungsten, and hafnium in metallic or ionic form and the film formed on the can surface contains at least part of said inorganic material in addition to said organic material.
2. A process according to claim 1, wherein said aqueous solution includes at least 5 one material selected from the group consisting of alkoxylated amine salts of a fatty acid including mono-, di-, tri-, and poly-acids; alkoxylated amino fatty acids, alkoxyl¬ ated fatty amine N-oxides, alkoxylated quaternary ammonium salts, and water-soluble alkoxylated polymers. 


3. A process according to claim 2, wherein said aqueous solution includes at least one material selected from the group consisting of ethoxylated amine salts of a fatty acid including mono-, di-, tri-, and poly-acids; ethoxylated amino fatty acids, ethoxyl¬ ated fatty amine N-oxides, ethoxylated quaternary ammonium salts, and water-soluble ethoxylated polymers.
4. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution includes an amine salt of a fatty acid.
5. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution includes an amino fatty acid.
6. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution includes a fatty amine N-oxide.
7. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution includes a quat¬ ernary salt.
8. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution includes a water soluble polymer.
9. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution includes an al¬ koxylated or non-alkoxylated castor oil triglyceride or a hydrogenated castor oil deriv¬ ative.
10. A process according to claim 1 wherein said inorganic material includes zircon- ium.
11. A process according to claim 1 wherein said inorganic material includes titan¬ ium.
12. A process according to claim 1 wherein said aqueous solution also includes a non-ionic, anionic, cationic, or amphoteric surfactant.
13. A process according to claim 12 wherein said surfactant is ethoxylated.
14. A process according to claim 12 wherein said surfactant is an anionic surfact¬ ant. 


15. A process according to claim 1 wherein said lubricant and surface conditioner is applied following can cleaning in a cleaning composition with a fluoride ion activity at least as great as the activity indicated by a fluoride sensitive electrode reading of -10 mv. 16. A process according to any one of claims 1 - 15, wherein the can is an alumi¬ num or tin plated steel can.
17. A process according to claim 16, wherein the lubricant and surface conditioner is applied and the treated can is subjected to at least two contacts with aqueous com¬ positions after such application of the lubricant and surface conditioner.
18. A process comprising the steps of cleaning an aluminum can with an aqueous acidic or alkaline cleaning solution, drying the cleaned can, and subsequently convey¬ ing the cleaned and dried can via automatic conveying equipment to a location where it is lacquered or decorated by printing or both, characterized by contacting at least one exterior surface of said aluminum can, prior to the last drying of said exterior sur- face before automatic conveying, with a lubricant and surface conditioner forming composition and drying the can without subsequent rinsing, thereby forming a film on the can surface to provide the surface of the can after drying with a coefficient of stat¬ ic friction that is not more than 1.5, preferably not more than 1.2, more preferably not more than 1.0, still more preferably not more than 0.80, and is less than the COF that would be obtained by an otherwise identical sequence of treatments except that the lubricant and surface conditioner forming composition is substituted with water only, characterized in that the lubricant and surface conditioner forming composition is an aqueous solution comprising at least one of alkoxylated and non-alkoxylated castor oil triglycerides and hydrogenated castor oil derivatives, fatty amine oxides having at least one hydroxyethyl substituent on the amine oxide nitrogen atom, and oxa-acid esters.
19. A process according to claim 18, wherein the lubricant and surface conditioner forming composition comprises ethoxylated, hydrogenated castor oil triglycerides. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
