<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635639</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved wind turbine transmission.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F03D1100	F03D1102	F16H344	F16H372	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F03D	F03D	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F03D11	F03D11	F16H3	F16H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Wind turbine transmission apparatus (8) including at least one 
planetary transmission stage, operative for providing a continuously 

variable transmission ratio between a rotational input from 
a wind-rotor and a rotational output to an electric generator. 

The variable transmission ratio preferably varies substantially 
in accordance with the velocity of the wind powering the wind 

turbine. Preferably, the at least one planetary transmission 
stage includes a primary planetary stage providing a fixed transmission 

ratio between the rotational input and a primary rotation, 
and a secondary planetary stage providing a variable transmission 

ratio between the primary rotation and the rotational 
output. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASHOT ASHKELON IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASHOT ASHKELON INDUSTRIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIOR DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIOR, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to wind turbines in general 
and, more specifically, to improved transmission apparatus for 
use with wind turbines. Wind turbines are well known in the art. A typical wind 
turbine includes a wind-powered rotor, a transmission mechanism 
and an electric generator. The speed conversion ratio of a turbine is normally defined 
as the rotor speed, in rounds per minute (RPM), divided by the 
RPM speed of the rotating element in the electric generator. Wind 
turbine transmissions generally provide a constant (i.e. fixed) 
transmission ratio. Since wind-turbines are normally connected to existing 
electric grids, the frequency of alternating current in the grid 
(typically 50-60 Hz A.C.) constrains the generator to a constant 
speed of rotation. Due to the generally constant speed conversion ratio of the 
transmission mechanism and the constrained rotation of the electric 
generator, the wind-rotor is normally also constrained to a 
constant speed of rotation. This results in an average loss of 
approximately 20% of usable wind power, due to aerodynamic inefficiency 
of the rotor. Partial reduction of the above mentioned aerodynamic inefficiency  
 
of the rotor can be achieved through "pitch control" 
which, generally speaking, consists of varying the angle of the 
rotor's blades in accordance with the velocity of the wind. 
However, this solution is only partial and does not eliminate the 
aerodynamic energy loss. Wind turbines having fixed-ratio transmission are generally 
characterized by low fatigue-resistance. It is well known that 
gusts of wind, which apply high input torques to the wind turbine 
through the wind-powered rotor, have an accumulatively straining 
effect on the wind-turbines. Due to the constrained speed of the 
wind-powered rotor, these sudden energy inputs are not translated 
into faster rotation of the turbine but, rather, they are internally 
absorbed by elements of the wind turbine. For the foregoing reasons, attempts have been made in the 
past to construct wind turbine transmissions featuring multiple 
transmission-ratios to account for different wind situations. 
However, since the frequency of the grid must be perfectly 
matched, for most purposes, such devices provide only slight 
efficiency improvement and only for unique wind-environments, 
wherein wind velocity changes are drastic and occur at known 
intervals. In most cases, wind velocity-change patterns can not 
be foreseen at practical accuracy. U.S. Patent 3,140,170 discloses a fluid-driven
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Wind turbine transmission apparatus comprising at least one 
planetary transmission stage, operative for providing a continuously 

variable transmission ratio between a rotational input from 
a wind-rotor and a rotational output to an electric generator. 
Transmission apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
variable transmission ratio varies substantially in accordance 

with the velocity of the wind powering the wind turbine. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 and wherein the at 
least one planetary transmission stage comprises: 

   a primary planetary stage providing a fixed transmission 
ratio between the rotational input and a primary rotation; and 

   a secondary planetary stage providing a variable transmission 
ratio between the primary rotation and the rotational output. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 - 3 and further 
comprising at least one servo motor operative to receive an 

electric power input and thereby to provide appropriate rotational 
power to the at least one planetary transmission stage, when 

the rotational input is below a preselected rate, and operative 
to receive appropriate rotational power from the at least one 

planetary transmission stage and to generate a corresponding 
electric power output, when the rotational input is above the 

 
preselected rate, such that the rotational output remains substantially 

at a preselected, constant, rate. 
Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the appropriate 
rotational power provided to and/or received from the at least 

one planetary transmission stage is provided to and/or received 
from the second planetary stage. 
Apparatus according to either of claims 4 and 5 wherein the 
electric power is generated and received through a variable-ratio 

AC frequency converter. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the primary planetary 
stage comprises: 

   an input shaft operative to receive the rotational input; 
   a substantially stationary primary ring gear; 

   a primary planetary arrangement, comprising a plurality of 
primary planet gears, associated with the input shaft and rotatable 

with respect to the primary ring gear; and 
   a primary sun gear for providing the primary rotation, 

   wherein the rotational input is received by the input shaft 
and transmitted by the primary planetary arrangement to the 

primary sun gear which, thereby, provides the primary rotation. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the secondary 
planetary stage comprises: 

   a rotatable primary ring gear;
 

   a secondary planetary arrangement, comprising a plurality of 
secondary planet gears, associated with the primary rotation and 

rotatable with respect to the circumferential ring gear; and 
   an secondary sun gear for providing the rotational output, 

   wherein the primary rotation is received by the secondary 
planetary arrangement and transmitted to the secondary sun gear 

which, thereby, provides the rotational output. 
Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the secondary ring 
gear rotates in the same direction as the secondary sun gear, 

whenever the rotational input is below a preselected rate, and 
rotates in a direction opposite that of the secondary sun gear, 

whenever the rotational input is above the preselected rate, such 
that the rotational output remains substantially at a preselected, 

constant, rate. 
Apparatus according to claim 9 and further comprising at 
least one servo motor operative to receive an electric power 

input and thereby to appropriately rotate the secondary ring gear 
of the secondary planetary stage when the rotational input is 

above the preselected rate, and operative to receive appropriate 
rotational power from the secondary ring gear and to generate a 

corresponding electric power output when the rotational input is 
below the preselected rate, such that the rotational output 

remains substantially at the preselected, constant, rate. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the electric power 
is generated and received through a variable-ratio AC frequency 

converter. 
A wind turbine comprising: 
   a wind-powered rotor; 

   transmission apparatus according to any of claims 1 - 11 
wherein the rotational input is a variable-rate rotation received 

from the wind-powered rotor; and 
   an AC voltage generator operative to receive the rotational 

output and to provide a corresponding output voltage. 
A wind turbine according to claim 12 wherein the rotational 
output of the transmission apparatus is at a fixed rate. 
A wind turbine according to claim 13 wherein the corresponding 
output voltage comprises an AC voltage at a fixed frequency. 
A wind turbine according to claim 14 wherein the fixed frequency 
is 50 Hz. 
A wind turbine according to claim 14 wherein the fixed frequency 
is 60 Hz. 
A wind turbine comprising: 
   a wind-powered rotor; 

   transmission apparatus according to any of claims 4 - 6, 10 
 

and 11, wherein the rotational input is a variable-rate rotation 
received from the wind-powered rotor; and 

   an AC voltage generator operative to receive the rotational 
output and to provide a corresponding output voltage to an electric 

grid, 
   wherein the electric power output of the servo motor is 

generated to the electric grid and the electric power input is 
supplied to the servo motor by the electric grid. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
