<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643209</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and internal combustion engine with an apparatus for introducing fuel into a dual fuel system using a hybrid of diffusion and premixed combustion process
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02D1900	F02B104	F02F326	F02B702	F02D1910	F02B2306	F02B700	F02B100	F02M4300	F02F326	F02B2302	F02M4300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02D	F02B	F02F	F02B	F02D	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02M	F02F	F02B	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02D19	F02B1	F02F3	F02B7	F02D19	F02B23	F02B7	F02B1	F02M43	F02F3	F02B23	F02M43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus are provided for introducing a main fuel (12) 
and a pilot fuel (14) which is more readily flammable than the main 

fuel and 
which serves to ignite the main fuel into an internal combustion engine 

(10) having at least one cylinder having a combustion chamber. A set of 
conditions are defined to constitute high load conditions on the engine and 

to constitute low load conditions on the engine. The load conditions are 
detected. At high load conditions, the main fuel is introduced into the 

combustion chamber prior to introducing the pilot fuel and the pilot 
fuel is 

introduced into the combustion chamber a predetermined amount of time 
after the introduction of the main fuel. At low load conditions the 

pilot fuel 
is introduced into the combustion chamber in advance of the main fuel, and 

the main fuel is introduced into the combustion chamber a predetermined 
amount of time after the introduction of the pilot fuel. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAHUNG HSU BERTRAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAHUNG HSU, BERTRAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates an internal combustion engine and a method of combining 
diffusion combustion and premixed combustion in a dual fuel system by 
controlling the timing of the pilot fuel and main fuel injections. The 
internal combustion engine and method of this invention may be used to advantage in duel 
fuel diesel engines, and especially locomotive engines. Diesel engines efficiently convert the latent heat of hydrocarbon fuel 
into useful mechanical power. In the operation of conventional diesel 
engines, a metered amount of fuel is injected into each cylinder of the 
engine at recurrent intervals synchronized with rotation of the engine 
crankshaft to coincide with the air-compression stroke of a reciprocating 
piston. As the pressure in the combustion chamber increases, the 
compression temperature in the cylinder nses and the injected fuel is soon 
hot enough to ignite. The resulting combustion or firing of fuel in the 
cylinder forces the piston to move in the opposite direction, thereby 
applying torque to the engine crankshaft. Conventional diesel engine fuel is a relatively low grade, refined 
petroleum known generally as diesel fuel oil which has desirable ignition 
and heat release characteristics. Diesel fuel oil has acceptably low levels of 
corrosive, abrasive and other noxious matter, and it is in ample supply at 
the present time. Diesel engines typically burn fuel in a diffusion combustion mode. 
In that mode, the fuel burns as it comes into the chamber before it is well 
mixed with air. Since only pure air is compressed in the compression  
 
stroke of the engine, a high compression ratio can be used to obtain high 
cycle efficiency. However, the local combustion air to fuel ratio cannot be 
controlled. On the other hand, gasoline engines, such as automobile engines, 
burn fuel after it has been well mixed with air. This mode of burning fuel 
is called premixed combustion. In this mode, the fuel is pre-mixed with air 
to form a combustible mixture. The mixture is compressed in the 
compression stroke of the engine. The compression ratio is limited to a 
lower value to avoid the hazardous "detonation" or "knock". Lower cycle 
efficiency results. However, the combustion air to fuel ratio can be 
controlled. In this case, the advantage of "lean burn" can be obtained. The 
conventional gas engine operates in this combustion mode. Usually, the gas 
fuel is introduced at low pressure either into the intake manifold or directly 
into the engine cylinder before the compression stroke.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of introducing a main fuel and a pilot fuel which is 
more readily flammable than the main fuel into an internal combustion 

engine having at least one cylinder having a combustion chamber 
comprising: 


a. defining a set of conditions to constitute high load conditions 
on the engine, and defining another set of conditions to 

constitute low load conditions on the engine; 
b. detecting the load conditions on the engine; and, 
c. at high load conditions, 

(1) introducing the main fuel into the combustion 
chamber prior to introducing the pilot fuel; 
(2) introducing the pilot fuel into the combustion chamber 
a predetermined amount of time after the introduction 

of the main fuel; and, 
d. at low load conditions 

(1) introducing the pilot fuel into the combustion chamber 
in advance of the main fuel; 
(2) introducing the main fuel into the combustion 
chamber a predetermined amount of time after the 

introduction of the pilot fuel; 
 
characterized in that the pilot fuel is injected into the center of the combustion chamber and the main fuel is injected into a side of said combustion chamber in a 

manner so that a substantial amount of it is intermixed with cylinder 
charged air prior to combustion by imparting angular momentum to the cylinder charge. 
The method of claim 1 in which the pilot fuel is diesel fuel. 
The method of claim 1 in which the main fuel is natural gas. 
The method of claim 1 in which a pre-mixed portion of the main 
fuel is gasoline.  

 
The method of claim 4 in which the gasoline has been premixed 
with air prior to its introduction into the combustion chamber. 
The method of claim 1 in which the main fuel is natural gas, and 
the pilot fuel is diesel fuel, and in which the natural gas is injected into the 

combustion chamber at high load conditions so that about 50% of the total 
amount of natural gas is introduced prior to the introduction of the diesel fuel. 
The method of claim 1 in which the main fuel is natural gas, and 
the pilot fuel is diesel fuel, and in which the diesel fuel is. injected into the 

combustion chamber at low load conditions prior to the introduction of the 
natural gas within an ignition delay time of the pilot 

fuel. 
The method of claim 7, wherein said ignition delay time is between 1 - 2 ms. 
An internal combustion engine having an apparatus for separately injecting primary fuel and a high 
combustion auxiliary fuel into a combustion chamber of said internal 

combustion engine having at least one cylinder 
comprising: 


a. means for defining a set of conditions to constitute high load 
conditions on the engine, and defining another set of 

conditions to constitute low load conditions on the engine; 
b. load sensing means for detecting the load conditions of the 
engine; 
c. control means for determining the relationship of the timing 
of the injection of the auxiliary fuel into the combustion 

chamber with respect to the primary fuel in cooperation with 
the load sensing means to achieve a predetermined specific 

fuel consumption, a predetermined combustion efficiency, and 
a predetermined peak cylinder firing pressure; and 
d. means (12) for introducing the main fuel into the combustion 
chamber at high load conditions prior to introducing the pilot 

fuel and for introducing the pilot fuel into the combustion  
 

chamber a predetermined amount of time after 
the introduction of the main fuel; and, 
e. means 14 for introducing the pilot fuel into the 
combustion chamber at low load conditions in 

advance of the main fuel and for introducing 
the main fuel into the combustion chamber a 

predetermined amount of time after the 
introduction of the pilot fuel, characterized 

in that said introducing means (12) for introducing the pilot fuel is centrally mounted in said combustion chamber and said introducing means for introducing the main fuel is positioned on the side of the combustion chamber and is disposed 
so that the fuel spray therefrom is injected at 

an angle to the diameter to impart angular 
momentum to the cylinder charge so that a 

substantial amount of said main fuel is 
intermixed with cylinder charged air prior to 

combustion. 
The internal combustion engine of claim 9 in which said engine 
comprises at least two cylinders, each having a 

reciprocating piston operatively connected to a crank and 
a combustion chamber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
