<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628458</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Variable load control valve device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B61H1300	B60T1536	B60T818	B61H1330	B60T822	B60T818	B60T1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B61H	B60T	B60T	B61H	B60T	B60T	B60T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B61H13	B60T15	B60T8	B61H13	B60T8	B60T8	B60T15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A diaphragm-type of variable load control valve 
device having a diaphragm piston assembly for effectively 

providing pressurized fluid to the brake cylinders of a 
railway vehicle in accordance with the brake demand 

established by a vehicle operator and at a pressure level 
in conformance with the load condition of the vehicle. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOWDA PADMANAB L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOWDA, PADMANAB L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a changeable variable load
control valve and more particularly to a diaphragm-type
of variable load control valve device which functions to
limit maximum value of air pressure that is directed to
the brake cylinders in proportion to the ratio of the air
spring pressure and brake cylinder pressure in a railway
vehicle.It is well known to those skilled in the art that
overbraking and ensuing wheel lockup and wheel sliding on
lightly loaded rapid and/or mass transit vehicles must be
avoided since flat spots and damage to the wheels may
occur during the braking of passenger trains. On heavily
loaded railway vehicles there is the possibility that
underbraking conditions may result in longer braking
distances which may cause a railway train to overrun its
normal stopping point at a station or a block section.
In order to avoid an overbraking and underbraking
condition, it is common practice to employ a standard
variable load control valve device such as
shown and disclosed in US-A-3,460,872;
US-A-3,504,698; US-A-3,517,971; US-A-3,583,772, US-A-4,453,779, and
US-A-4,585,279, the embodiment of Figure 4 showing the prior art as
defined in the preamble of the independent claim 1. 
It has been found that the break-away friction
characteristics associated with the dynamic O-ring seals
can cause a relatively large variation in the output
pressure particularly when the valve has been idle or
unoperated for a long period of time, such as, an
overnight layover. Even though the O-rings are
thoroughly lubricated during the initial assembly of the
valve, the lubricant is eventually dissipated or
dispersed during the subsequent operation of the valve so
that the amount of static friction is dramatically
increased.A solution is to make use of flexible diaphragms as in
US-A-4,585,279. However, here no solution of how to attach the flexible
diaphragms to the piston member is given. A rigid attachment of a
diaphragm to a piston member makes the exchange of parts during
servicing inefficient.A further drawback with the device according to US-A-4,585,279
is that it is not provided with a release valve of a kind known
per se in the field. Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to
provide a new and improved diaphragm-type of variable load
control valve device, which overcomes the disadvantages
of the prior art and 
which is economical in cost, simple in design, efficient
in service, effective in operation, reliable in use,
durable in service, convenient to install, and practical
to maintain.The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A diaphragm-type of variable load control valve
device (1) comprising: an upper casing section (2), an

intermediate casing section (3), and a lower casing section

(4), a supply chamber (8) and a delivery chamber (9)
located within said upper casing section, a check valve

(17) located within said supply chamber, a piston diaphragm
assembly disposed in said intermediate casing section, said

piston diaphragm assembly including an upper flexible
diaphragm (33) having its inner periphery connected to a

piston member (27) and having its outer periphery clamped
between said upper casing section and said intermediate

casing section, said piston diaphragm assembly including a
lower flexible diaphragm (34) having its inner periphery in

engagement with said piston member and having its outer
periphery clamped between said intermediate casing section

and said lower casing section, a delivery control chamber
(32) located between the under side of said upper casing

section and the upper side of said upper flexible diaphragm,
a load control chamber (44) located in said lower

casing section (4) below said lower flexible diaphragm
whereby fluid under pressure is conveyed from said supply

chamber to said delivery chamber and fluid under pressure
in said delivery chamber is limited to a maximum value in

accordance with the pressure in said load control chamber
by means of said piston member (27) cooperating with said

check valve (17),
characterized
 in that

a. a release valve (20) is located within the supply
chamber (8),
b. the inner periphery of the first flexible diaphragm
(33) is clamped between one washer member

(35) and a piston stem (26) which is connected to
the piston member (27), and 
c. the inner periphery of the lower flexible diaphragm
(34) is clamped between another washer

(37) and a shoulder portion (40) of the piston
member (27).
The valve as defined in claim 1,
characterized
 in that said piston member (27)
is constructed of a self-lubricating polymer material.
The valve as defined in claim 1,
characterized
 in that a first annular spacer
member (39) is disposed in an annular recess (38) formed in

the top of said intermediate casing section (3).
The valve as defined in claim 3,
characterized
 in that said first annular
spacer member (39) includes a central opening for accomodating

said one washer member (35).
The valve as defined in claim 4,
characterized
 in that the diameter of said one
washer member (35) is substantially equal to the diameter

of said central opening of said first annular spacer member
(39), wherein said one washer member (35) forms a first

pressure area (PAS).
The valve as defined in claim 1,
characterized
 in that a second annular spacer
member (42) is disposed in an annular recess (43) formed in

the bottom of said intermediate casing section (3).
The valve as defined in claim 6,
characterized
 in that said second annular
spacer member (42) includes a central opening for accomodating

said shoulder portion (40) of said piston member (27). 
The valve as defined in claim 7,
characterized
 in that the diameter of said
shoulder portion (40) of said piston member (27) is substantially

equal to the diameter of said central opening of
said second annular spacer member (42), wherein said

shoulder portion (40) forms a second pressure area (PAA).
The valve as defined in claim 5,
characterized
 in that said first pressure area
(PAS) is exposed to pressure supplied to said delivery

control chamber (32) when said check valve (17) is open.
The valve as defined in claim 8,
characterized
 in that said second pressure
area (PAA) is exposed to pressure supplied to said load

control chamber (44).
The valve as defined in claim 1,
characterized
 in that a compression biasing
spring (50) is disposed in said load control chamber (44).
The valve as defined in claim 1,
characterized
 in that said piston stem (26) is
secured to said piston member (27) and includes a remote

end (29) for engaging and unseating said check valve (17).
The valve as defined in claim 12,
characterized
 in that said piston stem (26) is
a hollow member which is connectable to atmosphere to vent

said delivery chamber (32).
The valve as defined in claim 1,
characterized
 in that said release valve (20) 
is unseated when the pressure in said supply chamber (8) is

reduced to permit the unseating of said check valve (17).
The valve as defined in claim 5,
characterized
 in that said first pressure area
(PAS) may be varied by changing the diameters of said one

washer member (35) and said central opening of said first
annular spacer member (38).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
