<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651569</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Format detector for a videosignal receiver
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N544	H04N701	H04N732	H04N732	H04N701	H04N544	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A film-to-video format detector (24) for a digital television receiver 
(10). The detector (24) receives pixel data from a current field and a second 

preceding field. It determines a set of pixel difference values, sums them to 
obtain a field difference value, and compares the field difference value to a 

threshold. These steps are repeated to obtain a series of field difference 
indicators. This series is analyzed to determine whether it has a pattern 

corresponding to a film-to-video format. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to television receivers, and more particularly to
a digital format detector for a receiver of an incoming video signal that detects when the video signal is formatted by
means of a film conversion process.It is often desired to display a movie originally recorded on film by
means of a television broadcast. In order to comply with television broadcast
field rates, some sort of film-to-video conversion must be performed.Typically, a movie is recorded and displayed at a frame rate of 24
frames per second. However, television broadcasts use a different rate, such
as the 59.94 field per second rate of the NTSC standard where every two
fields are interlaced and comprise one frame.One method of converting film rates to television field rates is referred
to as the "3:2 pulldown" scanning method. A first film frame is scanned
twice, then a second film frame is scanned three times, the next frame twice,
etc. To accommodate the fact that the NTSC vertical scan period is slightly
less than 60 fields per second, the actual display rate may be slowed slightly.At the receiving end of television broadcasts, a recent development has
been the conversion of the incoming television signal into digital data for
processing. The processing includes compensation to overcome the visual
artifacts perceived by the viewer as a result of motion in the scene being
displayed. Although various processing techniques have been developed for
compensating the effects of motion between interlaced television fields, these
methods are not designed for film-to-video formats. It is therefore necessary
to detect when an incoming signal has a 3:2 pulldown format so that
appropriate motion compensation processing can be performed. From EP-A-0 343 728 a method of and arrangement for motion
detection in an interlaced television picture obtained
after film-to-television conversion is known. The motion
detection is based on picture signal value comparisons
between picture elements in consecutive, interlaced
television pictures, motion or no motion, respectively being
determined in dependence on the fact whether comparison
results exceed or do not exceed a threshold value. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided
digital format detector for a receiver of an incoming video signal, comprising
the features defined in claim 1.According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
of detecting the format of an imcoming video signal comprising the steps defined
in claim 9.A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital format detector for a receiver of an incoming
video signal, comprising:


a pixel comparator (61) for comparing data values of pixels
of a current field of said video signal with data values of

corresponding pixels of a second preceding field of said
video signal, thereby obtaining a set of pixel difference

values;
an adder (62) for adding together the absolute values of
said set of pixel difference values, thereby obtaining a

field difference value;
a threshold comparator (63) for comparing said field
difference value to a predetermined threshold, thereby

generating a binary field difference indicator; and
a sequence analyzer (64) for determining whether a series of
field difference indicators follows a recognizable pattern.
The format detector of claim 1, wherein said pixel
comparator (61) is a logic circuit for calculating the

difference between two pixel values.
The format detector of claim 1, wherein said pixel
comparator (61) is a processor programmed to calculate the

difference between two pixel values. 
The format detector of any preceding claim, wherein said
adder (62) is a logic circuit.
The format detector of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said
adder (62) is a processor programmed to add the absolute

values of said pixel difference values.
The format detector of any preceding claim, wherein said
threshold comparator (63) is a logic circuit.
The format detector of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
threshold comparator (63) is a processor programmed to

compare said field difference value with said predetermined
threshold.
The format detector of any preceding claim, wherein said
sequence analyzer (64) is a logic circuit.
A method of detecting the digital format of an incoming video
signal, comprising the steps of


receiving a first pixel data value from a pixel of a
current field of said video signal;
receiving a second pixel data value from the
corresponding pixel of a second preceding field of said

video signal;
calculating (61) the difference between said first and
second pixel values to obtain a pixel difference value;

repeating said receiving steps and said calculating step
for a predetermined number of pixels;
summing (62) the absolute values of the pixel difference
values obtained in said repeating step to obtain a field

difference value;
determining (63) whether said field difference value exceeds
a predetermined threshold to obtain a binary field

difference indicator;
repeating all of the above steps to obtain a series of
field difference indicators for a continuous series of 

fields; and
analyzing (63) said series of field difference indicators to
determine whether it has a pattern corresponding to a film-to-video

conversion.
The method of claim 9, further comprising receiving said
pixel data values as luminance values.
The method of claim 9 or claim 10, further comprising
carrying out all of steps at a real-time image generation

rate.
The method of any of claims 9 to 11, further comprising
repeating said receiving and calculating steps for fewer

than the number of pixels per field.
The method of any of claims 9 to 12, wherein said
analyzing step further comprises determining whether said

series of field indicators has a pattern corresponding to a
scene having no motion.
The method of any of claims 9 to 13, wherein said
analyzing step further comprises determining a format state

as each field indicator is received.
The method of any of claims 9 to 14, wherein said
analyzing step further comprises storing a set of

consecutive indicators and determining if said set of
field indicators matches one or more stored patterns.
A digital processing system for a receiver (20) of a
video signal, comprising:


a field buffer (23) for storing pixel data from at least
three fields of data of said video signal;
a format detector (24) according to claim 1 for detecting
the format of said video signal; and
a processing system (25) for receiving said pixel data and
for receiving a format control signal from said format 

detector (24), and for processing said pixel data in
accordance with said format control signal.
The system of claim 16, further comprising an analog to
digital converter (22a) for converting said video signal to

said pixel data.
The system of claim 16 or claim 17, further comprising a
color separation unit (22b) for separating said pixel data

into a luminance component and chrominance components.
The system of any of claims 16 to 18, wherein said
sequence analyzer determines whether said series of field

difference indicators has a pattern resulting from a scene
with no motion.
The system of any of claims 16 to 19, further comprising
a spatial light modulator (26) for receiving bit-planes of

data from said processing system (25) for display.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
