<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642568</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CATALYTIC DEWAXING PROCESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10G4558	C10G4564	C10G6500	C10G6502	C10G6504	C10G6512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10G	C10G	C10G	C10G	C10G	C10G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10G45	C10G45	C10G65	C10G65	C10G65	C10G65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for making a lubricant oil of low pour point and improved oxidation stability by catalytically hydrodewaxing a lube chargestock containing paraffin wax in a vertical column reactor (10) having a series of fixed downflow catalyst beds (12A, B and C) over dewaxing catalyst comprising acid medium pore size zeolite. The treatment is carried out by selectively hydrodewaxing paraffinic wax contained in the liquid petroleum in a first serial catalyst bed (12A) under adiabatic cracking temperature conditions, recovering partially hydrodewaxed liquid petroleum from a bottom portion of the first serial catalyst bed (15A), and redistributing the partially hydrodewaxed liquid petroleum for contact with the catalyst in at least one downstream fixed catalyst bed (12B, 12C). The partially hydrocracked liquid petroleum is further reacted to effect endothermic hydrogen transfer, dewaxing, hydrogenation and cyclization in the presence of hydrogen under adiabatic temperature conditions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOBIL OIL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORBUS, THOMAS, REGINALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KYAN, CHWAN, PEIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CATALYTIC DEWAXING PROCESSBackground of the Invention This invention relates to catalytic dewaxing of petroleum chargestocks wherein a liquid phase reactant is contacted with a gaseous phase reactant. In particular, it relates to an improvement in reactor configuration and operations for contacting multi¬ phase reactants in a fixed porous catalyst bed under continuous operating conditions, including techniques for controlling reaction temperature in the reactor. Mineral oil lubricants are derived from various crude oil stocks by a variety of refining processes directed towards obtaining a lubricant base stock of suitable boiling point, viscosity, viscosity index (VI) and other characteristics. Generally, the base stock will be produced from the crude oil by distillation of the crude in atmospheric and vacuum distillation towers, followed by the separation of undesirable aromatic components and finally, by dewaxing and various finishing steps. Because aromatic components lead to high viscosity and extremely poor viscosity indices, the use of asphaltic type crudes is not preferred as the yield of acceptable lube stocks will be extremely low after the large quantities of aromatic components contained in the lubestocks from such crudes have been separated out; paraffinic and naphthenic crude stocks will therefore be preferred but aromatic separation procedures will still be necessary in order to remove undesirable aromatic components. In the case of the lubricant distillate fractions, generally referred to as the neutrals, e.g. heavy neutral, light neutral, etc. , the aromatics will be extracted by solvent extraction using a solvent such as furfural, N-methyl- 2-pyrrolidone, phenol or another material which is selective for the extraction of the aromatic components. If the lube stock is a residual lube 

 stock, the asphaltenes will first be removed in a propane deasphalting step followed by solvent extraction of residual aromatics to produce a lube generally referred to as bright stock. In either case, however, a dewaxing step is normally necessary in order for the lubricant to have a satisfactorily low pour point and cloud point, so that it will not solidify or precipitate the less soluble paraffinic components under the influence of low temperatures. A number of dewaxing processes are known in the petroleum refining industry and of these, solvent dewaxing with solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) , a mixture of ME and toluene or liquid propane, has been the one which has achieved the widest use in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A catalytic lubricant hydro-dewaxing process for treating high-boiling, paraffinic wax-containing liquid petroleum chargestock, the chargestock containing less than 60 wt% aromatics, comprising: uniformly distributing and contacting the liquid chargestock in the presence of cofed hydrogen at a pressure of at least 7000 kPa with an acid, shape- selective, medium pore metallosilicate hydro-dewaxing catalyst, the catalyst being substantially free of hydrogenation-dehydrogenation components in a reactor having a series of fixed downflow catalyst beds; selectively hydrodewaxing paraffinic wax contained in the liquid petroleum in a first serial catalyst bed under adiabatic cracking temperature conditions to partially reduce wax content and thereby producing lighter olefinic components; recovering partially dewaxed liquid petroleum and hydrogen-rich gas from a bottom portion of the first serial catalyst bed and redistributing the partially hydrodewaxed liquid petroleum and hydrogen-rich gas for contact with the catalyst in at least one downstream fixed catalyst bed; further reacting the partially hydrocracked liquid petroleum and olefinic component to effect additional endothermic dewaxing, and exothermic hydrogen transfer, olefin oligomerization, hydrogenation and cyclization in the presence of hydrogen under adiabatic temperature conditions, permitting reaction temperature to rise not more than 30°C in the downstream catalyst bed; injecting hydrogen-rich quench gas at the inlet of at least one downstream catalyst bed concurrently with partially hydrodewaxed liquid petroleum to decrease reaction temperature, thereby maintaining a maximum temperature excursion of 30°C throughout the series of fixed catalyst beds and controlling uniform hydro-dewaxing 


 conditions to obtain high quality petroleum lubricant product.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein the reactor comprises a vertical column containing at least three separate catalyst beds with uniform liquid distribution above each bed, and wherein cold hydrogen quench gas is injected into effluent from an exothermic middle bed.
3. The process of claim 1 wherein the liquid petroleum chargestock is high pressure hydrocracked gas oil containing 1 to 40 wt% mononuclear aromatic hydrocarbons and boiling above 315°C.
4. The process of claim 1 wherein the liquid petroleum chargestock comprises distillate or bright stock.
5. The process of claim 1 wherein the catalyst comprises aluminosilicate zeolite having a constraint index of 2 to 12 and an acid cracking alpha value less than 150.
6. The process of claim 5 wherein the catalyst comprises aluminosilicate zeolite having the structure of ZSM-5 and an alpha value of 45 to 95.
7. The process of claim 1 wherein hydrogen partial pressure in the first serial catalyst bed is at least 18,000 kPa, and wherein hydrodewaxing is conducted without substantial net consumption of hydrogen.
8. The process of claim 7 wherein the liquid petroleum chargestock comprises hydrocracked gas oil containing 1 to 40 wt% mononuclear aromatic hydrocarbons and boiling above 315°C.
9. The process of claim 8 wherein the liquid petroleum chargestock comprises distillate or bright stock; and wherein the catalyst comprises aluminosilicate zeolite having a constraint index of 2 to 12 and an acid cracking alpha value less than 150. 


 10. The process of claim 7 including the step of separating hydrodewaxed reactor effluent to recover a 315°C+ boiling range lubricant product having a kinematic viscosity in the range of 10 to 160 mm
2
/s at 40
β
C.
11. The process of claim 1 wherein the chargestock comprises a lubricant range aromatic liquid petroleum chargestock containing paraffin wax which is catalytically hydro-dewaxed in the presence of hydrogen over a dewaxing catalyst comprising medium pore size zeolite in the hydrogen or decationised form, during a dewaxing cycle in which the temperature is progressively increased to maintain a substantially constant product pour point to produce a lubricant oil product of improved oxidation stability, the cumulative aging rate of the catalyst being less than 5°F per day. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
