<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635369</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Intermediate transfer surface application system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	B41J2005	B41J2015	B41J201	B41J2015	G03G1510	B41J201	B41M500	B41M500	B41J2005	B41J2175	G03G1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	G03G	B41J	B41M	B41M	B41J	B41J	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	G03G15	B41J2	B41M5	B41M5	B41J2	B41J2	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method are described for applying 
an intermediate transfer surface, in the form of a liquid 

layer, on a support surface (14) as may be used in a phase 
change ink printing system. The apparatus includes an 

applicator assembly (16) for distributing the liquid layer 
onto the support surface (14) to produce the intermediate 

transfer surface and a means for metering the liquid 
layer uniformly on the support surface (14). The applicator 

assembly (16) has a contact medium for removing foreign matter 
from and delivering the liquid onto the support surface (14). 

Preferably the contact medium is a liquid impregnated web (30) 
that is periodically incremented to present a clean web 

surface in contact with the support surface (14). The 
metering means is a hydrodynamic blade (18) that uniformly 

distributes the liquid intermediate transfer layer over 
the support surface (14). The apparatus provides for 

sequencing of the applicator (16), then the applicator (16) and the 
blade (18) together, and finally the blade (18) only to ensure 

proper application of the intermediate transfer layer and 
cleaning of the support surface (14). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER BRENTLY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAWFORD CLARK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINDMAN LARRY E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES BRENT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARAMBELAS RANDY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RISE JAMES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROUSSEAU GERARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER, BRENTLY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAWFORD, CLARK W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINDMAN, LARRY E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, BRENT R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARAMBELAS, RANDY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RISE, JAMES D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROUSSEAU, GERARD H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to an
imaging process. More specifically, this invention
relates to an application system and method for applying
an intermediate transfer surface to a support surface as
may be used in ink jet printing systems or the like.Ink jet printing systems have utilized intermediate
transfer surfaces, such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent
No. 4,538,156 to Durkee et al. This patent discloses a
system wherein an intermediate transfer drum is employed
with a printhead. The surface of the transfer drum may
be of a plastic material, such as teflon, tefzel, mylar
or the like. In addition, smooth metal or ceramic
surfaces can be used. A final receiving surface of paper
is brought into contact with the intermediate transfer
drum after the image has been placed thereon by the
nozzles in the printhead. The image is then transferred
to the final receiving surface. A cleaning medium is
brought into contact with the intermediate transfer drum
to prepare the surface of the drum prior to the next
image being formed on the transfer surface.U.S. Patent No. 4,158,498 to Ohmori teaches a blade
cleaning system for a reproducing apparatus wherein a
doctor blade is in contact with an image transfer drum to
remove residual toner from the drum during the
photocopying process. When the copying process
terminates, the doctor blade is rotated to a cleaning
station where brushes remove any residual toner and 
foreign matter from the blade and applies a lubricant to
the blade.U.S. Patent No 5,099,256 to Anderson describes an
intermediate drum with a surface which receives ink
droplets from a printhead. The intermediate drum surface
is thermally conductive and formed from a suitable film-forming
silicone polymer allegedly having a high surface
energy and high degree of surface roughness to prevent
movement of the ink droplets after receipt from the
printhead nozzles. Anderson teaches that the film-forming
silicone polymer coating on the surface of the
intermediate drum, enables substantially complete
transfer of the dehydrated ink droplets therefrom to a
recording medium, so that the removal of residual ink
from the drum surface by the cleaning means, such as a
blade is unnecessary. The teaching of Anderson, however,
does not show how the film-forming silicone polymer is
applied to the intermediate drum surface.U.S. Patent No 4,673,303 to Sansone et al. discloses
an offset ink jet postage printing method and apparatus
in which an inking roll applies ink to the first region
of a dye plate. A lubricating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (10) for applying onto a support surface (14) an
intermediate transfer layer (12) for receiving an ink image (26) prior to the

image being transferred from the intermediate transfer layer (12) onto a
final receiving surface (28), the apparatus comprising a housing (50) and

mounted therein an applicator assembly (16) for distributing a liquid layer
onto the support surface to constitute the intermediate transfer layer (12),

the apparatus including means (18) included within said housing (50) for
metering the liquid layer uniformly on the support surface (14),

characterised in that the applicator assembly (16) comprises a liquid
impregnated contact medium (30) arranged so as in use of the applicator

assembly (16) concurrently to remove foreign matter from and deliver the
liquid onto the support surface (14) and in that said housing (50) is in the

form of a cassette tray for removable installation of said apparatus (10) as
part of an imaging apparatus, said cassette tray having a first

compartment (56) in which said applicator assembly (16) is housed, a
second compartment (58) for holding waste ink and a baffle (54) dividing

said cassette tray into said first and second compartments (56,58).
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the applicator assembly
(16) and the metering means (18) are a single removable unit.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the liquid
impregnated contact medium (30) is a liquid impregnated web, wicking

pad or roller.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the liquid impregnated
contact medium is a liquid impregnated web (30) which is arranged to be

periodically incremented for presenting a clean web surface in contact
with the support surface (14). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the web (30) is
arranged to pass across the intermediate transfer layer in an opposing

direction to the direction of travel of the support surface (14).
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 4 or Claim 5, wherein the
applicator assembly (16) includes a supply means (32) for storing a

quantity of the clean web material and a take-up means (36) for receiving
soiled web material.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the
applicator assembly (16) includes a back-up means (34) selectively

positioned adjacent to the support surface (14) for forming a nip (38)
therebetween for capturing the contact medium therein for removing the

foreign matter from and depositing the liquid on the support surface.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim and including
means for independently controlling the applicator assembly (16) and the

metering means (18), the applicator assembly (16) being positioned
against the support surface (14) in operation of the apparatus prior to the

metering means (18) and removed from the support surface before the
metering means.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the
support surface (14) is a surface of a rotatable drum mounted to an

imaging apparatus (11), the liquid layer having a first surface in contact
with the drum surface and an exposed second surface not in contact with

the support surface. 
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim and forming part of
an imaging apparatus which includes an ink jet print head (11), which in

use selectively ejects ink for imaging the exposed surface.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10, wherein the imaging
apparatus includes a heating means to melt a solid ink from the solid state

to a molten state prior to the ejection from the ink jet head.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 11, wherein the apparatus is
arranged such that molten ink ejected from the ink jet head onto the

intermediate transfer layer cools and solidifies to a malleable condition
prior to transfer to the final receiving surface.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 11, wherein the imaging
apparatus (11) includes transfer apparatus that includes a roller (22, 23)

to pressure fuse the ink image to the final receiving medium (28) by
deforming the ink image and adhering the image thereto.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 13, wherein upon transfer to the
final receiving surface, the ink is deformed and cools further to a ductile

and fracture resistant condition.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the
metering means (18) comprises a blade disposed adjacent to the support

surface.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 15, wherein the blade (18)
comprises an elastomer material having an area acting as a wiping surface

for uniformly distributing the liquid layer over the support surface. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 16 and including a blade clamp
(100) having matin
g halves (104, 106) forming a channel (108) for
receiving the elastomer material with the channel (108) having a first

surface acting as a blade reference datum for the blade and opposing
parallel surfaces normal to the first surface with one of the opposing

surfaces having protrusions (110) extending therefrom for engaging and
deforming the elastomer material and the other surface having apertures

(112) formed therein aligned with the protrusions for localising the
elastomer deformation around the protrusions and apertures, and means

(116) for securing the blade clamp halves together.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 17, wherein the apertures (112)
formed in one of the opposing parallel surfaces are slightly larger than the

protrusions (110) in the other parallel surface.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 17, wherein the protrusions (110)
are raised square bumps.
A method of applying onto a support surface an intermediate
transfer layer (12) arranged to receive an ink image (26) prior to the image

being transferred from the intermediate transfer layer onto a receiving
medium (28), the method being characterised by the step of concurrently

removing foreign matter from and distributing a liquid layer onto the
support surface (14) using a liquid impregnated contact medium (30) in

contact with the support surface (14), the contact medium (30) being
disposed in an applicator assembly (16), said applicator assembly (16)

being mounted in a housing (50) which is in the form of a cassette tray for
removable installation of said applicator assembly (16) as part of an

imaging apparatus, said cassette tray having a first compartment (56) in
which said applicator assembly (16) is housed, a second compartment 

(58) for holding waste ink and a baffle (54) dividing said cassette tray into
said first and second compartments (56,58).
A method as claimed in claim 20 and including the step of metering
the liquid layer uniformly on the support surface using a blade.
A method as claimed in Claim 19 or 20, and including the steps of
imaging the exposed surface of the liquid layer to form an image thereon

and transferring the image to the receiving medium.
A method as claimed in Claim 22, comprising using an ink to form
the image in the imaging step.
A method as claimed in Claim 23 wherein the ink is a phase change
ink applied to the liquid layer forming the intermediate transfer layer in

liquid form and wherein the so applied phase change ink solidifies into a
solid image on the liquid layer.
A method as claimed in Claim 23 or 24 wherein the ink is applied to
the liquid layer forming the intermediate transfer layer from an ink jet

printhead.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 23 to 25 wherein the ink
used in the imaging step cools and solidifies to a malleable condition while

on the intermediate transfer layer and prior to transfer to the receiving
medium (28).
A method as claimed in Claim 26 wherein the ink used in the
imaging step is deformed by pressure while in the malleable solid condition

during the transfer to the receiving medium (28). 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 27, wherein the ink
used in the imaging step cools on the receiving medium (28) to a non-fracturable

ductile condition.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 28 and including
the step of periodically presenting a clean contact medium (38) in contact

with the support surface (14).
A method as claimed in Claim 29 and including reapplying liquid to
the liquid layer serving as the intermediate transfer layer (12) on the

support surface (14) to renew the liquid layer subsequent to presenting a
clean contact medium (38) in contact with the support surface.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 30, wherein the
removing and distribution step comprises positioning the contact medium

(38) adjacent to the support surface (14) prior to the start of the metering
of the liquid layer and removing the contact medium from the support

surface prior to the finish of the metering of the liquid layer.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 31, comprising
using as the material of the liquid layer water, a fluorinated oil, glycol,

mineral oil, silicone oil, a surfactant, a functional oil, or a combination of
two or more thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
