<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637008</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic character size adjustment in the display of a portable apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1247	G09G304	H04M1725	G09G304	H04M1247	H04M172	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	G09G	H04M	G09G	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	G09G3	H04M1	G09G3	H04M1	H04M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a display driver and a method for driving a 
display such that two characters can be displayed on a display region normally 

used for displaying a single character. The display driver and method for 
driving the display operate in two modes. In the first mode characters are 

displayed normally (i.e. one per display region), and in the second mode two 
characters are displayed on a single display region. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a display driver for a display comprising an
array of N character display regions.A display having an array of display regions each comprising a matrix of dot-like
display elements is well-known and is conventionally referred to as a dot
matrix display. However, it should be noted that the display elements do not
have to be round dots but could be of square, rectangular, oval or the like
shape. The display regions are arranged in substantially linear arrays which
are generally orientated horizontally or vertically with respect to a normal
viewing angle, and may be stacked adjacent each other in respective
horizontal or vertical directions. Each of the display regions is of a size and
has a display element density that is suitable for displaying a single character
at each display region which is clear to a viewer when the display is in normal
use. Typical display element density is 35 elements per display region and in
which display region the elements are arranged in a 5x7 array.Displays as described above are driven by display drivers which activate
respective individual display elements in a display region in order to display a
character input to the driver from control circuitry. The control circuit may be
discrete logic, keyboard input circuitry, a microprocessor or the like. The
individual display elements of a display which need to be activated by the
driver to display a particular character can be determined by the driver in a
number of ways. For example, the driver may comprise a memory known as
a character set in which the data for activating individual display elements for
displaying particular characters are stored. When a request to display a
particular character is received by the driver, the driver obtains the pattern of
individual display elements corresponding to the requested character from the
character set and activates these display elements. Alternatively, the driver 
may receive instructions to activate individual display elements corresponding
to desired characters directly from the control circuitry.Display types as described above are used in many different types of
apparatus, e.g. electrical apparatus such as telecommunication devices,
pocket calculators, electronic diaries and in general display functions such as
platform indicators etc. at railway stations.United States Patent No. 4 896 147 discloses a display device for displaying
characters of different sizes (16 x 8, 7 x 5), and United States Patent No. 5
212 477 discloses a display
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display driver (100) for a display (5) comprising an array of N fixed
character display regions (300), the driver (100) comprising

   character generating means which in a first mode of operation returns
to at least one of said display regions (300) a single character extending

across a width of the at least one display region, and in a second mode of
operation returns two characters extending across the width of said at least

one display region (300), wherein the second mode of operation is operable
when a sequence of M characters input to the driver (100) fulfils a

relationship N
<
M≤2N, and characters returned to the display regions (300)
during the second mode of operation respectively correspond to the first

2(M-N) characters in the sequence.
A display driver (100) according to claim 1, wherein the driver (100) is
adapted to drive a display (5) having at least one array of ten character

display regions (300).
A display driver (100) according to claim 2, wherein the character
generating means returns a maximum sequence of eleven characters to the

display (5).
A display driver (100) according to claim 3, wherein the character
generating means returns a special compressed character comprising a

reduced width "0" and a reduced width "1" to a display region (300) at the
left of the array when the first two numerical characters of the sequence are

"0" and "1" and the sequence comprises eleven numerical characters. 
A display driver (100) as claimed in any preceding claim for a dot
matrix display (5).
Electronic apparatus (1) comprising a display (5) having an array of N
character display regions (300) and having a display driver (100) according to

any preceding claim.
A method of driving a display (5) including an array of N character
display regions (300), comprising generating and returning to at least one of

said display regions (300) a single character extending across a width of the
at least one display region (300) in a first mode of operation, and generating

and returning two characters extending across the width of said at least one
display region (300) in a second mode of operation, wherein the second

mode is operable when a sequence of M characters fulfils a relationship
N
<
M≤2N, and characters returned to the display regions (300) during the
second mode of operation respectively correspond to the first 2(N-M)

characters in the sequence.
A method according to claim 7, for driving a display (5) having at least
one array of ten character display regions (300).
A method according to claim 8 for generating and returning a
maximum sequence of eleven characters to the display (5).
A method according to claim 9 for generating and returning a special
compressed character comprising a reduced width "0" and a reduced width

"1" to a display region at the extreme left of the array when the first two
characters of the sequence are "0" and "1" and the sequence comprises

eleven characters. 
A method according to any of claims 7 to 10 for driving a dot matrix
display (5).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
