<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627859</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hierarchical encoding and/or decoding of digital video signals.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T900	G06T900	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T9	G06T9	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An input digital video signal is encoded to produce at least 
first and second hierarchical data signals which respectively represent 

a first video signal and a lower resolution video signal. Each pixel 
data signal of the second hierarchical data signal is calculated (2) as 

an average of N pixel data signals of the input digital video signal. 
The second hierarchical data signal is output (11,12) together with 

first hierarchical pixel data signals representing only N-1 of the N 
pixel data signals of the input digital video signal. The first 

hierarchical pixel data signals may be differential signals produced by 
subtracting each of the N-1 pixel data signals from the average value 

of the N pixel data signals. During decoding the Nth pixel data signal 
is reconstructed from the N-1 pixel data signals and the average value 

provided as the corresponding second hierarchical pixel signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJIMORI YASUHIRO C O INTELLEC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAGUCHI KUNIO C O INTELLECTU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO TETSUJIRO C O INTELLECTU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJIMORI YASUHIRO C O INTELLEC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAGUCHI KUNIO C O INTELLECTU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO TETSUJIRO C O INTELLECTU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus and methods for encoding 
input digital video signals to produce hierarchical data signals, 
and/or to apparatus and methods for decoding such hierarchical data 
signals. There has been proposed a digital image signal encoding technique 
in which a high resolution image signal is received as a first 
hierarchical image signal, a second hierarchical image signal having a 
lower resolution than the first signal is formed therefrom, a third 
hierarchical image signal having a lower resolution than the second is 
formed, and so forth. This technique is referred to as a hierarchical 
encoding technique. According to this technique, a plurality of 
hierarchical image signals are transmitted through a single 
transmission path (one communication channel or one recording and 
reproducing process). On the receiving side, the transmitted image 
data can be reproduced by a television monitor corresponding to any one 
of the hierarchical levels. More specifically, it is known to use video signals having 
various degrees of resolution, such as standard resolution, high 
resolution, and low resolution. Conventional television signals are an 
example of standard resolution video signals. High definition 
television signals are an example of high resolution video signals. 
Low resolution video signals may be used, for example, to retrieve 
image data at high speed from an image data base and to display the 
same on a computer display. The hierarchical encoding technique may be 
used for enlargement and reduction of images, as well as for providing 
video signals of varying degrees of resolution. Hierarchical encoding 
may be applied to reduction of images without changing the level of 
resolution. Fig. 8 of the accompanying drawings illustrates an example of an 
apparatus which carries out the above-described hierarchical encoding 
technique. According to this example, the apparatus outputs three 
levels of hierarchical signals, with the number of pixels in the second 
hierarchical image signal being one-quarter of the number of pixels in 
the first hierarchical image signal and the number of pixels in the  
 
third (highest) hierarchical image signal being one-sixteenth of the 
number of pixels in the first hierarchical image signal. As shown in 
Fig. 8, an input digital image signal, corresponding to the first 
hierarchical signal, is provided at an input terminal 41. The input 
signal is supplied from the input terminal 41 to a thin-out circuit 42 
and a subtracting circuit 43.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for encoding an input digital video signal to 
produce at least first and second hierarchical data signals which 

respectively represent a first video signal and a second video signal 

having a resolution that is lower than a resolution of the first video 
signal, the apparatus comprising: 

   means (2) for receiving the input digital video signal and for 
generating the second hierarchical data signal by calculating each 

pixel data signal of the second hierarchical data signal as a linear 
combination of N pixel data signals of the input digital video signal; 

and 
   means (7,8) for outputting the generated second hierarchical data 

signal together with first hierarchical pixel data signals representing 
only N-1 of the N pixel data signals of the input digital video signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means (2) for 
receiving and generating includes means for calculating an average 

value of four pixel data signals a, b, c, d of the input digital video 
signal to produce a pixel data signal m1 of the second hierarchical 

data signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, comprising means for 
subtracting the average value pixel data signal m1 from each of the 

input pixel data signals a, b, c to produce differential data signals 
Δa, Δb, Δc, and wherein said average pixel data signal m1 is output as 

a pixel data signal of the second hierarchical data signal, and the 
differential data signals Δa, Δb, Δc are output as the first 

hierarchical pixel data signals representing only the N-1 pixel data 
signals of the input digital video signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, 
wherein the means for outputting includes means (8,7) for compressing 

the first and second hierarchical data signals before outputting the 
first and second hierarchical data signals. 
An apparatus for decoding first and second hierarchical data 
signals which respectively represent a first video signal and a second 

video signal having a resolution that is lower than a resolution of the 
first video signal, the apparatus comprising: 

   means (23,24) for receiving a pixel data signal of the second 
hierarchical data signal and data signals representing N-1 pixels of 

the first hierarchical data signal; and 
   means (31) for calculating an Nth pixel data signal of the first 

hierarchical data signal from the received pixel data signal of the 
second hierarchical data signal and the received data signals 

representing N-1 pixels of the first hierarchical data signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein N=4 and the means 
(31) for calculating calculates the Nth pixel data signal by 

subtracting a sum of the received data signals representing the N-1 
pixels from four times the received pixel data signal of the second 

hierarchical data signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the received data 
signals representing the N-1 pixels are differential signals, and the 

means (31) for calculating calculates the Nth pixel data signal by 
subtracting a sum of the received data signals representing the N-1 

pixels from the received pixel data signal of the second hierarchical 
data signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, comprising means for 
reconstructing each of N-1 pixel data signals of the first hierarchical 

data signal by adding a respective one of the received data signals 
representing the N-1 pixels to the received pixel data signal of the 

second hierarchical data signal. 
An apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein 
the received data signals are compressed data signals, and comprising 

means (27,28) for decompressing the received data signals. 
A method of encoding an input digital video signal to 
produce at least first and second hierarchical data signals which 

 
respectively represent a first video signal and a second video signal 

having a resolution that is lower than a resolution of the first video 
signal, the method comprising the steps of: 

   receiving the input digital video signal; 
   generating the second hierarchical data signal by calculating 

each pixel data signal of the second hierarchical data signal as a 
linear combination of N pixel data signals of the received input 

digital video signal; and 
   outputting the generated second hierarchical data signal together 

with first hierarchical pixel data signals representing only N-1 of the 
N pixel data signals of the input digital video signal. 
A method according to claim 10, wherein said generating step 
includes calculating an average value of four pixel data signals a, b, 

c, d of the input digital video signal to produce a pixel data signal 
m1 of the second hierarchical data signal. 
A method according to claim 11, comprising the step of 
subtracting the average value pixel data signal m1 from each of the 

input digital data signals a, b, c to produce differential data signals 
Δa, Δb, Δc; and wherein said outputting step includes outputting said 

average pixel data signal m1 as a pixel data signal of the second 
hierarchical data signal and outputting the differential data signals 

Δa, Δb, Δc as the first hierarchical pixel data signals representing 
only the N-1 pixel data signals of the input digital video signal. 
A method according to claim 12, comprising the step of 
compressing the first and second hierarchical data signals before 

outputting the first and second hierarchical data signals. 
A method of decoding first and second hierarchical data 
signals which respectively represent a first video signal and a second 

video signal having a resolution that is lower than a resolution of the 
first video signal, the method comprising the steps of: 

   receiving a pixel data signal of the second hierarchical data 
signal and data signals representing N-1 pixels of the first 

hierarchical data signal; and
 

   calculating an Nth pixel data signal of the first hierarchical 
data signal from the received pixel data signal of the second 

hierarchical data signal and the received data signals representing N-1 
pixels of the first hierarchical data signal. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein N=4 and said 
calculating step includes subtracting a sum of the received data 

signals representing the N-1 pixels from four times the received pixel 
data signal of the second hierarchical data signal to produce the Nth 

pixel data signal. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein the received data 
signals representing the N-1 pixels are differential signals, and said 

calculating step includes subtracting a sum of the received data 
signals representing the N-1 pixels from the received pixel data signal 

of the second hierarchical data signal to produce the Nth pixel data 
signal. 
A method according to claim 16, comprising the step of 
reconstructing each of N-1 pixel data signals of the first hierarchical 

data signal by adding a respective one of the received data signals 
representing the N-1 pixels to the received pixel data signal of the 

second hierarchical data signal. 
A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein 
the received data signals are compressed data signals, and comprising 

the step of decompressing the received data signals. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
