<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0979059</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED STENT CONFIGURATIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	A61F206	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stent includes a coil or coil-like structure comprised of joined elements which are coiled or bent and which unwind, uncoil or unbend to a more or less straightened condition on expansion of the stent. These structures provide regions of low strain in the stent during expansion. These elements may be joined to each other or to any radially expansive members of any kind, annular serpentine members being preferred.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to stents of improved configuration which
incorporate spiral articulations which unwind to form bracing structures or
scaffolding upon expansion.Stents are radially expandable endoprosthesis which are typically
intravascular implants capable of being implanted transluminally and enlarged radially
after being introduced percutaneously. They have also been implanted in urinary
tracts and bile ducts. They are used to reinforce body vessels and to prevent
restenosis following angioplasty in the vascular system. They may be self-expanding
or expanded by an internal radial force, such as when mounted on a balloon.An example of a stent is shown in EP 0 421 729 which discloses a stent
with segments connected together by coiled hinges.WO 98/33546 is comprised in the state of art relevant to the question of
novelty. This document discloses a stent with rotation joints.In the past, stents have assumed many configurations and been made of
many materials, including metals and plastic. Ordinary metals such as stainless steel
have been used as have shape memory metals such as nitinol and the like. Stents have
also been made of biodegradable plastic materials. They have been formed from wire,
tube stock, etc.This invention provides a new configuration for stents which may be
adapted by all of the various types of prior art stents referred to hereinabove. There
are numerous advantages to the new configuration. It limits recoil and adds resistance
to compression for the expanded stent, among other things. It is longitudinally
flexible in both the unexpanded and expanded conditions. It has several embodiments. An important part of the new configuration includes a spiral or spiral-like
structure comprised of joined elements which are coiled or bent and which
unwind, uncoil or unbend to a more or less straightened condition on expansion of the
stent. Such structures are hereinafter referred to collectively as coils, spirals or coil-like
structures. These structures provide regions of low strain in the stent during
expansion. These elements may be joined to each other or to any radially expansive
members of any kind, annular serpentine members being preferred.Figure 1 is a flat view of one pattern embodiment of a stent
configuration of the invention (unexpanded);Figure 2 is a detail of a portion of Figure 1;Figure 3 is an end view of a stent of the Figure 1 pattern according to
the invention showing it in tubular configuration;Figure 4 is a showing of a stent in the embodiment of the preceding
Figures
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An expandable stent in the form of a generally tubular body (10),

characterized in that
 the configuration thereof includes one or more spiral elements
(16), each spiral element comprised of a plurality of members (13a,b) winding about a

common point, the one or more spiral elements disposed about the body of the stent.
The stent of claim 1 wherein the spiral elements (16) are at the ends of
the stent.
The stent of claim 1 in which at least some of the spiral elements (16)
are connected to each other.
The stent of claim 2 in which the stent body (10) is comprised of
substantially all spiral elements (16) interconnected to each other.
The stent of claim 1 in which at least some of the spiral elements (16)
are interconnected between other stent elements.
The stent claim 5 wherein the other stent elements are annular
serpentine elements (12).
The stent of claim 6 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements
(12) are longitudinally arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
The stent of claim 6 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements
(12) are angularly arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
The stent of claim 1 comprising a plurality of interconnected
expandable cells, included first cells each of which is comprised of a plurality of

joined struts (13a,b) to form a perimeter of each cell, two of which are adjacent and
curvilinear (13a) and meet two similarly arranged struts (13b) of an adjoining cell to

form a said spiral element (16) at the joined ends of each first cell and on expansion of
the stent, all struts (13a,b) of each first cell undergo deformation and the spiral

elements undergo straightening whereby the two struts (13a,b) of each first cell
forming spiral elements undergo a straightening action.
The stent of claim 9 wherein the straightening action is an unwinding
action.
The stent of claim 9 wherein two of the struts, other than the two
curvilinear struts, forming a cell are a portion of a serpentine annular element (12), a

plurality of which are in spaced arrangement. 
The stent of claim 1 comprised of:

a plurality of longitudinally aligend and expandable segments of generally
cylindrical configuration (12), expansion enlarging the diameter of the segments,
at least one connector element (13a) extending from a segment (12) to join a
corresponding element (13b) extending from an adjacent segment (12), wherein the

spiral elements are formed from connectors which wind about a common point
between the adjacent segment (12), the connector elements straightening upon

expansion of the adjoining segments.
The stent of claim 12 wherein there are a pair of connector elements
(13a) extending from a segment (12) to join a corresponding pair (13b) extending

from an adjacent segment (12).
The stent of claim 12 wherein the straightening of the connectors is an
unwinding action.
The stent of claim 12 wherein the aligned expandable stent segments
(12) are in the form of annular serpentine segments.
The stent of claim 15 wherein the serpentine portion of the segments
(12) are longitudinally arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
The stent of claim 15 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements
(12) are angularly arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
The stent of claim 1 further comprising:

a plurality of expandable segments of generally cylindrical configuration (12);
connector elements (13a) extending between the segments (12) to join
corresponding elements (13b) extending from an adjacent segment, wherein the spiral

elements are formed from connectors which wind about a common point and forming
at least one spiral configuration between the segments, the spiral straightening upon

stent expansion.
The stent of claim 18 wherein the connectors form a plurality of spiral
elements (16) between the segments.
The stent of claim 18 wherein the straightening involves unwinding of
the spiral elements (16).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
