<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659858</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Copper-based metal polishing solution and method for manufacturing a semiconductor device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23F300	C09G100	H01L21321	C09G102	H01L2102	C23F306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23F	C09G	H01L	C09G	H01L	C23F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23F3	C09G1	H01L21	C09G1	H01L21	C23F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a copper-based metal polishing solution 
which hardly dissolves a Cu film or a Cu alloy film 

when the film is dipped into the solution, and has a 
dissolution velocity during polishing several times 

higher than that during dipping. This copper-based 
metal polishing solution contains at least one organic 

acid selected from aminoacetic acid and amidosulfuric 
acid, an oxidizer, and water. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a copper-based
metal polishing solution and a method for manufacturing
a semiconductor device.A polishing solution for a Cu film or a Cu-alloy
film, which consists of a slurry of amine-based
colloidal silica or a slurry added with K3Fe(CN)6,
K4(CN)6, or Co(NO3)2, is disclosed in J. Electrochem.
Soc., Vol. 138, No. 11, 3460 (1991), VMIC Conference,
ISMIC-101/92/0156 (1992) or VMIC Conference,
ISMIC-102/93/0205 (1993).Unfortunately, the above polishing solution has the
following problem since there is no difference between
the Cu film dissolution velocity of the polishing solution
during dipping and that during polishing.In the formation of an interconnecting layer as one
manufacturing step of semiconductor devices, an etch-back
technique is employed in order to remove steps from
the device surface. This etch-back technique is a
method in which a trench is formed in an insulating film
on a semiconductor substrate, and a Cu film is deposited
on the insulating film including the trench and polished
by using a polishing solution, thereby forming a buried
interconnecting layer by leaving the Cu film behind only
in the trench. After this etch-back step, the Cu
interconnecting layer remaining in the trench is brought
into contact with a polishing solution. Therefore, if 
a polishing solution of the composition discussed above
by which no difference is obtained between the Cu film
etching rate during dipping and that during polishing,
the Cu interconnecting layer is further etched by the
polishing solution. As a result, the surface of the Cu
interconnecting layer becomes lower than the surface of
the insulating film. This makes it difficult to form an
interconnecting layer whose surface is level with the
surface of the insulating film, resulting in a low
flatness. In addition, the resistance of a buried Cu
interconnecting layer formed in this manner becomes
higher than that of a Cu interconnecting layer which is
so buried that its surface is level with the surface of
an insulating film. FR-A-2634498 discloses a solution containing sulfamic acid,
hydrogen peroxide and water.The objects to be etched are made of zinc (Zn), cadmium (Cd),
silver (Ag), cobalt (Co), and nickel (Ni). Copper or copper
alloy are specifically mentioned as the objects to be etched.US-A-5225034 discusses the method of chemical-mechanical
polishing a copper-containing layer, using a chemical-mechanical
polishing slurry containing H2O, a solid abrasive
material, and third component selected from the group
consis
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A copper-based metal polishing solution containing
aminoacetic acid, an oxidizer forming an oxide on the surface of the copper-based metal

and water and further abrasive
grains made of at least one material selected from the group

consisting of silica, zirconia, cerium oxide and alumina.
The polishing solution according to claim 1,
characterized in that the oxidizer compound is hydrogen

peroxide.
The polishing solution according to claim 1,

characterized in that the aminoacetic acid is contained in an
amount of 0.01 to 10 wt% in the polishing solution, and a

content ratio of the aminoacetic acid to the oxidizer
is 1 to not less than 20 as a weight ratio.
The polishing solution according to claim 3,
characterized in that the aminoacetic acid is contained in an

amount of 0.01 to 1 wt% in the polishing solution.
The polishing solution according to claim 3,
characterized in that the content ratio of the aminoacetic

acid to the oxidizer is 1 to not less than 40 as a
weight ratio.
The polishing solution according to claim 3,
characterized in that the oxidizer is contained in

an amount of a maximum of 30 wt% in the polishing solution.
The polishing solution according to claim 1, further
containing an alkaline agent for adjusting a pH of the

solution between 9 and 14. 
The polishing solution according to claim 7,
characterized in that the alkaline agent is potassium

hydroxide.
The polishing solution according to claim 7,
characterized in that the alkaline agent is quinoline.
The polishing solution according to claim 1,
characterized in that the abrasive grains have a mean grain

size of 0.02 to 0.1 µm.
The polishing solution according to claim 1,
characterized in that the abrasive grains are contained in an

amount of 1 to 14 wt% in the polishing solution.
The polishing solution according to claim 1,
characterized in that the abrasive grains are contained in an

amount of 3 to 10 wt% in the polishing solution.
A method for manufacturing a semiconductor device
comprising the steps of:


forming a trench and/or an opening corresponding to a
shape of an interconnecting layer in an insulating film (22)

on a semiconductor substrate (21);
depositing an interconnecting material film (25)
consisting of copper or a copper alloy on the insulating film

(22) including the trench and/or opening; and
polishing the interconnecting material film (25) until a
surface of the insulating film (22) is exposed by using a

polishing apparatus having a polishing pad and a polishing 
solution, thereby forming a buried interconnecting layer (26)

in the insulating film (22) such that surfaces of the
interconnecting layer (26) and the insulating film (22) are

level with each other;

wherein the polishing solution contains aminoacetic
acid, an oxidizer forming an oxide on the surface of the copper or

copper-alloy and water,

characterized in that said polishing solution further
contains abrasive grains made of at least one material selected from

the group consisting of silica, zirconia, cerium oxide, and
alumina.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the insulating film (22) is a silicon oxide film.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the insulating film has a two-layer structure constituted by

a silicon oxide film and a silicon nitride film formed on the
silicon oxide film.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
a barrier layer (24) is formed on the insulating film (22)

including the trench and/or opening prior to depositing the
interconnection material film (25).
The method according to claim 16, characterized in that
the barrier layer (24) is made of one material selected from

the group consisting of TiN, Ti, Nb, W, and a CuTa alloy.
The method according to claim 17, characterized in that
the barrier layer (24) has a thickness of 15 to 50 nm.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the Cu alloy is one material selected from the group

consisting of a Cu-Si alloy, a Cu-Al alloy, a Cu-Si-Al alloy,
and a Cu-Ag alloy.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the oxidizer is hydrogen peroxide. 
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the aminoacetic acid is contained in an amount of 0.01 to 10

wt% in the polishing solution, and a content ratio of the
aminoacetic acid to the oxidizer is 1 to not less

than 20 as a weight ratio.
The method according to claim 21, characterized in that
the aminoacetic acid is contained in an amount of 0.01 to 1

wt% in the polishing solution.
The method according to claim 21, characterized in that
the content ratio of the aminoacetic acid to the oxidizer

is 1 to not less than 40 as a weight ratio.
The method according to claim 21, characterized in that
the oxidizer is contained in an amount of a maximum

of 30 wt% in the polishing solution.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the polishing solution further contains an alkaline agent for

adjusting a pH of the solution between 9 and 14.
The method according to claim 25, characterized in that
the alkaline agent is potassium hydroxide.
The method according to claim 25, characterized in that
the alkaline agent is quinoline.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the abrasive grains have a mean grain size of 0.02 to 0.1 µm. 
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the abrasive grains are contained in an amount of 1 to 14 wt%

in the polishing solution.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the abrasive grains are contained in an amount of 3 to 10 wt%

in the polishing solution.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the polishing apparatus comprises a turntable (1) covered

with a polishing pad (2), means (3) for supplying the
polishing solution to the polishing pad (2) of the turntable

(1), and a substrate holder (5) which holds the semiconductor
substrate (21) on a lower surface thereof and rotates the

substrate (21) against the polishing pad (2).
The method according to claim 31, characterized in that
an end point of the polishing is detected on the basis of a

change in torque of the turntable (1) of the polishing
apparatus.
The method according to claim 31, characterized in that
an end point of the polishing is detected on the basis of a

change in temperature of the polishing pad (2).
The method according to claim 31, characterized in that
an end point of the polishing is detected on the basis of a

change in pH of the polishing solution supplied to the
polishing pad (2).
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the surface of the insulating film (22) including the

interconnecting layer (26) is further treated with an aqueous
dissolved ozone solution and then with an aqueous dilute

hydrofluoric acid solution, after polishing the interconnecting layer. 
The method according to claim 35, characterized in that
the aqueous dissolved ozone solution has an ozone

concentration of 0.1 to 25 ppm.
The method according to claim 35, characterized in that
the aqueous dissolved ozone solution has an ozone

concentration of 5 to 25 ppm.
The method according to claim 35, characterized in that
the aqueous dilute hydrofluoric acid solution has a

hydrofluoric acid concentration of 0.05 to 20%.
The method according to claim 35, characterized in that
the aqueous dilute hydrofluoric acid solution has a

hydrofluoric acid concentration of 0.1 to 5%.
The polishing solution according to claim 1,
characterized in that it further contains amidosulfuric acid.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that
the polishing solution further contains amidosulfuric acid.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
