<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619588</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Key switch device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H13702	H01H312	H01H1352	H01H302	H01H1352	H05K105	H01H1314	H05K105	H01H1370	H01H1314	H01H1312	H01H1320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H05K	H01H	H05K	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H13	H01H3	H01H13	H01H3	H01H13	H05K1	H01H13	H05K1	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conductor pattern surface of a plastically deformable 
substrate (1) of a key switch device is insulated with a 

resist, and a switching circuit pattern is printed on the 
resist layer by using conductive ink. Carbon conductor 

ink is applied by printing on connectors and fixed contact 
patterns (2), and a mask is printed on the other portion. 

Mounting portions (1a,1c) for mounting a guide supporting member 
are formed on the substrate by pressing the substrate from 

the lower surface thereof. An object of the invention is 
to integrate an electrical circuit pattern with a mounting 

portion of actuator structure so as to provide a key 
switch device whi
ch can reduce the thickness and the 
number of parts of a keyboard for a word processor, 

personal computer or any other device having a keyboard or 
keypad. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAKO MITSUMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOCHIZUKI ISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAGI TAKEYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAKO, MITSUMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOCHIZUKI,ISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAGI,TAKEYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a key switch device and, 
more particularly, to a key switch device suitably used in 
a thin keyboard associated with a notebook-size word 
processor, notebook-size personal computer, etc. In general, a conventional key switch device has a 
structure such that a circuit board in the form of an 
insulated film is sandwiched between a holder member and a 
switch supportina plate as described in EP-A-0,543,649 (which 
forms part of the state of the art under Article 54(3) EPC) On the film circuit board are printed two kinds of 
switching circuits and a plurality of fixed contact 
patterns each consisting of two fixed contacts extending 
from the two kinds of switching circuits and combined in a 
comb-shaped manner. An inverted cup-shaped rubber spring 
is located at a position corresponding to each fixed 
contact pattern. A movable contact is provided in the 
rubber spring and, when the rubber spring is depressed, a 
switching operation is effected. An actuator is provided in the holder member over 
the rubber spring, and a key top is mounted on the upper 
end of the actuator. When the key top is depressed by an 
operator, it is guided by the actuator to the upper 
portion of the rubber spring, and the rubber spring is 
depressed by the actuator. When an amount of depression 
of the rubber spring exceeds a certain limit, the movable 
contact in the rubber spring comes into contact with the 
fixed contact pattern, thereby short-circuiting the two 
fixed contacts and effecting the switching operation. The switch supporting plate corresponds to a lower 
cover of a keyboard device and serves to enhance the  
 
rigidity of the keyboard device and improve the reliability 
of key entry. Recent word processors, personal computers, etc. 
have been reduced in size, especially in thickness, 
weight, and cost. In association with this trend, a 
keyboard associated with such equipment is required to be 
reduced in size, thickness, and weight. On the other hand, a movable portion of any key of 
the keyboard is required to have a good operability in 
view of human engineering (it is generally known that a 
minimum key stroke of 3 to 4 mm is required for an operator 
to recognize depression of the key). Accordingly, the 
above requirement must be satisfied with the minimum key 
stroke maintained. In most cases, however, peripheral parts of the 
actuator and the holder member are formed mainly of a 
resin material by injection molding. Accordingly, a 
minimum wall thickness of 1.5 mm in each member
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A key switch device, comprising: 

a substrate (1) having an insulated upper surface; 
a fixed contact pattern (2) applied to said insulated 
upper surface of said substrate and having at least a pair of 

fixed contacts; 
a movable key top (5); 
a movable contact (4) for performing a switching operation 
between said fixed contacts and moved by said vertical movement 

of said key top; and 
guide supporting means (6) for supporting said key top (5) 
and guiding vertical movement of said key top (5), said guide 

supporting means (6) including at least two rotatably supported 
link members (7,8) and being connected to a lower portion of 

said key top (5) and to mounting means (1A, 1C) on the 
substrate, 
wherein said mounting means (1A, 1C) is formed as an 
integral part of said substrate. 
A key switch device according to claim 1, wherein said 
guide supporting means (6) comprises two rotatably supported 

link numbers (7,8) each connected to a lower portion of said 
key top (5) and to said mounting means (1A,1C) on the 

substrate. 
A key switch device according to claim 2, wherein: 

said key top (5) has connecting means (5A, 5B) adapted to 
be connected to said guide supporting member (6), said  

 
connecting means projecting from a lower surface of said key 

top at a position corresponding to said mounting means (1A, 1C) 
of said substrate (1); 
said two link members (7, 8) intersect each other and are 
mutually rotatably connected at a point of intersection, each 

of said two link members (7,8) having opposite ends provided 
with support pins (7A, 7B, 8A, 8B); 
said mounting means comprises a first group of mounting 
portions (1A) located on one side with respect to a vertical 

line passing said point of intersection and a second group of 
mounting portions (1C) located on the other side with respect 

to said vertical line; 
said connecting means of said key top comprises a first 
group of connecting portions (5A) located on one side with 

respect to said vertical line and a second group of connecting 
portions (5B) located on the other side with respect to said 

vertical line; 
said first groups (1C, 5B) of said mounting means and said 
connecting means having opening (1D, 5C) for rotatably 

supporting said support pins (8A, 7B) of said two link members 
(8, 7) on one side; and 
said second groups (1C, 5B) of said mounting means and 
said connecting means having grooves (1E, 5D) for slidably 

supporting said support pins (7A, 8B) of said two link members 
(7, 8) on the other side. 
A key switch device according to any one of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein said mounting means is formed by pressing said 

substrate (1) from a lower surface thereof and forming a raised  
 

surface (3) on said upper surface of said substrate where said 
support pins (3) of said guide supporting member (6) are in 

contact. 
A key switch device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein 
said mounting means comprises four elements (1A, 1C) so 

positioned to define corners of a rectangle having said fixed 
contact pattern (2) contained therein. 
A key switch device according to claim 5, wherein said 
movable contact is mounted on said substrate (1) between said 

four elements (1A, 1C) and below a centre portion of said guide 
supporting means (6). 
A key switch device according to claims 5 or 6, further 
comprising pad means (3) positioned between a first pair (1A) 

of said four elements and also between a second pair (1C) of 
said four elements for facilitating unimpeded movement of said 

guide supporting means (6). 
A key switch device according to claim 7, wherein said pad 
means (3) are raised portions of said substrate (1). 
A key switch device according to claim 7, wherein said pad 
means (3) are insulating thick films adhered to said substrate. 
A key switch device according to any one of claims 7 to 9, 
wherein each pad means (3) positioned between a pair (1A, 1C) 

of said four elements comprises to pads (3), one of said two  
 

pads immediately adjacent each element of said pair of 
elements. 
A key switch device according to anyone of claims 1 to 10, 
wherein said substrate (1) is a metallic sheet and said 

mounting means (1A, 1C) are punch formed. 
A key switch device according to any one of claims 1 to 
10, wherein said substrate (1) is a plastic molded integrally 

with said mounting means (1A, 1C). 
A key switch device according to any one of claims 1 to 
10, wherein the substrate is formed of a deformable material. 
A method for producing a key switch, the method 
comprising: 


forming a substrate to have, as an integral part thereof, 
means (1A, 1C) for mounting a key supporting means (6); 
applying a fixed contact pattern (2) to the substrate; 
mounting a movable contact (4) onto the substrate (1); 
molding components (7, 8) of a key supporting means (6) 
and a key top (5); 
assembling the components (7, 8) of the key supporting 
means (6); 
attaching the assembled key supporting means (6) to said 
means for mounting a key supporting means (6); and 
attaching the key top (5) to the key supporting means (6). 
A method according to claim 14, further comprising  
 

creating raised pad portions (3) on the substrate to provide a 
sliding surface for the key supporting member. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein said step of 
forming a substrate and said step of creating raised portions 

are carried out together by a step of molding, from a resin, 
the substrate integrally with said means for mounting a key 

supporting member and said raised portions. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein the substrate is 
formed of metal and said step of forming a substrate comprises: 


punching out portions of the substrate to define said 
means (1A, 1C) for mounting a key supporting member; and 
bending said means (1A,1C) for mounting a key supporting 
member. 
A method according to claim 17, further comprising 
applying an insulating layer to the 
substrate prior to applying 
the fixed contact pattern, and wherein said step of creating 

raised portions is performed by coating a material having a low 
coefficient of friction on the substrate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
