<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657798</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Unintended results detection in a pen-based computer system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F3041	G06K903	G06F3033	G06K962	G06F3048	G06K922	G06K922	G06F3048	G06K962	G06K903	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06K	G06F	G06K	G06F	G06K	G06K	G06F	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06K9	G06F3	G06K9	G06F3	G06K9	G06K9	G06F3	G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved mechanism for converting handwritten input data into text and 
commands in a computer system is provided. An unintended results detection component 

is used after the handwritten data has been converted to text and commands. The 
unintended results detection component determines when the converted text and 

commands were likely unintended by the computer user. If the unintended results 
detection component determines that the converted text and commands were likely 

unintended by the computer user, the unintended results detection component outputs an 
indication to the user. The user then has the option of accepting or rejecting the 

interpretation of the system of the handwritten input data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERMAN ERIC R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOIEM DEREK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLS EDWARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERMAN, ERIC R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOIEM, DEREK E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLS, EDWARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to data processing systems
and, more particularly, to data entry in a pen-based computer system.Handwriting recognition systems allow users to input handwritten data
into a computer. Such handwriting recognition systems are provided in electronic
tablets which allow users to handwrite data that the computer can recognize. A user
writes data on the electronic tablet with a pen input device. When the pen input
device moves across the tablet, the tablet illuminates pixels that reflect pen
movement. The tablet is divided into a plurality of discrete positions, and the tablet
senses the consecutive positions of the pen as the user writes. After sensing the
positions of the pen, the tablet sends the positions to the computer. The computer
receives the positions and converts the pen movements into recognized input
symbols, such as letters or numbers, having a convenient format, like ASCII (this
process is known as "recognition"). The computer then processes the recognized
input symbols.Some handwriting recognition systems recognize not only hand-drawn
characters, letters, and punctuation, but also gestures. Gestures are band-drawn
symbols that are typically used to represent editing commands or to produce non-printing
text. For example, a handwritten backslash over a letter may mean delete the
letter, a caret in between two letters may mean insert text, and a dash through a word
may mean delete the word. Gestures are used extensively when printed documents
are edited in a system that includes handwriting recognition. During recognition,
gestures are converted into a usable format for use by the computer.Figure 1 depicts a conventional handwriting recognition system. The
conventional system contains an application program 104, a control program 106,
and a recognizer program 108. Both the control program 106 and the recognizer
program 108 reside within the operating system 102. The control program 106
detects when the pen touches the tablet and also illuminates the pixels corresponding
to the pen position while the pen is touching the tablet. The control program 106
gathers position data and upon the user terminating the handwriting input (by not 
touching the pen to the tablet for a short time), sends the position data to the
recognizer program 108. The recognizer program 108 is responsible for recognizing
the handwritten (position) data. The recognizer program 108 performs recognition by
mapping the handwritten data to prototypes of symbols. Each prototype is a
representa
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a computer system (300), having a pen input device (308) for inputting
handwritten data, an output device, and a computer user, a method comprising the steps of:


receiving handwritten data from the pen input device;
recognizing the received handwritten data to create convened data (514);
determining if the convened data was likely unintended by the computer
user (518); and
outputting an indication on the output device that the converted data was
likely unintended by the computer user and outpu
tting the convened data.
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the handwritten data
contains words, wherein the step of determining if the converted data was likely

unintended by the computer user includes the step of:

determining that the converted data was not likely unintended by the
computer user if a word has more than a predetermined number of characters (604).
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the handwritten data
contains at least one character, wherein the step of determining if the converted data was

likely unintended by the computer user includes the step of:

determining that the converted data was likely unintended by the computer
user if the converted data contains a character that is part of a set of characters that are

likely misrecognized (606).
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the handwritten data
contains characters and gestures, and wherein the step of determining if the converted data

was likely unintended by the computer user includes the step of:

determining that the converted data was likely unintended by the computer
user if the converted data contains a gesture (608).
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the handwritten data
contains characters, wherein the step of determining if the converted data was likely

unintended by the computer user includes the step of:

determining that the converted data was likely unintended by the computer
user if a character is unrecognizable (612).
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the handwritten data
includes characters and gestures, and wherein the step of determining if the converted data

was likely unintended by the computer user includes the step of:

determining that the converted data was likely unintended by the computer
user if a character is non-alphanumeric (610).
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the output device is a
screen display, wherein the step of outputting an indication includes the step of:


displaying a window on the screen display which contains the converted
data.
The method as recited in claim 7 wherein the step of displaying the
window includes the step of:


displaying a pop-up window with an accept button and a reject button,
wherein the user may accept the converted data by activating the accept button and reject

the converted data by activating the reject button (522).
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the step of outputting an
indication includes the step of:


outputting audible signals that indicate that the converted data was likely
unintended by the computer user.
The method as recited in claim 7 wherein the step of
displaying the window includes the step of:


displaying a pop-up window to the computer user wherein
the computer user can accept or reject the converted data (520).
The method as recited in claim 10, further comprising
the step of:


when the user accepts the converted data, sending the
converted data from the control program to an application

program (524).
The method as recited in claim 10, further comprising
the step of:


when the user rejects the converted data, discarding the
converted data.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein recognizing
the received handwritten data to create converted data

comprises:

mapping the handwritten data onto pre-stored symbols for
recognition; and
converting the handwritten data to converted data using
the mapped, prestored symbols.
A pen-based computer system (300) for accepting handwritten
data, comprising:


a pen input device (308);
a control unit (406) in the computer system having a component
for receiving handwritten data from the pen input device; 
a translation unit in the computer system for converting
handwritten data received from the control unit into converted

data (408);
a component for determining when the converted data is likely unintended by a
computer user and a component for querying the computer user whether to accept the

converted data when the converted data was likely unintended by the computer user
(406, 410); 
a processing unit in the computer system for receiving
converted data from the control unit and for processing the

converted data (412).
The pen-based computer system of claim 14, wherein
the component for querying the computer user comprises a

component for displaying a pop-up window to the computer user
wherein the computer user can accept or reject the converted

data when the converted data were likely unintended by the
computer user.
The pen-based computer system of claim 14, further
comprising means for sending the converted data from the

control program to the processing unit when the computer user
accepts the converted data.
The pen-based computer system of claim 14, further
comprising means for discarding the converted data when the

computer user rejects the converted data.
The pen-based computer system of claim 14, wherein
the translation unit comprises:


means for mapping the handwritten data onto pre-stored
symbols for recognition;
means for converting the handwritten data to converted
data using the mapped, prestored symbols.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
