<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648329</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW MOISTURE CRYOGENIC HYGROMETER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2556	G01N2568	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N25	G01N25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dew or frost point temperature hygrometer (10) wherein a reflective surface (12), which is cooled by a cryogenic source (28) and held at the dew or frost point temperature by a servo control, reflects light from a light source (52) to a light detector (56). Very low concentrations of moisture or frost which condense on the reflective surface are measured very rapidly as a change in light reflected from that surface. No recalibration is needed throughout its exceedingly wide moisture measurement range of from about 1 part per billion to about 30 parts per thousand within a range of temperature from about -110  C to about 30  C.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUCK, ARDEN L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCK, ARDEN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Title: LOW MOISTURE CRYOGENIC HYGROMETERTechnical Field This invention relates in general to hygrometer apparatus which includes electrical circuitry to measure moisture condensed as dew or frost on a chilled mirror which is cooled by a cryogenic source, and to the method of using the same. More particularly, the invention concerns an apparatus and method for very fast and accurate measurement of moisture in a gas over a wide range of dew or frost point temperatures and gas pressures.Background Art Hygrometry, the measurement of moisture in gases, has always been important to industrial processes and atmospheric research, but recently the importance of such measurements has increased. As microelectronic feature sizes move into the sub-micrometer realm and super critical fluid extraction based on high-purity carbon dioxide becomes the accepted method for environmental and pharmaceutical extraction, the low parts-per-billion (ppb) moisture range is becoming the maximum acceptable level for moisture and other contaminants in specialty gases. The aerospace industry has similar moisture contaminant standards for space station systems. Atmospheric moisture measurements are important to understanding the role moisture plays in the chemistry of global warming and ozone depletion. There has been a continuing effort to increase the sensitivity, accuracy and response time of moisture analyzers, and especially performance of the dew point or frost point temperature chilled mirror hygrometers, to meet these challenges. As is explained in Bisberg U.S. Patent 3,623,356, dew point temperature hygrometers are frequently used to determine the moisture content of a gas sample. Typically a mirror is exposed to the gas sample and cooled to the dew or frost point temperature of the gas. Formation of dew or frost on the mirror is detected by means of a light source and a light sensitive detector responsive to light reflected from the mirror. The detector develops an error signal which is used to control the current to a thermoelectric cooler attached to the mirror, to maintain a predetermined thickness of condensate on the mirror surface. A temperature measuring device attached to the mirror is employed for measuring the temperature of the mirror, thus indicating the dew or frost point temperature of the gas sample. In this reference, the mirror, optics, and electrical circuit constitutes a thermo-optical servo system which functions to maintain a constant reflectance at the mirror surface, hence a condensate equilibrium at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention for which an exclusive privilege and property right is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A hygrometer system for detecting and monitoring moisture in a gas as a function of the dew or frost point temperature of the moisture in the gas throughout a wide range of temperatures and pressures, comprising in combination: a dew or moisture coUecting surface; means for cooUng said dew or moisture coUecting surface to its dew or frost point temperature, said cooUng means normaUy being out of contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface and any thermally conductive element which is in thermaUy conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface; means for controUably and precisely bringing said cooling means into contact with said dew or moisture collecting surface or into contact with a thermaUy conductive element which is in thermally conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface; means for heating said dew or moisture coUecting surface when it is cooler than its dew or frost point temperature; means for monitoring the formation of dew or frost at said dew or moisture coUecting surface in order to determine; means for monitoring the temperature of said dew or moisture coUecting surface to indicate the dew or frost point temperature of the gas which is being monitored is reached; and means for continuously controlling the thermal flow characteristics between the cooling means and the heating means and the dew or moisture coUecting surface; whereby moisture in a gas is detected and monitored as a function of the dew or frost point temperature of the gas.
2. The hygrometer system of claim 1 for detecting and monitoring moisture in a gas wherein said cooling means is a cryogen.
3. The hygrometer system of claim 2 for detecting and monitoring moisture in a gas wherein said means for controUably bringing said cryogen cooling means into contact with said dew or moisture collecting surface or into contact with any thermally conductive element which is in thermally conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface includes a pump.
4. The hygrometer system of claim 1 for detecting and monitoring moisture in a gas wherein said means for continuously controlling the thermal flow characteristics between the cooUng means and the heating means and the dew or moisture coUecting surface includes a Type 1 Servo system.
5. The hygrometer system of claim 1 for detecting and monitoring moisture in a gas wherein means for pressurizing the gas in the vicinity of the dew or moisture collecting surface are 


 included.
6. The hygrometer system of claim 5 for detecting and monitoring moisture in a gas wherein said means for pressurizing the gas in the vicinity of the dew or moisture coUecting surface are capable of pressurizing the gas to a pressure of up to about 100 atmospheres.
7. A hygrometer system for detecting and monitoring moisture content of as Uttle as about 1 part per billion by volume, of a to-be-tested gas, as a function of the dew or frost point temperature of the moisture in the to-be-tested gas within a range of from about -110° C to about 30° C and a pressure range of up to about 100 atmospheres, comprising in combination: a dew or moisture collecting surface; means for causing to-be-tested gas to flow over said dew or moisture coUecting surface; gas tight means for enclosing said dew or moisture collecting surface so that to-be-tested gas which flows over said dew or moisture coUecting surface can be pressurized in the vicinity of said dew or moisture collecting surface, whereby an increase in gas pressure above the ambient provides a proportional increase in the sensitivity of said dew or moisture coUecting surface to the moisture content of the to-be-tested gas; cryogenic cooling means, said cryogenic cooling means normaUy being out of thermaUy conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface, and normaUy also being out of thermally conductive contact with any thermaUy conductive element which is in thermaUy conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface; means for controUably and precisely bringing said cryogenic cooUng means into thermaUy conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface or into contact with any thermally conductive element which is in thermally conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface; means for monitoring the formation of dew or frost from a to-be-tested gas on said dew or moisture collecting surface; means for monitoring the temperature of said dew or moisture coUecting surface to indicate what the temperature is when the dew or frost point temperature of a to-be-tested gas which is being monitored is reached; means for heating said dew or moisture collecting surface when it is below its dew or frost point temperature; means for continuously and precisely controlUng the thermal flow characteristics between said means for controUably bringing said cryogenic cooUng means into thermally conductive contact with said dew or moisture coUecting surface or any thermaUy conductive element and the heating means at the dew or moisture collecting surface; whereby, moisture content in the range of from about 1 part per billion to about 30 parts per thousand, by volume, of the to-be-tested gas, is detected and monitored as a function of the dew or frost point temperature of the moisture in the to-be-tested gas within a range of from about -110° C to about 30° C. 


 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said dew or moisture coUecting surface is reflective, a light source for projecting Ught toward said reflective dew or moisture coUecting surface is provided, and said means for monitoring the formation of dew or frost at said reflective dew or moisture collecting surface measures a constant intensity of reflected Ught from said reflective surface when moisture or frost has coUected on the reflective surface at the dew/frost point temperature of the to-be-tested gas.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said Ught source does not project condensed Ught on to said reflective dew or moisture coUecting surface.
10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the to-be-tested gas is not pre-cooled to a temperature slightly higher than the dew point temperature of the to-be-tested gas before the to-be- tested gas is caused to flow over said reflective surface.
11. A hygrometer for measuring dew/frost point temperature at low levels of moisture of a gas, including in combination, a reflective surface, a heating source in thermally conductive contact with said reflective surface, a radiation source directed at said reflective surface, a radiation detector for measuring the intensity of the radiation reflected from said reflective surface to determine when the gas undergoing hygrometric measurement is cooled to its dew/frost point temperature, and means for monitoring the temperature of said reflective surface when the dew or frost point temperature of the gas which is being monitored is reached, wherein the improvement comprises: a cryogenic source normally located out of contact from said reflective surface, and from thermally conductive elements which are in thermally conductive contact with said reflective surface; means for controUably bringing said cryogenic source into thermally conductive contact with said reflective surface, or with thermally conductive elements which are in thermally conductive contact with said reflective surface; and control circuit means which control said means for controUably bringing said cryogenic source into thermally conductive contact with said reflective surface or with thermally conductive elements which are in thermaUy conductive contact with said reflective surface and for controUably activating said heating source to hold said reflective surface substantiaUy at the dew/frost point temperature of the gas undergoing hygrometric measurement.
12. The process of measuring dew/frost point temperature at low levels of moisture using a system which includes, in combination a reflective surface for coUecting dew or frost, means for causing a to-be-tested gas to be passed over said reflective surface, a source of cryogenic coolmg normally located out of contact with said reflective surface, heating means associated with said reflective surface, a temperature sensing element associated with said reflective surface, a control circuit, a light source and a reflected Ught detector, including the steps of: 


 causing a to-be-tested gas to flow over said reflective surface, directing light from said Ught source onto said reflective surface; using said light detector to measure the intensity of the Ught which is reflected from said reflective surface; bringing said cryogenic source into thermally conductive contact with said reflective surface to cool said reflective surface to at least the dew/frost point temperature of the to-be-tested gas at which the intensity of the reflected Ught is reduced; determining when the intensity of the Ught reflected from the reflective surface is constant, as an indication that it has been cooled to the dew/frost point temperature and has moisture or frost collected on its surface; in response to the control circuit, using said heating means to warm said reflective surface; using said control circuit to hold said reflective surface at the dew/frost point temperature at which the reduced intensity of the reflected Ught is constant, and, therefore the moisture or frost is collected on said reflective surface is constant; using the temperature of the reflective surface at which the reduced intensity of the reflected Ught is constant as an indication of the moisture/humidity of the to-be-tested gas.
13. The process of claim 12 wherein the dew/frost point temperature of the environment is in the range of from about -110° C to about 30° C.
14. The process of claim 13 wherein the gas environment which is undergoing testing is at a pressure of from about 0.5 atmosphere to about 100 atmospheres.
15. The process of claim 12 wherein moisture is present in the to-be-tested gas from as little as about one part per biUion by volume of the gas to about 30 parts per thousand.
16. The process of claim 12 wherein moisture is introduced from another source before the to-be-tested gas is allowed to flow over said reflective surface, to thereby increase the amount of water which is present and available to be picked up by said reflective surface, and thus allowing said reflective surface to quickly, acquire a layer or moisture or frost to be coUected on said reflective surface, and thereby also allowing normal operation of the process to be quickly initiated.
17. The process of claim 16 wherein a known quantity of water is injected into the gas stream entering the sensing area of the hygrometer in a single pulse.
18. The process of claim 16 wherein water vapor is continuously injected into the sensing area of the hygrometer until a moisture or frost layer is formed on said reflective surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
