<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0296968</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integrated poly-phase power meter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2100	G01R21133	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R21	G01R21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high accuracy power meter capable of mea­
suring power supplied or consumed in multiple phases of 

a distribution system is fabricated as an integrated 
circuit. Voltage and current sensing transducers 

coupled to the power meter provide input signals having 
a potential proportional to the voltage and current in 

the distribution system. A low charge injection pulse 
width amplitude multiplier using a digitally-synthesized 

triangular wave is provided for each phase. Each 
multiplier receives the input signals and provides an 

output signal having a current proportional to the 
product of voltage and current in that phase of the 

distribution system. 
Charge from the multiplier output currents 
for all phases is accumulated in a capacitor connected 

across an autozeroing amplifier, which corrects for its 
own offset voltage. The amplifier output controls a 

switch connected between a reference potential and the 
capacitor. When the switch is closed a reference 

current is supplied to the accumulating capacitor to 
balance the charge from the multiplier for each phase. 

The frequency of the switch control signal provides a 
highly accurate measure of the power consumed or 

supplied by the distribution system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLUMBERGER IND SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLUMBERGER INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEYDIER ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEYDIER, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for measuring 
electrical power consumed by an application or 
supplied by a source. More particularly, the invention 
relates to an integrated circuit which provides information 
about electric power in a distribution system when 
coupled to voltage and current transducers in that distribution 
system. Electricity meters are used for measuring the 
quantity of electric energy consumed or supplied by a 
particular application. In alternating current supply 
or distribution systems, electromechanical watt-hour 
meters typically have been used. Such well know watt-hour 
meters are used throughout the world to measure 
the consumption and supply of electricity, and are a 
common fixture on almost any residential or industrial 
structure to which power is supplied. While such meters 
are highly reliable, their mechanical construction sharply 
limits the range of additional functions they may perform. 
For example, charging different rates at different times 
of the day or under different utility load conditions 
is difficult, as is using the meter itself to control a  
 
load or a generator. Additionally, such mechanical 
meters would be quite expensive to fabricate were they 
to perform many of these functions. Completely electronic meters, but not integrated 
circuits, for the measurement of power are described 
in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,015,140, 4,066,960, and 
4,217,546. The techniques therein employ well-known 
"mark-space amplitude" multiplication or "pulse width-pulse 
height" multiplication in which the amplitude of 
a pulse waveform is proportional to one variable and 
the pulse width is proportional to a second variable. 
In the case of power metering, if one variable is the 
potential supplied to or from a load and the other variable 
is the current flowing to or from a load, then 
the average value of the waveform is proportional to 
the power. Generally, the pulse width is determined by 
a comparator which receives both a triangle waveform 
and the potential supplied to or from the load. Unfortunately, these techniques suffer from a 
number of disadvantages which reduce the precision of 
the meter for low measurement. The multiplier described 
in these patents injects charge into downstream circuitry 
which that circuitry incorrectly interprets as a valid 
signal thereby causing significant errors in the power 
measurement. The approach shown in the '960 patent 
relies upon a resistor-capacitor network to provide a 
frequency source. This is disadvantageous in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A system for measuring electrical energy 
in a circuit comprising: 

      voltage sensing means coupled to the circuit 
for supplying a first signal related to potential in 

the circuit; 
      current sensing means coupled to the circuit 

for supplying a second signal related to current in the 
circuit; 

      multiplication means connected to receive the 
first signal and the second signal and provide a third 

signal having a current representative of the product 
of the first and the second signals; 

      converter means connected to receive the third 
signal and provide a fourth signal having a frequency 

related to the product of the first and the second sig­
nals; and 

      wherein the converter means includes sign bit 
means for supplying a sign bit digital signal to the 

multiplication means which digital signal is of a first 
state when current in the circuit is flowing in a first 

direction and in a second state when current in the 
circuit is flowing in an opposite direction. 
2. A system as in Claim 1 wherein the multi­
plication means comprises: 

      signal generator means for generating a peri­
odically varying signal; 

      comparison means connected to receive both 
the periodically varying signal and a selected one of 

the first and the second signals, and in response thereto 
provide a comparison means output signal when the periodi­

cally varying signal is in a predetermined relationship 
to the selected one of the first and the second signals; 

and
 

      switchably controlled current source means 
connected to operate under control of the comparison 

means output signal and connected to receive the other 
of the first and the second signals and supply the third 

signal. 
3. A system as in Claim 2 wherein the com­
parison means output signal is determined by the rela­

tive magnitudes of the periodically varying signal com­
pared to the selected one of the first and the second 

signals. 
4. A system as in Claim 3 wherein the se­
lected one of the first and second signals is the first 

signal. 
5. A system as in Claim 2 further comprising 
logic means connected to receive the comparison means 

output signal and connected to receive the digital signal 
from the sign bit means, the logic means controlling 

the switchably controlled current source means in re­
sponse to both the comparison means output signal and 

the sign bit digital signal. 
6. A system as in Claim 5 wherein the logic 
means comprises an exclusive OR gate. 
7. A system as in Claim 2 wherein the com­
parison means comprises: 

      a first switch for connecting the selected 
one of the first and the second signals to a first ter­

minal of a first charge storage means; 
      a second switch for connecting the periodi­

cally varying signal to the first terminal; 
      voltage comparison means having a first elec­

trode connected to a second terminal of the first charge 
storage means, a second electrode connected to a 

 
reference potential and an output electrode connected 

to supply the comparison means output signal; and 
      a third switch connected between the first 

and the second electrodes. 
8. A system as in Claim 7 wherein both the 
first and the second switch are controlled by clock 

signals which also control the signal generator means 
to thereby synchronize the first and second switches 

with the signal generator means. 
9. A system as in Claim 2 wherein the switch­
ably controlled current source means comprises: 

      a semiconductor switch connected to operate 
under control of the comparison means output signal; 

      first resistor means having one terminal con­
nected to the semiconductor switch and another terminal 

connected to receive the other of the first and second 
signals; and 

      second resistor means connected between the 

semiconductor switch and the converter means. 
10. A system as in Claim 9 wherein the semi­
conductor switch comprises a pair of complementary field 

effect transistors connected in parallel with each other 
and connected in series between the first and the second 

resistor means. 
11. A system as in Claim 10 wherein each of 
the field effect transistors includes a gate electrode 

connected to receive one of the comparison means output 
signal and its complement. 
12. A system as in Claim 10 wherein the first 
resistor means comprises a first resistor and the second 

resistor means comprises a second resistor of equal 
resistance to the first resistor. 
13. A system as in Claim 1 wherein the con­
verter means comprises: 

      charge accumulation means connected to receive 
the third signal and accumulate charge therefrom; 

      charge balance means for supplying charge in 
a controlled amount to the charge accumulation means; 

and 
      control means connected to the charge accumu­

lation means and to the charge balance means to regulate 
the charge balance means to cause it to supply over 

time the same amount of charge as the third signal. 
14. A system as in Claim 13 wherein the con­
trol means provides a control signal to control the 

charge balance means. 
15. A system as in Claim 14 wherein the control 
signal to control the charge balance means is the fourth 

signal. 
16. A system as in Claim 13 wherein the charge 
balance means comprises: 

      a current source; 
      a current source switch for connecting the 

current source to the charge accumulation means; and 
      wherein the control means controls the current 

source switch. 
17. A system as in Claim 16 wherein the current 
source switch comprises a complementary pair of field 

effect transistors. 
18. A system as in Claim 16 wherein the charge 
accumulation means comprises a capacitor. 
19. A system as in Claim 16 wherein the control 
means comprises:

 
      amplifier means connected to the charge accu­

mulation means for detecting the accumulated charge and 
in response thereto providing an amplifier output signal; 

      comparator means connected to receive the 
amplifier output signal and in response thereto control 

the current source switch; and 
      threshold detector means connected to receive 

the amplifier output signal and in response to the ampli­
fier output signal reaching a present threshold value 

supplying the sign bit digital signal. 
20. A system as in Claim 1 wherein: 
      the current sensing means comprises a first 

transformer. 
21. A system as in Claim 20 wherein: 
      the voltage sensing means comprises one of a 

second transformer and a voltage divider. 
22. A system as in Claim 1 wherein: 
      the circuit includes a plurality of phases; 

      the voltage sensing means comprises a separate 
voltage sensing device coupled to each of the phases; 

      the current sensing means comprises a separate 
current sensing device coupled to each of the phases; 

and 
      the multiplication means comprises a separate 

multiplier connected to the voltage sensing device and 
current sensing device for each of the phases. 
23. A system as in Claim 22 wherein the con­
verter means comprises a single converter connected to 

all of the separate multipliers. 
24. In a system for measuring electrical 
energy in a circuit which includes voltage sensing means 

coupled to the circuit for supplying a first signal 
 

related to potential in the circuit, and current sensing 
means coupled to the circuit for supplying a second 

signal related to current in the circuit, apparatus 
comprising: 

      multiplication means connected to receive the 
first signal and the second signal and provide a third 

signal representative of the product of the first and 
the second signals; 

      converter means connected to receive the third 
signal and provide a fourth signal having a frequency 

related to the product of the first and the second sig­
nals; and 

      wherein the multiplication means includes: 
      signal generating means for digitally gener­

ating a periodically varying signal; and 
      comparator means connected to receive the 

first signal and the periodically varying signal and 
supply a binary control signal of a first state when 

the first signal exceeds the periodically varying signal 
and of an opposite state when the periodically varying 

signal exceeds the first signal. 
25. A system as in Claim 24 wherein the signal 
generating means comprises: 

      digital-to-analog converter means for gener­
ating a most significant and a least significant volt­

age; and 
      charge transfer means for combining the most 

and least significant voltages to provide an output 
signal. 
26. A system as in Claim 25 wherein the dig­
ital-to-analog converter means comprises: 

      a plurality of serially connected resistive 
means having intermediate nodes, the plurality connected 

between a first and a second potential source; and
 

      network means connected to the plurality of 
serially connected resistive means for connecting se­

lected intermediate nodes thereof to the charge transfer 
means. 
27. A system as in Claim 26 wherein the net­
work means comprises a plurality of switches. 
28. A system as in Claim 17 wherein the charge 
transfer means comprises: 

      first charge storage means connected to receive 
the most significant voltage; and 

      second charge storage means connectable to 
the first charge storage means; and 

      third charge storage means connected to receive 
the least significant voltage and connectable to the 

second charge storage means. 
29. A system as in Claim 28 wherein: 
      the digital-to-analog converter means is con­

nected to receive n clock signals. 
30. A system as in Claim 29 wherein: 
      the first, second and third charge storage 

means comprise first C1, second C2, and third C3 capac­
itors; and 

      the capacitance of C1 + C3 equals C2. 
31. A system as in Claim 30 wherein the ca­
pacitances of C1, C2 and C3 are: 


32. A current-to-frequency converter com­
prising:

 
      a first node connected to receive a signal 

current to be converted to a signal having a frequency 
related to the signal current; 

      charge accumulation means connected between 
the first node and a second node to accumulate charge 

from the signal current; 
      a reference current source connected to the 

first node through first switch means for providing a 
reference current of opposite polarity to the signal 

current; 
      control means connected between the firs
t and 
the second nodes for sensing the accumulated charge and 

in response thereto providing a control signal to con­
trol the first switch means to connect the reference 

current source to the first node; 
      sensing means connected to the second node 

for detecting when the polarity of the reference 
current source and the signal current are the same and 

in response thereto supplying an NP signal. 
33. A converter as in Claim 33 further com­
prising first logic means connected to receive the NP 

signal and change the polarity of the signal current. 
34. A converter as in Claim 32 further com­
prising: 

      a source of first clock signals; 
      second logic means connected to receive the 

control signal and the first clock signals and in re­
sponse supply the control signal to the first switching 

means for an integral number of clock periods. 
35. A converter as in Claim 32 wherein the 
control means comprises: 

      amplifier means connected to the first node 
supplying an amplifier-output signal indicative of the 

potential of the first node; and
 

      comparator means connected to receive the 
amplifier output signal and connected to receive a 

first potential and in response to a predetermined 
relationship between the amplifier output signal and 

the first potential, supply the control signal. 
36. A converter as in Claim 32 wherein the 
sensing means comprises: 

      level detection means connected to the second 
node to receive the amplifier output signal and supply 

the NP signal when the amplifier output signal reaches 
a selected threshold. 
37. A system for providing an output current 
related to the product of current and voltage in a 

circuit comprising: 
      voltage sensing means coupled to the circuit 

for supplying a first signal related to potential in 
the circuit; 

      current sensing means coupled to the circuit 
for supplying a second signal related to current in the 

circuit; 
      signal generator means including digital to 

analog converter means for generating a periodically 
varying signal; 

      comparison means connected to receive both 
the periodically varying signal and a second one of the 

first and the second signals, and in response thereto 
provide a comparison means output signal when the peri­

odically varying signal is in a predetermined relation­
ship to the selected one of the first and the second 

signals; and 
      switchably controlled current source means 

connected to receive the other of the first and the 
second signals and supply the third signal under 

control of the comparison means output signal. 
38. A system for measuring electrical energy 
in a circuit wherein a first signal is available 

related to potential in the circuit and a second 
signal, which is single ended, is available related to 

a current in the circuit, the system comprising: 
      comparator means connected to receive the 

first signal and connected to receive a varying signal, 
the comparator means supplying a switch signal in 

response to a predetermined relationship between the 
first signal and the varying signal; and 

      switchably controlled current source means 
connected to receive the second signal and supply a 

current in response thereto under control of the switch 
signal. 
39. A system as in Claim 38 wherein the 
comparator means comprises: 

      a first node connected to receive the first 
signal; 

      a second node connected to receive the 
varying signal; 

      charge storage means for storing charge; 
      a voltage comparator having a first terminal 

connected to a first potential source and having a 
second terminal connected to the charge storage means; 

      a first switch connected between the first 
node and the charge storage means; 

      a second switch connected between the second 
node and the charge storage means; and 

      a third switch connected between the first 
terminal and the second terminal. 
40. A method of measuring electrical energy 
in a circuit comprising: 

      sensing potential and current in the circuit 
and providing a first signal representative of the 

product of the potential and the current the current 
 

having a polarity determined by whether the circuit is 
supplying or receiving current; 

      accumulating charge from the first signal at 
a first node; 

      detecting the polarity of the current; 
      in response to charge accumulating, switchably 

connecting an opposite polarity signal to the first 
node to maintain the first node at an average of zero 

charge; and 
      measuring the amount of time the opposite 

polarity signal is supplied to the first node to 
thereby obtain a measure of the electrical energy in 

the circuit. 
41. A method as in Claim 40 wherein the 
potential and current in a plurality of phases in the 

circuit are each sensed and a first signal for each 
phase is supplied to the first node. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
