<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637819</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compact deployable acoustic sensor and method for sensing targets.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S300	G01S3801	G01S3808	G01S500	G01S520	G01V116	G01V116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S3	G01S3	G01S3	G01S5	G01S5	G01V1	G01V1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensor for detecting acoustic energy emitted by a target is disclosed. 
The sensor comprises a housing including a plurality of transducers for receiving 

acoustic energy. The transducers are randomly deployed within a predetermined 
area
 around the housing, forming an array and a self-survey technique is utilized to 
determine the positions of the sensors. Beamforming techniques are utilized to 

analyze the acoustic energy detected by the transducers to provide the azimuth of a 
target and a class estimate of the target. A plurality of sensors may be utilized to 

provide target location, course and velocity. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIANT TECHSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIANT TECHSYSTEMS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRAUNLING RUSSELL D DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARENDRA PATRENAHALLI M DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEGERER WILLIAM J II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WERDER JONATHAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRAUNLING, RUSSELL D., DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARENDRA, PATRENAHALLI M., DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEGERER, WILLIAM J., II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WERDER, JONATHAN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of target detection and classification and, more 
particularly, to a sensing apparatus and method for detecting and classifying objects 
emitting acoustic energy. Previously, air acoustic sensors have been utilized to form arrays and 
provide azimuth estimates of sound sources. However, these systems require either 
large mechanical devices for fixed arrays or do not provide a compact deployable 
unit which produces accurate results. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,208,738 by Lamborn relates to a 
deployable sonar array with interconnected transducers including a housing with 
electronics where the transducers are released when the housing is launched. U.S. Pat. No. 5,027,333 to Halling is directed to an acoustic array 
including a plurality of the transducing elements which are free floating. U.S. Pat. No. 4,559,605 to Norsworthy relates to beamforming 
method utilizing a number of sensing elements which take up random positions 
where the relative positions of the elements are determined using triangulation. Also, a device known as Smart Standoff Mine Active 
Countermeasures (SSMAC) beamformer utilizes mechanical deployment of a 
complex shaped predetermined array to employ beamforming techniques. Consequently, a need remains for a compact, easily deployable system 
where transducers are randomly dispersed and a coordinate system may be formed 
so that accurate azimuth outputs and target class estimates are obtained from 
advanced beamforming techniques. The present invention eliminates physical 
constraints in transducer locations allowing use of larger arrays with a greater 
number of transducers which results in significant performance improvement. The compact deployable sensor comprises a housing, a plurality of 
transducers carried inside the housing, means for randomly distributing the 
transducers within a predefined area surrounding the housing, the transducers being 
conductively connected to the housing and each generating an analog output signal 
indicative of the acoustic energy received from a target, self-survey means  
 
electrically connected to the plurality of transducers for determining the position of 
the transducers relative to the housing, computing means electrically connected to 
the plurality of transducers for analyzing acoustic energy received by the plurality of 
transducers. The compact deployable sensor has computing means for analyzing 
acoustic energy comprising means for converting the analog output signals of each 
transducer at a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compact deployable sensor comprising: 

a) a housing; 
b) a plurality of transducers carried inside the housing; 
c) means for randomly distributing the transducers within a predefined 
area surrounding the housing, the transducers being conductively 

connected to the housing and each generating an analog 
output signal indicative of the acoustic energy received from a 

target; 
d) self-survey means electrically connected to the plurality of transducers 
for determining the position of the transducers relative 

to the housing; 
e) computing means electrically connected to the plurality of transducers 
for analyzing acoustic energy received by the plurality of 

transducers. 
The sensor of claim 1 wherein the computing means for analyzing 
acoustic energy comprises: 


a) means for converting the analog output signals of each transducer 

at a predetermined sampling rate into digital signals; 
b) means for adaptive beamforming connected to the digital signals 
of the transducers wherein a predetermined number of beams 

are generated and the acoustic energy received in each beam is 
determined, and 
c) target detection means connected to the adaptive beamforming 
means for determining the median acoustic energy of the beams 

 
and locating beams with an acoustic energy a predetermined 

amount above the median acoustic energy, 
 
whereby a signal constituting the azimuth angle to the target emitting 

the received acoustic energy is produced. 
The sensor of claim 2 wherein the computing means for analyzing 
acoustic energy further comprises: 


a) second means for adaptive beamforming connected to the digital 
signals of the transducers and connected to the target detection 

means wherein only beams with an acoustic energy a predetermined 
amount above the median acoustic energy are determined; 
b) means for classifying connected to the second means for adaptive 
beamforming wherein the frequency spectrum corresponding 

to the beams is determined and compared to stored spectrums 
corresponding to known targets, 
 
whereby the particular target emitting the acoustic energy is determined. 
The sensor of claim 3 wherein the self-survey means comprises: 

a) means for deploying a first and second transducer of said plurality 
of transducers in a predetermined position relative to the 

housing such that the first and second transducers are colinear; 
wherein the position of the first transducer defines the origin of 

a coordinate system; 
b) means for sequentially emitting a sound from the first and 
second transducers and from at least one other of the plurality 

of transducers, said three transducers defining a reference plane; 
c) means for determining the sound travel time from the emitting 
transducer to each of the other plurality of transducers; 
d) means for computing the distances between the emitting transducer 
and each of the other transducers defining the reference 

plane wherein a coordinate system is defined and the position 
of each reference transducer is determined; 
e) means for computing the position of the other plurality of 
transducers in the coordinate system using the sound travel time 

information. 
The sensor of claim 4 wherein four transducers are utilized to 
define a three-dimensional coordinate system, three of the four 

transducers defining a reference plane, with the fourth transducer 
being nonplanar with the reference plane, each of the four transducers 

sequentially emitting a sound which is used to compute the 
position of all four transducers in the coordinate system, and which 

is used to compute the position of each of the other plurality of 
transducers in the coordinate system. 
The sensor of claim 1 wherein the housing includes means for 
erecting the housing in an upright position regardless of deployment 

position. 
The sensor of claim 1 wherein the housing includes an azimuth 
orientation means carried within the housing for orienting the device 

relative to magnetic north. 
The sensor of claim 1 wherein the housing includes a global positioning 
means for determining the latitude and longitude of the sensor. 
The sensor of claim 1 wherein the housing includes a communication 
means for transmitting data to a receiver. 
The sensor of claims 7, 8, and 9 wherein the data transmitted is 
the location of the sensor and/or the azimuth of the target and/or 

the class estimate of the target. 
Apparatus for determining actual target location comprising at least 
three sensors according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 10, 

which three sensors are distributed over a predetermined area. 
The apparatus of claim 11 in which each sensor includes timing 
means such that the target location for at least two discrete times 

can be determined, whereby the target velocity and course can be 
determined. 
Method for sensing targets comprising the steps of: 

a) deploying a sensor comprising: 

1) a housing; 
2) a plurality of transducers carried inside the housing; 
3) means for randomly distributing the transducers within a 
predefined area surrounding the housing, the transducers 

being conductively connected to the housing and each generating 
an analog output signal indicative of the acoustic 

energy received from a target; 
4) self-survey means electrically connected to the plurality of 
transducers for determining the position of the transducers 

relative to the housing; 
5) computing means electrically connected to the plurality of 
transducers for analyzing acoustic energy received by the 

plurality of transducers; 
b) deploying a first and second transducer of said plurality of 
transducers in a predetermined position relative to the housing 

 
such that the first and second transducers are colinear, wherein 

the position of the first transducer defines the origin of a 
coordinate system; 
c) sequentially emitting a sound from the first and second transducers 
and from at least one other of the plurality of transducers, 

said three transducers defining a reference plane; 
d) determining the sound travel time from the emitting transducer 
to each of the other plurality of transducers; 
e) computing the distances between the emitting transducer and 
each of the other transducers defining the reference plane 

wherein a coordinate system is defined and the position of each 
reference transducer is determined; 
f) computing the position of the other plurality of transducers in 
the coordinate system using the sound travel time information, 

and 
g) determining the target azimuth from analyzing the acoustic 
energy received by the plurality of transducers. 
The method of claim 13 further including the step of determining 
the target class from analyzing the acoustic energy received by the 

plurality of transducers. 
The method of claim 13 wherein the sensor further includes azimuth 
orientation means carried within the housing for orienting the device 

relative to magnetic north, global positioning means to determine 
azimuth and elevations of the sensor and a communication means 

for transmitting data to a receiver; further comprising the steps of: 

a) transmitting the data relating to azimuth and/or class estimate 
to the receiver. 
The method of claim 15, further including the steps of: 

a) deploying at least three of the sensors over a predefined area; 
b) triangulating the three sensor azimuth angles to determine target 
location. 
The method of claim 16 wherein each sensor includes timing means 
and further including the step of determining the targ
et location for 
at least two discrete times, whereby the target velocity and course 

can be determined. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
