<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629558</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stackable container
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D1904	B65D122	B65D2102	B65D122	B65D1902	B65D2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D19	B65D1	B65D21	B65D1	B65D19	B65D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bulk container (10) integrally molded from a plastic 
material and providing substantially exclusive transfer of 

vertical loads through the corners of a lower container (10) during 
stacking, and increased volumetric capacity. The front, rear 

and side sections (12,14,16,18) of the container are integrally formed 
with 

a bottom wall portion (20) to form a containment volume with a 
plurality of corners. A plurality of nesting protrusions (78) 

extend downwardly from the lower portion of the corners and a 
corresponding plurality of nesting recesses (80) are formed in the 

upper portion of the corners so that two containers (10) can be 
vertically stacked with each protrusion (78) mated with a 

corresponding recess (80). The corners include reinforcing 
vertical column portions having inwardly spaced wall portions 

blending into containment wall portions (25). The containment wall 
portions (25) extend outwardly from the inwardly spaced wall 

portions. The bottom wall portion (20) tapers downwardly in the 
direction outward from the center and blends into the lower 

regions of the containment wall portions. Vertical load 
transfer occurs between the upper container protrusions (78) and 

the corresponding recess (80), vertical column portions and 
protrusions (78) of the underlying container. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACROPLASTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACROPLASTICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELVIN-JENSEN FLEMMING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELVIN-JENSEN, FLEMMING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to bulk containers of the
type used to store and transport large quantities of
agricultural produce, and industrial and other products.Bulk containers are used for the storage and
transport of large quantities of various kinds of items, such
as agricultural produce, industrial products and the like.
Such a container is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,180,064
issued January 19,1 993 for "CONTAINER". The bulk container
disclosed in the '064 patent is a one piece molded plastic
container having compound formed front, rear and side portions
joined by a base wall portion. The base wall portion is
elevated from the bottom of the container by means of
integrally formed leg sections extending front to rear which
support the container on the ground or some other support
surface. The two outer leg sections are provided with
removable foot members formed in the shape of channel-sections
which are removably inserted into the hollow underside of the
foot portions. Integrally molded corner column support
portions provide structural reinforcement for the container.
The '064 container is also provided with a novel integral
slide entry both fore and aft to facilitate the entry of the
tines of a forklift along the underside of the container from
either the front or the rear when the container needs to be
elevated or transported to another location. The integral
slide entry includes a plurality of longitudinally extending
arcuate ribs formed along the underside of the base wall
portion and extending outwardly of the containment wall
portion of the front and rear portion. Bulk containers are designed not only for
individual, free standing use but also for stacking so that
the containers and their contents can be efficiently stored
and transported. For this purpose, most bulk containers have
a bottom external support structure dimensioned to be
partially accommodated within the inner periphery of the top
rim of another like container for stacking. More
particularly, the bottom edge of the container base (or the
foot members in the case of the '064 container) typically
extends laterally inwardly and then downwardly so as to be
received within the inner periphery of the top rim of the
underlying container. When stacked, the outer bottom edge of
the upper container engages at least portions of the upper
surface of the rim of the lower container, so that the
vertical load of the upper container is distributed through
the engaged portion of rim and the wall structure of the lower
container. This design
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A container (10), the container having front
(12), rear (14) and side (16,18) sections formed with a

bottom wall section (20) to form a containment volume,
and having a plurality of corner portions; said front

(12), rear (14) and side (16,18) sections having an upper
rim portion (32) with an inner edge, an outer edge and

a top surface; the container being arranged to be stacked
with other like containers; and

   the container being 
characterised by
:

being a bulk container for use in the storage and
transport of materials, and being arranged for lifting

by a fork lift;
the upper rim portion (32) having a respective
downwardly depending recess (80) associated with each of

the upper corner portions; and
a respective nesting protrusion (78) extending
downwardly from the bottom wall section (20) in

association with each of the lower corner portions; each
recess (80) extending through the inner edge and the

outer edge of the upper rim portion (32) to form a gap
therein, the recesses (80) providing a corresponding

plurality of nesting recesses (80) formed in association
with the upper corner portions so that two of said

containers can be stacked with the nesting protrusions
(78) of the upper container received by the nesting

recesses (80) of the lower container with a substantially
exclusive transfer of the vertical load through the

corner portions of the lower container.
A container according to claim 1, wherein each
protrusion (78) has an outer margin designed to be

substantially coextensive with the outer margin of a
nesting recess (80) when the container is stacked on a

like container.
A container according to claim 1 or claim 2,
further including an internal ledge (29) extending along

the upper inner portion of each of the front (12), rear
(14) and side (16, 18) sections, and wherein each recess

(80) terminates at a level above the internal ledge (29).
A container according to claim 3, wherein each
recess (80) incudes a sloping side wall portion (83)

extending downwardly from the rim portion (32) and
terminating in a recess floor (82).
A container according to any preceding claim,
wherein said front (12), rear (14) and side (16, 18)

sections are joined adjacent the corners of said bulk
container (10) by reinforcing column portions having a

hollow interior, each column portion terminating at the
upper end thereof beneath an associated recess (80) so

that a discrete reinforcement member (85) may be inserted
into the hollow interior to provide additional column

support. 
A container according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein each of said side sections

(16,18) is provided at the bottom thereof with a discrete
foot member (22); and wherein said nesting protrusions

(78) comprise a portion of said foot member (22).
A container according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein each recess (80) is positioned

adjacent a different one of the plurality of corner
portions.
A container according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the front (12), rear (14) and

side (16, 18) sections are integrally moulded with the
bottom wall section.
A wall structure for use in a container
according to at least one of claims 1 to 7, said wall

structure comprising an upper rim portion (32) extending
along said wall structure and terminating at opposite

corner portions thereof, said upper rim portion (32)
having an inner edge, an outer edge, a top surface and a

pair of downwardly depending recesses (80), each recess
(80) being associated with a different one of said corner

portions, each said recess (80) extending through the
inner edge and the outer edge of said upper rim portion

(32) to form a gap therein, each of said recesses (80)
providing a pair of nesting recesses (80) in association 

with a respective upper corner portion so that two
containers (10) provided with said wall structure can be

stacked, with the nesting protrusions (78) of the upper
container (10) received by the nesting recesses (80) of

the lower container (10) with a substantially exclusive
transfer of vertical load through the corner portions of

the lower container (10).
A structure according to claim 9, wherein each
recess (80) is positioned adjacent a different one of

said pair of corner portions.
A structure according to claim 9 or claim 10,
wherein said wall structure further includes an internal

ledge (29) extending along the upper inner portion
thereof; and wherein each recess (80) terminates at a

level between said top surface of said upper rim portion
(80) and said internal ledge (29).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
