<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640209</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC STAINING APPARATUS FOR SLIDE SPECIMENS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N130	G01N130	G01N131	G01N3352	G01N3352	G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3502	G01N3502	G01N3504	G01N3504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for the automatic staining of tissue slide specimens has a casing (12) enclosing a plurality of baths (20) arranged in an array and a carriage (24), which includes a hoist (25), guide rail (26), cross member (23) and hooks (22). Carriage (24) moves cross member (23) in any XYZ direction and with hook (22) is selectively able to engage and move a rack (21) containing tissue slide specimens between baths (20). The apparatus further includes a microprocessor for controlling the movement of the carriage such that one or more racks (21) may be processed through the apparatus. The microprocessor contains logic whereby multiple schedules can operate simultaneously and additional schedules can be commenced without disruption to schedules currently operating.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUSTRALIAN BIOMEDICAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUSTRALIAN BIOMEDICAL CORPORATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEEFE RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEEFE, RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE: AUTOMATIC STAINING APPARATUS FOR SLIDESPECIMENSThis invention relates to an automatic staining apparatus for histochemical staining of tissue slide specimens and in particular to an improved automatic staining apparatus that can simultaneously process a plurality of slide specimens in accordance with different staining processes. One known method of staining slide specimens is a "bicycle chain" apparatus wherein slide clips hold individual slides and the processing or staining of the slides according to a particular staining schedule occurs by the "bicycle chain" moving the slides across a linear collection of baths and the slides being immersed for a fixed period of 30 or 60 seconds in a particular bath and then being removed and moved to the next scheduled bath.This apparatus however is labour intensive when coping with a multitude of slide specimens as each slide clip only holds a single slide. In a normal day at a large laboratory it may be necessary to process some 3,000 slides, therefore this process is highly inadequate. Further the "bicycle chain" apparatus is not economical in its processing as it has fixed immersion times, therefore if a schedule requires a shorter or longer immersion time, the chemical effect must be achieved by altering the concentrations of the chemicals. This requires either continual alteration of the concentration of chemicals in a particular bath or a plurality of baths with the same chemicals but at different concentrations. A large number of baths is therefore needed to provide a variety of schedules. The "bicycle chain" apparatus is also uneconomical in that in a linear system the time of travel from one bath at one end of the apparatus to the scheduled next bath, for a slide to be immersed in, at the other end of the apparatus, may substantially lengthen the time within which the staining procedure of a plurality of slides is completed.Another known apparatus for automatic staining of slide specimens is a batch stainer apparatus wherein a basket holds a plurality of slides and the apparatus processes the slides according to a single staining procedure or schedule. However the next batch of slide specimens is not able to be 

processed until the first batch has completed its schedule and been removed from the apparatus. As a staining schedule may take from Vz to 3 hours then either a plurality of machines is needed or the length of time for processing the plurality of slide specimens is substantially lengthened. It is usually also uneconomical to proceed until
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. Automatic tissue staining apparatus for staining tissue slide specimens, said apparatus comprising one or more slide racks each adapted to contain a plurality of said slides, a plurality of baths for containing chemicals for treating said specimens, said baths being located within a casing, and means for moving a said rack from one said bath to another, according to a microprocessor controlled programmable staining schedule, characterised in that, said microprocessor is programmable with different staining schedules and contains logic whereby multiple schedules can operate simultaneously. 2. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 1 , characterised in that, said microprocessor is adapted to allow additional schedules to be commenced without disruption to schedules currently operating.
3. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 2, characterised in that, said casing includes an access drawer for accommodating a rack to be introduced or removed from said apparatus whereby in the closed position of said drawer a rack may be lifted therefrom or placed therein by said means for moving a said rack from one said bath to another. 4. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 3, characterised in that, said casing includes a second access draw wherein racks which have completed a schedule are placed by said means for moving a said rack from one said bath to another for removal from said apparatus by opening of said second drawer. 5. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 2, characterised in that, said schedules contain information concerning the allowable extremities of immersion times in each bath.
6. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 2, characterised in that, said microprocessor is adapted to determine when commencement of a new program will cause a 'clash' with a program already being operated and delay commencement of said new program for a time 


sufficient to avoid said 'clash'.
7. Automatic tissue staining apparatus, as defined in claim 2, characterised in that, said means for moving a said rack from one said bath to another comprises a carriage arrangement including engagement means for releasably engaging a slide rack for the purpose of lifting, transporting and releasing said rack.
8. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 7, characterised in that, said carriage arrangement is adapted for movement along XYZ axes. 9. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 8, characterised in that, said baths have a handle which is pivoted to a vertical position for manually lifting a bath and said handle is adapted to fall to a side of the bath when not being held aloft whereby the handle does not impede access to said bath. 10. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 3, characterised in that, said schedules contain information concerning the allowable extremities of immersion times in each bath.
11. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 4, characterised in that, said microprocessor is adapted to determine when commencement of a new program will cause a 'clash' with a program already being operated and delay commencement of said new program for a time sufficient to avoid said 'clash'.
12. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 3, characterised in that, a signal is provided to said microprocessor when a slide is placed in said first mentioned drawer and said drawer is closed whereby said microprocessor is initialized to commence operation of a new program.
.13. Automatic tissue staining apparatus as defined in claim 4, characterised in that, a signal is provided to indicate to an operator when a rack is in said second access drawer ready for removal from said apparatus. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
