<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611498</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPREAD SPECTRUM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM WITH ADAPTIVE POWER CONTROL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B7005	H04B7005	H04W5200	H04W5200	H04W5208	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04W52	H04W52	H04W52	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communication system comprises a number of subscribers connected in common to a base-station (1). Each subscriber may use an interface device termed a subscriber access device too (or SAD). The subscribers and the base-station communicate via duplex of dual simplex spread-spectrum channels, each channel comprising an up-link from a subscriber to the base-station and a down-link from the base-station to the subscriber. The base-station may transmit power control signals to respective subscriber stations on their down-links. The subscriber stations in response to the power control signal from the down-link modifies its transmission signal power following a feed back control strategy. The subscriber stations may also be arranged to transmit power control signals to the base-station to modify the powers of transmissions from the base-station. The communications systems may be implemented as a spread-spectrum cellular radio system. The cells of the system may be made dynamically resizable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIBERTY COMMUNICATIONS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIBERTY COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORMONDROYD RICHARD FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORMONDROYD, RICHARD FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
SPREAD SPECTRUM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM WITH ADAPTIVE POWER CONTROLBACKGROUND TO THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a communication system in which a number of subscriber stations communicate via a node or base-station on a common transmission medium. Such a system might be used, for example, in a digital radio network of the type proposed for PCN (personal communications network) systems. It has been proposed to use direct-sequence spread- spectrum transmitters for digital radio networks used, for example, for transmitting analogue voice and video information and also digital data. In such a system a number of subscriber access devices (SADs) communicate with the central base-station using, for example, code division multiple-access (CDMA) ormultiple-divisionmultiple-access (MDMA) , which is a novel form of multiplexing related to CDMA and described in the present applicant's co-pending International Application PCT/GB 93/00199 entitled "Communication System" and filed 29th January 1993.For the reasons discussed in further detail below, when using such direct-sequence spread-spectrum techniques it is desirable to be able to control the transmission power at least of the subscriber stations, and optionally also of the base-station. Such power control makes it possible firstly to prevent the overloading of the base- station receivers by many simultaneous radio transmissions which are co-channel, i.e. all operate on the same allocated frequency band (the so-called near-far effect) , and secondly to limit spectrum pollution. Considering the near-far effect, without power control, transmitters which are nearer to the base-station would be received with a much higher power than transmitters which are further away and so these nearer transmissions would swamp the weaker ones, producing the so-called "near-far" effect and possibly overloading the base-station receiver. 

 The second main reason for using power control of each transmitter is to reduce the total power which is radiated beyond the perimeter of the network cell served by the base-station so that "spectrum pollution" is minimised. This is important for two reasons. Firstly, by reducing the power of level of spurious emissions, the interference range to other radio systems which are sharing the same frequency band is minimised and this improves the overall coverage area of the system, calculated on the basis of mutual non-interference operation. Secondly, it minimises co-channel interference to adjacent cells of the network and reduces the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A communication system comprising a base-station (1) and a plurality of subscriber stations (2,3) arranged to communicate with the base-station via duplex or dual simplex spread-spectrum channels, each channel comprising an uplink from a subscriber to the base-station and a down-link from the base-station to the subscriber, characterised in that the base-station (1) is arranged to transmit power control signals to respective subscriber stations on the down-links, and the subscriber stations are responsive to power control signals from respective down¬ links to modify the subscriber station transmission signal power according to a feedback control strategy. 2. A system according to claim 1, in which the base- station is arranged to monitor the power of transmissions received from a subscriber station, to compare the received level with the desired level, and to transmit to the subscriber a control signal to modify the power transmission accordingly, thereby providing closed-loop control of the subscriber transmitter power.
3. A system according to claim 2, in which the reference power level corresponds to a minimum acceptable level for reception, and the subscriber station is arranged to respond to the power control signal output by the base- station by adjusting its transmission power so that the received power at the base is substantially equal to the said minimum power level.
4. A system according to any one of the proceeding claims, in which the base-station is arranged to transmit a power control signal in the header of a frame carrying data communications traffic.
5. A system according to any one of claims 1 to 3, in which the base-station is arranged to transmit the power control signal in a dedicated power control frame transmitted intermittently between data carrying frames. 


 6. A system according to claim 5, in which the power control signal includes data corresponding to an absolute power level.
7. A system according to claim 4, in which the power control signal comprises a command to increment or decrement the subscriber transmitter power
8. A system according to any preceding claim, in which the base-station is arranged to vary a reference level used in determining the power control signal in dependence upon the traffic carried by the base-station.
9. A system according to claim 8, in which the base- station also varies its own transmission power levels in accordance with the amount of traffic carried.
10. A method of operating a communication system comprising a base-station and a plurality of subscriber stations, including the steps of communicating between the subscriber stations and base-station via duplex or dual simplex spread-spectrum channels, each channel comprising an up-link from a subscriber to the base-station and a down-link from the base-station to the subscriber, characterised by the step of transmitting power control signals from the base-station to respective subscriber stations on the down-links, and modifying at each respective subscriber in response to the power control signal on its respective down-link the subscriber station transmission signal power.
11. A method according to claim 10, further comprising transmitting power control signals from a subscriber station to a base-station and modifying the power of transmissions from the base-station to the respective subscriber station accordingly.
12. A communication system comprising a base-station (1) and a plurality of subscriber stations (2,3) arranged to communicate with the base-station via duplex or dual simplex spread-spectrum channels each comprising an up-link from a subscriber to the base and a down-link from the base to the subscriber, characterised in that the subscriber 


station is arranged to transmit power control signals to the base-station and the base-station is responsive to the received power control signal to modify the power level of transmissions to the respective subscriber station according to a closed-loop feedback strategy.
13. A system according to claim 12, in which the subscriber stations are arranged to generate the power control signal by comparing a received power level with a reference level and outputting an error signal back to the base-station accordingly.
14. A cellular spread-spectrum radio communication system, in which the cells making up the system are dynamically resizable.
15. A cellular spread-spectrum radio communication system, in which a base-station is arranged to vary the power of transmissions in the system depending upon the level of traffic carried by the system.
16. A system according to claim 15, in which the base- station varies the power of transmissions by varying a reference power level used to generate a power control signal transmitted by the base-station to a subscriber station.
17. A radio subscriber station adapted for use in a system according to any one of the preceding claims. 18. A radio base-station adapted for use in a system according to any one of the preceding claims. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
