<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648198</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROCESS FOR MODIFYING PARTICULATE SOLIDS AND PARTICULATE SOLIDS PREPARED THEREBY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J200	B01J200	C05G300	C05G300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	C05G	C05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J2	B01J2	C05G3	C05G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a process for modifying a particulate solid comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, the salt being selected from the group consisting of halides, nitrates, phosphates and sulfates, so as to decrease the rate of dissolution of the salt in aqueous solution, the process comprising contacting the salt with at least reagent which reacts with one or more ions of the salt to form a reaction product which coats the salt, the reaction product containing at least one ion of the water soluble inorganic salt as a component thereof and having a water solubility not more than half that of the original uncoated water soluble inorganic salt.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHALLEY KEVIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YISSUM RES DEV CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHALLEY, KEVIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EYAL AHARON MEIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EYAL, AHARON MEIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A PROCESS FOR MODIFYI NG PARTI CULATE SOLI DS AND PARTI CULATE SOLIDS PREPAREDTHEREBYThe present invention relates to water soluble inorganic salts having substantially water insoluble coatings and to processes for the preparation thereof. More particularly the present invention relates to the water soluble fertilizers provided with substantially water insoluble coatings for slow/sustained release thereof.Water soluble salts are of extensive use in aqueous solutions. Especially salts selected from the group consisting of halides, nitrates, phosphates and sulfates are of extensive use in the fertilizer industry. Such salts often contain cations of Li, Na, Mg and Ca and preferably contain cations which also serve as nutrients and micronutrients e.g., K, NH., Fe, Mn, Cu, Co, Mo and Zn. In certain cases, however, slow release of the salt into the aqueous solution is required. An important example is slow release fertilizers. Use of slow release fertilizers instead of direct application of the fertilizer as a soluble salt provides many advantages such as: increased efficiency, reduced number of applications, reduced soil toxicity, reduced nutrient losses and thereby lower contamination of underground water.In the prior art literature there are described two basic approaches for the preparation of slow release salts, i.e., the preparation of. low solubility formulations or the coating of a water soluble salt.SUBSTITUTESHEET 

 Tne first aoproacn involves the preparation of low solubility compounds sucn as: urea formaldehyde (Hasegawa and Onishi, JP63, 134,593, Stajer, Glaser, Vidensky and Vosolsobe (CS 2588147), syngemte (Von Maessennausen, Czikkely and Jung, DE 3,518,369) ana magnesium ammonium phosonate (JP 82 67,089); or water soluble salts granulated, pressed or sintered with other compounds such as gypsum (Koike JP 61,295,294), coal (Fujimori BR 88 03,282), coal ash (Oshikata, JP 60,239,381) and silicates (JP 59 04,397). The main disadvantage of low-solubility compounds or formulations is the high cost of raw materials and/or manufacturing.Coatings of soluble salts comprise polymers (Hansen, L'S 3,223,518, Showa, JP 60,103,093; U.S. 3,223,518), sulfur, wax (Ξibner, DE 3,321,053), pitch (Zou, CM 1,030,745), soybean formulation (NL 34 03,505), salts of fatty acids (Pipko, Manor and Ziv, EP 276,179), sodium silicate (Koππssarov and Panfileva SU 1,353,767), iron phospnate (Eibner DE 3,321,053), magnesium ammonium phosphate (Ninon JP 81,164,090) and gypsum or cement (JP 59,50,086).Current coating material
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A process for modifying a particulate solid comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, said salt being selected from the group consisting of halides, nitrates, phosphates and sulfates, so as to decrease the rate of dissolution of said salt in aqueous solution, said process comprising contacting said salt with at least one reagent which reacts with one or more ions of said salt to form a reaction product which coats said salt, said reaction product containing at least one ion of said water soluble inorganic salt as a component thereof and having a water solubility not more than half that of the original uncoated water soluble inorganic salt.
2. A process for modifying a particulate solid comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, as claimed in claim 1, said salt being selected from the group consisting of halides, nitrates, phosphates and sulfates, and optionally including cations of K, NH
4
>
 Fe, Mn, Cu, Co, Mo and Zn, so as to decrease the rate of dissolution of said salt in aqueous solution, said process comprising contacting said salt with at least one reagent which reacts with one or more ions of said salt to form a reaction product which coats said salt, said reaction product containing at least one of said ions as a component thereof and having a water solubility not more than half that of the original uncoated water soluble inorganic salt.
3. A process according to claim 1 wherein said particulate solid is contacted with an aqueous medium containing said reagent.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 4. A process according to claim 1 for modifying a particulate solid comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, said process comprising contacting particles of said particulate solid with at least one reagent which reacts with one or more ions of said salt to form a reaction product which coats said particles.
5. A particulate solid comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, said salt being selected from the group consisting of halides, nitrates, phosphates and sulfates, and said salt having a substan¬ tially water insoluble coating, said coating having been formed by contacting said salt with at least one reagent which reacts with one or more ions of said water soluble salt to form a reaction product which coats said water soluble salt, said reaction product containing at least one ion of said water soluble inorganic salt as a component thereof and having a water solubility not more than half that of the original uncoated water soluble inorganic salt.
6. A particulate solid as claimed in claim 5 comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, said salt being selected from the group consisting of halides, nitrates, phosphates and sulfates, and optionally containing cations of K, H
4
, Fe, Mn, Cu, Co, Mn and Zn, said salt having a substantially water insoluble coating, said coating having been formed by contacting said salt with at least one reagent which reacts with one or more of said ions to form a reaction product which coats said salt, said reaction product containing at least one of said ions as a component thereof and having a water solubility not
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


more than half that of the original uncoated water soluble inorganic salt.
7. A particulate solid according to claim 5 wherein said reaction product has a water solubility less than 10% of that of the original uncoated water soluble inorganic salt.
8. A particulate solid according to claim 5 wherein said reaction product is selected from K
2
Ca(S0
4
)
2
, 
3
Co(N0
2
)g and I SiFg,
9. A particulate solid according to claim 5 wherein said reaction product is selected from calcium sulfate, calcium carbonate, calcium fluoride, calcium laurate, calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate and calcium tartrate.
10. A particulate solid according to claim 5 wherein said reaction product includes nitrogen, phosphorus or potassium as a component thereof.
11. A particulate solid according to claim 5 wherein said reaction product further includes a micronutrient selected from Fe, Mn, Cu, Co, Mo and Zn as a component thereof.
12. A particulate solid according to claim 5 comprising a water soluble inorganic salt, wherein particles of said particulate solid are provided with a substantially water insoluble coating, said
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


coating on said particles having been formed by contacting said salt with at least one reagent which reacts with one or more ions of said waster-soluble salt to form a reaction product which coats said particles, said reaction product containing at least one ion of said water-soluble inorganic salt as a component thereof and having a water solubility not more than half that of the original uncoated water-soluble inorganic salt.
13. A particulate solid according to claim 5, wherein said water-soluble inorganic salt is KN0
3
.
14. A particulate solid according to claim 13, wherein said reaction product is K
2
SiF
β
.
15. A particulate solid according to claim 1, further comprising a surfactant.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
