<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634989</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED TRIGGER SPRAYER APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1100	B05B1100	B67D758	B67D758	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B11	B05B11	B67D7	B67D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved trigger sprayer apparatus (10) is comprised of a venting system (18, 84, 92) that allows air to enter a liquid container (26) connected to the apparatus as the apparatus dispenses liquid from the container, a trigger member (20) of the apparatus that provides reliable operation and prevents the inadvertent disconnection of the trigger member from the apparatus, a gasket (106) connected to the apparatus between the liquid container and the apparatus, and a fluid conduit (32) communicating with a nozzle orifice (158) of the apparatus that centers a fluid spinner (152) of the apparatus relative to the orifice. A discrete vent housing (14) and spraying housing (12) are provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to an improved trigger
sprayer apparatus. The improvements relate to a gasket
connected to the apparatus between a liquid container and
the apparatus.Sprayer apparatus of this type, corresponding to the preambles of claims 1 and 10, are known from
US-A-4 454 965 and from US-A-4 669 664. In the former the gasket is retained against
its seating by interference from a portion of the plastic seating deformed after passage of the gasket by
applying heat or sonic energy. In the latter the gasket is elastic and is stretched over a central guide so as to be retained by the resulting tension. In both cases only a single cylindrical member extends
through a central opening in the gasket.In prior art trigger sprayer apparatus for dispensing
liquid from containers, the typical sprayer apparatus is
comprised of a sprayer housing having a nozzle for
dispensing liquid, a trigger mounted on the housing for
pivoting movement relative thereto, a pump chamber formed
in the housing, and a pump piston connected to the trigger
and received in the pump chamber for reciprocating
movement therein in response to pivoting movement of the
trigger. The reciprocating movement of the pump piston
alternately draws fluid from the container into the pump
chamber and then forces the fluid out of the pump chamber
and through the nozzle in a spray or stream.Very often trigger sprayer apparatus of the type described
above are manufactured separately from the fluid
containers with which they are used. The sprayer
apparatus are purchased by suppliers of liquids such as
window cleaning liquids, household cleaning liquids, and
others, who assemble the sprayer apparatus to their own
containers containing their liquids. In attaching the sprayer apparatus to a liquid container,
a gasket is positioned between the sprayer apparatus and
container to prevent the liquid from leaking from the
connection. The gasket is typically included as a
component part of the sprayer apparatus. It has been
found in prior art trigger sprayer apparatus that the
gasket provided with the apparatus will often become
separated from the apparatus and lost in shipment. To
overcome this problem, gaskets have been developed that
are secured to the sprayer apparatus prior to their
shipment. With the gasket secured to the sprayer
apparatus, the gasket cannot be separated and lost during
shipment.Some prior art gaskets have been held in position on
sprayer apparatus by an insert. Some gaskets are
constructed with a layer of metallic foil covered

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A trigger sprayer apparatus for use in dispensing
liquid from an interconnectable container,

comprising:

a gasket (106) located such that in use, when
a liquid container is interconnected with the

trigger sprayer apparatus, said gasket (106) will
be confined between a body portion of the trigger

sprayer apparatus (10) and the interconnected
container (26) so as to provide a liquid seal

between the body portion and the interconnected
container, the gasket having a supply-tube hole

(112) therethrough;
a supply tube (28) extending from the body
portion such that, when a liquid container is

interconnected with the trigger sprayer apparatus,
the supply tube (28) extends through the supply-tube

hole (112) and into the container; and
characterized in that
:

the body portion includes a plurality of
posts (98) projecting outwardly therefrom, each

post having a distal end and the posts being
arranged such that the plurality of posts (98)

extend into a plurality of post holes which extend
through the gasket (106) so as to retain the

gasket (106) against being separated from the body
portion when not confined by any interconnected

liquid container.
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 1, further

characterized by
: the distal ends of the 
plurality of posts (98) passing through the gasket

(106).
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 1, further

characterized by
: the body portion having a
cylindrical housing base (82) and the plurality of

posts (98) being spatially arranged around the
cylindrical housing base.
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 3, further

characterized by
: the cylindrical housing base
(82) having a cylindrical interior surface and the

plurality of posts (98) being spaced radially
inwardly from the cylindrical interior surface.
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 4, further

characterized by
: a plurality of ribs (96)
extending radially inwardly from the cylindrical

interior surface and securing the plurality of
posts (98) to the cylindrical interior surface.
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 3, further

characterized by
: the supply tube (28) extending
through the cylindrical housing base (82) and

being positioned off-centre relative to the
cylindrical housing base.
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 1, further

characterized by
: the gasket (106) being confined
between the body portion on one side of the gasket

and the container (26) on an opposite side of the
gasket. 
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 1, further

characterized by
: the body portion having an
annular rim (102) that engages in a liquid sealing

engagement with a peripheral portion of the gasket
(106).
The trigger sprayer apparatus of Claim 8, further

characterized by
: a plurality of ribs (96) on the
body portion extending radially inwardly of the

annular rim (102), each rib being secured to one
of the plurality of posts (98) spacing the post

radially inwardly of the annular rim and the
peripheral portion of the gasket.
A method of retaining a gasket against being
separated from a body portion of a trigger sprayer

apparatus for use in dispensing liquid from an
interconnectable container, the gasket being

retained in such a manner that, when a liquid
container is interconnected with the trigger

sprayer apparatus, the gasket provides a liquid
seal between the body portion and the container,

the method comprising:

providing a supply tube (28) extending from
the body portion of the trigger sprayer apparatus

(10) ;
providing a plurality of posts (98)
projecting outwardly from the body portion;
providing holes through the gasket (106) to
constitute a plurality of post holes (108) and a

supply tube hole (112); 
inserting the supply tube through the supply
tube hole (112) in the gasket;
inserting the plurality of posts into a
plurality of the post holes (108) in the gasket to

retain the gasket against being separated from the
body portion of the trigger sprayer apparatus;
interconnecting the trigger sprayer apparatus
and a container with the gasket located between

the body portion of the trigger sprayer apparatus
and the container such that the supply tube

extends into the container (26).
The method of Claim 10, further comprising:

inserting the plurality of posts (98) into the
post holes (108) in the gasket (106) before

interconnecting the trigger sprayer apparatus (10)
to the container (26).
The method of Claim 10, further 
characterized by
:

inserting the plurality of posts (98) through the
gasket (106).
The method of claim 12, further 
characterized by
:

inserting the plurality of posts (98) through the
gasket (106) after inserting the supply tube (28)

through the hole (112) in the gasket.
The method of Claim 10, further comprising:

providing an annular rim (102) on the body portion
of the trigger sprayer apparatus (10); and,
when a container is interconnected with the
trigger sprayer apparatus, engaging a peripheral 

portion of the gasket (106) in a liquid sealing
engagement between the annular rim and the

container (26).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
