<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645039</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM CONTROLLER AND REMOTE FAULT ANNUNCIATOR WITH COOPERATIVE STORAGE, SHARING, AND PRESENTATION OF FAULT DATA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23N524	F23N524	G07C100	G07C110	G07C300	G07C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23N	F23N	G07C	G07C	G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23N5	F23N5	G07C1	G07C1	G07C3	G07C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An annunciator for the conduction status of individual switches (15) wired into a series circuit records this status as status history at regular intervals in a memory (69). The status history is preferably recorded as individual entries having the identification number of an open switch (15) along with a time stamp specifying the length of time which that switch (15) has been open. The current entry is recorded in the memory (69) and a new entry started each time the switch (15) for which an entry in the memory (69) is being created closes or a switch (15) currently receiving power opens. A controller (40) separate from the annunciator generates a request signal and provides a request time value to the annunciator specifying the time which has elapsed since the request condition was detected. The annunciator uses the request time value to determine the probable switch conduction status at the time of the request.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATTON PAUL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATTON, PAUL, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYSTEM CONTROLLER AND REMOTE FAULT ANNUNCIATORWITH COOPERATIVE STORAGE, SHARING, ANDPRESENTATION OF FAULT DATABACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMany types of control systems are used to operate apparatus which has the potential for causing harm or injury if various parameter levels are outside of predetermined ranges. A simple example is the automobile whose engine will be severely damaged if the oil pressure is too low or the coolant temperature is too high. In this situation the system relies on the good judgment of the driver to stop the auto as soon as the warning light or gauge indicates the problem. In some systems too, it is desirable to simply monitor operation of various aspects of a system.In many of these systems however, human monitoring of the apparatus parameters may be unacceptable because the apparatus is intended to operate automatically, or because the result of improper, that is to say human, monitoring may result in serious damage or injury. Neither is it desirable to rely on the control system to monitor every one of these parameter levels and shut down the system when needed because this adds substantial complexity to the controller. Also, the control system can on occasion fail, for example because of power outages. Instead, in most systems these parameters are used to directly control interlock switches which open if the parameter level is outside of the predetermined range. In these systems, the interlock switches are typically arranged in a series circuit which passes the current for operating the apparatus (and parts of the control system as well in many cases) so that if any of the parameter levels are outside the range specified for it, the apparatus will not receive power and cannot operate. Examples of these series circuits of interlock switches are found in a number of different types of apparatus and their controls, including as one example burner systems and controls. In burner controls, the interlock switch series circuit is used to control power which operates the fuel valves. If any of the burner system parameters are outside the specified ranges, power is not available to the fuel valves, with the result that the burner cannot operate.One problem which arises in these systems is determining the cause of a malfunction. If an interlock switch opens, power to the system is interrupted of course, but the problem can be in any of the parameters controlling the interlock switches or in other aspects of the system. For example, in burner systems flame failure does not control an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The preceding has described our invention. What we wish to claim by letters patent as our invention is:
1. A status recorder for recording the status history of a plurality of interlock switches each having a pair of contacts, said contacts connected by a plurality of conductors to form a series circuit of interlock switches in a preselected sequence, said series circuit for connection to pass current from a power source to a load, and including a plurality of voltage sensors each associated with an interlock switch, and each voltage sensor connected to a conductor connected to the interlock switch with which the voltage sensor is associated and providing a status signal having a first state responsive to presence of power voltage on the conductor to which it is connected and a second state otherwise, and further comprising a) signal selector means receiving the status signals for providing a selector signal encoding the first out status of the interlock switches; b) a first out register receiving the selector signal and a status change signal, recording the information encoded in the selector signal responsive to the status change signal, and providing a first out register signal encoding the contents of the first out register; c) an oscillator issuing a clock signal having level changes at preset intervals; d) a counter receiving the clock signal, changing an internally stored time stamp value by a fixed amount responsive to each level change in the clock signal, and providing a time stamp signal encoding the time stamp value; e) status change sensing means receiving the selector signal from the signal converter and the first out register signal for comparing the information encoded in the selector signal and the first out register signal, and responsive to disagreement therebetween, providing the status change signal; and f) a memory receiving the status change signal, the first out register signal, and the time stamp signal, for sequentially recording responsive to each status change signal, a history entry comprising the information encoded in the first out register signal and the time stamp value encoded in the time stamp signal, and for providing a history signal encoding recorded history entries.
2. The status recorder of claim 1, wherein each of said interlock switches has assigned to it a unique identification number, and each voltage sensor has assigned to it the identification number of its associated interlock switch, wherein the signal selector means further comprises a signal converter receiving the status signals from the voltage sensors and providing a first out signal encoding the identification number of an interlock switch with which is associated a voltage sensor currently 


providing a status signal having the second state and connected to the contact of a switch also having a contact connected through a conductor to a voltage sensor providing a status signal having the first state; and wherein the memory comprises means recording the identification number encoded in the first out register signal.
3. The status recorder of claim 2, wherein the counter is of the type setting the time stamp value to a preselected value responsive to a reset signal, and further comprising reset means receiving the status change signal for thereafter issuing the reset signal responsive thereto.
4. The status recorder of claim 1, wherein the counter is of the type setting the time stamp value to a preselected value responsive to a reset signal, and further comprising reset means receiving the status change signal for thereafter issuing the reset signal responsive thereto.
5. The status recorder of claim 4 further comprising means receiving the time stamp signal, for providing a maximum count signal responsive to the time stamp value encoded in the time stamp signal equalling a preselected value, and wherein the status change sensing means receives the maximum count signal and further issues a status change signal responsive to the maximum count signal.
6. A system including the status recorder of claim 2, wherein the memory includes a plurality of storage locations, each storage location recording a single history entry, and further comprising a controller including i) request means for providing a request signal responsive to a preselected controller condition and ii) a request timer holding a request time value specifying the time currently elapsed since the request signal was provided and providing a request time signal encoding the current request time value, wherein the status recorder cooperates with an analyzer comprising a) a delay timer receiving the request time signal and updating a delay time value at the rate of the request timer, and providing a transmit delay time signal encoding a transmit delay time value equalling at least the sum of the delay time value and the request time value; and b) entry selection means receiving the transmit delay time signal and the history entries encoded in the history signal, for selecting on the basis of a comparison of the time stamp values in the history entries with the transmit time delay value, at least one history entry recorded in the memory and for providing the identification number recorded therein as a first out signal responsive to said provided 


identification number equalling one of a preselected set of identification number values.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein the controller includes means for including in the request signal an end of message signal following the request time portion of the request signal, and wherein the delay timer includes a delay timer register receiving the end of message signal and the request time signal, recording the request time value as an initial transmit delay time value, updating the delay timer register at the rate of the request timer, and ceasing incrementation of the delay timer register responsive to the end of message signal.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the entry selection means includes means for selecting a sequence of history entries, the first of which was recorded before the request signal and the last of which was recorded after the request signal, and for providing as a first out signal the first of the identification numbers recorded in the sequence of history entries equalling one of a preselected set of identification number values.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the signal converter includes means for providing a first out signal having a preselected all closed value different from every identification number responsive to all status signals having their first state, and wherein the entry selection means comprises means for providing the first out signal encoding the identification number first recorded in the sequence of history entries and different from the all closed value.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the delay timer further comprises means for providing a transmit delay time signal encoding a transmit delay time value equalling the sum of the delay time value, the request time value, and a predetermined analyzer delay value.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller includes a nonvolatile memory receiving the first out signal and recording the switch identification number encoded therein.
12. The system of claim 6, wherein the request timer of the controller includes means receiving an answer signal and responsive thereto, for ending the request signal, and wherein the entry selection means of the analyzer includes means 


for supplying the answer signal responsive to selecting a first out identification number.
13. A method for recording in a microprocessor memory having a plurality of addressable storage locations, the status history of a plurality of interlock switches, each interlock switch having a pair of contacts, said contacts connected by a plurality of conductors to form a series circuit of interlock switches in a preselected sequence, said series circuit for connection to pass current from a power source to a load, and including a plurality of voltage sensors each associated with an interlock switch, and each voltage sensor connected to a conductor connected to the interlock switch with which the voltage sensor is associated and providing a status signal having a first state responsive to presence of power voltage on the conductor to which it is connected and a second state otherwise, said method comprising in the microprocessor, the steps of a) recording in the microprocessor memory location specified by an index recorded in a memory index location, the information currently encoded in at least one preselected status signal; b) issuing a clock signal having level changes at preset intervals; c) responsive to each level change in the clock signal, incrementing a time stamp value recorded in the memory at the location specified by the index; and d) responsive to each level change in the clock signal, comparing the information encoded in the first out signal and the status signal information recorded in the memory location specified by the index, and responsive to disagreement therebetween, incrementing the index, and then recording the information currently encoded in each preselected status signal in the microprocessor memory location specified by an index and setting to a preselected value the time stamp value recorded in the memory at the location specified by the index.
14. The method of claim 13, including the step of comparing a preselected value with the time value recorded in the memory at the location specified by the index, and if equal thereto incrementing the index, and then recording the information currently encoded in each preselected status signal in the microprocessor memory location specified by an index and setting to a preselected value the time stamp value recorded in the memory at the location specified by the index.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the index incrementing step includes the step of adding one of -1 and +1 constants to the index modulo a preselected constant value. 


 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the index incrementing step includes the step of adding one of -1 and +1 constants to the index modulo a preselected constant value.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the status signal recording step includes the step of assigning a unique identification number to each voltage sensor, receiving the status signals provided by a plurality of the voltage sensors, sensing the state of each of a pair of status signals provided by voltage sensors connected to different contacts of the same switch, and recording in the memory as the information currently encoded in at least one preselected status signal, the identification number of one of said voltage sensors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
