<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638819</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for detecting adjacent transponders
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1375	G06K700	G01S1300	G06K700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G06K	G01S	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G06K7	G01S13	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for interrogating remote transponders having the steps of: 
sending an RF interrogation pulse from an interrogator (10), receiving by a first 

and second transponder (12,12a) the RF interrogation pulse, and establishing in 
a resonant circuit (130) of each of the transponders (12,12a) an oscillation, the 

oscillation being established by the coupling of signal energy from the RF 
interrogation pulse into the resonant circuit (130). After the RF interrogation 

pulse ends, the first transponder (12) senses the termination of the pulse and 
initiates a first RF response having a selected duration. A second RF response 

from the second transponder (12a) will also be detected in the first transponder 
(12) whose response will be affected by this second RF response. The differing 

response times in the first transponder (12) for responses affected and unaffected 
by neighboring transponders may be sensed in the interrogator so the 

interrogator may detect instances in which the RF responses which it received 
may have been conflicting. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS DEUTSCHLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUERMANN JOSEF H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUERMANN, JOSEF H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for interrogating remote
transponders. Further, the invention relates to an arrangement for
interrogating remote transponders of the type defined in the precharacterizing
portion of claim 9 and to an interrogator as defined in the pre-characterizing portion of claim 17.Transponder arrangements of the type mentioned above are disclosed en EP-A-0 600 374 and EP-A-0 301 127.There is a great need for devices or apparatus which make it possible to
identify or detect as regards their presence at a predetermined location objects
which are provided with such devices or apparatuses in contactless manner and
over a certain distance. An additional need exists to be able to determine if two
or more transponders are adjacent to each other.In accordance with the present invention the presence
of adjacent transponders is detected by measuring the duration of the response signal from
the transponders. In the transponder arrangements described in U.S. Patent No. 5,053,774,
which is equivalent to EP-A-0 301 127 and Patent Application No. 07/981,635, (which is equivalent to EP-A-0 600 374) both assigned to Texas Instruments by
Josef H. Schuermann, the normal period for response to an RF interrogation is
approximately 20 ms during which the transponder is normally operable to
provide a 128 bit response message. After this 20 ms time period, the output of
the transponder is squelched. The squelching of the response signal is
accomplished by a transponder timer, which is triggered by the end-of-burst
(when the exciter signal has ceased). The timer counts up to 128 (bits) and then
discharges the transponder charge capacitor. The present invention is the first to utilize the coupling between adjacent
transponders in order to determine whether two or more transponders are
adjacent. When two transponders are adjacent, they both are charged up and
respond individually to an RF interrogation. Thus, when one transponder sends
a response signal, its field strength radiates into the other transponder. This
radiated signal will interfere with the oscillation that is being maintained in the
other transponder's resonant circuit. The interference from the cross-coupled
responses will cause a beat in the resonant circuit of each of the transponders.
This "beat" is analogous to the phenomenon heard by musicians when tuning
two instruments that are out of tune. Because the instruments have different
frequencies, a time-variant pattern of constructive interference (where the
acoustic signals are in phase
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of interrogating remote transponders, said
method comprising the steps of:


a) sending an RF interrogation pulse from an interrogator
(10);
b) receiving by a first and second transponder (12, 12a)
said RF interrogation pulse;
c) terminating said RF interrogation pulse;
d) sensing in said first transponder (12) termination of
said interrogation pulse;
e) initiating in said first transponder (12) an RF response
having a selected duration;
f) sensing in said first transponder (12) RF signals from
said second transponder (12a); and
g) modifying the duration of said RF response in said first
transponder (12) upon detection of said RF signals from said

second transponder (12a); 
characterized in that
h) said interrogator (10) is timing the duration of the
transponder response signal and thereby detecting more than

one transponder within proximity of said interrogator (10).
The method of claim 1 and further comprising the step of
selectively addressing by said interrogator one of said

first and second transponders (12, 12a).
The method of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising
providing said first transponder (12) as a half-duplex

transponder. 
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising
providing said second transponder (12a) as a half-duplex

transponder.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising
providing said second transponder (12a) as a full-duplex

transponder.
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising
providing said first transponder (12) having a resonant

circuit (130) for receiving said interrogation pulse and for
establishing an oscillation in said resonant circuit (130)

in response to said interrogation.
The method of claim 6, wherein said sensing in said first
transponder (12) of said signals from said second

transponder (12a) is accomplished by sensing destructive
interference between said oscillation established in the

resonant circuit (130) of said first transponder (12) and
signals from said second transponder (12a).
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising
selecting said duration by a counter (184) that counts up to

a pre-selected number of oscillations in said resonator.
A method of interrogating remote transponders, said
method comprising the steps of:


a) sending an RF interrogation pulse from an interrogator
(10);
b) providing a first and second transponder (12, 12a) in
proximity to said interrogator (10), each of said first and

second transponder (12, 12a) having a resonant circuit (130)
comprising the parallel combination of a coil (132) and a

capacitor (134);
c) receiving by the coil (132) of each of said transponders
(12, 12a) said RF interrogation pulse;
d) establishing in said resonant circuit (130) of each of 
said transponders (12, 12a) an oscillation being

established by the coupling of signal energy from said RF
interrogation pulse into said resonant circuit (130);
e) terminating said RF interrogation pulse from said
interrogator (10);
f) sensing in said first transponder (12) termination of
said RF interrogation pulse;
g) initiating in said first transponder (12) an RF response
having a selected duration;
h) sensing in said first transponder (12), destructive
interference between said oscillation established in the

resonant circuit (130) of said first transponder (12) and RF
signals from said second transponder (12a);
i) modifying the duration of said RF response in said first
transponder (12) in response to said sensing;
j) receiving said RF response by said interrogator (10);

characterized in that
 said interrogator (10) is analyzing
the duration of said RF response to determine said first and

second transponders (12, 12a) are within the proximity of
said interrogator.
An RFID system comprising:

an interrogator (10) for transmitting an RF
interrogation pulse and terminating said interrogation pulse

after a predetermined duration and receiving a transponder
response in response thereto;
a first and second transponder (12, 12a) for receiving
said interrogation pulse, for detecting said termination of

said RF interrogation pulse, and in response thereto, for
transmitting a transponder response having a predetermined

duration;
wherein said first transponder (12) and second
transponder (12a) modify said duration of said transponder

response in response to said frist transponder (12) sensing
RF signals from said second transponder (12a) and said

second transponder (12a) sensing RF signals from said first
transponder (12); and 
characterized in that
said interrogator (10) times the duration of the 
received transponder response signals and thereby detects

more than one transponder within proximity of said
interrogator (10).
The arrangement of claim 10, wherein said interrogator
(10) has an antenna (38) for receiving said responses.
The arrangement of claim 11, wherein said interrogator
(10) further comprises a "read" circuit (302) in electrical

communication with said antenna (38) for detecting valid
data returned from said transponders (12, 12a).
The arrangement of claim 12, wherein said interrogator
(10) further comprises a timer circuit (304) in electrical

communication with said antenna (38) for measuring the
duration of said response from said first transponder (12).
The arrangement of claim 13, wherein said interrogator
(10) further comprises a decoder (306) in electrical

communication with said "read" circuitry (302) and with said
timer circuit (304).
An interrogator for determining if an interrogation
therefrom is received by more than one transponder, said

interrogator comprising:

a "send" antenna (39) for transmitting an interrogation
pulse to transponders (12, 12a);
a "receive" antenna (38) for receiving a response from at
least one of said transponders (12, 12a); and
a "read" circuit (302) in electrical communication with said
"receive" 
antenna (38), said read circuitry (302) operable
to extract a data signal from said response; said

interrogator being 
characterized by
a timer (304) in electrical communication with said
"receive" antenna (38), said timer (304) operable to measure

the duration of said response; and
a decoder (306) in electrical communication with said read
circuitry (302) and with said timer (304), said decoder 

(306) operable to interpret from the signals received from
said read circuitry (302) and said timer (304) if a valid

response was received from a single transponder without
interference from another transponder.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
