<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610828</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Probe for detecting wear of lining and method of making the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16D6502	F16D6502	F16D6602	F16D6600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16D	F16D	F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16D65	F16D65	F16D66	F16D66	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A probe(10) for detecting wear of a lining(3) such as a brake pad in 
automobiles includes a holder(11) having two insertion apertures(13) and notch(15). 

An electrically conducting wire(20) is inserted through the insertion apertures(13) 
of the holder(11). Portions of the wire(20)positioned in the notch(15) are 

secured to a fallout preventing member(25). Upon the progressive wear of the 
lining(3), a U-shaped portion(21) of the wire(20) is severed by a rotor of the 

brake system. The fallout preventing member(25) prevents the wire form falling 
out of the holder(11) once the wire(20) has been severed. The portions of the 

wire(20) remaining after the wire has been severed by the rotor can thus be 
prevented from twining around the rotor or the like. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIGAWA FUMIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIGAWA, FUMIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a probe for detecting wear of a 
lining such as a brake pad employed in a disc brake of an 
automobile. A probe for detecting wear of a brake pad of an automobile 
is known in the art, e.g. FR-A-2.450.979. In such a probe, a U-shaped electrical 
conducting wire is held by a holder. The probe is brought into 
contact with a rotor when a predetermined residual amount of a 
lining is left as the result of wear. Consequently, the 
conducting wire is severed by the rotor at its U-shaped end. In another probe of this type, two apertures each extend axially through 
a generally cylindrical holder formed of a synthetic resin. The 
conducting wire is folded to assume a U-shape and then, both ends 
of the conducting wire are inserted through the respective 
apertures from the front end of the holder. A fixing member is 
secured to the conducting wire at the rear end of the holder. In the probe as described above, the U-shaped portion of the 
conducting wire is brought into contact with the rotor upon the 
progressive wear of the lining until the conducting wire is 
severed at the U-shaped portion thereof. The accuracy of the 
detection would be compromised if the U-shaped folded portion of 
the conducting wire were allowed to move or if the U-shaped 
portion were deformed. In order to prevent the U-shaped folded 
portion from being displaced during operation, the fixing member 
is secured to the conducting wire while the wire is drawn 
rearwardly in this holder under tension. Once applied, the 
fixing member prevents the U-shaped portion of the conducting 
wire from moving forwardly toward the rotor. Rearward movement  
 
of the U-shaped portion away from the rotor is prevented by the 
engagement of the U-shaped portion with the front surface of the 
holder. However, the conducting wire is allowed to move rearward 
relative to the holder when the U-shaped portion of the 
conducting wire is severed by the rotor. In fact, there is a 
possibility that the two remaining portions of the severed 
conducting wire fall out of the holder. In this case, the 
portions of the conducting wire can twine around the rotor or an 
axle of the automobile giving rise to obvious problems. Therefore, an object of the present invention is to provide 
a wear detecting probe wherein the conducting wire is prevented 
from falling out of the holder when the conducting wire has been 
severed indicating wear of the lining. Another object of the invention is to provide a wear 
detecting probe wherein the holder
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The combination of a lining (3) having a predetermined thickness, 
and a probe (10) for detecting wear of the lining (3), said probe 

(10) comprising: a holder (11) mounted to the lining, said holder (11) having 
rear and front ends, apertures (13) extending between said ends in the 

direction of thickness of the lining (3), and at least one notch (15) extending 
from the outer periphery of the holder (11) and intersecting said apertures (13) 

so as to divide said apertures (13) into front and rear portions on opposite 
sides of said notch (15), respectively; an electrical conducting wire (20) 

having a U-shaped portion (21) abutting the front end of said holder (11) and 
two ends extending through said apertures (13), respectively, the electrical 

conducting wire(20) protruding at said U-shaped portion thereof from said 
holder (11) ; and a falling-out preventing member (25) secured to said conducting 

wire(20) within each said notch (15). 
The combination of a lining(3) and a probe(10) as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said falling-out preventing member(25) comprises a piece of sheet 

metal crimped to each of the ends of said conducting wire(20) within said 
notch (15). 
The combination of a lining(3) and a probe(10) as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said falling-out preventing member comprises a block(37) of resin 

filling each said at least one notch (15) in the holder (11) and integrated with 
said holder (11), the block (37) in said at least one notch (15) covering the ends 

of the conducting wire(20) located in said at least one notch (15). 
The combination of a lining (3) and a probe (10) as claimed in claim 
1, 2 or 3, and further comprising a support (4) on which the lining (3) is mounted, 

and wherein said holder (11) has a flange (12) at the rear end thereof, said 
flange (12) being mounted to said support (4). 
A method of making a probe (10) for detecting wear of a lining (3), said 
method comprising the steps of : 


forming a holder (11) having rear and front ends, apertures (13)  
 

extending between said ends, and at least one notch (15) extending from the outer 
periphery of the holder and intersecting said apertures (13) so as to divide 

said apertures (13) into front and rear portions on opposite sides of said 
notch (15), respectively; 
folding an electrical conducting wire and inserting two ends of the 
folded wire (20) into the apertures (13) of said holder (11) respectively, from 

said front end thereof, and through the at least one notch (15) of the holder (11), 
and leaving a portion of the wire(20) where the wire(20) is folded at a position 

disposed outwardly of the holder at the front end of the holder (11); and 
securing ends of the electrical conducting wire(20), located in the 
at least one notch (15), to at least one falling-out preventing member provided 

in said at least one notch (15) and mounted to prevent said wire(20) from coming 
out of said holder (11) when said portion wire(20) disposed outwardly of the 

holder at the front end of the holder (11) is severed. 
A method of making a probe as claimed in claim 5, wherein the step 
of securing comprises crimping a piece of sheet metal to said two portions of 

the electrical conducting wire(20) located in said notch(15) in a manner that 
tensions the wire(20) between said two portions thereof and the portion of the 

wire(20) disposed outwardly of the holder(11) at the front end of the holder (11). 
A method making a probe (10) as claimed in claim 5, wherein the step 
of securing comprises covering said two portions of the electrical conducting 

wire(20) located in said at least one notch (15) with resin(3). 
A detecting probe(10) comprising: 

a holder (11) having rear and front ends, apertures(13) extending 
between said ends, and at least one notch (15) extending from the outer periphery 

of the holder (11) and intersecting said apertures(13) so as to divide said 
apertures (13) into front and r
ear portions on opposite sides of the notch (15), 
respectively; 
an electrical conducting wire(20) having a U-shaped portion abutting 
the front end of said holder (11) and two ends extending through said  

 
apertures(13), respectively, the electrical conducting wire(20) protruding at 

said U-shaped portion thereof from said holder(11); and 
a falling-out preventing member(25) secured to said conducting wire 
within said notch. 
A detecting probe as claimed in claim 8, wherein said falling-out 
preventing member comprises a piece of sheet metal crimped to each of the ends 

of said conducting wire within said notch. 
A detecting probe as claimed in claim 8, wherein said falling-out 
preventing member comprises a block(37) of resin filling each said at least 

one notch(15) in the holder(11) and integrated with said holder(11), the block(37) 
in said at least one notch(15) covering the ends of the conducting wire(20) 

located in said at least one notch(15). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
