<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632349</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reflection integral holography - method and apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03H104	G03H104	G03H126	G03H126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for storing holographic 
synthesized information for reflection integral Bragg 

holograms, free of the limitations of dispersing elements 
(such as unilateral diffusing screens, conventional 

lenticular screens and Fresnel lenses), multiple 
reference beams, mirrorized indexing or other similar 

materials or techniques. These holograms accurately 
satisfy Bragg's condition, provide an expanded (and 

essentially normal) vertical viewing range and can be 
displayed both flat (in which case the image is behind 

the film plane) or concave towards the viewer (in which 
case the image is in front of the film plane). Flat and 

curved holograms can be combined together. The final 
holographic images are produced directly from motion 

picture film, without intermediate transfer prints as 
required by the prior art. All are front illuminated. 

By curving the developed hologram for viewing a high 
definition projection image is obtained. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAPKA JAMES BRITTEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZABKA, JAMES BRITTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAPKA JAMES BRITTEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAPKA, JAMES BRITTEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Over the past two decades many methods of 
synthesizing integral holograms have been investigated. 
These include transmission, image plane, projection and 
reflection integrals. Holograms of the integral type 
were first discussed in literature by Robert Pole of IBM 
in 1967. A number of improvements were advanced over the 
next several years. The most notable of these were 
developed by the Multiplex Company in 1969-1973; a group 
of individuals including Britton Zabka. Reflection holograms are formed when the reference 
and object beams are on opposite sides of the holographic 
medium during the hologram forming process. Transmission 
holograms are formed when the reference and object beams 
are on the same side of the recording medium; the object 
beam on axis, the reference beam off axis. The 
reflection hologram has been variously referred to as a 
reflection integral, a composite reflection hologram, a 
holographic reflection stereogram, Bragg's angle 
hologram, a volume hologram, or an amplitude hologram. As those trained in the art will appreciate, an 
integral hologram is made by running film images through 
an optical printer. In such a process, each frame of the 
film is projected through condensing optical elements 
which condenses the associated image down to a narrow 
vertical beam with a length corresponding to one of the 
sides of the finished hologram. This was initially done  
 
with a single double convex oil lens at Multiplex. This 
narrow beam is focused near the plane of holographic 
recording medium. The reference beam is brought in from 
the same side and an individual condensed slit or strip 
hologram is formed. Each succeeding frame of film used 
to form the hologram is made into a slit hologram, and 
sequentially laid down on the recording medium by 
slightly moving the recording medium between each 
exposure. When the resultant hologram composite is 
processed and then back illuminated with white light it 
reveals each individual strip hologram conveying an image 
which is two dimensional. However, each eye sees a 
slightly different slit and the viewer perceives a three 
dimensional image. A conventional reflection hologram acts as a 
resonant reflective filter, both angle and wavelength 
specific, absorbing light while acting as wavelength 
filter, unlike transmission integrals that are capable of 
constructively diffracting light through the same areas 
with many wavelengths and that ordinarily do not filter 
light. The Bragg or reflection hologram occurs because the 
obje
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing integral reflection 
holograms comprising the steps of: 


a. providing information in the form of one or 
more transparencies: 
b. illuminating said information with an object 
beam of non-diffused light, said object beam having an 

optical axis; 
c. bringing the image of said information to 
substantially a line focus; 
d. placing a holographic image recording medium, 
curved about an axis to form oppositely facing convex and 

concave surfaces, in the path of said object beam close to 
said line focus, with said convex surface of said 

holographic image recording medium facing said object beam 
and with said axis of curvature of said surfaces 

perpendicular to said line focus; and 
e. exposing said concave surface of said 
holographic image recording medium with a reference beam, 

which is superimposed over the object beam at said 
holographic image recording medium. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said axis of 
curvature of said surfaces is positioned to intersect said 

optical axis of said object beam at 90°. 
The method as set forth in Claim 1 wherein, said 
holographic image recording medium is exposed to a sequence 

 
of said transparencies, said holographic image recording 

medium being moved in a direction parallel to said axis of 
curvature of said surfaces after each successive exposure. 
The method as set forth in claim 3, wherein after 
exposure said holographic image recording medium is viewed 

flat and said hologram appears behind said holographic image 
recording medium. 
The method as set forth in claim 3, wherein, after 
exposure said holographic image recording medium is 

supported for viewing on the concave side of a surface 
curved about a vertical axis, whereby said hologram appears 

in front of said holographic image recording medium. 
The method as set forth in claim 5, wherein, after 
exposure, said holographic image recording medium can be 

viewed simultaneously with a second exposed holographic 
image recording medium; one of said mediums being flat, the 

other of said mediums being curved toward a viewer. 
The method as set forth in claim 3, further 
including the step of supporting said exposed holographic 

recording medium on a flexible surface means whereby said 
exposed holographic image recording medium can be viewed 

flat or curved toward a viewer. 
The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
line focus is accomplished by cylindrical lens means and 

wherein said information is focused in a plane which is 
 

perpendicular to said optical axis of said object beam and 
adjacent to said convex surface. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the position and 
orientation of said cylindrical lens means relative to said 

convex surface is varied, to vary the size of the image 
produced by the hologram and its depth relative to said 

holographic image recording medium. 
The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein after 
exposure, said holographic image recording medium is 

supported for viewing on the concave side of a surface 
curved about a vertical axis, and wherein the curvature of 

said viewing support surface is varied depending upon said 
orientation and position of said cylindrical lens means. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said reference 
beam, when it is incident to said concave surface, is in the 

form of a narrow filtered strip. 
The method of claim 11, wherein said reference 
beam is maintained in a fixed location during said exposure 

step. 
Apparatus for forming reflection holograms, said 
apparatus comprising: 


a. means for providing a beam of coherent light; 
b. means for dividing said beam into an object 
beam, having an object beam axis, and a reference beam, 

having a reference beam axis; 
c. means for supporting a transparency having an 
image thereon along said object beam axis in the path of 

said object beam; 
d. means, positioned along said object beam 
axis, for converging said object beam and said image to a 

line focus perpendicular to said object beam axis; 
e. means, positioned along said object beam 
axis, for supporting a recording medium adjacent to the 

position of said line focus, said recording medium and said 
means for supporting said recording medium being curved 

about an axis which is perpendicular to both said object 
beam axis and said line focus, to form both convex and 

concave sides, said convex sides of both said recording 
medium and said means for supporting said recording medium 

facing toward said means for supporting said transparency; 
and 
f. means for directing said reference beam to 
said concave surface of said recording medium in 

superimposed relation to said object beam. 
The apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein 
said means for converging said object beam includes at least 

one cylindrical lens. 
The apparatus as set forth in claim 14, wherein 
the position of said cylindrical lens along said object beam 

axis and relative to said convex side of said means for 
supporting said recording medium can be varied. 
The apparatus as set forth in claim 13, further 
including apparatus for supporting said recording medium 

after exposure, said apparatus for supporting being curved 
about a vertical axis, with the concave side facing toward 

the viewer, and further including means for varying the 
curvature of said apparatus for supporting. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
