<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628419</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tape printer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J3407	B41J3407	B41J1142	B41J1142	B41J2946	B41J2946	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J3	B41J3	B41J11	B41J11	B41J29	B41J29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tape printer for printing characters onto a print 
medium tape in accordance with input data. The printer 

comprises:
 

   input means for inputting character code data of 
desired characters and command code data;

 
   an input data buffer for storing the input code data;

 
   a printing head for printing characters onto the 

print medium tape;
 

   driving means for driving the printing head by 

successively receiving the code data from the input data 
buffer;

 
   printing length setting means for setting a length of 

a printing range for printing characters desired to be 
printed onto the print medium tape;

 
   means for determining a total number of the 

characters desired to be printed;
 

   means for determining a total character width 
required to print the total number of desired characters;

 
   means for comparing the length of the printing range 

with the total character width to determine if the length 
of the printing range is capable of accommodating the 

characters desired to be printed; and
 

   means for outputting an error message if the length 
of the printing range is determined to be incapable of 

accommodating the characters desired to be printed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRONO KAZUHISA C O BROTHER KO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITO TAKASHI C O BROTHER KOGYO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OOSHIO YASUYO C O BROTHER KOGY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRONO KAZUHISA C O BROTHER KO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITO TAKASHI C O BROTHER KOGYO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OOSHIO YASUYO C O BROTHER KOGY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a tape printer, and 
more particularly to a tape printer that compares the 
length of a set printing range with the total character 
width required to print a total number of desired 
characters and which outputs an error message if the length 
of the printing range is determined to be incapable of 
accommodating the characters desired to be printed. Heretofore, a number of proposals have been made 
regarding improvements in small-size tape printers that 
print desired character springs along a printing tape about 
10mm wide. A tape printer proposed by the applicant of the 
present application, and disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open 
Patent No. 1-152070 is capable of printing full size and 
double size characters, and of selectively printing full 
size characters either in center printing mode or in lower-side 
printing mode. In center printing mode, the tape 
printer prints full size characters at the center of the 
tape (across its width); in lower-side printing mode, the 
tape printer prints the characters on the lower-side of the 
tape (across its width). The dot pattern of characters printed by tape 
printers is generally 24 dots (high) by 24 dots (across) 
for full size characters, or 48 dots (high) by 48 dot 
(across) for double size characters. Dot pattern data are 
stored before hand in a nonvolatile memory (e.g. ROM). The 
size of characters to be printed is selected from among a 
plurality of character size options. Once a character size 
is selected, the corresponding character spacing (i.e. the 
amount of spacing between adjacent characters) is 
automatically determined to have some predefined value. In many instances, for example, the tape printer is 
used to print a title or information regarding the contents 
of a given file onto a printing tape, the printed tape 
being adhered (pasted) onto an appropriate position of a  
 
casing of the file. In such instances, it is often desired 
to expand the character string representing the file title 
or contents up to the entire length of the pasting 
position, the characters remaining evenly spaced when 
printed within that length. However, as mentioned above, in existing tape 
printers, the spacing between characters to be printed is 
predefined depending on the selected character size. That 
is, the characters may not be spaced evenly for printing 
over a given length. One conventional solution to the above problem is to 
insert one or more spaces after each character as they are 
input by an operator. One
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tape printer for printing characters onto a 
print medium tape in accordance with input data, the 

printer comprising: 
   input means for inputting character code data of 

desired characters and command code data; 
   an input data buffer for storing the input code data; 

   a printing head for printing characters onto the 
print medium tape; 

   driving means for driving the printing head by 
successively receiving the code data from the input data 

buffer; 
   printing length setting means for setting a length of 

a printing range for printing characters desired to be 
printed onto the print medium tape; 

   means for determining a total number of the 
characters desired to be printed; 

   means for determining a total character width 
required to print the total number of desired characters; 

   means for comparing the length of the printing range 
with the total character width to determine if the length 

of the printing range is capable of accommodating the 
characters desired to be printed; and 

   means for outputting an error message if the length 
of the printing range is determined to be incapable of 

accommodating the characters desired to be printed. 
A tape printer according to claim 1, wherein 
the length of the printing range includes an actual 

printable length, in which length characters are printable, 
and at least one unprintable portion in which characters 

are unprintable. 
A tape printer according to claim 2, wherein a 
said unprintable portion exists at the leading end of the 

set length of printing range. 
A tape printer according to claim 2 or claim 3, 
 

wherein a said unprintable portion exists at the trailing 
end of the set length of printing range. 
A tape printer according to any one of claims 
2-4, wherein the size of said unprintable portion(s) 

corresponds to the position of the printing head, within 
the tape printer, relative to the print medium tape. 
A tape printer according to any one of claims 2 
to 5, wherein said means for comparing compares the actual 

printable length with the total character width to 
determine if the actual printable length is capable of 

accommodating the characters desired to be printed, and 
said means for outputting outputs an error message if the 

actual printable length is determined to be incapable of 
accommodating the characters desired to be printed. 
A tape printer according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising: 

   character spacing determining means for receiving the 
code data from the input data buffer and printing range 

length data set by the printing length setting means in 
order to determine a character spacing value so that input 

characters are evenly spaced when printed within the 
printing range; and 

   spacing controlling means for receiving the character 
spacing value output from the character spacing determining 

means and controlling the driving means in order to provide 
the output character spacing value between characters when 

the characters are printed by the driving means. 
A tape printer according to claim 7, wherein 
said driving means includes: 

   pattern data storing means for storing dot pattern 
data for a plurality of characters; 

   a printing buffer for receiving from said pattern 
data storing means the dot pattern data for characters 

corresponding to the input character code data from the 
input data buffer and for storing the received dot pattern 

data; and
 

   controlling means for controlling said printing head 
by successively receiving dot strings of data from said dot 

pattern data stored in said printing buffer. 
A tape printer according to claim 8, wherein 
said pattern data in said pattern data storing means 

includes regular size character data and double size 
character data; said printing buffer receives and stores 

said double size character data as single line data, and 
said regular size data as upper line data and lower line 

data based upon a line designation command supplied from 

said input means; and wherein said character spacing 
determining means determines said character spacing value 

without receiving code data regarding one of said upper 
line data and lower line data. 
A tape printer according to any one of claims 7 
to 9, further comprising: 

   fixed length mode selecting means for selecting 
between a fixed length mode wherein said printing length 

setting means is operative to set the length of the 
printing range, and a default length mode, wherein a 

default value is used for said character spacing value. 
A tape printer according to any one of claims 7 
to 9, wherein said character spacing determining means 

includes spacing value determining means for determining 
said character spacing value by evenly distributing a 

difference between said actual printable length and said 
total character width amongst inter-character spaces 

located between said total number of characters. 
A tape printer as claimed in claim 11, wherein 
said spacing value determining means increases said spacing 

value between some of the characters to be printed when the 
difference between the actual printing length and the total 

character width is not an integer multiple of the intercharacter 
spaces. 
A tape printer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said means for determining a total 

 
character width determines said total character width based 

on a constant character width amount for each character. 
A tape printer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said means for determining a total 

character width includes pitch tables storing printing 
pitch data, the command code data includes selecting data 

for selecting one of the pitch tables, and said means for 
determining a total character width determines the total 

character width based on a printing pitch data of the pitch 
table selected by the selecting data. 
A tape printer according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising: 

   a display for displaying the code data input from 
said input means. 
A tape printer according to claim 15, wherein 
said display includes means for successively displaying a 

plurality of possible printing range lengths in response to 
fixed length selection command code data input from said 

input means. 
A tape printer according to claim 15 or claim 
16, wherein the error message outputting means is arranged 

to display any said error message. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
