<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657639</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low creep flange and engine cover assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02F124	F02F124	F02F700	F02F700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02F	F02F	F02F	F02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02F1	F02F1	F02F7	F02F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An engine cover assembly for use in an internal 
combustion engine. The engine cover includes a composite plastic 

body and low creep material for the flange section of the engine 
cover. The low creep material allows for a low incident of creep 

at the bolts which secure the engine cover to the head of the 
engine. This insures the bolts will not loosen due to the 

degradation of the material to which the bolt is tightened. A 
mechanical or chemical lock is used to secure the plastic cover to 

the low creep material flange portion of the engine cover. The 
engine cover reduces the weight and the engine noise associated 

with the internal combustion engine. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FREUDENBERG NOK GP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FREUDENBERG-NOK GENERAL PARTNERSHIP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KICZEK CASIMIR ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KICZEK, CASIMIR ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to cover 
assemblies and more particularly, to a novel engine cover assembly 
for an internal combustion engine. Cover assemblies for internal combustion engines have 
been used for many years. Typically the engine cover assembly is 
made of metal and is clamped by means of metal bolts to the engine 
block. The metal cover assembly does not attenuate noise well or 
conform to the movement of the engine block relative to the engine 
cover. Some metal engine covers may increase the weight of the 
automotive vehicle. However, any replacement part must be of the 
same strength in order to function properly in the automotive 
vehicles. Many plastic covers have been tried but they have had 
shortcomings due to material creep strength and difficulties in 
staying securely fastened to the engine block. Plastic tends to 
have a high creep value which allows the bolt head to indent or 
make impressions into the plastic or the flange bow thus reducing 
the clamp load on the gasket sandwiched between the engine cover 
and the engine block. Other types of covers have also been tried, for example 
a plastic cover has been formed to a metal type seal surface and 
then placed onto the engine head. However this type of cover does 
not allow any flexibility between the plastic and the metal. The  
 
plastic and metal seam becomes brittle which causes oil leaks. 
Thus, there has been a need in the art for a lightweight and high 
damping capacity engine cover for use in an internal combustion 
engine. The flange cover needs to have low creep characteristics 
so that it can be securely bolted to the engine block with no worry 
of creep. One object of this invention is to provide a novel engine 
cover which is lightweight and which also functions to reduce 
engine noise. It is another object of the present invention to provide 
an engine cover which has a low creep material flange with a 
composite plastic encapsulating cover. Another object of the present invention is to provide an 
engine cover which is able to move relative to the movement of the 
engine block yet provide a seal between the engine cover and the 
engine head or block. Other objects, features and advantages of the present 
invention will be readily appreciated as the same becomes better 
understood after reading the following description taken in 
conjunction with the accompanying drawings. To achieve the foregoing objects, the engine cover 
includes a cover body which is made from a plastic material, and a 
flange
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An engine cover assembly for use on an engine head 
or block in an internal combustion engine, comprising: 

   a cover body made of a composite plastic material which 
is lighter in weight and has a greater noise damping effect than 

metal; 
   a flange made of a low creep material that is connected 

to said cover body; and 
   a groove along the bottom edge of said plastic cover for 

inserting a seal to engage with the surface of the engine head or 
block. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 1 wherein said 
flange is metal and includes a plurality of apertures. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 2 wherein said 
flange includes a projection which projects towards the cover body, 

said projection located at the top edge of the inner side of said 
flange for locking said flange to said cover body. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 3 wherein said 
projection is continuous along the entire said flange. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 3 wherein said 
projection is located only at the said apertures. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 3 wherein said 
projection is generally L-shaped in cross-section. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 1 wherein said 
connection between said flange and said cover body is made with an 

epoxy material. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 1 wherein said 
flange includes a plurality of cube like members connected by a 

rod, said rod is connected at the center of a side of said cube, 
said rod having said composite plastic completely encapsulating 

said rod, said cover body being able to rotate about said rod to 
compensate for engine movement. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 8 wherein said 
cover body and said flange connection is made by form injection. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 1 wherein said 
flange includes a plurality of straps and a circular support member 

connected to said straps. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 10 wherein said 
circular support member is placed in a predetermined position with 

said straps. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 1 wherein said 
cover body includes an orifice at the apex of said cover body. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 12 wherein said 
orifice includes a sleeve which extends to the engine block. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 1 further 
including a second cover mounted to said flange. 
An engine cover assembly for use on an engine head 
and block in an internal combustion engine, comprising: 

   a cover body made of a composite plastic material which 
is lighter in weight and has a greater damping effect than metal; 

   a flange made of a low creep material, said flange 
includes a rod, said flange having a generally cube shape with a 

circular orifice through the top and bottom surfaces of said 
flange, said rod connecting said cube shape flanges, said circular 

orifice for securing said cover to the engine; 
   said plastic cover body is formed around said rod thus 

allowing for a torquing motion between the engine cover and the 
engine block; and 

   a seal groove along the bottom edge of said cover for 
sealing the engine cover to the engine. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 15 wherein said 
flange is metal. 
An engine cover assembly for use on an engine head 
and block in an internal combustion engine, comprising: 

   a flange made of a low creep material which will be used 
to connect the engine cover assembly to the engine block, said 

flange includes a projection which is generally L-shaped in cross-section 
and protrudes from the top inside edge of said flange, said 

projection will act as a mechanical lock; 
   an engine cover body made of a composite plastic material 

having damping capacity, said engine cover body is formed to said 
flange inner surface and over said projection in order to make a 

lightweight engine cover; and 
   a groove along the bottom inside edge of said engine 

cover body for a seal to engage the engine cover assembly with the 
surface of the engine block. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 17 wherein said 
flange has a plurality of holes for use in securing the engine 

cover to the engine block. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 17 wherein said 
flange and said cover body are joined with a chemical compound. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 17 wherein said 
flange is metal. 
An engine cover assembly for use on an engine head 
and block in an internal combustion engine, comprising: 

   a flange made of a low creep material which will be used 
to connect the engine cover assembly to the engine block, said 

flange having a circular low creep material rod connecting a cube 

shaped area surrounding a plurality of bolt holes; 
   an engine cover body made of a composite plastic material 

having damping capacity, said engine cover body being formed around 
the said rod of said flange so that a torquing motion can occur, 

said engine cover body being able to slide against the surface of 
said flange in order to compensate for movement of the engine 

during operation; and 
   a groove along the bottom inside edge of said engine 

cover body for a seal to engage the engine cover assembly with a 
surface of the engine block. 
An engine cover assembly of claim 21 wherein said 
low creep material is metal. 
A powertrain cover for enclosing fluids therein, 
said cover comprising: 

   a flange member having a peripheral portion for mounting 
to the powertrain and an appendage extending from said peripheral 

portion; 
   an outer surface portion contiguous to said flange 

member, and 
   means for attaching said outer surface portion to said 

flange member so that said appendage is secured to said outer 
surface portion while permitting said outer portion to move 

relative to said flange member. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 23 wherein 
said outer surface portion further including a peripheral groove 

and further comprising: 
   a seal inserted into said peripheral groove so as to 

prevent fluid leakage. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 24 wherein 
said flange member further including portions defining at least one 

aperture. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 24 wherein 
the powertrain having portions defining holes and further 

comprising: 
   a second cover mounted to said flange; and 

   a fastener clamping said cover to said flange and 
engaging the holes in the powertrain. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 23 wherein 
said attaching means further includes: 

   a mechanical lock on said appendage for locking said 
outer surface portion to said flange member. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 23 wherein 
said attaching means further includes: 

   a hinged member on said flange member to connect to said 
outer surface portion. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 28 wherein, 
   said hinged member having a cylindrical portion and a rod 

portion extending from said cylindrical portion. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 27 wherein, 
   said mechanical lock having an L-shaped portion. 
A powertrain cover as claimed in Claim 30 wherein, 
said mechanical lock extends circumferentially in spaced 

relationship to said flange member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
