<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647099</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND MACHINE FOR PROCESSING FISH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22C2500	A22C2508	A22C2516	A22C2500	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22C	A22C	A22C	A22C	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22C25	A22C25	A22C25	A22C25	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Fish to be processed are moved through successive fish processing stations located along a predetermined path of movement. The path of movement is defined by a pair of transversely spaced guide rails (4) and the free end parts of the guide rails or pins are inserted through the head of the fish. The free end of the guide rails may, for example, be inserted through the eyes and through the tongue of the fish, beneath the lower jaw bone of the head of the fish and out through the mouth of the fish, through the thin skin of the cheeks along the tongue and through the lower jaw of the fish, through the mouth beneath the tongue and out behind the tongue, through the cheeks and out through the mouth of the fish or through the mouth and out behind the tongue and across square bones of the fish.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PALMASON JON ARNAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PALMASON, JON ARNAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMASON JON ARNAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMASON, JON ARNAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and a machine or apparatus
for processing fish, such as eviscerating (gutting), filleting,
flattening, cheeking, deheading and splitting heads
of round fish, so that it is rendered possible to undertake a
plurality of such process steps either in a single processing
line or to undertake only one or a few such process steps.Methods of filleting and flattening fish by means of
machinery are known. The known machinery functions in such a
manner that the fish is deheaded before it is filleted. This
machinery also processes fish in such a manner that the tail
fin of the fish first enters the machine. Furthermore,
controlling of the cutting of the fish is based on outside
measurement of the fish.Machines for cheeking/splitting heads are known, but all
guiding means are of a type in which an arm goes up through
the mouth and comes out at the nape side, also clearing the
gills away. Reference is made to Icelandic patent Nos. 1297
and 1440, the latter of which relates to a method and machine
for cutting out cheek muscle bits from fish heads.Methods for removing tongues from fish heads by hand are also
known. A 15-20 centimetres long pin is then fixed to a table.
The tongue is stuck onto the pin, the head is pulled away
from the pin and the tongue is cut away, the process then
being repeated.Various methods and machines for deheading fish are known,
such as machines manufactured by Baader and marked Nos. 427,
410, 161, 162.GB-A-1118918 discloses a fish processing method and
apparatus. Fish to be processed are threaded on a piercing
tool in a horizontal position and thereafter swivelled to a
vertical position in which the fish are hanging freely from 
the piercing tool which extends transversely through the
heads of the fish. The fish are then moved along the piercing
tool to successive processing stations while being carried
past a guide which bears on the heads of the fish.The object of the present invention is to provide a method
and a machine for processing fish and rendering it possible
to minimize waste of raw material and allowing for a
plurality of processing steps in a single manufacturing
process. It is also an object to provide a method and a
machine in which the fish being processed are effectively
guided along a predetermined path through one ore more
processing stations so that products, such as fillets,
tongues, cheeks/cheek muscles, fish heads and/or flattened
fish may be substantially completely processed.The present invention provides a method of processing fish
w
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of processing fish which are moved through
successive fish processing stations located along a

predetermined path of movement, the head of each fish being
threaded on at least one guide rail or pin (4) defining said

predetermined path of movement,

characterized in threading each fish on a pair of
transversely spaced, co-extending guide rails or pins (4) by

inserting a free end part of each guide rail or pin through
the fish head in a substantially longitudinal direction of

the head. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the free end part
of each guide rail is inserted through an eye and through the

tongue of the fish (Fig. 3).
A method according to claim 1, wherein the free end part
of each guide rail is inserted beneath the lower jaw-bone of

the head of the fish and out through the mouth of the fish
(Fig. 4).
A method according to claim 1, wherein the free end part
of each guide rail is inserted through the thin skin of the

cheeks along the tongue and through the lower jaw of the fish
(Fig. 5).
A method according to claims 1, wherein the free end part
of each guide rail (4) is inserted through the mouth, beneath

the tongue and passed out behind the tongue (Fig. 6).
A method according to claim 1, wherein the free end part
of each of the guide rails (4) is inserted through a cheek

and out through the mouth of the fish (Fig. 8).
A method according to claim 1, wherein the free end part
of each guide rail is passed through the mouth and out behind

the tongue and across square-bones of the fish (Fig. 7). 
A fish processing machine comprising guide means defining
a predetermined path and comprising at least one guide rail

or pin (4) adapted to be inserted through the fish head,
means for moving the fish along said path, and fish

processing means arranged at successive fish processing
stations along said path,

characterized in that the guide means comprise a pair of co-extending,
transversely spaced guide rails (4) having a pair

of free end parts (49) each adapted to be inserted trough the
fish head in a substantially longitudinal direction thereof. 
A fish processing machine according to claim 9, wherein
the free end part (49) of each guide rail (4) is moveable

longitudinally between extended and retracted positions,
biassing means being provided for biassing the free end part

towards its extended position (Fig. 28).
A fish processing machine according to claim 8 or 9,
wherein the fish processing means comprise eviscerating

means, tongue removing means, gill removing means, flattening
means, filleting means, cheek muscle detaching means, and/or

deheading means.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-10, wherein the fish processing means comprise plough-like

filleting means (29, 29a) for cutting fillets from the fish.
A fish processing machine according to claim 11, wherein
the filleting means comprise a pair of upper and a pair of

lower plough-like filleting means of which the upper and
lower pairs are adapted to penetrate the flesh at the tail of

a passing fish along the neck and along the belly of the
fish, respectively.
A fish processing machine according to claim 12, wherein
the plough-like filleting means (29, 29a) comprise finger-shaped,

sharp-pointed pins. 
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
11-13, wherein the filleting means further comprise cutting

means for cutting the fish along the plough-like filleting

means.
A fish processing machine according to claim 14, wherein
the plough-like filleting means (29, 29a) define nozzles for

pressurized liquid to be used for detaching the fillets from
the bones and/or fins of the fish.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-15 further comprising detecting means for detecting the

size of the fish passing and for controlling the position of
fish processing means, such as cutting means, in relation to

the fish.
A fish processing machine according to claim 16, wherein
the detecting means comprise fish contacting members (34),

which are connected to guide members for maintaining the fish
in a correct position.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-17, wherein the fish processing means further comprise

means for removing flesh from the head of the fish, said
removing means preferably comprising water cutting means.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-18, wherein the fish processing means further comprise

water cutting means for cutting the belly of the fish.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
11-19, wherein at least one of the plough-like filleting

means define a longitudinally extending slot therein for
receiving a cutting knife or cutting knives therein.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
11-20, wherein a pair of plough-like filleting means are

interconnected by a loop-shaped connecting member (68) adapted 
to embrace the back-bone of the fish being moved in relation

thereto along said path, whereby flesh of the fish is
separated from the back-bone.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-21, wherein the fish processing means comprise cutting

means, such as rotating knives, positioned adjacent to at
least one of the guide rails (4).
A fish processing machine according to claim 22, wherein
each cutting means is connected to an associated guide rail,

so that the position of the cutting means in relation to the
associated guide rail may be maintained also when the guide

rail is flexed or moved.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-23, wherein the guide rails are interconnected.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
9-23, wherein at least one of the guide rails (4) is flexible

and/or moveably mounted.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-25, wherein the moving means comprise tongue gripping means

(23, 24) for gripping the tongue and the lower jaw bone.
A fish processing machine according to claim 26, wherein
the tongue gripping means are mounted on an endless chain or

belt and comprise a pair of longitudinally spaced members
arranged so that they are in a mutually locking position when

moved along straight runs of the endless chain or belt and in
a releasing position when moved along curved parts of the

chain or belt.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-27, wherein the fish processing means comprise cutting

means (36) for cutting away the tongue of the fish. 
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
8-28, wherein the fish processing means comprise an entrails

removing member (44) mounted on at least one of the guide
rails (4) so as to be pivotable between a position in which

it is substantially co-extending with the guide rail, and an
entrails removing position in which it extends transversely

from the guide rail.
A fish processing machine according to any of the claims
11-29, further comprising nape supporting means connected to

the guide rails at the processing station at which the
plough-like filleting means (29, 29a) are located, the nape

supporting means being adapted to support the nape of the
fish at a level slightly below the level of the associated

guide rails (4).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
