<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618738</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Comb filter capable of reducing cross-color phenomena and noises
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N979	H04N979	H04N978	H04N978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An input of a charge coupled device (CCD) delay 
element (6) is an additional signal of a reproduced luminance 

signal and a reproduced chrominance signal, while an output 
of the CCD delay element is separated by an LPF (7) and a BPF (9) 

into a delayed luminance signal and a delayed chrominance 
signal, thereby constituting a comb filter by using the 

input signal before an addition and delayed/reproduced 
signals. Accordingly, it is unnecessary to provide a 

filter for limiting a band width, which is inserted into 
a main signal path. Furthermore, since it is possible to 

constitute a comb filter which does not narrow a signal 
band width of the reproduced luminance signal and the 

reproduced chrominance signal, there can be provided a comb 
filter for removing a cross-talk and noises and which does 

not narrow a signal band width of the luminance signal and 
the chrominance signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a comb filter for 
separating a color signal and a luminance signal from a 
color image signal, and more specifically, to an improvement 
of a color comb filter for removing a cross color and 
a luminance comb filter for removing noises in reproducing. There will be described a conventional comb filter 
for extracting a luminance signal and a color signal from 
an image signal with reference to FIG. 1. Numerals 1-4 shown in FIG. 1 denote first and second 
input terminals and first and second output terminals, 
respectively. In FIG. 1, an adder 5 superposes a reproduced luminance 
signal Sa through the first input terminal 1 and a 
reproduced chrominance signal Sb through the second input 
terminal 2, both of which are demodulated by a video tape 
recorder (VTR) or a television receiver which is not shown 
in the figure to generate an image signal Sc. The image 
signal Sc is supplied through a charge coupled device (CCD) 
delay element 6 and a low pass filter 7 to one of input 
terminals of a subtracter 8 as a delayed image signal Sd. 
The low pass filter 7 removes a CCD clock component included 
in the delayed image signal. The image signal Sc is 
supplied to the other terminal of the subtracter 8 to 
obtain a chrominance signal Se as an output thereof. The 
chrominance signal Se is supplied to a band pass filter 9 
which removes non-correlative components from the chrominance 
signal Se to generate a processed color signal Sf. 
Furthermore, the chrominance signal Se is also supplied 
through a limiter 10 to an amplifier 11 which reduce an  
 
error by the non-correlation of the luminance signal, 
thereby outputting an amplified color signal Sg to one of 
input terminals of a subtracter 12. The image signal Sc is 
supplied to the other input terminal of the subtracter 12 
for outputting a video signal Sh of which noise components 
of the luminance signal is offset. The video signal Sh is 
supplied to a low pass filter 13 which removes color signal 
components, thereby outputting a processed luminance signal 
Si. The processed luminance signal Si is outputted through 
the first output terminal 3, and the processed chrominance 
signal Sf is outputted through the second output terminal 
4. Next, there is described a signal processing in the 
conventional example as shown in FIG. 1 in accordance with 
FIGS. 2A-2I which show signal waveforms of respective 
portions in the comb filter, respectively. FIG. 2A shows a waveform of the reproduced luminance 
signal Sa, and FIG. 2B
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A comb filter circuit comprising: 

an adder (5) for adding a reproduced luminance signal and 
a reproduced chrominance signal so as to output a reproduced 

image signal; 
a delay element (6) for delaying said reproduced image 
signal for a time period corresponding to one horizontal 

scanning so as to output a delayed image signal; 
a luminance signal separation filter (7) for separating 
a luminance signal component from said delayed image signal 

so as to output a delayed luminance signal; 
a chrominance signal separation filter (9) for separating 
a chrominance signal component from said delayed image 

signal so as to output a delayed chrominance signal; 
a first subtracter (15) for subtracting said delayed 
chrominance signal from said reproduced chrominance signal 

so as to output a processed chrominance signal; 
a second subtracter (8) for subtracting said delayed 
luminance signal from said reproduced luminance signal 

so as to output a luminance difference signal; 
a limiter (10) for limiting an amplitude of said luminance 
difference signal less than a predetermined level; and 
a third subtracter (12) for subtracting said luminance 
difference signal after passing through said limiter from 

said reproduced luminance signal so as to output a processed 
luminance signal. 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 1, further 
comprising: 


a first main signal path (M1) for receiving said reproduced 
luminance signal and including only said third subtracter 

for outputting said processed luminance signal; 
a second main signal path (M2) for receiving said reproduced 
chrominance signal and including only said first 

subtracter for outputting said processed chrominance 
signal;  

 
luminance difference signal generating means including 
said adder (5), said delay element (6), said luminance signal 

separation filter (7), said second subtracter (8), and said limiter (10); 
and 
delayed chrominance signal generating means including 
said adder (5), said delay element (6), and said chrominance signal 

separation filter (9). 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 2, wherein
 
   said luminance difference signal generating means 

comprises an amplifier (11) which is provided between said 
limiter and said third subtracter for amplifying an amplitude 

limited luminance difference signal which is outputted 
from said limiter (10) after limiting an amplitude of said 

luminance difference signal. 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 1, further 
comprising; 


a first input terminal (1) for inputting said reproduced 
luminance signal; 
a second input terminal (2) for inputting said reproduced 
chrominance signal; 
a first output terminal (3) for outputting said processed 
luminance signal; 
a second output terminal (4) for outputting said processed 

chrominance signal; 
a first main signal path (M1) extending from said first 
input terminal to said first output terminal and only 

including as a component said third subtracter (12) for subtracting 
said luminance difference signal from said reproduced 

luminance signal which is supplied through said first 
input terminal (1); and 
a second main signal path (M2) extending from said second 
input terminal to said second output terminal and only 

including as a component said first subtracter (15) for subtracting 
said delayed chrominance signal from said reproduced  

 
chrominance si nal which is supplied through said 

second input terminal (2). 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 4, further 
comprising: 


luminance difference signal generation means including 
said adder (5) said delay element (6), said luminance signal 

separation filter (7), said second subtracter (8) and said limiter (10), 
and 
delay chrominance signal generation means including 
said adder (5), said delay element (6) and said chrominance signal 

separation filter (9). 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 5, wherein
 
   said luminance difference signal generation means comprises 

an amplifier (11) for amplifying said luminance difference 
signal which is outputted from said limiter (10) and whose 

amplitude is limited to a predetermined level. 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 1, wherein
 
   said luminance signal separation filter (7) is comprised 

of a low pass filter for extracting a luminance signal 
component from said delayed image signal and for removing 

a clock component intermixed by said delay element (6). 
The comb filter circuit according to claim 1, wherein
 
   said chrominance signal separation filter (9) is comprised 

of a band pass filter for extracting a chrominance signal 
component from said delayed image signal and for removing 

a clock component intermixed by said delay element (6). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
