<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637808</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Buttonless memory system for an electronic measurement device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27416	G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N2186	G06F1900	G06F1900	G01N2726	G01N2726	G01N27416	G01N2186	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G06F	G06F	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N35	G01N35	G01N21	G06F19	G06F19	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The buttonless memory system of the present invention retrieves and stores 
the measurement results of a sample for the user of an electronic measurement 

device, particularly a portable and personal electrical measurement device, with 
minimal user interaction. The user simply activates the portable measurement device 

and waits as the buttonless memory system initially cycles through the stored 
measurement results. The buttonless memory system stops retrieving from memory 

when the measurement device detects a sample or control solution. After test 
measurement of the sample, the user can choose to store the measurement result 

by deactivating the measurement device during the time the memory display is on. 
If the sample is a control solution, the user can delete the measurement result from 

memory by waiting and deactivating the measurement device after the memory 
display is off. In this way, the buttonless memory system provides a simple and 

effective memory management scheme for measurement devices. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAYER AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAYER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOX DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOX, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a
memory feature accessible without the need for any
buttons (i.e., buttonless memory) used in an
electronic measurement device for analyzing a
sample. More particularly, the present invention
relates to a buttonless memory system for
retrieving, displaying and storing measurement
results obtained by the electronic measurement
device that is characterized as a personal and
portable measurement device.Today, electronic instruments are more compact,
more reliable and more user friendly than older
electrical instruments. Present electronic
instruments accurately perform a multitude of
functions and are portable due to their compactness.
These portable electronic instruments are carried by
the user or conveniently kept at the user's home or
office. Compactness, reliability and ease of use
are especially important features for a portable
electrical instrument that performs medical
measurements, such as a blood/glucose meter.Diabetics use blood/glucose meters to monitor
the sugar level in their blood. Diabetics carry
these compact and portable blood/glucose meters to
periodically and conveniently monitor their
blood/sugar level. Several types of portable
blood/glucose meters exist.Reflectance photometers determine the sugar
level of a blood sample through color development. 
The user places a drop of blood onto a chemically
treated test strip. The test strip changes color
depending on the sugar concentration of the blood.
The user then inserts the test strip into the
reflectance photometer, and light from a light-emitting
diode is reflected onto the colored test
strip. Reflected light normally passes through a
wavelength filter and strikes a photodetector. The
electrical signals from the photodetector are
evaluated and the sugar concentration of the blood
sample is determined and displayed by the
reflectance photometer. Some reflectance
photometers also include memory for storing previous
measurement results, but the memory feature is
dependent upon human direction. As such, the memory
feature is not always used effectively. The memory
feature is important because many users, such as
diabetics, must keep track of their measurement
results.These users, however, must affirmatively
perform the additional function of retrieving stored
measurement results from memory. In a typical
reflectance photometer, the user must repeatedly
press a button in order to review previous
measurement results stored in memory.
Unfortunately, many users have difficulty in
reviewing previous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical measurement device (10) incorporating a buttonless memory system, said measurement
device (10) further comprising a measurement means for analyzing a liquid sample, a display

(12) for displaying a measurement result derived from said analysis, a memory for storing a current
result along with previous results stored in said memory; and a processor coupled to said

measurement means, said processor controlling said analysis of said sample by said
measurement means and calculating said current result from said analysis, said

processor further coupled to said display and said memory,
characterized in that,
said processor is arranged to perform in a predetermined sequence a plurality of memory
management operations comprising at least one of retrieval of said previous results from the memory (38),

storage of said current result in said memory (52), deletion of said current result from said
memory (54), deletion of previous results from said memory, restoring of deleted results

in said memory and that
an indication means (14) controlled by said processor is provided for indicating the performance of at
least one of said memory management operations during a time period associated with that memory

management operation while the corresponding result is displayed on the display (12) during
said time period.
The device according to claim 1, characterized in that, the memory
configuration corresponding to at least one time period associated with a memory management operation

can be conserved and the performance of the following memory management operations in the
predetermined sequence can be aborted by a specific user interaction performed during said time period.
The device according to claim 2, characterized in that the specific
user interaction is one of switching off the power of the device or introducing a new sample.
The device according to any one of the claims 1 to 3, characterized in that
it further comprises a voice-activated circuitry coupled to said processor, said voice-activated

circuitry responsive to a plurality of voice commands, each voice command corresponding to
a time period for performing an associated memory management

operation and signalling said processor to perform the memory management operation
corresponding to said voice command.
The device according to claim 4, characterized in that at least one time
period starts or ends by voice activation.
The device according to any one of the claims 1 to 5, characterized in that
at least one time period starts or ends after the expiry of a predetermined time interval.
The device according to any one of the claims 1 to 6, characterized in that
it switches off automatically after performing the last memory management feature of the

predetermined sequence and conserves the last memory configuration of said sequence. 
The device according to any one of the claims 1 to 7, characterized in that
the performance of the predetermined sequence memory management operations is indicated by displaying a

different memory indicator for each memory management operation.
The device according to any one of the claims 1 to 8, characterized in that
the predetermined sequence includes retrieval of said previous results from the memory

for a first time period and the storage of said current result in said memory for a second time
period.
The device according to any one of the claims 1 to 8, characterized in that
the predetermined sequence includes retrieval of said previous results from the memory

for a first time period, storage of said result in said memory for a second time period and the
deletion of said result from said memory in a third time period.
The device according to the claim 9 or 10, characterized in that the
predetermined sequence includes deletion of previous results from said memory after the

retrieval of said previous results from the memory.
The device according to one of the claims 1 to 11, characterized in
that said memory includes a ROM for storing operation instructions and a RAM for

storing said measurement results and any additional measurement information. 
A method for performing memory management operations in a buttonless memory system of an electrical
measurement device for analyzing a liquid sample, obtaining a measurement result from

said sample and displaying said result, said memory management operations comprising at
least one of retrieval of a previous results from the memory, storage of a current result in said

memory, deletion of a current result from said memory, deletion of previous results from
said memory, restoring of deleted results in said memory, the method comprising the steps of


a. performing the first of a predetermined sequence of a selection of memory
management operations during a time period associated with that memory management

operation and simultanously indicating the performance of that memory management
operation and displaying the corresponding result,
b. performing the next and all following of a predetermined sequence of a plurality of
predetermined memory management operations during a time period associated with each memory

management operation and simultaneously indicating the performance of that memory
management operation and displaying the corresponding result,
c. conserving the memory configuration achieved by performing the last of said
predetermined sequence of memory management operations.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that, it further comprises a step d. of
automatically switching off the power of the device.
The method according to claim 13, characterized in that, if a specific user interaction is
performed during any of the steps a. or b., then the memory configuration of that step is

conserved and the performance of the following memory management operations in the
sequence is aborted.
The method according to claim 15, characterized in that the specific user action is
switching off-the power of the device.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
