<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651688</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADJUSTABLE WRENCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B1300	B25B1344	B25B1346	B25B2100	B25B2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	B25B	B25B	B25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B13	B25B13	B25B13	B25B21	B25B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An adjustable ratchet wrench has a housing (900) carried by a handle (901). The housing has a generally cylindrical chamber which carries a control member (902) that in turn supports the jaws (906). The control member (902) is connected to the handle by a ratchet assembly (908) whose setting determines the direction in which the tool may be used to turn a workpiece. The housing (900) also carries an adjusting disk that engages the jaws (906) and opens and closes them depending upon the direction in which it is rotated. A locking mechanism (930), (940) is provided to prevent the jaws (906) from opening after they have been adjusted to grip a particular workpiece in response to reactive forces on the jaws. The wrench may have a power handle (1022) to drive the workpiece.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREAT BAY TOOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSSELLA, GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDENMUTH, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE OF THE INVENTIONADJUSTABLE WRENCHRELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation-in-part of prior co-pending application Serial No. 07/638,828. filed January 8, 1991 which in turn is a continuation-in-part of prior co-pending applications Serial No. 07/387,220 filed July 28, 1989, now abandoned, Serial No. 07/392,206 filed August 10, 1989, now Patent No. 5,067,376 dated November 26, 1991 and Serial No. 07/567,290 filed August 14, 1990, now Patent No. 5,090,273. Co-applicant Gregory Fossella is the sole inventor in all of the above-identified patents and applications. The disclosures of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.INTRODUCTION This invention relates to adjustable wrench heads. The invention may be embodied in either a manually operated wrench or a wrench having a power handle which allows it to be operated both manually and automatically. The wrench head also has application in modular tools with square drives, ratchet handles etc. 

 The present invention is an improvement over the adjustable wrenches shown in the earlier applications identified above. The wrenches in the earlier applications, supra, are all capable of use with a large range of sizes of nuts and bolts. In the previous application Serial No. 07/387,220, filed July 28, 1989, an adjustable wrench is disclosed that will accommodate both standard and metric sizes within the range of 5/16th to 1 inch in diameter. A similar range of sizes is accommodated by the extension wrench shown in the application Serial No. 07/392,206, filed August 10, 1989. Most conventional ratchet and extension wrenches in use today require a large number of interchangeable heads to accommodate wor pieces of different diameters. For example, approximately 41 different heads are required to accommodate both standard and metric sizes within the range of from 5/16th to 1 inch in diameter. An additional equal number of heads may be required if deep bolt clearance is necessary to perform the work.The principle object of the present invention is to provide an adjustable wrench head capable of accommodating a wide range of sizes of nuts and bolts.Another important object of the present invention is to provide an adjustable wrench head which is suitable for use in manual and power tools, and also is suitable for use both as the working head of an extension wrench as well as a ratchet 

wrench.Another important object of the present invention is to provide an adjustable wrench head which is relatively small, has relatively few parts,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
be turned by the head, a control member on the housing and engaging the jaws and limiting the motion of the jaws to radial motion with respect to the control member, an adjusting disk surrounding at least a portion of the control member and having inwardly directed cams engaging the jaws for driving the jaws radially inwardly in response to rotation of the disk in one
"
rotational direction with respect to the control member, means interconnecting the adjusting disk and jaws for moving the jaws radially outward in response to rotation of the disk in an opposite rotational direction with respect to the control member, and releasable locking means operatively interconnecting the control member and the adjusting disk for preventing rotation of the disk in said opposite rotational direction so as to prevent the jaws from opposing in response to reactive forces applied to the jaws by a workpiece.
2. A wrench head as defined in claim 1 wherein said control member supports said adjusting disk on said housing.
3. A wrench head as defined in claim 1 wherein said control member supports said jaws on said housing. 


 4. A wrench head as defined in claim 2 wherein said control member supports said jaws on said housing.
5. A wrench head as defined in claim 1 wherein the adjusting disk and control means are movable axially with respect to one another.
6. A wrench head as defined in claim 5 wherein relative axial movement of the adjusting disk controls the condition of the locking means.
7. A wrench head as defined in claim 6 wherein the adjusting disk is biased axially in one direction to activate the locking means, and motion of the disk in the opposite axial direction against the bias releases the locking means.
8. A wrench head as defined in claim 1 wherein the control member has a flange which radially overlaps an end of the adjusting disk near the jaws.
9. A wrench head as defined in claim 8 wherein the flange and said end of the disk have opposed faces and the locking means is disposed between the flange and said end of the disk on said faces.
10. A wrench head as defined in claim 9 wherein the locking means includes teeth on the opposed faces that engage one another to activate the 


locking means and separate from one another to release the locking means.
11. A wrench head as defined in claim 10 wherein the disk is moved axially with respect to the control member to separate the teeth so as to release the locking means.
12. A wrench head as defined in claim 10 wherein a dust cover encloses the teeth on the faces.
13. A wrench head as defined in claim 7 wherein the control member is biased to move away from the adjusting disk.
14. A wrench head as defined in claim 11 wherein spring means operatively engage the disk to bias the teeth to an engaged position.
15. A wrench head as defined in claim 14 wherein the control member is biased to move away from the adjusting disk.
16. A wrench head as defined in claim 7 wherein a cam means is operatively connected to the adjusting disk for moving the disk axially when the cam means is moved circumferentially with respect to the axis. 


 17. A wrench head as defined in claim 16 wherein said cam means includes a rotatably mounted ring disposed between the control member and disk.
18. A wrench head as defined in claim 10 wherein the teeth on the disk are movable axially with respect to the disk toward and away from the teeth on the flange.
19. A wrench head as defined in claim 1 wherein the housing and control member have openings therethrough coaxial with the axis of the housing for enabling a member onto which the workpiece is to be turned to extend through the head.
20. A wrench head as defined in claim 1 wherein a handle is connected to and fixed with respect to the head for turning the workpiece engage by the jaws.
21. A wrench head as defined in claim 20 wherein a ratchet is mounted in the head for establishing a drive direction for the handle. 


 22. A wrench head as defined in claim 21 wherein the ratchet interconnects the housing and the control member.
28. A wrench head as defined in claim 22 wherein the ratchet has two positions, one of said positions connecting the housing and control member so that clockwise rotation of the handle will rotate the jaws in the same direction and the other of the positions joining the housing and control member so that conterclockwise rotation of the handle will rotate the jaws in the counterclockwise direction.
24. A wrench head as defined in claim 21 wherein the handle contains a motor, and drive means are provided for selectively connecting the motor to the control member for utilizing the motor to rotate the jaws.
25. A wrench head as defined in claim 24 wherein the drive means comprises a driving pawl mounted in the handle for engaging the control member to move the member stepwise as the motor rotates.
26. A wrench head as defined in claim 25 wherein 


 the direction of operation of the driving pawl is controlled by the ratchet.
27. A wrench head as defined in claim 25 wherein both the ratchet and the driving pawl each have two operative positions whereby both the handle and motor can drive the control member either clockwise or counterclockwise.
28. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench comprising a housing, at least two jaws mounted on the housing, a control member engaging the jaws and rotatable about its axis to turn a workpiece engaged by the jaws, a circular gear on the control member, a cradle mounted on the housing for oscillating motion adjacent the control member, a driving pawl carried by the cradle and engaging the circular gear for stepwise rotation of the control member, and a motor operatively connected to the cradle for oscillating the cradle.
29. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 28 wherein an eccentric shaft assembly operatively connects the motor to the cradle causing rotation of 


the motor to oscillate the cradle.
30. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 28 wherein a handle is fixed to the housing for manually rotating the control member to turn the jaws.
31. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 30 wherein a reversing pawl operatively connects the control member to the handle, said reversing pawl being pivotally mounted on the housing and having alternate teeth for engaging the circular gear so that the handle can selectively drive the control member in opposition direction.
32. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 31 wherein the driving pawl is pivotally mounted for engaging the circular gear in different positions so as to selectively rotate the control member in opposite directions in response to the oscillation of the cradle.
33. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 32 wherein the position of the drive pawl is controlled by the position of the reversing pawl. 


 34. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 28 wherein the cradle surrounds and oscillates about the axis of the control 
•
member.
35. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 34 wherein a handle is fixed to the housing for manually rotating the control member to turn the jaws, and a reversing pawl operatively connects the handle to the control member for setting the direction of rotation of the control member in response to rotation of the handle.
36. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 35 wherein the driving pawl is pivotally mounted for engaging the circular gear in different positions so as to selectively rotate the control member in opposite directions in response to the oscillation of the cradle.
37. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 36 wherein an adjusting disk is rotatably mounted on the housing and surrounds at least a portion of the jaws, and cam surfaces on the disk engage the jaws for moving the jaws axially to loosen and tighten them on a workpiece. 


 38. A power driven adjustable ratchet wrench as defined in claim 37 wherein a locking means interconnects the jaws and control member for preventing reactive forces applied to the jaws by a workpiece from opening the jaws. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
