<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632728</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PREPARATION AND USE OF POLYANIONIC POLYMER-BASED CONJUGATES TARGETED TO VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL CELLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4748	A61K4748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention discloses new targeted conjugates for the delivery of a compound, and particularly, a steroid, to vascular endothelial cells. The conjugates comprise two components, preferably linked by a selectively-hydrolyzable bond, such as an acid-labile bond or enzyme-sensitive bond. The first component, a polyanionic polymer, and preferably, a polysulphated polymer such as a heparin-derivative, specifically directs the conjugate to vascular endothelial cells. The second component is a selected agent, such as a steroid, which exerts a specific effect on the target cell following its release. In particular, the present invention provides novel conjugated angiogenesis inhibitors, for use in the treatment of pathogenic conditions including cancer, arthritis, and diabetic blindness. An inhibitor comprising a heparin derivative and the anti-angiogenic steroid, cortisol, is herein shown to be markedly acid-labile, to suppress DNA synthesis and cell migration in human umbilical vein endothelial cells, to retard or abolish (depending on the route of injection) the vascularization of sponges in vivo and to retard lung tumor growth in mice by 65 %. No adverse effects of the conjugate were detected, and equivalent treatments with a mixture of heparin plus cortisol were significantly less effective in all cases.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMP CANCER RES TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TEXAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF REGENTS THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMPERIAL CANCER RESEARCH TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORPE PHILIP E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORPE, PHILIP, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEBCRIPTIONPREPARATION AND USE OF POLYANIONIC POLYMER-BASED CONJUGATES TARGETED TO VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL CELLSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of co-pending application U.S. Serial No. 07/856,018, filed March 23, 1992. The government owns certain rights in ___the present invention pursuant to NIH grant number CA- 54168. ~"—- _— - . -1. Field of the InventionThe present invention provides novel conjugates for use in targeting a selected agent, and particularly, a steroid, to vascular endothelial cells. These conjugate comprise two components preferably linked by a selectively-hydrolyzable bond, such as an acid-labile bond. Firstly, a polyanionic compound such as a polyanionic polymer, which directs the conjugate to vascular endothelial cells, and secondly, a selected agent, such as a steroid, which exerts its action following cellular release. The invention provides nov conjugates that function as targeted angiogenesis inhibitors that are proposed for use in the treatment o pathological conditions such as cancer, arthritis, and diabetic blindness. Preferred inhibitors are those in which the polyanionic compound is a polysulfated polyme such as a heparin derivative, conjugated to a steroid with anti-angiogenic activity, such as cortisol, or derivatives and variants thereof. 

2. Description of the Related ArtThe control of endothelial cell proliferation is a vital part of normal homeostatic mechanisms. A disturbance in this process can result in, for example, excessive or inappropriate endothelial cell proliferation or activation which is often associated with disease processes. For example, the proliferation of vascular endothelial cells is vital to angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels, which in turn, is associated with many disabling or life-threatening disorders. These include cancer (Algire et al . , 1945; Tannock, 1968; Folkman, 

 diabetic retinopathy, atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis, psoriasis, dermatitis, endometriosis, encephalitis and tonsillitis (Brown & Weiss, 1988, Waltman et al . , 1978; Gartner & Henkind, 1978; Moses & Langer, 1991) . It is known that angiogenesis rarely occurs in healthy adult humans except during wound healing and during phases of the female reproductive cycle (Hobson &^Deneka T- 84) —~In solid tumors, vascular endothelial cells divide about 35 times more rapidly than those in normal tissues, except the uterine epithelium (Denenka p & Hobson, 1982) . Such inappropriate proliferation is necessary for tumor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A conjugate comprising a polyanionic compound conjugated to a selected pharmacological agent.
2. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the polyanionic compound comprises a polysulfated or polysulfonated compound.
3. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the polyanionic compound comprises a polyanionic polymer.
4. The conjugate of claim 3, wherein the polyanionic polymer comprises a polysulfated or polysulfonated polymer.
5. The conjugate of claim 4, wherein the polysulfated polymer is heparin or a heparin derivative.
6. The conjugate of claim 5, wherein the heparin derivative is a non-anticoagulating heparin derivative.
7. The conjugate of claim 6, wherein the conjugate has less than 2.5% of the anticoagulating activity of native heparin.
8. The conjugate of claim 2, wherein the polysulfated compound is suramin or a suramin derivative. 


9. The conjugate of claim 4, wherein the polysulphated polymer is heparan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, keratan sulfate, der atan sulfate, sulfated chitin, sulfated chitosan, sulfated alginic acid, pentosan polysulfate, a sulfated cyclodextrin, polystyrene sulfonate, sulfated polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl sulfate or polyethylene sulfonate.
10. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the polyanionic compound is derivatized to introduce functional groups permitting the attachment of a selected agent through a biologically releasable bond, and the selected agent is conjugated to the polymer by means of the biologically releasable bond.
11. The conjugate of claim 10, wherein the polyanionic compound is derivatized to introduce functional groups permitting the attachment of a selected agent through a disulfide or trisulfide bond, and the selected agent is conjugated to the polymer through the introduced functional groups.
12. The conjugate of claim 11, wherein the introduced bond is a selectively hydrolyzable bond.
13. The conjugate of claim 12, wherein the selectively hydrolyzable bond is an acid-labile bond.
14. The conjugate of claim 13, wherein the acid-labile bond is hydrolyzable at a pH of 4.8 or lower. 


15. The conjugate of claim 13, wherein the polyanionic compound is derivatized to introduce side chains terminating in hydrazide, hydrazine, primary amine or secondary amine groups.
16. The conjugate of claim 15, wherein the derivatized polyanionic compound is the condensation product of the compound and adipic dihydrazide, succinic dihydrazide, hydrazine or hydrazine hydrate, and the agent is conjugated to the compound through a Schiff's base linkage.
17. The conjugate of claim 16, wherein the agent is conjugated to the compound through a hydrazone or acyl hydrazone bond.
18. The conjugate of claim 17, wherein the agent is conjugated to the compound through a hydrazide linker having the structure:
R-CO-NH-NH
2
,
wherein R = the polyanionic compound.
19. The conjugate of claim 16, wherein the agent is conjugated to the compound by a hydrazide linker having the structure:
R-CO-NH-NH-CO-(CH
2
)
n
-CO-NH-NH
2
;
wherein n = 1-50; and
R = the polyanionic compound. 


20. The conjugate of claim 10, wherein the biologically releasable bond is an enzyme-sensitive bond.
21. The conjugate of claim 20, wherein the enzyme- sensitive bond is a peptide bond.
22. The conjugate of claim 21, wherein the agent is linked to the compound through a peptide that includes the sequence Leu-Ala-Leu-Ala.
23. The conjugate of claim 20, wherein the enzyme- sensitive bond is an ester, an amide, a phosphodiester or a glycoside.
24. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the selected agent is an agent from Table I or Table III.
25. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the selected agent is biotin, a phorbol ester, adenosine, inosine, hypoxanthine, nicotinamide , prostaglandin E2 or a calcium ionophore.
26. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the selected agent is ricin A-chain.
27. The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the selected agent is a steroid. 


 28. The conjugate of claim 27, wherein the steroid is a steroid from Table II or Table IV.
f
5 29. The conjugate of claim 27, wherein the steroid is a synthetic steroid.
30. The steroid conjugate of claim 27, wherein the 10 steroid has anti-angiogenic activity.
31. The conjugate of claim 27, wherein the steroid employed for conjugating to the compound has one or more 15 free ketone or aldehyde groups.
32. A method for preparing a conjugate, comprising:
20 condensing in a reaction mixture a polyanionic compound with a derivatizing agent to form a derivatized polyanionic compound;
removing from the reaction mixture any unreacted 25 material from said derivatized polyanionic compoun ;
adding to the reaction mixture the selected agent to be conjugated; and
30 incubating said reaction mixture to create a polyanionic compound-agent conjugate.
35 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the selected agent comprises an agent from Table I or III, a steroid, a 


phorbol ester, adenosine, inosine, hypoxanthine , nicotinamide, prostaglandin E2 or a calcium ionophore.
34. The method of claim 32, wherein the polyanionic compound is heparin or suramin.
35. The method of claim 32, further defined as a method for preparing a heparin-steroid conjugate comprising the steps of:
condensing heparin with hydrazine or a hydrazide derivative, using an excess of water soluble carbodiimide at an acidic pH, to form a heparin-derivative having one or more side chains terminating in hydrazide groups;
removing the unreacted material from said heparin- hydrazide derivative;
adding a steroid solution at acidic pH to form a reaction mixture;
incubating said reaction mixture; and
adjusting the pH of said heparin-steroid conjugate to pH 7 or above.
36. A pharmaceutical preparation of a conjugate comprising the conjugate of claim 1 dispersed in a pharmacologically acceptable vehicle.
37. The pharmaceutical preparation of claim 36, suitable for parenteral administration. 


38. A method for targeting an agent to a vascular endothelial cell, comprising:
preparing a conjugate in accordance with claim 1; and
exposing vascular endothelial cells to said conjugate.
39. A method for inhibiting DNA synthesis, cellular proliferation or cellular migration in vascular endothelial cells, comprising:
preparing a conjugate in accordance with claim 30; and
exposing vascular endothelial cells to said conjugate.
40. A method for stimulating DNA synthesis and cellular proliferation in vascular endothelial cells, comprising:
preparing an endothelial cell-targeted conjugate in accordance with claim 25; and
exposing vascular endothelial cells to said conjugate.
41. The use of a conjugate comprising a polyanionic compound conjugated to a selected pharmacological agent in the preparation of a medicament for affecting angiogenesis. 


42. A use according to claim 41, wherein the selected agent comprises a steroid having anti-angiogenic activity and the medicament is intended for use in inhibiting angiogenesis.
43. A use according to claim 42, wherein the selected agent comprises a steroid having anti-angiostatic activity, and wherein the medicament is intended for use in the treatment of cancer.
44. A use according to claim 41, wherein the selected agent comprises biotin, a phorbol ester, adenosine, inosine, hypoxanthine, nicotinamide, prostaglandin E2, or a calcium ionophone, and wherein the medicament is intended for use in stimulating angiogenesis.
45. A use according to claim 41, wherein the polyanionic compound is herparin or suramin.
46. A use according to claim 41, wherein the medicament is suitable for parenteral administration.
47. A use according to claim 41, wherein the medicament is encapsulated within a biodegradable polymer or slow- release capsule. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
