<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616498</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUPPLEMENTAL CARRY STRAP.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A45F300	A45F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A45F	A45F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A45F3	A45F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SATTLER WARREN A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SATTLER, WARREN A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATTLER WARREN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATTLER, WARREN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SUPPLEMENTAL CARRY STRAP TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates generally to the manual lifting and movement of containers of moderate size and weight and more specifically to carrying straps for golf bags and other luggage having single shoulder straps and a handle.BACKGROUND ARTGolf is a game that requires a player to transport a substantial amount of equipment as he or she plays the course. Many options are available to the player to accomplish this transportation, such as riding carts, the hand-pulled cart, the powered golf bag cart, and the hiring of a caddy to carry the equipment bag. The preferred option, however, for maximum exercise benefit from the game, is for the player to carry his or her own equipment-laden golf bag as he or she walks the course. While carrying one's own golf bag is the preferred method, the physical strain from doing so may prove detrimental to the golfer's ability to perform as the game proceeds. Carrying a heavy bag over the irregular terrain of a golf course results in increasing fatigue as the game proceeds.Concern over the strain and fatigue caused by carrying one's bag for the duration of the game often leads a player to decide to select an alternative means of transporting the bag, thereby reducing the exercise benefits from the game.In order to reduce the strain on the player from transporting the bag, golf bags and equipment have been progressively constructed of lighter materials. The typical golf bag is equipped with a single handle and usually a shoulder strap to facilitate lifting and carrying the bag. It is usual in the art to pad the carrying strap so as to lessen the contact stress on the shoulder from the weight of the bag and its contents. Nonetheless, the weight of the typical equipment-laden bag remains substantial and the strain of carrying it remains appreciable.Observation of a player carrying a golf bag reveals that the stress from carrying the bag is asymmetrically distributed over the upper part of 

 the player's body by the single shoulder strap with which the bag is carried. In use, the player uses the handle to lift the bag, then positions the single shoulder strap over one shoulder in order to carry the bag. This places the weight of the load on one side of the player's body and the player must adjust his or her stance by leaning to the opposite side in order to balance the load. As the game proceeds, the player will typically alternate the carry fro one shoulder to the other in order to alleviate the strain and resultant muscle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS I claim:
1. A carrying strap for a piece of luggage having a single shoulder carry strap comprising: a shoulder element; a coupling element having three apertures therethrough, a first and second aperture at either end of said coupling element for receiving a first and second strap and a third aperture proximal the middle of said coupling element and disposed midway between said first and second apertures for receiving a coupling means; a first and second strap for adjustably connecting said shoulder element to said coupling element; and coupling means for removably attaching said coupling element to said luggage. 2. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said shoulder element is comprised of a material having a portion thereof distinguished by a different color, said distinguished portion disposed so as to mark a specific position on said shoulder element.
3. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said shoulder element is comprised of a material having a portion thereof distinguished by a different texture, said distinguished portion disposed so as to mark a specific position on said shoulder element.
4. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said shoulder element is padded. 5. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said coupling element is composed of rigid material.
6. A carrying strap as in Claim 5 wherein said coupling element is composed of metal.
7. A carrying strap as in Claim 5 wherein said coupling element is composed of polymeric material.
8. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said coupling means is a third strap having one end terminated with a buckle and the distal end 


 configured in a compatible manner for use with said buckle so as to allow said ends of said third strap to be detachably fastened into a loop.
9. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said coupling means is a third strap having one end affixed to said coupling element and the distal end terminated with a snap swivel so as to allow said distal end of said third strap to be detachably fastened to said piece of luggage.
10. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said coupling means is a snap swivel having one end affixed to said coupling element and the distal end terminated in said snap so as to allow said coupling element to be detachably fastened to said piece of luggage.
11. A carrying strap as in Claim 1 wherein said first and second adjusting straps are terminated in a buckle at one end and fixedly attached to said coupling element at the distal end.
12. A carrying strap for a golf bag having a single carry strap and two auxiliary attachment rings disposed around the center of gravity of said golf bag comprising: a shoulder element having placement marker means; and a first and a second strap for adjustably connecting said shoulder element to said golf bag. 13. A carrying strap as in Claim 12 wherein said first and second adjusting straps are terminated in a buckle at one end and fixedly attached to said shoulder element at the distal end.
14. A carrying strap as in Claim 12 wherein said marker means comprises material having a portion thereof distinguished by a different color, said distinguished portion disposed so as to mark a specific position on said shoulder element.
15. A carrying strap as in Claim 12 wherein said marker means comprises material having a portion thereof distinguished by a different texture, said distinguished portion disposed so as to mark a specific position on said shoulder element.
16. A carrying strap as in Claim 12 wherein said shoulder element is padded.
EET 


 17. A carrying strap for a piece of luggage having a single shoulder carry strap comprising: a shoulder element; a coupling element for receiving a first and second strap and an aperture proximal the middle of said coupling element for receiving a coupling means; a first and second strap for adjustably connecting said shoulder element to said coupling element; and coupling means for removably attaching said coupling element to said luggage.
18. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said shoulder element is comprised of a material having a portion thereof distinguished by a different color, said distinguished portion disposed so as to mark a specific position on said shoulder element. 19. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said shoulder element is comprised of a material having a portion thereof distinguished by a different texture, said distinguished portion disposed so as to mark a specific position on said shoulder element.
20. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said shoulder element is padded.
21. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said coupling element is composed of rigid material.
22. A carrying strap as in Claim 21 wherein said coupling element is composed of metal. 23. A carrying strap as in Claim 21 wherein said coupling element is composed of polymeric material.
24. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said coupling means is a third strap having one end terminated with a buckle and the distal end configured in a compatible manner for use with said buckle so as to allow said ends of said third strap to be detachably fastened into a loop.
25. A carrying strap as in Qaim 17 wherein said coupling means is a third strap having one end affixed to said coupling element and the distal 


end terminated with a snap swivel so as to allow said distal end of said third strap to be detachably fastened to said piece of luggage.
26. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said coupling means is a snap swivel having one end affixed to said coupling element and the distal end terminated in said snap so as to allow said coupling element to be detachably fastened to said piece of luggage.
27. A carrying strap as in Claim 17 wherein said first and second adjusting straps are terminated in a buckle at one end and fixedly attached to said coupling element at the distal end. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
