<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653059</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THIN FILM GAS SENSOR AND METHOD OF FABRICATION THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27406	G01N27406	G01N27407	G01N27407	G01N27416	G01N27416	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated monolithic gas sensor comprises a substrate and thin films deposited on this substrate. The thin films include a thin film electrically conductive heating element, a thin film conductive reference electrode, and a second thin film conductive electrode, these electrodes and heating element being electrically isolated from each other. A thin film ionic conductor and a thin film reactive gas sensitive layer are placed between the reference electrode and the second conductive electrode to form an electrolytic cell in which an electrolytic reaction including as reagent the gas to be detected produces between the two conductive electrodes an electromotive force indicative of the concentration of the gas. Also deposited is a micro-thermometer formed of a thin film wire having a temperature-dependent resistance. When the gas to be detected is CO2, the ionic conductor may comprise NASICON of formula Na3Zr2Si2PO12, and the reactive gas sensitive layer may comprise Na2CO3.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAPTEURS CARPO R 
&
 D INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LES CAPTEURS CARPO R. 
&
 D. INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRIE JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECOURS ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRIE, JOHN, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECOURS, ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THIN FILM GAS SENSOR ANDMETHOD OF FABRICATION THEREOFBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the invention:The present invention relates to an integrated monolithic thin film gas sensor capable of continuously detecting and monitoring low concentration of gas with a sensitivity of 100 p.p.m. or less. The present invention further relates to a method of fabricating this sensor, with thin film fabrication techniques.2. Brief description of the prior art:Many techniques have been proposed for detecting concentrations of gases such as C02 in the air. For example, spectroscopic techniques including infrared and photoacoustic spectroscopies carry out detection through electronic transitions produced in the gas when illuminated. Another example is concerned with an electrochemical cell provided with an electrode chemically sensitive to the gas to be sensed. The gas sensors that have been constructed on the basis of these prior art techniques are bulky, fragile, not integrable with the electronic circuit through which they are controlled, and, generally, 

they are not adapted to inexpensive mass production. In particular, spectroscopic sensors are as a whole expensive and quite fragile.Another prior art gas sensor is described in U.S. patent N° 4,668,374 granted to Bhagat et al. on May 26, 1987. More specifically, this patent discloses a fast response gas sensor fabricated through microelectronics technology to form multiple thin film solid-electrolyte pump and sense cells within a hermetically sealed sensor cavity. This prior art sensor requires an airtight chamber which must be free of any chemical and any source of current leakage. The electrolyte is in the form of a membrane, and the response time is related to the thickness of the electrolyte, and thus to the thickness of the membrane. To obtain very fast response times, the membrane of the electrolyte must be so thin that it suffers from mechanical integrity; the resulting membrane is fragile and can rupture easily in normal service to render the sensor inoperative. Moreover, the sensor of Bhagat et al. is designed to be used in an ambient temperature of 300 "C, and comprises an ionic conductor which, at that temperature, has a sufficient conductivity and does not suffer from interference due to water adsorbed at the surface of the sensor. Therefore, a drawback of the sensor of Bhagat et al. is that it cannot be used at room temperature. Also, nothing is disclosed regarding methods to increase sensitivity of the gas detection, or to integrate the sensor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A monolithic gas sensor comprising: first and second electrodes each made of a film of electrically conductive material; a reactive layer made of a film of material sensitive to the gas to be detected; and an ionic conductor being under the form of thin film to efficiently conduct ions therein; wherein said first and second electrodes, said reactive layer, and said thin film ionic conductor are deposited on each other to form an electrolytic cell in which a chemical reaction involving as reagent the gas to be detected produces an electromotive force between said first and second electrodes.
2. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 1, further comprising an integrated heating element made of a film of electrically conductive material, said heating element being supplied with electric current to heat said sensor.
3. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 2, wherein said heating element is a thin film heating element.
4. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 2, further comprising an integrated thermometer formed of a film of electrically conductive material having a temperature-dependent resistance which can be converted to temperature.
5. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 2, further comprising an integrated thermometer 


 formed of a thin film of electrically conductive material having a temperature-dependent resistance which can be converted to temperature.
6. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 1, comprising: a substrate; a thin film heating element made of electrically conductive material deposited on said substrate; a thin film of dielectric material deposited on said thin film heating element; a reference electrode consisting of a thin film of electrically conductive material deposited on said thin film of dielectric material, said reference electrode constituting said first electrode; said thin film ionic conductor deposited on said thin film reference electrode; said reactive gas sensitive layer consisting of a thin film of reactive gas sensitive material deposited on said thin film ionic conductor; and said second electrode formed of a thin film of electrically conductive material deposited on said thin film reactive gas sensitive electrode.
7. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 6, further comprising another thin film of dielectric material deposited on said substrate, the thin film heating element being deposited on said other thin film of dielectric material.
8. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 6, further comprising a thin film micro- thermometer consisting of a portion of the thin film of electrically conductive material constituting the 


reference electrode, said thin film portion forming the micro-thermometer having a temperature-dependent resistance than can be converted to temperature.
9. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 1, comprising: a substrate; a thin film of dielectric material deposited on said substrate; a thin film of electrically conductive material deposited on said thin film of dielectric material and divided into three separate thin film portions respectively forming (a) said first electrode constituting a thin film reference electrode, (b) said second electrically conductive electrode, and (c) a thin film heating element; said thin film ionic conductor deposited onto said thin film reference electrode; and said reactive gas sensitive layer deposited in thin film on said second electrically conductive electrode and on said thin film ionic conductor.
10. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 9, wherein said thin film of electrically conductive material comprises a fourth portion constituting a thin film micro-thermometer having a temperature-dependent resistance which can be converted to temperature.
11. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 1, wherein said ionic conductor comprises NASICON.
12. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 1, wherein said gas to be detected is C0
2
, 


 said ionic conductor comprises NASICON of formula Na
3
Zr
2
Si
2
P0
12
, and said reactive gas sensitive layer comprises Na
2
C0
3
.
13. A monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 1, comprising a plurality of said electrolytic cell mounted in cascade in order to improve gas detection sensitivity of said monolithic gas sensor.
14. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor comprising the step of depositing onto a substrate (a) first and second thin film electrodes made of electrically conductive material, (b) a reactive thin film layer made of material sensitive to the gas to be detected, and (c) an ionic conductor under the form of thin film to efficiently conduct ions therein, wherein said depositing step comprises stacking said first and second thin film electrodes, said reactive thin film layer, and said thin film ionic conductor to form an electrolytic cell in which a chemical reaction involving as reagent the gas to be detected produces an electromotive force between said first and second thin film electrodes.
15. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 14, further comprising the step of depositing on said substrate a thin film heating element made of electrically conductive material, and the step of depositing on said substrate a micro-thermometer made of a thin film of electrically conductive material having a temperature- dependent resistance which can be converted to temperature. 


 16. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 14, wherein said depositing step comprises patterning at least one of said first and second thin film electrodes, said reactive thin film layer, and said thin film ionic conductor though proximity masking.
17. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 14, further comprising the step of patterning the stacked first and second thin film electrodes, reactive thin film layer, and thin film ionic conductor through laser ablation.
18. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 15, wherein said depositing step comprises patterning, by means of proximity masking, at least one of said first and second thin film electrodes, said reactive thin film layer, said thin film ionic conductor, said thin film heating element, and said thin film micro-thermometer.
19. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 15, further comprising the step of patterning, by means of laser ablation, the stacked first and second thin film electrodes, reactive thin film layer, and thin film ionic conductor, and said thin film heating element and thin film micro-thermometer.
20. A method of fabricating a monolithic gas sensor as recited in claim 14, further comprising a step of rapid thermal annealing of said thin film ionic conductor to favor crystalline microstructure formation and thereby improve ionic conductivity of the thin film ionic conductor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
