<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617579</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED METHOD OF COMBINING ACTIVE INGREDIENTS WITH POLYVINYL ACETATE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G400	A23G400	A23G402	A23G402	A23G406	A23G406	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method of combining active ingredients with polyvinyl acetate for use in chewing-gum results in significantly less degradation of the active ingredients. After the polyvinyl acetate and one or more active ingredients have been mixed together in an extruder, the mixture is extruded through a die to form a sheet-like extrudate (32). The sheet like extrudate is then cooled using a series of three chilled compression rolls (12, 14 and 16). The extrudate is pinched between adjacent chilled compression rolls and both surfaces of the extrudate maintain contact with at least one of the chilled compression rolls for a period of time. The extrudate is thereby cooled swiftly and thoroughly, resulting in reduced degradation of the active ingredients.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPER CHARLES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPER CHARLES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED METHOD OF COMBINING ACTIVE INGREDIENTS WITH POLYVINYL ACETATEFIELD OF THE INVENTION .This invention relates to an" improved method of combining chewing gum active ingredients such as flavor ingredients, flavor enhancing ingredients, high intensity sweeteners, or the like, with polyvinyl acetate". More specifically, the invention is concerned with reducing the time during which the active ingredients are exposed to high temperature following extrusion, thereby alleviating degradation of the active ingredients.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWhen polyvinyl acetate is combined with active ingredients to form encapsulation mixtures or gradual release structures for use in chewing gum, the ingredients are conventionally mixed using an extruder, such as a Leistritz or Werner-Pfleiderer single screw or twin screw extruder. Initially, the granular polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient are added to the extruder and heated to a temperature of about 90°C to about 110°C, causing the polyvinyl acetate to melt and flow freely. The active ingredient may be a flavor ingredient, a flavor enhancing ingredient, a high intensity sweetener, or otherwise. The active ingredient is caused to mix with the polyvinyl acetate as the screws of the extruder turn. and convey. The mixture is then extruded through a die, such as a slot die, to form a sheet-like extrudate. The extrudate is cooled to a solid form before being melt spun (in the case of gradual release structures) and/or ground into powder. 

 The initial cooling of the encapsulation mixture or gradual release structure is conventionally accomplished using an air venturi. The air venturi is an apparatus which simply aspires upon the extrudate and uses the force of air to blow it into a cooling trough. Once in the cooling trough, the extrudate is " further copied in air.The polyvinyl acetate has a high heat capacity and heat retention, and low thermal conductivity. Accordingly, some of the polyvinyl acetate tends to remain in the molten state long after the encapsulation mixture or gradual release structure leaves the extruder. The air venturi is particularly ineffective in cooling the polyvinyl acetate which is located away from the surface, and near the core, of the extrudate. This prolonged heat history can cause undesirable degradation of the active ingredient which is being encapsulated in the polyvinyl acetate.Active ingredients which are particularly susceptible to degradation due to prolonged heat exposure include but are not limited to sweeteners, flavors,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM :
1. An improved method of preparing encapsulation mixtures and gradual release structures for use in chewing gum, comprising the steps of: feeding polyvinyl acetate to an extruder, at a first rate; feeding one or more active ingredients to the extruder, at a second rate; heating the polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient in the extruder to a temperature of
•
about 90°C to about 110°C; mixing the polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient in the extruder to form a mixture; the first and second rates being selected such that the mixture contains more than zero but less than about 55 weight per cent active ingredient; extruding the mixture through a die, to form a sheet-like extrudate; contacting a first surface of the extrudate with a first chilled compression roll; pinching the extrudate between the first and a second chilled compression roll; contacting a second surface of the extrudate with a second chilled compression roll; pinching the extrudate between the second and a third chilled compression roll; and contacting the first surface of the extrudate with the third chilled compression roll.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first chilled compression roll rotates continuously, and the first surface of the extrudate maintains contact with the first chilled compression roll during rotation for about half of one revolution.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second chilled compression roll rotates continuously, 


 and the second surface of the extrudate maintains contact with the second chilled compression roll during rotation-for about half of one revolution.
. The method of claim 3, wherein the third chilled compression roll rotates continuously, and the first surface of the extrudate maintains contact with the third chilled compression roll during rotation for about half of one revolution.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the minimum distance between the first and second compression rolls and the minimum distance between the second and third compression rolls are each no greater than about 0.025 inch.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the minimum distance between the first and second chilled compression rolls and the minimum distance between the second and third chilled compression rolls are each no greater than about 0.020 inch.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the minimum distance between the first and second chilled compression rolls and the minimum distance between the second and third chilled compression rolls are each about 0.16 inch.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the chilled compression rolls are constructed of a material comprising chromium coated steel.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first, second and third chilled compression rolls are cooled by providing chilling fluid to the respective interiors of the first, second and third compression rolls. 


 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the chilling fluid comprises water having an average temperature of about 40°F to about 70°F.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the interiors of the first, second and third chilled compression rolls have a temperature which does not exceed about 75°F.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the interiors of the first, second and third chilled compression rolls have a temperature which does not exceed about 70°F.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the interiors of the first, second and third chilled compression rolls have a temperature which does not exceed about 65°F.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the first, second and third compression rolls has a wall thickness of about 0.25 inch.
15. An encapsulation mixture prepared according to the method of claim 1.
16. The encapsulation mixture of claim 15 in a chewing gum.
17. A gradual release structure prepared according to the method of claim 1.
18. The gradual release structure of claim 17 in a chewing gum. 


 19. An improved method of preparing encapsulation mixtures and gradual release structures for use in chewing gum, comprising the steps of: heating and mixing polyvinyl acetate and an 
'
 active ingredient in an extruder in such quantities that the resulting mixture includes bout 10 to about 55 weight per cent active ingredient; extruding the mixture through a slot die, to form a sheet-like extrudate; providing a series of three chilled compression rolls in the vicinity of the slot die, each compression, roll being rotatably mounted and spaced apart from an adjacent compression roll at a minimum distance not greater than about 0.025 inch; chilling the compression rolls to a temperature below about 75°F; and cooling the extrudate by placing the extrudate in contact, sequentially, with all three of the chilled compression rolls.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the chilled compression rolls are vertically mounted with respect to each other.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the chilled compression rolls are constructed from a material comprising chromium coated steel.
22. The method of claim 19, herein the slot die has a substantially rectangular opening with dimensions of about one inch by about .125 inch.
23. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of pinching the extrudate between two of the chilled compression rolls. 


 24. The method of claim 19, wherein each chilled compression roll has an outer diameter of about five inches.
25. The method of claim 19, wherein each chilled compression roll has a chromium coating.
26. An encapsulation mixture prepared according to the method of claim 19.
27. The encapsulation mixture of claim 26 in a chewing gum.
28. A gradual release structure prepared according to the method of claim 19.
29. The gradual release structure of claim 28 in a chewing gum. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
