<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Paint circulation method and system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B903	B05B903	B05B904	B05B904	B05B1200	B05B1204	B05B1208	B05B1208	B05B1504	B05B1504	B05C1110	B05C1110	B05D300	B05D300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05C	B05C	B05D	B05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B9	B05B9	B05B9	B05B9	B05B12	B05B12	B05B12	B05B12	B05B15	B05B15	B05C11	B05C11	B05D3	B05D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A paint circulation system for supplying paint to a 
plurality of distributors utilizing a circulating pump to 

circulate paint to the distributors and an injection pump 
operated by a closely controlled electric motor capable of 

sensing pump characteristics injects paint into the 
circulation network from a paint supply reservoir to 

maintain a predetermined pressure within the circulation 
network. A "leakage" passage having a predetermined 

restriction permits paint to leave the circulation network 
when the valved paint distributors are closed, and the use 

of an automatic timing valve within the leakage bypass 
permits flow rates within the circulation network to be 

varied. The components permit paint viscosity and volumes 
to be determined, settling of the paint particles within 

the circulation network and degradation of the circulating 
paint is minimized, and circulating motor wear may be 

determined. Further, the invention contemplates producing 
an oscil
lating flow within dead-end drops in a paint 
circulation system to prevent settling in inactive 

conduits. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRACO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRACO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BANKERT PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAWNE LAWRENCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BANKERT, PETER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAWNE, LAWRENCE A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to paint circulation systems 
wherein makeup paint is supplied through an injection pump 
operated by a "smart" motor and a bypass permits a constant 
monitoring of the paint viscosity, volume of paint pumped, 
and circulating motor wear, while minimizing paint settling 
and degradation. In manufacturing operations, it is often necessary to 
utilize sophisticated painting systems. In such painting 
systems, a variety of pumps and controls are utilized 
therewith to control the distribution and application of 
paint, such as shown in U.S. Patents 4,030,857 and 
4,238,073. In large paint systems wherein a plurality of colors 
are available for instant use, each color requires a 
separate distribution system, and, conventionally, each 
system will include a circulation network wherein a 
circulation pump causes paint to flow through the network 
conduits. The network includes a plurality of paint 
distributors, such as spray guns or spray nozzles, which 
may be fixed, robotically operated or hand held, and one or 
more of the paint distributors may be in operation at a 
time. It is necessary to design the circulation system to 
be capable of handling sufficient paint if all of the  
 
distributors are simultaneously in operation, but usually, 
only a small percentage of the capacity of the circulation 
network is being used at any one time. Paint circulation systems are basically "closed" 
wherein the paint circulates in a loop, and it is necessary 
to add paint to the loop to replace that ejected from the 
nozzles. The circlation of the paint is at a high rate and 
the paint will be cycled many times if usage is low. 
Problems have been experienced with existing paint 
circulation systems with respect to paint particles 
settling within the network conduits, and degradation of 
the paint occurs during extended circulation, including the 
degradation of metallic flakes and the like which may be 
added to the paint for aesthetic purposes. Additionally, 
existing paint circulation systems do not permit a ready 
indication of the volume of paint being used, nor indicate 
the viscosity of the paint. As viscosity changes the 
quality of the applied paint will change, and to provide 
optimum results a variety of paint characteristics need to 
be known which are not available with conventional paint 
circulation systems. In U.S. Patent 4,653,532, a paint 
circulation system is shown having an injector pump. 
However, in this system the low pressure return line from 
the paint distributors
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A paint circulation system including a conduit 
network, at least one valved paint distributor 

communicating with the conduit network, a circulating pump 
within the conduit network having an inlet and an outlet 

for continuously circulating paint therethrough, and a 
paint supply for selectively supplying paint to the conduit 

network,characterised by comprising, a paint injection pump 
circuit in communication with the conduit network, the 

paint supply being in communication with said injection 
pump circuit, said circuit including an injection pump 

controlled by pressure within the network wherein 
circulation rates may be low and paint volume within the 

network is proportional to paint use. 
A paint circulation system according to claim 1, said 
injection pump comprising a metering pump in communication 

with the paint supply and metering the volume of paint 
supplied to the conduit network. 
A paint circulation system according to claim 1 or 2, 
said injection pump and paint injection pump circuit 

communicating with the conduit network circulating pump outlet. 
A paint circulation system according to any one of the 
preceding claims, a limited flow bypass passage having a 

predetermined sized flow restrictor interconnecting the conduit 
network and the paint supply whereby the paint viscosity can be 

determined by the amount of paint flow through said bypass 
passage when the valved paint distributor is closed. 
A paint circulation system according to claim 4, said 
bypass passage communicating with the conduit network adjacent 

the outlet of the circulating pump. 
A paint circulation system according to claim 4 or 5, 
said predetermined sized flow restrictor within said bypass 

passage comprising a wear susceptible bearing within the 
circulating pump whereby determining the volume of paint injected 

into the conduit network of said injection pump circuit when the 
valved paint distributor is closed indicates the condition of the 

circulating pump bearing. 
A paint circulation system according to any one of 
claims 4 to 6, a timed valve within said limited flow bypass 

selectively opening and closing said flow bypass to vary the 
paint velocity within the circulation network to decrease paint 

settling and paint degradation within the circulation network. 
A paint circulation system including a conduit 
network, at least one valved paint distributor 

communicating with the conduit network, a circulating pump 
within the conduit network having an inlet and an outlet 

for continuously circulating paint therethrough, and a 
paint supply for selectively supplying paint to the conduit 

network, characterised by comprising, the valved paint 
distributor including a dead-end drop conduit having a non-circulatory 

closed end, and a biased variable volume 
oscillation reservoir communicating with said dead-end drop 

conduit adjacent said closed end whereby pressure 
variations in the conduit network will vary the volume 

within said oscillation reservoir to produce oscillating 
paint flow within said dead-end drop conduit to reduce 

paint settling. 
A paint circulation system according to claim 8, said 
oscillation reservoir comprising a chamber communicating 

with said dead-end drop conduit, a piston reciprocally 
mounted within said chamber, and a spring biasing said 

piston in a direction to reduce the volume within said 
chamber. 
A method of circulating paint within a paint 
circulation network having a predetermined operating 

pressure wherein the network includes a circulating pump 
having an outlet and an outlet pressure and an inlet for 

continuously circulating paint through the network, a 
valved paint distributor within the network and a paint 

supply, comprising the steps of: 

(a) continuously circulating paint within the 
network, 
(b) sensing the network pressure at the 
circulating pump outlet, 
(c) injecting paint from the paint supply into 
the network in communication with the circulating pump 

outlet to maintain the predetermined operating 
pressure, and 
(d) metering the amount of paint injected into 
the network to determine paint usage. 
A method according to claim 10 
including the steps of leaking paint from the network 

through a predetermined restriction to the paint supply 
when the valved paint distributor is closed to permit 

evaluation of the paint viscosity. 
A method of circulating paint according to claim 10 
including the step of leaking paint from the network through a 

wear surface of the circulating pump when the valved paint 
distributor is closed to permit evaluation of the wear of the 

circulating pump. 
A method of circulating paint according to claim 10 or 
11, including the step of periodically interrupting the leaking 

of paint from the network to vary the pressure within the network 
to decrease paint settling and degradation. 
A method of circulating paint according to any one of 
claims 10 to 13, the circulation network including dead-end drop 

conduits including the step of varying the volume of paint within 
the dead-end drop conduits in accordance with the paint pressure 

within the network to produce paint flow therein to discourage 
paint settling. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
