<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0551439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR SURGICALLY PROFILING THE CORNEA USING VACUUM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F900	A61F9007	A61F9013	A61F900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Refractive error of the cornea is corrected by a scraping procedure of rotating or oscillating a sharpened knife edge blade that is tangential to and against a top of the cornea at its center axis, and micro-axially advanced until the refractive error has been corrected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNEAL CONTOURING DEV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNEAL CONTOURING DEVELOPMENT, L.L.C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILMER LAUREN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REYNOLDS ALVIN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILMER, LAUREN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REYNOLDS, ALVIN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for adjusting 
the shape of components of the eye and more particularly to 
making fixed changes in the corneal curvature to correct 
refractive error. Deviations from the normal shape of the corneal surface 
produce errors of refraction in the visual process. The eye 
in a state of rest, without accommodation, focuses the image 
of distant objects exactly on the retina. Such an eye enjoys 
distinct vision for distant objects without effort. Any 
variation from this standard constitutes ametropia, a 
condition in which the eye at rest is unable to focus the 
image of a distant object on the retina. Hyperopia is an 
error of refraction in which, with the eye at rest, parallel 
rays from distant objects are brought to focus behind the 
retina. Divergent rays from near objects are focused still 
further back. In one aspect of hyperopia, the corneal surface 
is flattened which decreases the angle of refraction of rays 
as they pass through the refractive surfaces of the cornea, 
causing a convergence or focus of the rays at a point behind 
the retina. The retina is comprised partially of nerve fibers 
which are an expansion of the optic nerve. Waves of light 
falling on the retina are converted into nerve impulses and 
carried by the optic nerve to the brain to produce the 
sensation of light. To focus parallel rays on the retina, the 
hyperopic eye must either accommodate, i.e., increase the 
convexity of its lens, or a convex lens of sufficient strength 
to focus rays on the retina must be placed before the eye. Myopia is that refractive condition in which, with 
accommodation completely relaxed, parallel rays are brought to 
focus in front of the retina. One condition which commonly 
causes myopia is when the corneal curvature is steepened, thus 
the refraction of rays is greater as the rays pass through the  
 
refractive surfaces of the cornea, and the over-refracted rays 
converge or focus in front of the retina in the vitreous of 
the eye. When the rays reach the retina they become 
divergent, forming a circle of diffusion and consequently a 
blurred image. A concave lens is used to correct the focus of 
the eye for myopia. The normal treatment of these classic forms of refractive 
error of the eye is with the use of eyeglasses or contact 
lenses, both of which have well-known disadvantages to the 
user. It has been estimated that 60 million pairs of 
eyeglasses and 3 million pairs of contact lens are sold 
annually. Recent research has been directed to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for correcting refractive errors in an 
eye, by surgically reprofiling the corneal portion of the 

eye to change its radius, said apparatus comprising a 
rotating profiling tool and means to rotate said tool 

relative to the eye cornea, characterized in that said 
profiling tool is a scraping tool having at least one 

sharpened knife edge blade, having a shape adapted to scrape 
said cornea to a desired corneal radius, and in that the 

apparatus further comprises means to create a vacuum chamber 
above said cornea and means to position said scraping tool 

within said vacuum chamber and to rotate or oscillate said 
scraping tool against said cornea so as to achieve said 

desired corneal radius. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that it includes indexing means to provide indication of the 

axial location of said scraping tool relative to said 
cornea. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said means to create a vacuum chamber are adapted to 

create an amount of vacuum sufficient to make said cornea 
semi-rigid. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, characterized in 
that said vacuum is within the range of 5/8 to 3/4 bar (6 to 10 

inches of 
Hg). 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that it comprises
 
   a positioning ring (50) having means to be temporarily 

attached to and surround the eye relative to the cornea to 
be reprofiled;
 
   a holding sleeve (60) having means (58) at its bottom 

to be retained by the position ring (50), a guide sleeve 

(72) rotatable to the holding sleeve (60),
  
 

   means to create a vacuum chamber within said holding 
sleeve (60) above said cornea;
 
   a rotatable scraping tool (80) adapted to be received 

within the holding sleeve (60) and supported by the guide 
sleeve (72), a bottom end of the scraping tool (80) being 

positionable within said vacuum chamber and comprised of 
sharpened knife edge blade means, at said bottom end, to 

scrape a portion of the cornea necessary to correct said 
refractive errors. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said scraping tool is manually rotatable. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said means to position the scraping tool are arranged 

to retain said knife edge blades relative to a top center 
visual axis of said cornea and to allow to rotate or 

oscillate said blades against said cornea coaxially with 
said top center visual axis. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said means to position said knife edge blade are 

arranged to retain said edge tangentially to and against a 
top of said cornea at a visual axis and to allow said knife 

edge to rotate or oscillate about said visual axis so as to 
scrape said cornea. 
Apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in 
that
 
   said positioning ring (50) is a cylindrical positioning 

ring having resilient vacuum ring means (52) on its bottom 
side for temporary attachment to a sclera portion of said 

eye and surrounding said cornea (98) to be reprofiled, said 
positioning ring being provided with positioning pins (58) 

at a top side thereof, and with vacuum means (56) 
communicating with said vacuum ring means (52);
 
   said holding sleeve (60) being cylindrical and being 

provided with means at a bottom of said holding sleeve to 
interconnect with said positioning pins (58), screw threads  

 
(68) of a given pitch formed on an interior portion of said 

holding sleeve (60), and further having a resilient 
cylindrical sleeve (67) at the bottom thereof in contact 

with said eye around said cornea;
 
   said guide sleeve (72) having screw threads of said 

given pitch formed exteriorly thereof for axial movement by 
rotatable attachment with said screw threads (68) of said 

holding sleeve (60);
 
   said scraping tool (80) being adapted to be rotatably 

and axially received within said holding sleeve (60) and 
said guide sleeve (72), a collar means (82) being provided 

on said scraping tool to rotatably support said scraping 
tool (80) upon said guide sleeve (72), at least one knife 

edge blade (86, 88) being provided at the bottom of said 
scraping tool (80);
 
   said apparatus further comprising means, within said 

vacuum chamber, to position said knife edge blade (86, 88) 
tangentially to and against a top center visual axis of said 

cornea (98); and
 
   means to rotate or oscillate said knife edge blade (86, 

88) coaxially with said visual axis of said eye so as to 
scrape said cornea and correct said refractive errors. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in 
that said knife edge blade is shaped so as to allow the 

corneal radius to be effectively decreased. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in 
that said knife edge blade (86, 88) is shaped so as to allow 

the corneal radius to be effectively increased. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in 
that said scraping tool (80) comprises a plurality of radial 

blades (86, 88) the bottom sharpended knife edges of which 
are transverse to the axis of said scraping tool (80). 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in 
that said holding sleeve (60) and said resilient cylindrical 

sleeve (67) are substantially transparent.  
 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in 
that said pitch of said screw threads (68) is between 35 to 

50 threads per 2,5 cm (inch). 
Apparatus according to claim 14, characterized in 
that said pitch of said screw threads (68) is 40 threads per 

2,5 cm (inch). 
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said 
holding sleeve (60) and said guide sleeve (72) include 

micrometer indexing means for incrementally measuring said 
axial movement of said scraping tool (80). 
Apparatus according to claim 9 including means to 
axially advance said blade (86, 88) incrementally against 

said cornea (98) until said refractive error has been 
corrected. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that
 
   said scraping tool (80) comprises a spindle having at 

one end thereof, constituting its inner end, knife-edge 
scraper blade means (86, 88) projecting endwise therefrom 

and extending outwardly from the spindle axis for scraping 
off portions of the anterior surface of the cornea by 

rotating or oscillation of the tool with the edge of the 
blade means in scraping engagement with said anterior 

surface;
 
   means for holding the spindle for rotation on its axis 

and for axial movement with the spindle extending at its 
said inner end out of said holding means;
 
   means for mounting said holding means concentrically 

with a visual axis of said cornea in fixed relation to the 
eye with the blade means at the inner end of the spindle in 

position for scraping engagement with the anterior surface 
of the cornea to scrape said surface in a circular pattern 

about said visual axis;
 
   means to create a vacuum in a space above said cornea; 

and
  
 

   means for gauging the extension of the inner end of the 
spindle from the holding means to gauge the penetration of 

the edge of the blade means into the cornea for said 
scraping, said gauging means being adjustable to vary the 

extension of the inner end of the spindle from the holding 
means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
