<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648308</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRACK SYSTEM FOR SECTIONAL DOORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05D1516	E05D1524	E06B902	E06B902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05D	E05D	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05D15	E05D15	E06B9	E06B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A track system (110) for a door (120) having a plurality of panels including a top panel (121) and a hinge connected adjacent panel (122), having an inner side for attaching mounting hardware and being movable between a closed vertical position proximate a door frame and an open horizontal position including a substantially vertical track (111) adapted to be displaced from the door frame (F) a distance sufficient for receiving a plurality of rollers (142, 152, 162, 165) attached to and spaced from the inner side of the door, a transition track (112) commencing at the upper extremity of the vertical track and curving through an angle of substantially ninety degrees for receiving a top roller (132) positioned proximate the upper extremity of the top panel and spaced from the inner side thereof a distance greater than any of the plurality of spaced rollers, and a horizontal track (114) extending from the transition track and having a curvilinear configuration for maintaining the top panel and the adjacent panel of the door pivoted about the hinge to remain them downwardly concave during traverse of the rollers therein.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAYNE DALTON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAYNE-DALTON CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL ALBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLET WILLIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL, ALBERT, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLET, WILLIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TRACK SYSTEM FOR SECTIONAL DOORSTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates generally to a track system for sectional doors. More particularly the present invention relates to a track system for sectional doors which move between a closed position proximate to a vertical door opening to an open position in a substantially horizontal orientation. More specifically, the present invention relates to a track system for use in conjunction with multi-section doors which are moveable from a horizontal position to a vertical position, wherein the positioning of the rollers as attached to such a door for proper positioning in its vertical closed position is accommodated by the configuration of the track supporting the door in the horizontal position, substantially without imparting deleterious forces to the door and its mounting hardware.BACKGROUND ART Track systems have been commonly employed for sectional doors for many years to control the movement of the individual sections of the doors. Common examples of such sectional doors are the type employed as garage doors in homes, commercial and utility buildings, and similar applications. These track systems are commonly of a generally l^shaped configuration, which includes a vertical section positioned proximate a door frame and a horizontal section that extends substantially perpendicular to the vertical section rearwardly into the interior of the building in an overhead position. A curved transition section is normally positioned proximate the header at the top of a door frame and interconnects with the vertical section and the horizontal section to provide a continuous track system. The panels constituting conventional sectional doors are joined by hinges on the inner or internal side of the door, which form pivot points at the juncture between each of the panels to permit the panels to pivot inwardly toward each other as the door progressively moves through the curved transition section between the vertical closed position and the horizontal open or storage 

 2 position. The hinge brackets normally have projecting flanges which mount rollers that are captured in the track sections, which are normally of a "J" or "C" cross-sectional configuration.In a great many environments, there are severe limitations in the overhead clearance available above a door frame, which may take the form of the garage ceiling or support beams, piping, or other elements which extend downwardly from the ceiling. In order to minimize the overhead clearance required for the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
13 CLAIMS 1. A track system for a door having a plurality of panels including a top panel and a hinge connected adjacent panel, having an inner side for attaching mounting hardware and being movable between a closed vertical position proximate a door frame and an open horizontal position comprising, substantially vertical track means adapted to be displaced from the door frame a distance sufficient for receiving a plurality of roller means attached to and spaced from the inner side of the door, transition track means commencing at the upper extremity of said vertical track means and curving through an angle of substantially ninety degrees for receiving top roller means positioned proximate the upper extremity of the top panel and spaced from the inner side thereof a distance greater than any of said plurality of spaced roller means, and horizontal track means extending from said transition track means and having a curvilinear configuration for maintaining the top panel and the adjacent panel of the door pivoted about the hinge to remain downwardly concave during traverse of said roller means therein.
2. A track system according to claim 1, wherein said horizontal track means has a pair of spaced ends and an apex of the curvilinear configuration located substantially medially of the door in the open horizontal position.
3. A track system according to claim 2, wherein said apex of said curvilinear configuration is approximately one to three inches above said ends of said horizontal track means.
4. A track system according to claim 2, wherein said apex of said curvilinear configuration is substantially two inches above said ends of said horizontal track means. 


 14 5. A track system according to claim 1, wherein said curvilinear configuration is an arc of a circle.
6. A track system according to claim 5, wherein said arc of a circle is centered substantially directly below the middle of the door in the open horizontal position.
7. A track system according to claim 5, wherein said arc of a circle has a radius of approximately 400 to 600 inches.
8. A track system according to claim 1, wherein said curvilinear configuration of said horizontal track means extends substantially tangentially from the upper extremity of said transition track means.
9. A track system according to claim 1, wherein said track means have a substantially J-shaped cross-sectional configuration.
10. A track system according to claim 1, wherein said roller means are spaced from the inner side of the door by hinge brackets attached to the door panels at the top and bottom extremities of the panels.
11. A track system according to claim 10, wherein said hinge brackets have pivot pin means for rotating the panels relative to adjacent panels during movement of the door between the closed vertical position and the open horizontal position.
12. A combination track system and door having a plurality of panels including a top panel and adjacent panel connected by a hinge, having an inner side for attaching mounting hardware and being movable on the track system between a closed vertical position proximate a door frame and an open horizontal position comprising, vertical track means displaced from the 


 15 door frame, a plurality of roller means attached to and spaced from the inner side of the door a distance sufficient to engage said vertical track means when the door is in the closed vertical position, transition track means commencing at the upper extremity of said vertical track means and curving through an angle of substantially ninety degrees, top roller means positioned proximate the upper extremity of the top panel and spaced from the inner side thereof a distance sufficient to engage said transition track means when the door is in the closed vertical position, and horizontal track means extending from said transition track means and having a curvilinear configuration for maintaining the top panel and the adjacent panel of the door pivoted about the hinge to remain downwardly concave during traverse of said roller means therein.
13. A track system and door according to claim 12, wherein said vertical track means is inclined upwardly away from the door frame at an angle of approximately one degree to minimize frictional resistance to movement of the door.
14. A track system according to claim 12, wherein said curvilinear configuration is an arc of a circle.
15. A track system according to claim 14, wherein said circle has a radius of approximately 500 inches.
16. A track system according to claim 15, wherein said circle has its center located below and substantially medially of said horizontal track section.
17. A track system according to claim 12, wherein the adjacent panel has a second hinge connecting an intermediate panel and roller means are positioned in the hinge between the top panel and the adjacent panel and said second hinge between the adjacent panel and said intermediate panel. 


 16 18. A track system according to claim 17, wherein the distance between said roller means between the adjacent panel and said intermediate panel and said top roller means exceeds the distance along said horizontal track means from said transition track means to the apex of said curvilinear configuration. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
