<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615818</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Installation tool for tangless helically coiled insert
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B2714	B25B2714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B27	B25B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The insertion tool (10) for a helically 
coiled wire insert (16) of the type used for tapped 

holes in parent material that is generally softer than a 
fastener being screwed into the tapped hole has a 

pivotal pawl (70) engaging a cut out portion formed in 
the insert (16) in order that the insert (16) may be 

screwed onto the tapped hole. The driving face of the 
pivotal pawl (70) has a cavity (76) formed therein to 

capture the lead coil of the insert (16) and prevent its 
axial movement during installation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KATO SPRING WORKS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KATO SPRING WORKS CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSENZA FRANK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSENZA, FRANK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to installation tools for 
tangless wire formed inserts and, in particular, to an improved 
installation tool wherein the driving face of the insert engaging 
pawl member is modified to prevent the insert from moving axially 
in a direction away from the parent material during installation. U.S. Patent No. 4,528,737 and 4,553,302 describe tools for 
installing tangless wire formed inserts in holes formed in a parent 
material. The tool utilizes a pivotable pawl to engage a recess in 
the insert so that the insert may be screwed into the tapped hole. A problem arises when the individual coils of the tangless 
wire formed inserts have a minimal cross section area so that the 
reliability of repeated successful installation is affected. On 
certain sizes the relationship of the thread pitches, internally 
and externally and outside diameter often causes difficulty during 
the installation phase of the insert. Because of the reduction of 
the coil cross sectional area, increased flexibility of the lead 
entry coil may prevent it from aligning with the mating thread in 
the parent material. As the tool and the insert approach the 
installation hole, the insert is rotating to engage the lead mating 
thread. If the lead thread of the rotating insert engages the 
female thread in the parent material a short rotational 
distance from the  
 
entrance, proper mating will take place and the installation cycle 
would then be normal. However, when this same rotating insert 
engages the first thread in the parent material a long 
rotational distance 
from the entrance, the insert continues to rotate, its lead coil 
searching for the entrance thread as a downward pressure is 
simultaneously occurring. This downward pressure forces the lead 
coil on the insert to push back axially on the tool and then expand 
radially. The radial expansion occurs due to the flexibility of 
the lead entry coil as noted above, and does not allow installation 
because the major diameter of the insert has now expanded larger 
than the major diameter of the thread in the parent material. It 
then becomes impossible for the insert to have any chance to be 
installed. When this occurs the installation tool has to be 
stopped from rotation, reversed axially in direction and the insert 
removed and replaced with a new one. What is thus desired is to provide an installation tool which 
prevents the axial movement of the insert lead coil when it abuts 
against the initial female thread in the parent material to allow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tool (10) for inserting a tangless helically coiled insert (16) 
in a tapped hole, the tangless helically coiled insert having at 

least one free end and a recess (52) formed therein comprising:
 
   a tubular body (12) of substantially circular cross-section, said 

body including a portion at one end thereof having an aperture (17) 
therein adapted to receive a tangless helically coiled insert;
 
   a mandrel (14) insertable into said tubular body (12) and adapted to 

receive the tangless insert (16) for installation in the tapped hole, 
said mandrel having a portion (20) with a mandrel cavity (32) therein;
 
   driving means (22, 24) at one end of said mandrel (14) for applying a torque 

sufficient to install the tangless insert in a tapped hole, said 
mandrel (14) having a threaded portion (18) at an end opposite said driving 

means (22, 24) and adjacent said body aperture (17) for threading the tangless 
helically coiled inserts thereupon, and
 
   means for engaging said mandrel (14) with said tangless insert 

(16) for simultaneous movement of said mandrel and said tangless insert, 
said engaging means comprising a pivotable pawl (30) having a laterally 

projecting hook means (72) biased in a first direction and extending 
longitudinally in said mandrel cavity (32) adjacent said mandrel 

threaded portion (18), said hook means having a laterally projecting 
face portion (79; 89; 99) thereon which contacts said tangless insert at the 

insert recess (52) as said mandrel is rotated in a first direction, 
wherein said 

face portion has a cavity (76; 82; 92) formed thereon to capture the lead 
coil of the insert to prevent axial movement of the insert (16) during 

installation.  
 
The tool of Claim 1 wherein the depth of said cavity (76; 82; 92) is 
selected such that the contacting insert coil end is retained in 

the cavity during installation. 
The tool of Claim 2 wherein said cavity (76; 82; 92) has a shape that 
substantially corresponds to the shape of the insert lead coil 

recess that is received therein. 
The tool of Claim 3 wherein said cavity includes a force 
bearing surface (78; 86; 96) for contacting substantially all of the adjacent 

surface area of said insert during installation. 
The tool of claim 3 where said cavity (76; 82; 92) includes a force 
bearing surface for contacting only a small portion of the adjacent 

surface area of said insert during installation. 
A tool (10) for inserting a tangless helically coiled insert (16) 
in a tapped hole, the tangless helically coiled insert having at 

least one free end and a recess (52) formed therein comprising:
 
   a tubular body (12) of substantially circular cross-section, said 

body including a portion at one end thereof having an 
aperture (17) 

therein adapted to receive a tangless helically coiled insert;
 
   a mandrel (14) insertable into said tubular body (12) and adapted to 

receive the tangless insert (16) for installation in the tapped hole, 
said mandrel having a portion (20) with a mandrel cavity (32) therein;
 
   driving means (22, 24) at one end of said mandrel for applying a torque 

sufficient to install the tangless insert in a tapped hole; said 
mandrel having a threaded portion (18) at an end opposite said driving means and 

adjacent said body aperture (17) for threading the tangless helically 
coiled inserts thereupon, and
  
 

   means for engaging said mandrel (14) with said tangless insert 
(16) for 

simultaneous movement of said mandrel and said tangless insert, 
said engaging means comprising a pivotable pawl (30) having a laterally 

projecting hook means (72) biased in a first direction and extending 
longitudinally in said mandrel cavity (32) adjacent said mandrel 

threaded portion (18), said hook means having a laterally projecting 
face portion (79; 89; 99) thereon which contacts said tangless insert 

at the insert recess (52) as 
said mandrel (14) is rotated in a first direction, wherein said 

face portion 
has a cavity (76; 82; 92) formed thereon to capture a portion of the lead 

coil of the insert to prevent axial movement of the insert during 
installation, said cavity having at least one surface 

(78; 86; 96) extending 
inwardly from and substantially perpendicular to said face 

portion (79; 89; 99), 
said inwardly extending surface being in engagement with the 

captured portion of said coil during installation. 
The tool of Claim 6 wherein the depth of said cavity 
(76; 82; 92) is 

selected such that the contacting insert coil end is retained in 
the cavity during installation. 
The tool of Claim 7 wherein said cavity (76; 82; 92) 
has a shape that 

substantially corresponds to the shape of the insert lead coil 
recess that is received therein. 
The tool of Claim 8 wherein said inwardly extending 
surface (78; 86; 96) contacts substantially all of the adjacent 

surface of the 
insert captured within said cavity (76; 82; 92). 
The tool of Claim 8 wherein said inwardly extending 
surface (78; 86; 96) contacts a small area of the adjacent surface 

of the insert captured within said cavity.  
 
The tool of Claim 8 wherein said inwardly extending 
surface (78; 86; 96) extends at an angle inwardly from the top 

to the bottom of the cavity (76; 82; 92). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
