<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624289</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN ANALOG-TO-DIGITAL CONVERTING ARRANGEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M112	H03M112	H03M138	H03M146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an analog-to-digital arrangement for A/D converting a high-frequency analog input signal into a series of digital signals on-line with high sampling rate. It includes several computing channels for providing a digital signal from an analog input, each including a sample-and-hold means, to which the analog input signal is connected, a multiplexing means (3) having several inputs, each input being connected to an individual computing channel output, and, a timing circuit (4) controlling cyclically in a clock signal rate and in a prescribed order one at the time of the sample-and-hold means to hold the current analog value of the analog input signal and also to control the multiplexing means (3) to place on its output one at the time of the digital outputs of the several computing channels. All the computing channels compute the digital value of the analog value held in its sample-and-hold means during a digitizing phase simultaneously but skewed in relation to the other computing channels. Each computing channel (1.1 to 1.k+n; SA-ADC) includes a sample-and-hold means (5), to which the analog input signal is connected and at least one successive approximating analog-to-digital converter (SA-ADC). A common reference voltage generator (2) is provided having a multiline output having a different reference voltage on each line of the multiline output. All the computing channels have at least one multiline input connected in common to the multiline output of the voltage generator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SILICON CONSTRUCTION SWEDEN AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SILICON CONSTRUCTION SWEDEN AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVENSSON CHRISTER MARTINUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUAN JIREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVENSSON, CHRISTER, MARTINUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUAN, JIREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an arrangement of the kind which is 
apparent from the preamble of Claim 1. The invention relates 
particularly to a video-frequency analog-to-digital converting 
arrangement (ADC) having a high sampling rate and low 
power consumption. In digitizing analog signals, an ADC is essential. In video 
and any real-time digital signal processing, high sampling 
rate is required and, in most cases, low power consumption is 
important. So far, among many fast ADC architectures, the highest sampling 
rate is obtained by well-known flash ADC in which 2n 
comparators are needed, n being the bit number. The sampling 
time of a flash ADC depends on the preparation and comparison 
time needed by each comparator. An improvement in reducing the number of comparators is 
realized by using the well-known half-flash ADC (two-step or 
subranging ADC), in which the digitizing is finished in two 
steps, a coarse step performed by 2n/2 comparators, and a 
fine step performed by another 2n/2 comparators. For a half-flash 
ADC, the number of comparators needed is 2(1+n/2), and 
the sampling time equals at least twice as much as that of a 
flash ADC. For further reduction of the number of comparators 
in a half-flash comparator, the coarse and fine comparators 
may be merge, as described in the article "A 10-bit 
5-Msample/s CMOS two-step flash ADC" by Joey Doernberg, Paul 
R. Gray, and David A. Hodges, IEEE Journal of Solid-State 
Circuits, vol. 24, pp. 241-249, April 1989. In order to 
reduce the sampling time of a half-flash ADC to that of a 
flash ADC, the coarse and fine comparisons can be pipelined, 
as described in the article "An 8-bit 50-MHz CMOS subranging  
 
A/D converter with pipelined wide-band S/H" by Masayuki 
Ishikawa and Tsuneo Tsukahara, IEEE Journal of Solid-state 
Circuits, vol. 24, pp. 1485-1491, December 1989. Among other choices, an ADC having pipelined coarse and fine 
comparisons can reduce the comparator number to n, if one-bit 
stages are cascaded, as described in the article "An algorithmic 
analog-to-digital converter" by R. H. McCharles, V. 
A. Saletore, W. C. Black, Jr., and D. A. Hodges, IEEE Int. 
Solid-State Circuits conf. Digest of Tech. Papers, pp. 96-97, 
Feb. 1977. However, the sampling time of such an ADC is more 
than the preparation and comparison time needed by each 
comparator and, because of accumulated error during multiple 
algorithmic operations, it is difficult to reach high precision. Instead of one-bit stages, three-bit stages can be cascaded 
in order
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An arrangement for converting a high-frequency analog 
input signal into a series of digital signals on-line with 

high sampling rate, including: 

a. several computing channels (1.1 to 1.k+n;SA-ADC) for 
providing a digital signal from an analog input; 
b. a multiplexing means (3) having several inputs, each 
input being connected to an individual computing 

channel output; 
c. a timing circuit (4) controlling cyclically in a 
clock signal rate and in a prescribed order one at 

the time of the computing channels to receive the 
current analog value of the analog input signal and 

also to control the multiplexing means (3) to place 
on its output one at the time of the digital outputs 

of the several computing channels; 
d. all the computing channels being adapted to compute 
the digital value of its received analog value during 

a digitizing phase simultaneously but skewed in 
relation to the other computing channels. 
characterized
 in 

e) that each computing channel (1.1 to 1.k+n;SA-ADC) 
includes a sample-and-hold means (5), to which the 

analog input signal is connected and at least one 
successive approximating analog-to-digital converter 

(SA-ADC); 
f. that a common reference voltage generator (2) is 
provided having a multiline output having a different 

reference voltage on each line of the multiline 
output; and 
g. that all the computing channels have at least one 
multiline input connected in common to the multiline 

output of the voltage generator. 
An arrangement according to Claim 1, 
characterized
  
 

in that each successive approximating analog-to-digital 
converter (SA-ADC) includes a digital-to-analog converter 

means (8;10) having two multiline inputs, of which one is 
connected to the multiline output of the voltage generator, a 

compararing means to compare the outputs of the sample-and-hold 
circuit and from the digi
tal-to-analog converter and a 
shift register having a multiline digital output connected to 

the second multiline input of the digital-to-analog converter 
means and to the multiplexing means. 
An arrangement according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 in that each computing channel is adapted to have 
an auto-zeroing phase for auto-zero its comparator means 

before the beginning of the digitizing phase; and in that the 
number of computing channels corresponds to the number of 

clock signals needed for completing a period of an auto-zeroing 
phase and a digitizing phase in each one of the 

computing channels. 
An arrangement according to Claim 2 or 3, 
characterized
 
in that the common reference voltage generator is 

divided into at least two parts (13,14), each part providing 
differently resoluted reference voltages, for instance coarse 

and fine reference voltages when two parts are provided; and 
in that the digital-to-analog converting means in each computing 

channel includes a switch group (Sc,Sf) for each part 
of reference voltages, a summation circuit (11) to add the 

reference voltages from all the parts together, and a logic 
controller (12) to control the switches in the different 

parts. 
An arrangement according to Claim 4, 
characterized
 in that the summation circuit (15) includes a first 
and a second capacitor (Cl, C2), each having one electrode 

connected to a means (6') giving comparating result, the 
capacitance of the first capacitor (C1) being larger than the 

capacitance of the second capacitor (C2); in that a control  
 

means is provided controlling the other electrode of the 
first capacitor to be connected to the analog input during 

the auto-zero phase, to a coarse voltage switch group (Sc) 
during a coarse comparison phase and to the resulting coarse 

voltage (Vr) during a fine comparison phase; in that the 
control means is controlling the other end of the second 

capacitor to ground during the auto-zero phase and during the 
coarse comparison phase and to be connected to a fine switch 

group (Sf) during the fine comparison phase. 
An arrangement according to Claim 2 or 3, 
characterized
 in that the common reference voltage generator 
produces coarse reference voltages connected in common to all 

the channels; in that the digital-to-analog converting means 
in each computing channel includes a coarse switch group 

switching the coarse reference voltages, a fine switch group 
switching the fine reference voltages, a summation circuit to 

add the coarse and the fine reference voltages together and a 
logic controller to control the switches; and in that the 

fine resistor string in each channel is buffered and copies 
the sampled analog input to the analog-to-digital converting 

means for fine resolution during a coarse comparison phase 
and the resulting coarse voltage range to generate fine 

reference voltages needed during a fine comparison phase. 
An arrangement according to any of the preceding Claims, 

characterized
 in that the sample-and-hold circuit 
in each computing channel includes a signal-controlled 

set buffer controlling a normally non-conducting switch 
transistor (Ss) to be conducting during a set signal from the 

timing circuit (4), a sampling capacitor (Cs) in series with 
the switch transistor, and the emitter-collector path of a 

dummy transistor (Sd) provided between the switch transistor 
and the sampling capacitor. 
An arrangement according to any of the preceding Claims, 

characterized
 in that it is provided in an  
 

integrated circuit chip. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
