<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644768</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR INHIBITING ENDOTHELIAL CELL AND FIBRINOGEN MEDIATED INFLAMMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14435	C07K14705	C07K1618	C07K1475	A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K1628	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	A61K	A61K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C07K16	C07K14	A61K38	A61K38	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention contemplates therapeutic compositions containing a fibrinogen homolog capable of binding to endothelial cells in an RGD-independent manner that inhibits fibrinogen binding to endothelial cells. Also described are therapeutic compositions containing an ICAM-1 homolog capable of binding to fibrinogen in an RGD-independent manner that inhibits fibrinogen binding to endothelial cells. Methods of inhibiting endothelial cell and fibrinogen mediated inflammation within a patient by administering a homolog of this invention are also contemplated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCRIPPS RESEARCH INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SCRIPPS RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALTIERI DARIO C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GELTOSKY JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGUINO LUCIA R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLOW EDWARD F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALTIERI, DARIO, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GELTOSKY, JOHN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGUINO, LUCIA, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLOW, EDWARD, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention contemplates the use of
compositions to inhibit fibrinogen binding to
endothelial cells for the purpose of inhibiting
endothelial cell and fibrinogen mediated inflammation.Adhesion of leukocytes to vascular endothelium is
one of the earliest events in a variety of immune-inflammatory
reactions. The process participates in
vascular occlusions and contributes to
atherothrombotic lesions. At the molecular level,
leukocyte adhesion to endothelial cells is a redundant
mechanism, supported by the regulated recognition of a
disparate set of membrane receptors, including
integrins, expressed on both leukocytes and resting or
cytokine-activated endothelial cells.Integrins are a functionally and structurally
related group of receptors that interact with a wide
variety of ligands including extracellular matrix
glycoproteins, complement and other cells. Integrins
participate in cell-matrix and cell-cell adhesion in
many physiologically important processes including
embryological development, hemostasis, thrombosis,
wound healing immune and nonimmune defense mechanisms
and oncogenic transformation. See Hynes, Cell,
48:549-554 (1987). The majority of integrins
participating in dynamic cell adhesion, bind a
tripeptide, arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD),
present in their ligand, causing cell adhesion.
SeeRuoslahti et al., Science, 238:491-497 (1987). Mac-1 (CD11b/CD18) is an integrin receptor found
predominantly on macrophages and granulocytes. Like
all integrin receptors, Mac-1 is a heterodimeric,
transmembrane glycoprotein composed of non-covalently
associated alpha and beta subunits.Mac-1 mediates neutrophil/monocyte adhesion to
vascular endothelium and phagocytosis of complement-opsonized
particles. Antibodies to the Mac-1 receptor
alter neutrophil function in vivo including inhibiting
neutrophil migration into inflammatory sites. See
Price et al., J. Immunol., 139:4174-4177 (1987). Mac-1
also functions as a receptor for fibrinogen in a
reaction linked to fibrin deposition on the monocyte
surface. See Altieri et al., J. Cell Biol., 107:1893-1900
(1988); Wright et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA, 85:7734-7738 (1988); Trezzini et al., Biochem.
Biophys. Res. Commun., 156:477-484 (1988) and
Gustafson et al., J. Cell Biol., 109:377-387 (1989).Fibrinogen is a complex molecule of approximately
340,000 daltons and consists of three pairs of subunit
polypeptides, called the α, β and gamma chains. These
individual chains are held together by several
disulfide bonds. The proteolytic digestion of
fibrin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composition comprising a therapeutically
effective amount of a substantially pure and

pharmaceutically acceptable fibrinogen homolog capable
of binding to ICAM-1 and inhibiting Fg binding to

endothelial cells, provided that said homolog is not D
30
 or a variant thereof.
The composition of claim 1 wherein said
therapeutically effective amount is at least about 0.1

percent by weight fibrinogen homolog per weight of
total composition.
The composition of claim 1 wherein said
fibrinogen homolog is dispersed in a pharmaceutically

acceptable excipient.
The composition of claim 1 wherein said
fibrinogen homolog is dispersed in a sterile solution.
The composition of claim 1 wherein said
fibrinogen homolog is selected from the group

consisting of a proteolytic fragment of fibrinogen and
a monoclonal antibody that immunor
eacts with ICAM-1,
but does not immunoreact with the vitronectin

receptor, wherein said monoclonal antibody
preferentially inhibits fibrinogen binding to

stimulated endothelial cells.
The composition of claim 5 wherein said
monoclonal antibody has the immunospecificity of a

monoclonal antibody produced by a hybridoma selected
from the group consisting of 14E11, 16G8, 2E12, and

2B12.
A composition comprising a therapeutically
effective amount of a substantially pure and

pharmaceutically acceptable ICAM-1 homolog capable of
binding to fibrinogen and inhibiting fibrinogen

binding to endothelial cells. 
A monoclonal antibody that immunoreacts with ICAM-1,
but does not immunoreact with the vitronectin receptor,

wherein said monoclonal antibody preferentially inhibits
fibrinogen binding to stimulated endothelial cells.
The monoclonal antibody of claim 8 wherein said
antibody has the immunospecificity of a monoclonal antibody

produced by a hybridoma selected from the group consisting of
14E11, 16G8, 2E12, and 2B12.
A monoclonal antibody that immunoreacts with
fibrinogen and that preferentially inhibits fibrinogen

binding to stimulated endothelial cells.
The use of a fibrinogen (Fg) homolog or an ICAM-1
homolog in the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting Fg

binding to endothelial cells in a patient, said Fg homolog
capable of binding to ICAM-1 and inhibiting Fg binding to

endothelial cells, and said ICAM-1 homolog capable of binding
to fibrinogen and inhibiting fibrinogen binding to

endothelial cells.
The use of claim 11 wherein said Fg holomog is
selected from the group consisting of a proteolytic fragment

of fibrinogen, D
30
, and a monoclonal antibody that
immunoreacts with ICAM-1, but does not immunoreact with the

vitronectin receptor, wherein said monoclonal antibody
preferentially inhibits fibrinogen binding to stimulated

endothelial cells.
The use of claim 12 wherein said monoclonal
antibody has the immunospecificity of a monoclonal antibody

produced by a hybridoma selected from the group consisting of
14E11, 16G8, 2E12, and 2B12.
The use of claim 11 wherein said ICAM-1 homolog is
selected from the group consisting of ICAM-1 and a monoclonal

antibody comprising antibody molecules that immunoreact with 
fibrinogen and that preferentially inhibit fibrinogen binding

to stimulated endothelial cells.
The use of claim 11 wherein said medicament
comprises said analog in an amount sufficient to produce an

intravascular concentration of homolog in the blood of said
patient in the range of about 0.1 to 100 ug/ml.
The method of claim 11 wherein said medicament is
for administration in an amount to provide from about 0.1 to

about 20 milligrams of homolog per kilogram of bodyweight of
said patient per day.
The use of a Fg homolog or an ICAM-1 homolog in the
manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting

fibrinogen/endothelial cell-mediated inflammation in a
patient, said Fg homolog capable of binding to ICAM-1 and

inhibiting Fg binding to endothelial cells, and said ICAM-1
homolog capable of binding to fibrinogen and inhibiting

fibrinogen binding to endothelial cells.
The use of claim 17 wherein said Fg homolog is
selected from the group consisting of a proteolytic fragment

of fibrinogen, D
30
, and a monoclonal antibody that
immunoreacts with ICAM-1, but does not immunoreact with the

vitronectin receptor, wherein said monoclonal antibody
preferentially inhibits fibrinogen binding to stimulated

endothelial cells.
The use of claim 17 wherein said ICAM-1 homolog is
selected from the group consisting of ICAM-1 and a monoclonal

antibody comprising antibody molecules that immunoreact with
fibrinogen and that preferentially inhibit fibrinogen binding

to stimulated endothelial cells.
The use of claim 17 wherein said medicament
comprises said homolog in an amount sufficient to produce an

intravascular concentration of said homolog in the blood of
said patient in the range of about 0.1 to about 100 ug/ml. 
A method of detecting the amount of a fibrinogen
(Fg) homolog in a liquid sample comprising:


(a) admixing a sample of stimulated endothelial
cells with a predetermined amount of a liquid sample

containing a Fg homolog and a predetermined amount of
labelled Fg homolog to form a competition reaction admixture;
(b) maintaining said reaction admixture for a
predetermined time period sufficient for any Fg homolog

present in said composition to bind to said endothelial cells
and form an endothelial cell:Fg homolog complex and to allow

said labelled Fg homolog to bind to said endothelial cells to
form a labelled endothelial cell:Fg homolog complex; and
(c) assaying for the amount of labelled
endothelial cell:Fg homolog complex formed in step (b)

thereby detecting the amount of a Fg homolog in said
composition.
The method of claim 21 wherein said labelled
fibrinogen homolog is selected from the group consisting of

fibrinogen, a proteolytic fragment of fibrinogen, D
30
, and a
monoclonal antibody that immunoreacts with ICAM-1, but does

not immunoreact 
with the vitronectin receptor, wherein said monoclonal

antibody preferentially inhibits fibrinogen binding to
stimulated endothelial cells.
A method of screening for compositions
effective at inhibiting fibrinogen binding to ICAM-1

comprising the steps of:

a) admixing in an inhibition reaction
admixture preselected amounts of a putative inhibitor

composition, a fibrinogen homolog, and an ICAM-1
homolog, wherein said Fg homolog is capable of binding

to ICAM-1 and inhibiting Fg binding to endothelial
cells, and said ICAM-1 homolog is capable of binding

to fibrinogen and inhibiting fibrinogen binding to
endothelial cells;
b) maintaining said admixture under
conditions sufficient for said ICAM-1 homolog to bind

to said Fg homolog and form an ICAM-1 homolog:Fg
homolog complex; and
c) measuring the amount of ICAM-1
homolog:Fg homolog complex formed in step (b), and

thereby the effectiveness of said inhibitor
composition.
The method of claim 23 wherein said Fg
homolog is selected from the group consisting of

fibrinogen, a proteolytic fragment of fibrinogen, D
30
,
and a monoclonal antibody that immunoreacts with ICAM-1,

but does not immunoreact with the vitronectin
receptor, wherein said monoclonal antibody

preferentially inhibits fibrinogen binding to
stimulated endothelial cells.
The method of claim 23 wherein said ICAM-1
homolog is selected from the group consisting of ICAM-1

and a monoclonal antibody comprising antibody
molecules that immunoreact with fibrinogen and that

preferentially inhibit fibrinogen binding to 
stimulated endothelial cells.
A method for preparing substantially pure
ICAM-1 comprising the steps of:


(a) providing an aqueous detergent
composition containing at least ICAM-1;
(b) contacting said ICAM-1-containing
composition with a fibrinogen-immobilized matrix

comprising fibrinogen affixed to a solid support, said
contacting being under condit
ions sufficient for said
ICAM-1 to bind to said fibrinogen and form a solid

phase ICAM-1:fibrinogen complex;
(c) washing said solid support and said
complex with an aqueous wash buffer comprising Mg
++
,
Mn
++
 and an RGD-containing polypeptide under
conditions sufficient to elute any proteins bound to

fibrinogen in an RGD-dependent manner, said wash
buffer being substantially free for Ca
++
; and
(d) eluting said ICAM-1 from said solid
support using an aqueous buffer comprising Mg
++
, Mn
++

and EDTA, to form said substantially pure ICAM-1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
