<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632698</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFLATION MECHANISM FOR AN INFLATABLE ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B700	A43B706	A43B1318	A43B1320	A43B1700	A43B1703	F04B4300	F04B4300	F04B4500	F04B4502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B7	A43B7	A43B13	A43B13	A43B17	A43B17	F04B43	F04B43	F04B45	F04B45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is an inflation and fluid release mechanism for an inflatable article of manufacture. The inflation mechanism generally comprises a pump (40) and a resilient fluid intake valve (42). The fluid release mechanism (16) includes a housing (100), a fluid release means (102) and a protective cover (120) which is received about the exterior of the housing. The protective cover of the fluid release mechanism may also function as a connector for an "off board" inflation mechanism.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEBOK INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEBOK INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRENI DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS MATTHEW L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRENI DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS MATTHEW L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Inflation Mechanism for an Inflatable Article of ManufactureField of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to an inflation and fluid release mechanism for an inflatable article of manufacture. More particularly the invention relates to a pump and fluid intake valve and to a cover for a fluid release mechanism.Background of the InventionRecently, the use of inflatable devices within articles of manufacture has become widespread. For example, inflatable devices are now incorporated into a variety of athletic shoes, as well as various other types of athletic equipment such as protective helmets, apparel and baseball gloves. The inflatable devices used in conjunction with these articles of manufacture increasingly include an air-impervious bladder which is manually inflated by an inflation mechanism disposed on the article (i.e., the inflation mechanism is located "on board" the inflatable article of manufacture). When an on board inflation mechanism is employed, it is imperative that the mechanism be as small as possible to minimize interference with the intended use of the article. However, as the size of the inflation mechanism is decreased, so is its ability to displace fluid and pump the same into the inflatable bladder. Thus, a highly efficient inflation mechanism (that is, one which completely displaces its maximum fluid volume to an inflatable bladder) is desired.One inflation mechanism which has been successful in footwear is formed of a latex rubber bulb which includes an integral one-way inlet valve.SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

The inlet valve typically extends outwardly from one side of the bulb. Disposed on the opposite side of the bulb is an outlet mechanism which transfers fluid (air) from the latex bulb to the inflatable bladder.U.S. Patent No. 5,074,765 to Pekar discloses a dome-like air pump which is formed from a resilient, elastomeric material capable of being bonded to an opening in an inflatable bladder. The pump is provided with an inlet flapper type valve which is integrally formed in a wall of the pump. An outlet check valve of the "duck-bill" type extends through an opening located in the base of the pump to transfer air from the pump to the inflatable bladder. It is a principal object of the present invention to provide an inflation mechanism for an inflatable article of manufacture which is of simple, compact construction and operationally reliable. •Another object of the invention is to provide an inflation mechanism for an inflatable article of manufacture which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. An inflatable article of manufacture, comprising:
(1) a bladder portion,
(2) an inflation mechanism, comprising (a) a substantially planar bottom surface formed from an elastic film,
(b) at least one substantially vertical side wall,
(c) a top surface formed from an elastic, resilient material, said bottom surface, said side wall and said top surface defining a hollow interior therebetween, and
(3) a fluid intake valve disposed adjacent to and in fluid communication with said inflation mechanism, said intake valve comprising
(a) a substantially planar lower surface formed from an elastic film, (b) at least one vertical side wall,
(c) an upper surface which defines at least one centrally disposed aperture and at least one fluid inlet aperture, said lower surface, said side wall and said upper surface forming a cavity therebetween, and
(d) a flutter member disposed within said cavity, said flutter member comprising
(i) a substantially flat, circular head portion formed from a thin, flexible, resilient material, and
(ii) a stem portion having a spherical stop member formed along its length, wherein said stem portion extends through said centrally disposed aperture of said upper surface and said stop member abuts against said centrally disposed aperture to maintain the head portion of said flutter member in close proximity to the upper surface of the intake valve, wherein upon application of a force to the top surface of said inflation mechanism, the pressure formed therein urges the head portion of said flutter member toward the upper surface of the intake valve to prevent
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


fluid from exiting said fluid inlet aperture and wherein upon releasing the force applied to the top surface of said inflation mechanism, air passes into the fluid inlet aperture and into the hollow interior of said inflation mechanism.
2. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 1 , wherein said elastic film forming the bottom surface of said inflation mechanism is thermal- polyurethane.
3. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 1 , wherein an open- celled foam is disposed within said hollow interior.
4. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 1 , wherein said top surface of said inflation mechanism is convex.
5. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 1, wherein said flutter member is formed from silicone.
6. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 1 , wherein said fluid is ambient air.
7. An inflation mechanism for an inflatable article of manufacture, comprising:
(1) a pump attached to said inflatable article of manufacture, said pump comprising
(a) a substantially planar bottom surface, (b) at least one substantially vertical side wall, and
(c) a top surface, said bottom surface, said side wall, and said top surface forming a hollow interior therebetween;
(2) a fluid intake valve disposed adjacent to and in fluid communication with said pump, said intake valve comprising (a) a substantially planar lower surface,
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 (b) at least one vertical side wall,
(c) an upper surface including at least one fluid inlet aperture, said lower surface, said side wall and said upper surface forming a space therebetween, and (d) a means for preventing the escape of fluid from said inflation mechanism when a force is applied to the top surface of said inflation mechanism, said means being positioned within said space and biased toward said upper surface of said intake valve; and (3) a fluid release mechanism.
8. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, wherein said pump is formed from an elastic, lightweight, resilient material.
9. The inflation mechanism of claim 8, wherein said material is thermal-polyurethane.
10. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, wherein said hollow interior is filled with a resilient material.
11. The inflation mechanism of claim 10, wherein said resilient material is an open-celled foam.
12. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, wherein said top surface of said pump is convex.
13. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, wherein said pump further includes an fluid inlet and a fluid outlet.
14. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, wherein said means for preventing the escape of fluid is formed from a flexible, resilient material.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


15. The inflation mechanism of claim 14, wherein said material is silicone.
16. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, further comprising at least one projection which extends from the upper surface of said intake valve.
17. The inflation mechanism of claim 7, wherein said fluid is ambient air.
18. An inflation mechanism for an inflatable article of manufacture, comprising:
(1) a pump attached to said inflatable article of manufacture, said pump comprising a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet, and
(2) an intake valve disposed adjacent to and in fluid communication with said fluid inlet of said pump, said intake valve comprising a cavity and a resilient means for preventing the escape of fluid from said inflation mechanism when said inflation mechanism is in an active condition, said means for preventing the escape of fluid being positioned within said cavity of said intake valve.
19. The inflation mechanism of claim 18, wherein said pump is formed from an elastic, lightweight, resilient material.
20. The inflation mechanism of clam 19, wherein said material is thermal-polyurethane.
21. The inflation mechanism of claim 18, wherein said resilient means for preventing the escape of fluid is formed from silicone.
22. The inflation mechanism of claim 18, wherein said intake valve further includes at least one fluid inlet aperture.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


23. The inflation mechanism of claim 18, wherein said fluid is ambient air.
24. An inflatable article of manufacture, comprising: (1) a bladder portion, (2) an inflation mechanism, and
(3) a fluid release mechanism comprising,
(a) housing,
(b) means for releasing fluid from said inflatable article of manufacture, said fluid releasing means being positioned within said housing, and
(c) a cover securingly received about said housing and said fluid releasing means of said fluid release mechanism, said cover comprising:
(i) a top surface, (ii) at least one side wall, said top surface and said side wall defining an interior area, and
(iii) a means for limiting the extent to which said cover is received about said housing,
25. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 24, wherein said cover of said fluid release mechanism is formed from an elastic material.
26. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 25, wherein said material is thermal-polyurethane.
27. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 24, wherein said cover of said fluid release mechanism further comprises at least one fluid escaping aperture.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


28. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 24, wherein said means for limiting the extent to which said cover is received about said housing is positioned on the interior of said side wall.
29. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 24, further comprising at least one projection to assist in activating said fluid release means.
30. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 29, wherein said projection is disposed on the interior of said top surface.
31. An inflatable article of manufacture, comprising: (1) a bladder portion, (2) an inflation mechanism,
(3) a fluid release mechanism, comprising
(a) a housing,
(b) means for releasing fluid from said mechanism, said means being positioned within said housing, and (c) a cover securingly received about said housing of said release mechanism, said cover comprising
(i) a top surface, (ii) at least one side wall, and (iii) at least one fluid escaping aperture defined by a surface of said cover.
32. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 31, wherein said cover is formed from an elastic, resilient material.
33. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 32, wherein said material is thermal-polyurethane.
E SHEET 


34. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 31 , further comprising a means for limiting the extent to which said cover is received about said housing.
35. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 34, wherein said means for limiting the extent to which said cover is received about said housing is positioned on an interior surface of said side wall.
36. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 31, further comprising at least one projection to assist in activating said fluid release mechanism.
37. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 36, wherein said projection is disposed on an interior surface of said top surface.
38. The inflatable article of manufacture of claim 31, wherein said cover is adapted to receive an off board inflation mechanism.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
