<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613288</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image processing apparatus, image forming apparatus, and image processing method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	H04N1387	H04N1387	A41H300	B41J2175	A41H300	D06P530	D06P530	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	H04N	H04N	A41H	B41J	A41H	D06P	D06P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	H04N1	H04N1	A41H3	B41J2	A41H3	D06P5	D06P5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing apparatus includes a unit for 
supplying first image data as an original recording 

object to an image output apparatus which performs 
recording, e.g. using colour ink-jet heads, 

on a recording medium, e.g. a piece of cloth, and a designation unit 
for performing a designation associated with second 

image data, e.g. a cutting pattern for sewing, 
which is utilized in a process after the image output operation, 

so as to form the second image data on the 
recording medium on which the first image data is 

recorded. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI KAZUYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANAKA TOSHIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, KAZUYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE, TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANAKA, TOSHIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image processing
apparatus, image output apparatus and image supply and
receiving methods.It is often desired to record another image data
overlapping original image data (first image data) on a
recording medium. For example, in the field of
dressmaking, in order to cut a piece of cloth into a 
shape to be used in sewing, the same dress pattern as a
cutting pattern is placed on a piece of cloth, and the
curve of the cutting pattern is formed along the outer
shape of the dress pattern on the cloth using a writing
tool such as a tailor's chalk. Also, the dress pattern
is placed on a piece of cloth via transfer paper such
as chalk paper, and a stitch pattern drawn on the inner
surface of the dress pattern is traced, thereby
transferring a stitch pattern of, e.g., a pocket on the
cloth.Furthermore, information required upon sewing such
as portions to be sewed up, kinds of sewing methods,
and the like is often formed on a piece of cloth on the
basis of information described on a dress pattern or in
a manual.Conventionally, formation of a cutting pattern, a
stitch pattern, and other information on a piece of
cloth is a work required in dressmaking as a process
after printing. However, since this work utilizes a
dress pattern or a manual, the manufacture and use of
the dress pattern or the manual require much time and
cost. More specifically, in the case of a
manufacturer, a process of designing a dress pattern by
a calculation from a human body by a skilled person or
computer simulation, and then manufacturing a dress
pattern or a manual which finally becomes unnecessary,
is required. On the other hand, in the case of a user, a
troublesome work for drawing a cutting pattern, a
stitch pattern, and other information on a piece of
cloth by utilizing a dress pattern is required. The
stitch pattern and other information cannot be drawn
without using transfer paper, and the transfer paper
must also be prepared. In particular, when a normal
user performs dressmaking, the user must purchase a
dress pattern, and then do such troublesome works at
home, thus requiring much cost and time until an accual
sewing work is started. Furthermore, it is
timeconsuming to continue dressmaking with reference to
dressmaking information described in, e.g., a manual,
and a user may often refer to a wrong portion of the
manual.In order to solve these problems, an attempt has
been made to record, e.g., a cutting pattern on a piece
of cloth on which an image has been recorded. However,
two processes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image processing apparatus comprising:

image output means (SY11, SY12) for performing image
formation on a recording medium using a recording head

so as to produce a printed product; and
image data supply means (SY3) for supplying image
data to the image output means; characterised by
management data supply means (SY5) for receiving the
image data from said image data supply means (SY3) and

for supplying management data to be used in the
management of ordering of printed product performed at

the image output means side, together with the image
data, the image output means (SY11, SY12) being arranged

to form an image of at least some or all of the
management data together with the image data.
An apparatus according to claim 1, further
comprising management means (SY6) for causing said image

output means (SY11, SY12) to execute image formation on
the basis of the management data.
An apparatus according to claim 2, further
comprising a plurality of image output means (SY11,

SY12), and wherein said management means comprises
production management means (SY6) for managing a schedule

including an order of output operations and times 
required for the output operations in said plurality of

image output means, and back ordering management means
(SY5) for managing data including a delivery date of a

product and customer information in accordance with the
management data to be used in the back ordering

management.
An apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein
the management data supplying means (SY5) is arranged so

that some or all of the management data are formed
together with an image corresponding to the image data.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein the or each image output means (SY11, SY12)

comprises a plurality of said recording heads (24, 24')
arranged to record using recording agents having

different color tones.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
wherein the or each image output means (SY11, SY12)

comprises an ink-jet recording head (24, 24') arranged
to discharge ink as a recording agent.
An image output apparatus comprising:

image forming means (SY11, SY12) for forming an
image corresponding to received image data to be recorded

on a recording medium for forming a printed product; and
 
characterised by means (SY5) for receiving

management data to be used in the management of ordering
of printed product, which data are supplied together with

the image data,
the image forming means (SY11, SY12) being arranged
to form an image of some or all of the management data

together with the image corresponding to the received
image data.
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said
image forming means (SY11, SY12) comprises an ink-jet

recording head (24, 24') for discharging an ink as a
recording agent.
An apparatus according to claim 6 or 8, wherein said
ink-jet recording head (24, 24') comprises an element for

generating heat energy for causing film boiling in the
ink to cause discharge of ink.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the or each image output means (SY11,

SY12) is arranged to form an image using a piece of cloth
as a recording medium.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the management data includes data

associated with ordering of a recorded product. 
An image processing method comprising the steps of:

supplying image data to be recorded on a recording
medium (3) for forming a printed product, characterised

by
supplying management data to be used in the
management of ordering of the printed product together

with the image data; and
controlling image formation on the recording medium
on the basis of the management data so that at least some

or all of the management data is recorded with the image
data.
An image processing method comprising the steps of:

receiving image data to be recorded on a recording
medium (3) to form a printed product, characterised by
receiving management data to be used in management
of the ordering of printed product, which data is

supplied together with the image data; and
controlling image formation on the recording medium
on the basis of the management data with an image of at

least some of management data being formed together with
the image data.
A method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the
managing step comprises the steps of:


managing a schedule including an order of output
operations and times required for the output operations 

in a plurality of image output means (SY11, SY12); and
managing data including a delivery date of a product
and customer information.
A method according to claim 12, 13 or 14, which
comprises forming an image using a plurality of recording

heads arranged to supply recording agents having
different color tones.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 15,
which comprises forming an image on an ink-jet recording

head which discharges ink as a recording agent.
A method according to claim 16, which comprises
using as said recording head an ink-jet recording head

which discharges ink by utilizing heat energy, and
comprises a heat energy converting element for generating

heat energy to be applied to the ink.
A method according to claim 17, wherein said
recording head causes a change in state in the ink by the

heat energy applied from said heat energy converting
element, and discharges the ink from discharge openings

as a result of the change in state.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 18,
which comprises using a woven textile as the recording 

medium.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 19,
further comprising the step of fixing the ink to the

recording medium after recording.
A method according to claim 20, further comprising
the step of washing the recorded recording medium after

the step of fixing the ink.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 21,
further comprising the step of performing a pre-treatment

for adding a pre-treatment agent to the recording medium
before recording.
A method of producing a recorded product which
comprises using a method in accordance with any one of

claims 12 to 22.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
