<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620048</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASOUND TRANSDUCERS WITH REDUCED SIDELOBES AND METHOD FOR MANUFACTURE THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B06B106	B06B106	G01S7521	G01S7521	H01L4109	H01L4109	H04R1700	H04R1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B06B	B06B	G01S	G01S	H01L	H01L	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B06B1	B06B1	G01S7	G01S7	H01L41	H01L41	H04R17	H04R17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transducer has tapered piezoelectric layer 
sides (136,138) in order to reduce the sidelobe levels. In 

addition, matching layers (132,134) disposed on the piezoelectric 
layer (126) may similarly be tapered to further increase 

performance. Alternative to tapering the piezoelectric 
layer (126), the top electrode (130) and/or 

the matching layers (131,134) may 
be reduced in size relative to the piezoelectric layer (126) 

such that they generate a wave which destructively 
interferes with the undesirable lateral wave. There are 

also described methods for manufacturing a reduced 
sidelobe transducer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACUSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACUSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AYTER SEVIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSSACK JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACKSON KATHY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU JING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTERS WORTH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AYTER, SEVIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSSACK, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACKSON, KATHY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU, JING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTERS, WORTH B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to transducers and more 
particularly to the control of undesirable sidelobes in 
ultrasound transducers. Ultrasound machines are often used for 
observing organs in the human body. Typically, these 
machines contain transducer arrays for converting 
electrical signals into pressure waves or vice versa. 
Generally, the transducer array is in the form of a hand-held 
probe which may be adjusted in position to direct 
the ultrasound beam to the region of interest. As seen 
in FIGS. 1, 2 and 4, a transducer array 10 may have, for 
example, 128 transducer elements 12 in the azimuthal 
direction for generating an ultrasound beam. Adapted 
from radar terminology, the x, y, and z directions are 
referred to as the azimuthal, elevation, and range 
directions, respectively. The transducer element 12, typically 
rectangular in cross-section, may comprise a first 
electrode 14, a second electrode 16, a piezoelectric  
 
layer 18, and one or more acoustic matching layers 20, 
22. The transducer elements 12 are disposed on a backing 
block 24. In addition, a mechanical lens 26 may be 
placed on the matching layers to help confine the 
generated beam in the y-z plane. Examples of prior art 
transducer structures are shown in Charles S. DeSilets, 
Transducer Arrays Suitable for Acoustic Imaging, Ph.D. 
Thesis, Stanford University (1978) and Alan R. Selfridge, 
Design and Fabrication of Ultrasonic Transducers and 
Transducer Arrays, Ph.D. Thesis, Stanford University 
(1982). Individual elements 12 can be electrically 
excited by electrodes 14 and 16, with different 
amplitudes and phases to steer and focus the ultrasound 
beam in the x-z plane. Terminals 28 and 30 may be 
connected to each of the electrodes 14 and 16 for 
providing the electrical excitation of the element 12. 
Terminal 28 may provide the hot wire or excitation 
signal, and terminal 30 may provide the ground. As a 
result, a primary wave 31 is provided in the z-direction. The force distribution of the face 32 of the 
transducer element 12, and the acoustic and geometrical 
parameters of the mechanical lens 26 describe the 
radiation pattern in the elevation direction, as a 
function of an angle in the y-z plane. The finite width 
of the transducer element 12 in the y-direction causes 
the sides 36 and 38 of the transducer element 12 to move  
 
freely. This motion, in turn, creates lateral waves 40, 
propagating along the y-direction. These lateral waves 
40, propagating through the composite structure of 
piezoelectric layer 18
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An acoustic transducer comprising: 
   a piezoelectric layer having a piezoelectric 

upper surface, a piezoelectric lower surface, and two 
piezoelectric ends, said piezoelectric upper surface being 

smaller in surface area than said piezoelectric lower 
surface; a first electrode disposed on said piezoelectric 

lower surface; and a second electrode disposed on said 
piezoelectric upper surface. 
An acoustic transducer comprising: 
   a piezoelectric layer having a piezoelectric 

upper surface, a piezoelectric lower surface, and two 
piezoelectric ends; 

   a first electrode disposed on said piezoelectric 
lower su
rface; and 
   a second electrode disposed on said piezoelectric 

upper surface, said second electrode being smaller in 
surface area than said piezoelectric upper surface wherein 

said second electrode generates a wave which destructively 
interferes with a lateral wave generated by said transducer. 
The transducer of claim 2 wherein said second 
electrode is smaller than said piezoelectric upper surface 

by a distance d at each end of said second electrode, said 
distance d being approximated by the velocity of the wave 

in an external medium multiplied by half the pulse period 
defined by an operating frequency of said transducer 

divided by the sine of the direction of the propagating 
wave in said external medium. 
An acoustic transducer comprising: 
   a piezoelectric layer having a piezoelectric 

upper surface, a piezoelectric lower surface, and two 
piezoelectric ends; 

   a first electrode disposed on said piezoelectric 
lower surface; 

   a second electrode disposed on said piezoelectric 
upper surface; and 

   a matching layer disposed on said second 
electrode, said matching layer having a matching layer 

upper surface, a matching layer lower surface and matching 
layer ends, said matching layer lower surface being smaller 

in surface area than said piezoelectric upper surface such 
that said matching layer generates a wave which 

destructively interferes with a lateral wave generated by 
said transducer. 
The transducer of claim 4 wherein said 
matching layer is smaller than said piezoelectric upper 

surface by a distance d at each end of said matching layer, 
said distance-d being approximated by the velocity of the 

wave in an external medium multiplied by half the pulse 
period defined by an operating frequency of said transducer 

divided by the sine of the direction of the propagating 
wave in said external medium. 
The transducer of claim 5 wherein said second 
electrode is smaller than said piezoelectric upper surface 

by said distance d. 
The transducer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said piezoelectric upper surface and lower 

surface are generally parallel to one another. 
The transducer of any one of claims 2 to 7 
wherein said piezoelectric upper surface and piezoelectric 

lower surface have equal surface area. 
The transducer of any one of claims 2 to 7 
wherein said piezoelectric upper surface has a surface area 

less than said piezoelectric lower surface. 
The transducer of claims 1 or 9 wherein said 
piezoelectric ends are tapered such that said piezoelectric 

upper surface has a surface area less than said 
piezoelectric lower surface. 
The transducer of claim 7 wherein said 
piezoelectric ends form an angle greater than about 90 

degrees and less than about 120 degrees relative to a 
primary acoustic propagation direction. 
The transducer of claim 11 wherein said 
piezoelectric ends form an angle of approximately 98 

degrees relative to said primary acoustic propagation 
direction. 
The transducer of any one of claims 1, 2 or 
3 or 7 to 12 as dependent on claims 1, 2 or 3 comprising at 

least one matching layer disposed on said second electrode. 
The transducer of claim 13 wherein the top 
of said matching layer has a surface area less than said 

piezoelectric upper surface. 
The transducer of any one of claims 4 to 6 
or 13 or 14, at least one matching layer having a matching 

layer upper surface and a matching layer lower surface, 
wherein said matching layer upper surface has a surface 

area less than said matching layer lower surface. 
The transducer of claim 15 wherein said 
matching layer upper surface is smaller in surface area 

than said matching layer lower surface and the ends of said 
matching layer are tapered in shape. 
The transducer of claim 16 wherein the ends 
of said first matching layer form an angle greater than 

about 90 degrees and less than about 104 degrees relative 
to said primary acoustic propagation direction. 
The transducer of any one of claims 13 to 17 
comprising a first matching layer and a second matching 

layer disposed on the upper surface of said first matching 
layer, wherein said upper surface of each matching layer 

has a surface area less than the respective lower surface. 
The transducer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein at least a portion of the ends of at least 

one of said piezoelectric layer and said matching layer is 
planar in shape. 
The transducer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein at least a portion of the ends of at least 

one of said piezoelectric layer and said matching layer 
comprise a series of planar segments. 
The transducer of claim 20 wherein said 
planar segments are stepped in shape. 
The transducer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein at least a portion of the ends of at least 

one of said piezoelectric layer and said matching layer is 
nonplanar in shape. 
The transducer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said piezoelectric layer comprises 

piezoelectric ceramic material. 
The transducer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said piezoelectric layer comprises composite 

material. 
The transducer of claim 24 wherein said 
composite material has a polarization profile which 

decreases toward said sides of said piezoelectric layer. 
An array of transducers having sidelobe 
reduction for use in an acoustic imaging system comprising: 

   a plurality of transducers according to any one 
of the preceding claims. 
A method for constructing a transducer for 
use in an acoustic imaging system having reduced sidelobes 

comprising: tapering the sides of a piezoelectric layer 
such that a piezoelectric upper surface has a surface area 

less than a piezoelectric lower surface; disposing a first 
electrode on said piezoelectric lower surface; and 

disposing a second electrode on said piezoelectric upper 
surface. 
A method for constructing a transducer for 
use in an acoustic imaging system having reduced sidelobes 

comprising: 
   disposing a first electrode on a piezoelectric 

lower surface of a piezoelectric layer also having a 
piezoelectric upper surface, and two piezoelectric sides; 

   disposing a second electrode on said 
piezoelectric upper surface; 

   tapering said piezoelectric sides such that said 
piezoelectric upper surface is smaller in surface area than 

said piezoelectric lower surface. 
The method of claim 27 or 28 wherein said 
tapering results in an angle greater than about 90 degrees 

and less than about 120 degrees relative to a primary 
acoustic propagation direction. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said tapering 
results in an angle of approximately 98 degrees relative to 

said primary acoustic propagation direction. 
The method of any one of claims 27 to 28 
wherein sai
d tapering is performed by a method selected 
from the list comprising: 

   dicing the sides of said piezoelectric layer; 
   using a laser; 

   using a chemical etcher; 
   using a laser induced chemical etching. 
A method for constructing a transducer for 
use in an acoustic imaging system having reduced sidelobes 

comprising: disposing a first electrode on a lower surface 
of a piezoelectric layer also having a piezoelectric upper 

surface, and two piezoelectric sides; and disposing a 
second electrode being smaller in surface area than said 

piezoelectric upper surface on said piezoelectric upper 
surface, wherein said second electrode generates a wave 

which destructively interferes with a lateral wave 
generated by said transducer. 
The method of claim 32 wherein said second 
electrode is smaller than said piezoelectric upper surface 

by a distance d at each end of said second electrode, said 
distance d being approximated by the velocity of the wave 

in an external medium multiplied by half the pulse period 
defined by an operating frequency of said transducer 

divided by the sine of the direction of the propagating 
wave in said external medium. 
The method of any one of claims 27 to 33 
further comprising the step of disposing at least one 

matching layer on said second electrode. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
