<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639209</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUBSTANTIALLY PURE SYNTHETIC MELANIN PARTICULARLY USEFUL FOR LOW HAZE OPTICAL DEVICES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A62D700	C09B6900	C08F28300	C08F28300	G02C710	G02C704	G02C700	A62D700	G02C704	C09B6910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A62D	C09B	C08F	C08F	G02C	G02C	G02C	A62D	G02C	C09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A62D7	C09B69	C08F283	C08F283	G02C7	G02C7	G02C7	A62D7	G02C7	C09B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
It is described the preparation of substantially pure synthetic melanin, which is in the form of a solution in organic solvent or of a dry powder and is readily dispersible in plastic and/or plastic monomers, to produce low haze optical devices.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERCAST EUROP SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERCAST EUROPE S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAS JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAS, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the
preparation of substantially pure synthetic melanin
readily dispersible in plastics and/or plastics
monomers to produce low haze optical devices.The invention also relates to a process for
preparing low haze optical devices obtainable by using
the above mentioned melanin.In recent years increasing attention has been
given to the importance of protecting eyes and skin
from radiation emitted by artificial and natural light
sources. Prolonged exposure of the eyes to solar
ultraviolet radiation is believed to result, for
example, in the formation of cataracts and general
tissue damage. Furthermore, attention has been given to
the importance of protecting packaged material from
such radiation to reduce the destabilization,
degradation, decay or other undesirable effects on that
material that may be caused by the radiation.A variety of optical devices have been
produced in the field to meet the potential threat
posed by these radiations.Such optical devices include lenses for
sunglasses, contact lenses, aircraft and automobile
windows, welders glasses and others. Besides the well known use of metallic films
deposited onto the outer surface and/or the
incorporation of dyes and pigments into the matrix of
these optical devices as absorbing media, it has been
recently proposed - in order to protect the eye and
skin - to use melanin as a pigment.As is known, melanins are defined and
classified as in the book entitled "Melanins", by R.A.
Nicolaus Published in 1968 by Hermann, Paris - France.
The entire information contained in that book is
incorporated herein by reference. As defined in that
book, melanins constitute a class of pigments which are
widespread in the animal and vegetable kingdoms. While
the name melanin in Greek means black, not all melanins
as pigments are black but may vary from brown to
yellow. Melanins are classified in three groups, namely
eumelanins, phaomelanins and allomelanins. Eumelanins
are derived from the precursor tyrosine shown as
Compound (1), whereas phaomelanins are derived from the
precursors tyrosine or cysteine shown as Compound (2).
Allomelanins, i.e., other melanins, are
formed from nitrogen-free precursors, such as catechol.
It is also believed that 1,8-dihydroxynapthalene may
produce melanin through enzymatic oxidation. Further
information on melanins is found
on page 827, Monograph No. 5629 in
The Merck Index (10th Ed. 1983).Because of the number of reactive sites in
the melanin precursors and their intermediates, the
polymerization of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for preparing a solution of
substantially pure synthetic melanin readily

dispersible in plastics and plastics monomers.
comprising the steps of:


a) polymerizing a melanin precursor in an
aqueous solution so as to obtain crude synthetic

melanin;
b) precipitating by acidification the crude
melanin thus obtained from said aqueous solution;
c) extracting from the aqueous solution the
acidified melanin by means of an organic solvent in the

presence of at least a salt.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
said polymerization is carried out in an aqueous

solution buffered at a pH 8 or above.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
said polymerization step is carried out at a

temperature of from 30 to 60°C.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
said melanin precursor is selected from the group

comprising: DOPA, dopamine compounds, catechol,
5,6-dihydroxyindole; leucodopachrome; tryptamine;

serotonin; 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2-carboxylic acid;
epinephrine; norepinephrine; tyrosine; adrenochrome and 

1,8-dihydroxynapthalene.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
said organic solvent is selected from the group

comprising: acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran (THF),
dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), chloroform, toluene,

1,2-dichloroethane and mixtures thereof.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
said polymerization step is carried out in the presence

of at least one free-radical initiator.
A process according to claim 6, wherein
said free-radical initiator is benzoyl peroxide.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
said extraction step of the acidified melanin is

carried out with a simultaneous concentration of the
melanin in the organic solvent.
A process according to claim 8, wherein
said extraction step is carried out by using a ratio

between the volumes of said aqueous solution and said
organic solvent of from 2:10 to 4:10.
A process according to claim 1, further
comprising the step of derivatizing the concentrated

and purified melanin by means of a compound selected in
the group comprising: bisfunctional agents such as

allyl, methallyl or vinyl chloroformates; methacrylchloride, methacryl-,
oxypropyl-, dimethyl-, chlorosilane; isocyanatoethyl 

methacrylate.
A process according to claim 1 or 10, further comprising
the step of purifying the substantially pure melanin by washing

with water followed by extraction with said organic solvent.
A solution of synthetic melanin purified by repeated
washing with an acidified solution and dispersible in plastics and

plastics monomers obtainable by a process according to claims 1-11.
A solution according to claim 12 further comprising a
flushing or a solubilizing agent.
A process for preparing substantially pure synthetic
melanin in powder form, readily dispersible in an organic solvent,

in plastics and plastics monomers, comprising the step of drying
a solution according to claim 12.
A process according to claim 14, wherein said drying
step is carried out by heating under vacuum said solution at a

temperature of from 40 to 70°C.
A synthetic melanin in powder form purified by repeated
washing with an acidified solu
tion, readily dispersible in an
organic solvent, in plastics and plastics monomers, obtained by a

process according to anyone of claims 14 and 15.
A process for preparing an optical device with a haze
lower than 1.2 cd/m
2
 comprising the steps of:

a) mixing a solution according to claim 12 or 13 with a
suitable plastics monomer; 
b) polymerizing the mixture thus obtained.
A process according to claim 17, wherein said monomer is
selected in the group comprising: diethylene glycol-bis-(allylcarbonate),

styrene acrylates and methyl methacrylates, vinyl
monomers, polyurethane-forming monomers.
A process according to claim 18, wherein said
polymerization step is carried out at a temperature of from 35 to

100°C for a time of from 10 to 40 hours.
A process for preparing an optical device with a haze
lower than 1.2 cd/m
2
 comprising the step of applying a solution
according to claims 12 or 13 to the surface of a first transparent

glass or plastics substrate.
A process according to claim 20, wherein prior to the
applying step, the solution is mixed with a resin or an adhesive.
A process according to claim 21, wherein said resin is
an epoxy resin.
A process according to claim 21, further comprising the
step of superimposing a second transparent glass or plastics

substrate on said first substrate after applying said mixture.
A process for preparing a low haze optical device
comprising the step of :


dipping a plastics sheet into a solution according to
anyone of claims 12 or 13.
A process according to claim 24, further comprising the
step of adhering said sheet to the surface of a transparent glass 

or plastics substrate.
A process for preparing an optical device with a haze
lower than 1.2 cd/m
2
, comprising the steps of :

a) mixing melanin in powder form according to claim 16 with
plastics;
b) polymerizing the mixture thus obtained.
A process according to claim 26, wherein said plastics
is selected in the group comprising thermoplastic polymers.
An optical device with a haze lower than 1.2 cd/m
2

obtainable by a process according to anyone of claims 17-27.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
