<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643898</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INSTRUMENT PROBE HAVING A BACK-LIGHTED CAMERA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N718	G03B3700	H04N5225	H04N5225	E21B4700	G03B3700	E21B4700	H04N718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G03B	H04N	H04N	E21B	G03B	E21B	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	G03B37	H04N5	H04N5	E21B47	G03B37	E21B47	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An instrument probe (10) contains an improved camera and light source arrangement. The light source (18) is positioned behind the camera (22) for providing indirect illumination of a passage being inspected by the camera (22) such as the contents of a bore hole (28) or its casing (36). The light source (18) is physically separated from the camera (22) thus providing insulation to the camera (22) from heat produced by the light source (18). The camera housing comprises a quick connect and disconnect latch (60) which allows for the swift changeover of camera components at the distal end of the instrument probe (10). A parabolic reflector (34) at the light source directs light distally to the instrument body (10). A second reflector (58) is located on the camera body to further reflect light towards the walls of the passageways, thereby enhancing the indirect light funneled to the area being inspected by the camera (22).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DHV INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DHV INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINVILLE GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINVILLE, GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is related generally to the remote viewing of passageways and
other limited access areas and, more particularly, to remotely viewing such limited
access areas with an apparatus having a camera and a light source.There has long been a need in the field of well boring to visually examine the
bore hole and its contents for various reasons. In some cases, there is a need to
visually examine geological formations. In the case where the well bore has casings
and fittings, there is a continuing need to inspect the casings and fittings for corrosion
and other conditions. Where the well bore may contain water, oil, or gas or
combinations of them, there is sometimes a need to determine if these substances
actually exist by viewing the contents of the well bore. There is also a need to
determine the entry points of these various fluids. In the case where water is
infiltrating an oil well, it would be of value to determine the entry point of the water
so that steps may be taken to block the flow of that water into the well. If an
examination of the well bore at one location reveals the existence of only oil in the
bore, but examination at another location reveals the existence of both oil and water,
it can be concluded that water is entering the bore at a point somewhere in between
the two examination locations. By gradually moving the viewing instrument through
the bore hole between the two locations, the entry point of the water can be found.
If that entry point is accessible at one place or another, either in the well bore or
somewhere else, the source of the water could be blocked. Thus, determination of
an infiltration point can be made by merely examining the contents of the well bore.However, the fluids in the well bore affect visibility as do any dissolved
particulate matter from mineral deposits or the like contained in those fluids. The
dissolved compounds are particularly troublesome for visual inspection systems
having self-contained light sources as the compounds tend to reduce visibility by 
reflecting back the light into the camera without adequately illuminating the subject
matter to be viewed thus resulting in glare.A prior technique for viewing well bores used a compact, rugged instrument
probe containing a camera, such as a closed circuit television camera, and a light
source to illuminate the field of view of the camera. A cable is attached between the
instrument probe and the surface station to communicate camera signals to the surface
from the instrument probe. The instrument
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An instrument probe (10) for viewing the contents of a passageway, the
instrument probe comprising an instrument body (16) and a camera (22) spaced

apart along a longitudinal axis of the probe, a cable (14) extending from a
proximal end of the instrument body (16), a light source (18) mounted at a

distal end of the instrument body, the camera (22) being spaced longitudinally
from the instrument body (16) and connected with the instrument body by at

least one suspension member (20) extending from the distal end of the
instrument body (16), the camera (22) having a lens at its distal end facing

along said longitudinal axis and away from the instrument body whereby the
field of view of the camera is distal to the light source and the instrument body,

so that the light source and the camera face in the same direction, characterised
in that the proximal end of the camera is disposed within the field of

illumination of the light source and the field of illumination of the light source
comprises regions external to the probe and which are outside the field of view

of the camera, whereby with the probe disposed within a passageway for
viewing the latter, light from the light source can illuminate the walls of such

passageway outside the field of view of the camera, to provide indirect lighting
of the parts of such passageway and contents thereof which are in the field of

view of the camera.
The instrument probe (10) as recited in claim 1 further characterised in
that a reflector (34) is mounted to the distal end (30) of the instrument body

(16) for directing the light from the light source (18) towards the camera and
the wall of such passageway for reflection into the field of view of the camera

(22). 
The instrument probe (10) as recited in claim 2 characterised in that the
reflector (34) comprises a concave parabolic reflector.
The instrument probe (10) as recited in any preceding claim wherein the
camera (22) is connected with the instrument body (16) by a plurality of

suspension members (20).
The instrument probe (10) as recited in any preceding claim further
characterised in that the camera (22) includes a second reflector (58) formed

over the proximal end of the camera, the second reflector having a dome shape
for reflecting light directed at said proximal end of the camera from the light

source, away from the camera (22) towards the wall of such passageway.
The instrument probe as recited in any preceding claim characterised in
that the light source comprises a plurality of lamps (78) mounted on the distal

end (30) of the instrument body (16) and arranged in a ring wherein the
diameter of the ring of lamps (78) does not exceed the diameter of the

instrument body (16).
The instrument probe as recited in any of claims 1 to 5 characterised in
that the light source comprises a single bulb (18) mounted at the center of the

distal end of the instrument body (16).
The instrument probe (10) as recited in any preceding claim further
characterised in that the camera (22) includes a light conducting sleeve (72)

extending from the proximal end of the camera to the distal end of the camera
and positioned 

about the camera so as to receive light from the light source (18) at the proximal end
of the camera, conduct the received light to the distal end of the camera, and emit

the received light into the field of view of the camera.
The instrument probe (10) as recited in any preceding claim further
characterized in that:


the camera (22) includes a camera housing (40) having a plurality of slots
(60), the camera being mourned in the camera housing;
 and
the camera (22) includes a camera frame (48) having a plurality of pins 62,
the camera frame being connected to the distal end of the instrument body ;
whereby the camera can be connected to the instrument body by engaging the
slots of the camera housing with the pins of the camera frame.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
