<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649509</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR IMPROVED MANUFACTURE OF CEMENT IN LONG KILNS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B700	C04B744	F27B720	F27B720	F27B736	F27D1700	F27D1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	F27B	F27B	F27B	F27D	F27D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B7	C04B7	F27B7	F27B7	F27B7	F27D17	F27D17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to a method and apparatus for controlling the kiln gas stream (90, 138) in a conventional long wet or dry process cement kiln (10). A portion of the kiln gas stream (90) can be withdrawn from the rotary kiln vessel (17) at a point upstream, relative to kiln gas flow of the chain system in the mineral drying zone (24). Alternatively, or in conjuction with bypass formation, the apparatus (256) can be used to add tertiary air to the kiln gas stream (90) to promote combustion efficiency downstream of the clinkering zone (28). Use of the present apparatus (56, 156) to form a kiln gas bypass stream (64) enhances operating efficiencies of long kilns by reducing dust loss, by facilitating isolation of high alkali by-product streams, by reducing alkali content of collected kiln dust, by increasing energy efficiency of long kiln operation, and by allowing greater overall control in the cement manufacturing process.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASH GROVE CEMENT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CADENCE ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASH GROVE CEMENT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CADENCE ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN ERIC R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUTT JAMES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, ERIC R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUTT, JAMES R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR IMPROVED MANUFACTURE OF CEMENT IN LONG KILNSBackground and Summary of the InventionThis invention relates to improvements in the operation and configuration of long rotary cement kilns. More particularly it is directed to a method and apparatus for enhancing the capacity and efficiency of cement clinker production in conventional wet or dry process long rotary kilns. A portion of the kiln gases is withdrawn from the rotary vessel at a point upstream, relative to kiln gas flow, of the mineral drying zone and pre-heating zone to form a kiln gas bypass stream. In the widely used commercial process for the manufacture of cement, the steps of drying, calcining, and clinkering cement raw materials are accomplished by passing finely divided raw materials, including calcareous minerals, silica and alumina, through a heated, inclined rotary vessel or kiln. In what is known as conventional long dry or wet process kilns the entire mineral heating process is conducted in a heated rotating kiln cylinder, commonly referred to as a "rotary vessel." The rotary vessel is typically 12 to 15 feet in diameter and 400-700 feet in length and is inclined so that as the vessel is rotated, raw materials fed into the upper end of the kiln cylinder move under the influence of gravity toward the lower "fired" end where the final clinkering process takes place and where the product cement clinker is discharged for cooling and subsequent processing. Gas temperatures in the fired clinkering zone of the kiln range from about 1300° to about 1600°C. Kiln gas temperatures are as low as about 250° to 350°C at the upper mineral receiving end of so-called wet process kilns. Somewhat higher gas temperatures exist in the upper end of long dry process kilns. 

 Generally, skilled practitioners consider the cement making process within the rotary kiln to occur in several stages as the raw material flows from the cooler gas exit mineral feed end to the fired/clinker exit lower end of the rotary kiln vessel. As the mineral material moves down the length of the kiln it is subjected to increasing kiln gas temperatures. Thus in the upper portion of the kiln cylinder where the kiln gas temperatures are the lowest, the in-process mineral materials first undergo a drying process and thereafter move into the hotter calcining zone and finally into the portion of the kiln where the kiln gas temperatures are the hottest, the clinkering zone adjacent to the fired lower end of the kiln cylinder. The kiln gas stream flows counter to the flow of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for enhancing the capacity and efficiency of clinker production of an operating conventional wet or dry long rotary kiln, said kiln comprising a rotary vessel having a fired lower end and an adjacent clinkering zone, an upper gas exit end and an adjacent mineral drying zone, and an intermediate calcining zone along its length and a kiln gas stream flowing from the clinkering zone through the intermediate calcining zone and mineral drying zone out the gas exit end to a kiln dust collection system, said method comprising the step of withdrawing a portion of the kiln gases through a port in the rotary vessel at a point upstream, relative to kiln gas flow, of the mineral drying zone to form a kiln gas bypass stream.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of quenching the gas bypass stream to cool said gas bypass stream to precipitate alkali fume in said bypass stream.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of collecting at least a portion of precipitated alkali fume from the cooled gas bypass stream.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of recombining the quenched kiln gas bypass stream with the kiln gases upstream, relative to kiln gas flow, of the kiln dust collection system.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of quenching the gas bypass stream is achieved by dilution of the bypass stream with ambient air.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the port in the rotary vessel is located at a point downstream, relative to kiln gas flow, of the hottest portion of calcining zone. 


 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of charging solid fuel into the calcining zone through a second port in the rotary vessel.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the solid fuel is solid waste.
9. The method of claim 1 , further comprising the step of recombining the kiln gas bypass stream with the kiln gases upstream, relative to the kiln gas flow, of the kiln dust collection system. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least
10% of the total kiln gas stream is withdrawn to form the kiln gas bypass stream.
11. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of combining the kiln dust collected in the kiln dust collection system with mineral delivered to the mineral drying zone.
12. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of charging air into the kiln gas stream through a port in the rotating vessel at a point downstream relative to kiln gas flow of the hottest portion of the calcining zone and upstream of the bypass port.
13. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of charging air into the kiln gas stream through a port in the rotating vessel at a point downstream of the hottest portion of the calcining zone and upstream of the second port.
14. In a conventional wet or dry long rotary kiln comprising a rotating vessel having a fired lower end and adjacent clinkering zone, an upper gas exit end and adjacent mineral drying zone, and an intermediate calcining zone along its length and in operation having a kiln gas stream flowing from said clinkering zone through said calcining zone and mineral drying zone out the gas exit end and to a kiln dust collection system, the improvement which comprises 


 means for withdrawing a portion of the kiln gas stream from the rotary vessel at a point upstream, relative to kiln gas flow, of the mineral drying zone of said vessel and downstream of a portion of the calcining zone to form a kiln gas bypass stream.
15. The improvement of claim 14 further comprising means for quenching the kiln gas bypass stream to cool said bypass stream and precipitate alkali fume.
16. The improvement of claim 15, further comprising means for collecting precipitated alkali fume from said cooled gas bypass stream.
17. The improvement of claim 15, further comprising means for recombining said kiln gas bypass stream with kiln gases between the gas exit end of the rotating vessel and the kiln dust collection system.
18. The improvement of claim 15, further comprising means for diluting the gas bypass stream with controlled amounts of ambient air.
19. The improvement of claim 14 wherein the means for withdrawing the kiln gas bypass stream comprises a port in the rotary vessel and means for preventing in-process mineral from flowing through said port, an annular plenum in alignment with said port axially along the length of the rotary vessel and in gas flow communication with said port, and means for creating reduced pressure in said annular plenum to withdraw at least a portion of the kiln gas stream out said port and into said annular plenum.
20. The improvement of claim 14 wherein said kiln gas withdrawing means further comprises means for diluting the kiln bypass gas with controlled amounts of ambient air and means for recombining the bypass stream with the kiln gas stream before it enters the dust collection system. 


 21. The improvement of claim 20, further comprising means for collecting at least a portion of the precipitated alkali from the diluted bypass stream before it is recombined with the kiln gas stream. 22. The improvement of claim 20, wherein the means for diluting the kiln bypass is an air damper valve located on the plenum to optimize quenching of kiln gases in the plenum.
23. The improvement of claim 14, wherein the gas bypass stream is at least 10% by volume of the total kiln gas stream.
24. The improvement of claim 14, further comprising combining the kiln dust from the kiln dust collection system with mineral delivered to the mineral drying zone.
25. An apparatus for enhancing the capacity and efficiency of clinker production of a conventional wet or dry long rotary kiln, said kiln comprising a rotating vessel having a fired lower end and an adjacent clinkering zone, an upper kiln gas exit end and an adjacent mineral drying zone, and an intermediate calcining zone along its length and a kiln gas stream flowing from the clinkering zone through the intermediate calcining zone and upper mineral drying zone to a kiln dust collection system, said apparatus comprising means for withdrawing a portion of the kiln gases from the rotating vessel at a point upstream of the drying zone, relative to the flowing kiln gases, to form a kiln gas bypass stream. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising means for quenching the kiln gas bypass stream to cool said gas bypass stream and precipitate alkali fume in said bypass stream.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising means for collecting at least a portion of the 


precipitated alkali fume from the cooled kiln gas bypass stream.
28. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising means for recombining the cooled kiln gas bypass stream with the kiln gases upstream, relative to the kiln gas flow, of the kiln dust collection system.
29. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising means for diluting the kiln gas bypass stream with ambient air. 30. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising means for recombining the kiln gas bypass stream with the kiln gases upstream, relative to the flowing gases, of the kiln dust collection system.
31. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the gas bypass stream is at least 10% of the total kiln gas stream.
32. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising means for combining the kiln dust from the kiln dust collection system with mineral delivered to the mineral drying zone.
33. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising means for charging solid fuel into the calcining zone.
34. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the means for forming the kiln gas bypass stream comprises a port in the rotary vessel and means for preventing in- process mineral from flowing through said port, an annular plenum in alignment with said port axially along the length of the rotary vessel and in gas flow communication with said port, and means for creating reduced pressure in said annular plenum to withdraw at least a portion of the kiln gas stream out said port and into said annular plenum.
35. In a conventional wet or dry long rotary kiln comprising a rotating vessel having a fired lower 


end and adjacent clinkering zone, an upper gas exit end and adjacent mineral drying zone, and an intermediate calcining zone along its length and in operation having a kiln gas stream flowing from said clinkering zone through said calcining and mineral drying zone out the gas exit end and to a kiln dust collection system, the improvement which comprises a bypass port in the rotary vessel at a point upstream, relative to kiln gas flow, of the mineral drying zone, means for preventing in-process mineral from flowing through said port, an annular plenum in alignment with said port axially along the length of the rotary vessel, in gas flow communication with said port and having located thereon an air inlet damper valve, and means for creating reduced pressure in said annular plenum to draw air into said air inlet and to withdraw at least a portion of the kiln gas stream out said port and into said annular plenum.
36. An apparatus for enhancing the capacity and efficiency of clinker production of a conventional wet or dry long rotary kiln, said kiln in operation comprising a rotating vessel having a fired lower end and an adjacent clinkering zone, an upper kiln gas exit end and an adjacent mineral drying zone, and an intermediate mineral calcining zone along its length and a kiln gas stream flowing from the clinkering zone through the intermediate calcining zone and upper mineral drying zone to a kiln dust collection system, said apparatus comprising a solid fuel charging port and a gas bypass port in the rotary vessel said fuel charging port located at a point along the length of the vessel wherein fuel charged through the port will enter the calcining zone 


 and said bypass port located at a point on the vessel downstream, relative to kiln gas flow, from said fuel charging port; means for preventing in-process mineral from 5 passing through each of said fuel charging and bypass ports; an annular plenum in alignment with the bypass port axially along the length of the rotary vessel and in gas flow communication with said bypass port; 0 means for creating reduced pressure in said annular plenum to withdraw at least a portion of the kiln gas stream through the bypass port and into said annular plenum to form a kiln gas bypass stream; and means cooperating with the charging port for 5 charging solid fuel into the calcining zone.
37. An apparatus for enhancing the capacity and efficiency of clinker production of a conventional wet or dry long rotary kiln, said kiln comprising a rotating vessel having a fired lower end and an adjacent 0 clinkering zone, an upper kiln gas exit end and an adjacent mineral drying zone, and an intermediate calcining zone along its length and a kiln gas stream flowing from the clinkering zone through the intermediate calcining zone and upper mineral drying zone to a kiln 5 dust collection system, said apparatus comprising a port in the rotary vessel located axially between the calcining zone and the mineral drying zone; a drop tube attached to the port and extending into the rotary vessel, wherein the tube is longer than 0 the maximum depth of mineral in the rotary vessel; an annular plenum in axial alignment with the port, in gas flow communication with the port, and having an air inlet damper valve; a blower fan for creating reduced pressure in 
'
5 the annular plenum to withdraw at least a portion of the 


kiln gas stream into the plenum to form a kiln gas bypass stream.
38. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a solid fuel charging port in the rotary vessel located in the calcining zone.
39. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising means for charging air into the kiln gas stream through a port in the rotary vessel located downstream of the hottest portion of the calcining zone. 40. The apparatus of claim 38 further comprising means for charging air into the kiln gas stream through a port in the rotary vessel located downstream of the hottest portion of the calcining zone.
41. An apparatus for controlling the kiln gas stream in a rotary cement kiln comprising a rotating vessel having a fired lower end having an adjacent clinkering zone and an adjacent clinker cooler and an upper gas exit end said kiln gas stream flowing from the fired lower end to the upper gas exit end, said apparatus comprising a port in the rotary vessel and means for preventing in-process mineral from flowing through said port, an annular plenum in alignment with said port axially along the length of the rotary vessel and in gas flow communication with said port and means for controlling gas pressure in the annular plenum to induce gas flow through said port.
42. The apparatus of claim 41 where the gas pressure control means comprises a variable speed fan.
43. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the means for preventing in-process mineral from flowing through the port is a drop tube extending from the port into the tube.
44. The apparatus of claim 43 further comprising means for cleaning the port and the drop tube during kiln operation. 


 45. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising means for cleaning the port during kiln operation.
46. The apparatus of claim 45 wherein the cleaning means comprises an industrial shotgun or an air cannon positioned to fire into the port at a pre¬ determined point during kiln rotation.
47. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the pressure in the annular plenum is controlled to induce kiln gas flow from the rotary vessel and into the plenum to create a kiln gas bypass stream.
48. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the pressure in the annular plenum is controlled to promote flow of air into the plenum through the port and into the rotary vessel to raise oxygen levels in the kiln gas stream.
49. The apparatus of claim 48 further comprising means for delivering pre-heated air into the plenum. 50. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein the pre¬ heated air delivery means includes a conduit in gas flow communication with the clinker cooler.
51. A method for monitoring combustion efficiency in long rotary cement kilns comprising a kiln gas flowing through a rotary vessel having a clinkering zone, a pre-heater/calcining zone and a drying zone, without interference from volatilized organics typically found in cement raw materials, said method comprising the steps of withdrawing a portion of the kiln gases from the rotating vessel at a point upstream of the drying zone, relative to the flowing kiln gases, to form a kiln gas bypass stream, and analyzing the bypass stream gases to identify and quantify combustion products. 


 52. The method of claim 51 wherein at least 10% of the kiln gas stream is withdrawn from the rotary vessel to form the kiln bypass stream.
53. The method of claim 52 further comprising the step of returning the kiln bypass stream to the kiln gas stream at a point downstream of the hottest portion of the calcining zone. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
