<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613838</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for conveying and grouping products.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G1700	B65G1700	B65G4704	B65G4708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G17	B65G17	B65G47	B65G47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for conveying, collecting and grouping foodstuffs and 
other products, or packs (P), coming from at least one conveyor (3) at 

the exit from a production line and directed for example towards 
cartoning, comprising an endless conveyor (T) on which idle trolleys 

(7) run, having on their outside product collection pockets (6) and 
with at least one accelerator unit (50) positioned on the inside of 

the said conveyor (T), consisting of a second thrust conveyor (51) 
suitable for exerting rolling friction on the trolleys (7) in their 

forward direction. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GECA SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GECA S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELLANTE PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELLANTE, PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The object of the present invention is an apparatus for conveying and 
orderly grouping products or packs coming one after the other from one 
or more supply conveyors, particularly packaging lines in the 
foodstuffs sector or in other packing sectors. Apparatuses of the above type are already known and are mainly 
utilized for transferring foodstuffs or other products, on leaving a 
wrapping machine, to a subsequent packing or cartoning station, where 
such products are taken individually or in groups and put into 
suitable container boxes, or in subsequent grouping and conveyor 
systems. As far as possible, these apparatuses must even out the different feed 
rate or the discontinuities of the incoming products. For this 
purpose, apparatuses have been planned in which the products are 
collected individually in independent seats or pockets, each carried 
by a trolley which is idle mounted on an endless conveyor. Such 
trolleys are operated only when the corresponding pockets have been 
filled with the product. The operating means for the trolleys, which are usually idle, consist 
of purely mechanical means, associated with the individual trolleys, 
such as, for example, friction plates, belts, bands, and the like. 
This leads to the apparatus having a very complex structure, but, more  
 
especially, these means are subject to wear and therefore breaking as 
time goes on. This is a serious problem if it is considered that the said 
apparatuses are, in most cases, included in foodstuff production 
lines, such as lines for producing icecream or oven-baked products, 
and for this reason any downtime of the apparatus, in order to be able 
to carry out the replacement of a damaged part, involves considerable 
loss of the product, which continues to be fed in by the lines 
upstream. The aim of the invention is to eliminate the above drawbacks by 
providing an apparatus for conveying, collecting and grouping products 
or packs, which is structurally simple, and therefore economical, in 
which the risks of failure due to wear have been reduced to a minimum, 
if not entirely removed, by greatly reducing the mechanical operating 
means for the independent trolleys. The aim is achieved, according to the invention by means of the 
characteristics listed in the appended claims. In particular, the idle trolleys, run inside an endless conveyor, and 
the said endless conveyor consists of two double side chains in which 
the outer rollers receive their motion by means of usual toothed 
sprockets and are guided by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for conveying, collecting and grouping products 
or packs (P), coming from at least one conveyor (3) at the exit from a 

production line, which are directed towards cartoning for example, 
comprising an endless conveyor (T), on which a number of idle trolleys 

(7) are foreseen provided with respective collection pockets (6), into 
which the products (P) are individually received, to be subsequently 

conveyed, collected and grouped, characterized in that inside the said 
conveyor (T) at least one accelerator unit (50) is foreseen which 

exerts a thrust on the trolleys (7) in the direction of the forward 
movement of the conveyor (T), the said accelerator device, (50) 

consisting of a second conveyor (51) rotating at a higher speed with 
respect to the conveyor (T), is thrust against the inner face of the 

trolleys (7) exerting rolling friction on them. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that an 
accelerator unit (50) is foreseen before the loading area of the 

products (P), so as always to guarantee the presence of pockets (6) 
in such area. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that an accelerator unit (50) is foreseen in the collection and 

grouping area of the trolleys (7) with pockets (6) provided with 
products (P), to facilitate the evacuation of the trolleys themselves 

after the products have been expelled. 
An apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, 
characterized in that the said second conveyor (51) of the accelerator 

unit (50) consists of a pair of thrust chains pressed against the 
inner face of the trolleys (7) by a spring system (52). 
An apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that it 
foresees means for cancelling the thrust of the said springs (52), so 

as to keep the said chains (51) spaced out from the inner face of the 
trolleys (7). 
An apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, 
characterized in that the said second conveyor (51) is provided with 

autonomous driving means. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that 
an independently operated grooved wheel (14) is foreseen in the said 

loading area for the products P, said wheel being provided with seats 
(19) for receiving the trolleys (7). 
An apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that the 
said grooved wheel (14) is located at one return end of said endless 

conveyor (T), the other end of which is motorized by means of at least 
one toothed pinion (12). 
An apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that the 
said grooved wheel (14) is located at an intermediate point of the 

upper leg of the said endless conveyor (T). 
An apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, characterized in 

that the said accelerator unit (50) receives motion from the shaft 
(57) of the said grooved wheel (14) or from the shaft (59) on which 

the said sprocket wheels (12) are mounted. 
An apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, 
characterized in that the said endless conveyor (T) consists of two 

double side chains (10), in which the outer rollers (17) are guided by 
special chain-guides (11) and receive their motion by means of toothed 

sprocket wheels (12), while the inner rollers (18) guide the trolleys 
(7), which although they are idle are able to move forward along the 

conveyor by the effect of their own weight. 
An apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, 
characterized in that on the end section of the said at least one 

feeder conveyor (3) for the products (P) two side belts (5) are 
foreseen, which can move in an oscillating way in the advancing 

direction of the collection pockets (6), to facilitate the 
introduction of the products P into the pockets, with particularly 

high speeds, the oscillating motion of the belts (5) being received 
from a motor (101) which operates the said grooved wheel (14). 
An apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, 
characterized in that the rotation speed of the said grooved wheel 

(14) varies according to the speed at which the products are fed. 
An apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, 
which is provided with a plurality of feeding lines (3) and a further 

conveyor (20) fed in phase by the grooved wheel (14), in such a way 
 

that a pocket (6) is set in correspondence with each line (3) 
regularly feeding a product (P). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
