<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0905599</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A multiple contact joystick
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05G900	H01H8900	H01H2506	H01H2500	H01H2504	H01H2504	G05G9047	H01H8900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05G	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	G05G	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05G9	H01H89	H01H25	H01H25	H01H25	H01H25	G05G9	H01H89	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a multiple contact input
device. An object thereof is to make it possible to use a single

operation member (4) in common for the purpose of controlling
a coordinate signal and setting a point thereby preventing two

switches from simultaneously operating. In addition, another
object is to reduce the number of elements of the multiple

contact input device and thin the device. A base (11) is
provided with a first switch (2) and four second switches (3)

at a periphery of the first switch (2), and the operation member
(4) is provided with a first pressing portion (43), second

pressing members (44), and projections (45). When the
operation member (4) is swung longitudinally and laterally, the

second pressing portions (44) press the second switches (3).
When the operation member (4) is swung diagonally, the each

projection (45) touches a receiving portion of the base (11),
thereby preventing the second pressing portions (44) from

pressing the second switches (3). When the operation member
(4) is pushed, the first pressing portion (43) presses the first

switch (2).

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOSIDEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOSIDEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIMATA YOSHIHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIMATA, YOSHIHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a multiple contact input device. Especially, the multiple contact input device according to the present invention comprises a first switch for being operated through a pushing motion of an operation member and a plurality of second switches for being operated by a swinging motion of the operation member. Such a multiple contact input device is useful as a pointing device employed for navigation systems or the like.A gazette of Japanese Utility Model Registration No. 2541120 has a description of a changeover switch device. In the changeover switch device, a circular operation plate is swingingly moved, thereby enabling four switches disposed on four points at intervals of 90° to be selectively operated. In the changeover switch device, a supporting shaft being a fulcrum for swinging movement is disposed on a center portion of the operation plate, four points at intervals of 90° at a periphery of the supporting shaft have respectively operation portions respectively corresponding to the four switches, and each stopper is disposed between the respective two adjacent operation portions. According to a direction of a force applied to the operation plate, the stopper exhibits an effect for interrupting the swinging movement of the operation plate, and such a swinging preventing effect by the stopper can prevent the two switches from being operated simultaneously.A gazette of Japanese Utility Model Laid-open No: 6-9025 has a description of a paddle switch. In this paddle switch, a circular key top plate is swingingly operated, thereby operating selectively four switches arranged on four points at intervals of 90°. Moreover, a hole formed on a center of the key top plate is provided with a key top and the switches disposed on the center portion of the base are operated when the key top is pressed. Moreover, the gazette has a description wherein a plate spring is employed so as to return the key top plate to a neutral position and the clicking plate is employed so as to return the key top.According to the second prior art, for example, it is possible to output a coordinate signal through a swinging movement operation of the key top plate. Moreover, through the pressing operation of the key top, it is possible to output a point setting signal for generating a determination signal for deciding the previously input coordinate. However, the key top plate and the key top are independently required so as to output the coordinate signal and the point setting signal, thus causing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiple contact input device comprising:

a first switch (2),
plural second switches (3) disposed on a plurality of periphal portions positioned at regular intervals from the first switch,
a base (11) including the first switch (2) and the second switches (3),
an operation member (4) including a first pressing portion (43) for operating the first switch (2), plural second pressing portions (44) corresponding to their respective second switches (3) and a one-side-member of either a projection (45) or a receiving portion arranged on each position between respective two of the second pressing portions (44) disposed on the operation member and adjacent to each other, and
another-side-member of either a projection or a receiving portion (14) arranged on the base (11) for touching the one-side-member when the operation member (4) is swung, thereby preventing the two second pressing portions (44) on both sides of the one-side-member for pressing simultaneously the second switches (3) corresponding thereto and switching the first switch by a pressing operation at the same time.
A multiple contact device according to claim 1, wherein the first switch (2) is opened or closed through a snapping motion of a first movable portion (23).
A multiple contact input device according to claim 1, wherein the second switches (3) are opened or closed through a snapping motion of each second movable portion (33).
A multiple contact input device according to claim 1, wherein the operation member (4) has a plate-shaped portion (41), the plate-shaped portion is provided with the one first pressing portion (43), the plural second pressing portions (44) and the plural one-side-members (45).
A multiple contact input device according to claim 4, comprising a spring member (5) for touching the operation member (4) thereby elastically and usually pressing the first pressing portion (43) of the operation member (4) against the first movable portion (23), and usually urging the operation member (4) toward a neutral position set at a non-pressing position wherein the all second pressing members (44) do not press the second movable portions.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 4, wherein a case is formed by the base and a side wall (12) raised on a periphery of the base, the case has a cover body fixed therein, a sheet is applied on a upper surface of the first movable portion (23) and the second movable portion (33), there is the spring member (5) between the cover and the plate-shaped portion of the operation member (4) for elastically urging the operation member toward the cover body (6), and usually urging the operation member (4) toward a neutral position set at a non-pressing position wherein the all second pressing members (44) do not press the second movable portions.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 1 comprising an engaging mechanism for preventing the operation member (4) from axially rotating.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 8, wherein a case includes the base (11) and the side wall (12) raised on the periphery of the base, and the each engaging mechanism is provided with a recess formed on a periphery of the plate-shaped portion (41) of the operation member (4), and a protrusion (18) formed on the side wall of the case, and engaged with the recess.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 1, wherein the second switches (3) are disposed on four points at intervals of 90°, and the other side members (45) are disposed on four points at intervals of 90°.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 1, wherein the each second switch (3) comprises:

the rectangular second movable portion (33) having a second usual-opening contact (35) and second usual-closing contacts (34), the second usual-closing contacts made of a plate piece curved opposite to the second usual-opening contact being disposed on both sides of the second usual-opening contact through slits (36), and the both ends in a longitudinal direction of the second usual-opening contact (35) and the second usual-closing contact (34) being connected with each other via each short circuit portion (37),
a second usual-closing fixing contact (31) buried in the base and usually touching the second usual-closing contacts (34), and
a second usual-opening fixing contact (32) buried in the base and corresponding to the second usual-opening contact (35).
A multiple contact input device according to either of claims 1 and 10, wherein the first switch (2) comprises the circular first movable portion (23) made of a dome-shaped snap plate having a first usual-opening contact (22) formed on a center portion thereof and a first usual-closing contact (21) formed on a peripheral portion thereof, a first usual-closing fixing contact buried in the base for usually touching the first usual-closing contact, and a first usual-opening fixing contact buried in the base for corresponding to the first usual-opening contact.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 11, wherein the second movable portion (33) of the second switch (3) is arranged so as to make a longitudinal direction of the second usual-opening contact (35) and the second usual-closing contact (31) correspond to a crossing direction with respect to a radial direction of the first movable portion (23).
A multiple contact input device according to claim 11, wherein the first usual-closing fixing contact (21) and the second usual-closing fixing contact (31) are unified as a common electrode.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 11, wherein partitions for dividing a surface of the base into four sections at a periphery of an installation point of the first switch (2) are disposed on four points of the base at intervals of 90° so as to protrude from the surface of the base (11), and a space surrounded by an inner end surface of the partitions is allocated to a portion for arranging the first movable portion (23), and each space between the respective two partitions adjacent to each other in a direction of arranging the partitions is allocated to each portion for arranging the second movable portions (33).
A multiple contact input device according to claim 14, wherein the one-side-member is the projection (45), the first pressing portion (43), the second pressing portion (44) and the projection is subsequently decreased in a projecting length from the plate-shaped portion, while the another-side-member is the receiving member, and the receiving member is formed on the surface of the partition.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 6, wherein an aperture arranged on a center portion of the cover body is penetrated by an operation rod protruding to the center portion of the operation member, and the operation rod is protruded to an outer side of the cover body.
A multiple contact input device according to either of claims 5 and 6, wherein the spring member (5) is made of a plate spring.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 10, wherein, in the second movable portion (33), the longitudinally both ends of the second usual-closing contact (34) and the short circuit portions are bent by a folding line of a boundary portion thereof.
A multiple contact input device according to claim 11, wherein the first movable portion (23) is formed by overlapping the two snap plates with each other.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
