<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656758</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFLATABLE OBJECT, ESPECIALLY AN AIR MATTRESS, WITH A PART ACTING AS A PUMP AND A PART WHICH CAN BE INFLATED THEREBY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47C2708	H01R13627	A47C2708	H01R13627	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47C	H01R	A47C	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47C27	H01R13	A47C27	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an inflatable object, especially an air mattress, with a part acting as a pump and a part inflatable thereby. In the pump part there is a device for spreading its walls making it unnecessary initially to provide air via the user's mouth or a bellows. According to the invention, there is a particulate propellant material which may also take the form of waste. By propellant is meant a material which can be compressed and, on decompression, with the supply of air, increases its volume. To prevent material particles from penetrating into the valve between the pump and inflatable parts, an air-permeable wall is fitted in front of said valve.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Inflatable object, in particular an air mattress, comprising a section 
serving as a pump and a section to be inflated by the pump, with the 

following features: 

a) the pump section (1) accommodates a means for spreading apart 
the walls of the pump section: 
b) an inlet opening (3) arranged in the pump section is closeable by 
a plug (4); 
c) between the pump section (1) and the section (2) to be inflated is 
arranged a one-way outlet valve which freely passes air from the 

pump section (1); 
d) a small opening permits a small flowback of air in the opposite 
direction from the inflatable section (2) into the pump section (1); 
e) in the section (2) to be inflated is arranged an outlet opening (21), 
which is closeable by a plug (21); 
characterised
 by the following features: 

f) in the pump section (1) is placed particulate propellant material 
(1a) as a means for spreading apart the walls of the pump section, 

said material being compressible and increasing its volume on 
decompression and with the addition of air; and 
g) in front of the one-way outlet valve is arranged an air-permeable 
wall (39). 
Object according to claim 1, characterised in that open cell propellent 
material, synthetic wool, plush filler or the like are used as propellant 

material (1a).  
 
Object according to claim 1 or 2, characterised by the following features: 

between pump section (1) and section (2) to be inflated is arranged 
a valve block (5); 
the valve block (5) comprises a channel (6) which connects the 
pump section (1) to the section (2) to be inflated; 
transversely to this channel (6), the valve block (5) receives a 
bore (7) the diameter of which is larger than that of the channel 

(6); 
in the section (6a) of channel (6) which is orientated toward the 
pump section (1) is accomodated a one-way valve (9) which co-acts 

with the device (9a) for small flowback of air; 
into the bore (7) is inserted a valve body (10), which in one 
position connects the sections (6a, 6b) of the channel (6) whilst 

sealing towards the atmosphere, and in a second position separates 
the sections (6a, 6b) of the channel (6) whilst sealing towards the 

atmosphere. 
Air mattress according to claim 3, characterised in that the small 
flowback from the section (2) to be inflated to the pump section (1) is 

achieved by leakage of the one-way valve (9). 
Air mattress according to claim 3, characterised in that the small 
flowback is achieved by means of a small opening in the valve sealing 

body of the one-way valve (9). 
Object according to claim 3, characterised in that the small flowback 
is achieved by means of a bypass (9a) around the one-way valve (9).  

 
Object according to one of claims 3 to 6, characterised in that valve 
body (10) to be inserted into the bore (7) is a cylinder slide with an 

annular groove (12) arranged therein. 
Object according to one of claims 3 to 6, characterised in that valve 
body (10) to be inserted into the bore (7) is a rotary slide comprising 

a cylinder (15) with segments (17) removed on both sides of a wall 
(16). 
Object according to one of claims 3 to 8, characterised in that the 
valve block (5) has in the longitudinal section a cross-section which 

reduces from the bore (7) towards both sides. 
Object according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the inlet opening 
(3) is sealed by a hose valve which comprises two foil strips 

which are interconnected at the edges and which intrudes into the inner 
space of the pump section (1). 
Object according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the inlet opening 
(3) is formed by an opening, which is provided in the encasement 

(40) and which is closed by the user during the pumping process. 
Object according to claim 1, 2, 10 or 12, characterised in that the 
one-way outlet valve, which is arranged between the pump section (1) 

and the section (2) to be inflated, is a diaphragm valve (19) comprising 
two foil strips, which are interconnected at the edges, and which 

intrudes into the inner space of the section (2) to be inflated and that 
the foil strips (23) have a rough inner surface in order to achieve the 

desired leakage of the valve.  
 
Object according to claim 12, characterised in that the foil strips (23) 
at the inlet side are connected to the wall of the pump section (1) 

which receives the valve. 
Object according to claim 13, characterised in that the foil strips (23) 
are interconnected on three sides, and that one foil strip (23) is provided 

with an opening (25). 
Object according to claim 13, characterised in that the diaphragm valve 
(19) widens conically on the outlet side (24). 
Object according to one of claims 1, 2, 10 or 11, characterised in that 
the one-way outlet valve comprises a thin foil (27) which at least 

covers one opening (26) in a wall of the pump section (1). 
Object according to one of claims 1 to 16, characterised in that the 
pump section (1) is located anywhere on the object. 
Object according to claim 17, characterised in that the pump section 
(1) of an air mattress is formed by at least part of the head section. 
Object according to claim 17, characterised in that the pump section 
(1) of an air mattress is accomodated in the lying section of the 

mattress. 
Object according to claim 19, characterised in that on a three sectional 
mattress which can be erected to form a seat with the head section 

becoming the seat section, a one-way valve is arranged between the 
centre section and the head section.  

 
Object according to claim 20, characterised in that the one-way valve 
is a diaphragm valve (20) comprising two internally smooth foil strips 

(23), which are interconnected on the edges and which intrudes into the 
inner area of the head section. 
Object according to claim 19, characterised in that a three-sectional 
mattress which can be erected to form a seat with the head section 

becoming the seat section, an externally sealable passage is arranged 
between centre section and head section. 
Object according to claim 22, characterised in that the sealing element 
is a clamping bar (29) comprising two bars (30) which are displaceable 

towards one another. 
Object according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the pump 
section (1) is part of the head section of an air mattress and separated 

by a separating wall (34a) from the section (2) to be inflated, and that 
this separating wall (34a) with an extension (35a) forms the diaphragm 

valve (35). 
Object according to claim 24, characterised in that for the flowback of 
air from the section (2) to be inflated into the pump section (1) a 

small opening (37) is provided either in the part of the diaphragm 
valve (35) which intrudes into the section (2) to be inflated, i.s. as 

close as possible to the seam between pump section (1) and section (2) 
to bee inflated, or in the separating wall (34a). 
Object according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that between the 
pump section (1) and the section (2) to be inflated is placed a separating 

wall (38) which interconnects oppositely placed encasements (40),  
 

and that a diaphragm valve (35) is arranged in this separating wall 
(38). 
Object according to claim 26, characterised in that the diaphragm valve 
(35) is welded into the separating wall (38). 
Object according to claim 26, characterised in that the separating wall 
(44) is formed by two foils (44a), which are interconnected at their 

lateral edges and with extensions (45a) form the diaphragm valve (35). 
Object according to claim 28, characterised in that the foil parts of 
foils (44a) located opposite the diaphragm valve (35) are trapezoidal 

and in their corners crossed by seams (43) which separate the section 
(2) to be inflated from the pump section (1). 
Object according to one of claims 26 to 29, characterised in that a 
small opening (37) for a small flowback of air is arranged in the 

separating wall (34a, 44). 
Object according to one of claims 24 to 30, characterised in that the 
ratio of width and length of the diaphragm valve (35) is approximately 

between 1:1,5 and 1:3. 
Object according to one of claims 1 to 31, characterised in that the 
inlet opening (3) has a substantially smaller cross-section relative to the 

cross-section of the one-way outlet valve. 
Object according to one of claims 1 to 32, characterised in that a short 
socket (41), which is arranged in the encasement (40) of the pump  

 
section (1) or of the section (2) to be inflated, serves as an inlet 

opening (3, 3a) and as an outlet opening (21). 
Object according to one of claims 1 to 33, characterised in that the 
inlet opening (3, 3a) and the outlet opening (21) are surrounded by at 

least one elastic perforated plate (46), whior is connected to the encasement 
(17) of the pump section (1) or of the section (2) to be inflated, 

and that the diameter of the hole in the perforated plate (46) is smaller 
than the diameter of the opening in the encasement (40) and the diameter 

of the plug (4). 
Object according to one of claims 10 to 34, characterised in that the 
air-permeable separating wall (39) defines the size of the valve opening 

of the diaphragm valve (35) vertically to the valve slot. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
