<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625939</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MELTBLOWING DIE HAVING PRESETTABLE AIR-GAP AND SET-BACK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4708	D01D402	B29C4730	B29C4708	B29C4730	D01D400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	D01D	B29C	B29C	B29C	D01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	D01D4	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	D01D4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A metblowing die designed to efficiently receive a preassembled die tip assembly is described. The die assembly includes a die body (19) mounted on a meltblowing machine and a replaceable die tip assembly (20). The die tip assembly (20) includes a mounting block (25), to which are mounted a die tip (26) and air knives (27, 28) on opposite sides of the die tip (26). The positions of the air knives (27, 28) are adjustable to set air gap and set back parameters important in proper operation. The die tip assembly (20) is moved into and out of the die body (19) after air knife adjustment, permitting adjustment to be made with the die tip assembly (20) off the machine, allowing rapid replacement. The replacement die tip assembly (20) is preheated, permitting replacement while the die body (19) is still hot.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCURATE PROD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCURATE PRODUCTS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUEHNING PETER G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUEHNING, PETER, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to meltblowing dies and
specifically to a meltblowing die with a replaceable die tip,
wherein the air-gap and set-back parameters may be adjusted as
desired before replacement. In another aspect, the invention
relates to a method of replacing the die tip of a meltblowing die.Meltblowing is a process for manufacturing nonwoven products
by extruding a molten thermoplastic polymer resin through a
plurality of small orifices to form fine fibers while blowing
converging sheets of air onto each side of the orifices to
attenuate and draw down the fibers. The extruded fibers are blown
onto a moving collector surface where they entangle in a random
way to produce a nonwoven fabric or web. The newly formed web is
directly withdrawn from the collector for further processing as
desired. The overall process is carried out continuously. The
webs may be further processed into a number of commercially
important products such as filters, fabrics, and battery
separators among others. Meltblowing dies are disclosed in U.S.
Patent Nos. 3,978,185, 4,818,463, and 4,986,743.A key component of a meltblowing die is the die tip. The die
tip is an elongate member having an outwardly protruding nosepiece
of triangular cross-section terminating in an apex with a row of
side-by-side orifices drilled through the apex. A polymer melt is
forced through the orifices for extruding the polymer and 
discharged as side-by-side molten or semimolten fibers. The die
tip is generally formed of high quality steel in a separate
machining process and fastened to the face of the die body using
bolts. Precise machining is required to achieve uniform polymer
flow over the length of the row of orifices. The polymer is
forced through the die tip orifices by applying very substantial
pressure to the molten polymer inside the tip. The internal
pressure induces tensile stress in the die tip which tends to
concentrate near the apex of the tip and may cause the tip to fail
in tension. U.S. Patent No. 4,986,743 teaches a method for
mounting the die tip on the die body with induced compression in
the apex region to counterbalance the tensile stress, rendering
the die tip more reliable in service.Other important components of the meltblowing die are
elongate plates referred to as air knives which, in combination
with the die tip nosepiece, form converging air flows to attenuate
and draw down the extruded fibers to microsized diameters. The
air knives are generally thick elongate plates which have a
longitudinal edge tapered to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A meltblowing process which includes the replacement of a die tip assembly, which
process comprises:


providing a meltblowing machine comprising in use:

(i) an elongated die body (19) having a polymer flow passage (24) formed therein,
an upper inlet (44) of said flow passage being connected to a source (10) of polymer to be

meltblown, and a lower discharge end (24a) of said flow passage forming an elongate
polymer flow port in a lower surface (18) of said die body, said die body further having air

flow passages (51) disposed on either side of said polymer flow passage, and said die body
having heaters (14) for heating said polymer and air, and
(ii) a die tip assembly (11) comprising:

(a) a die tip (26) having an outwardly-extending nosepiece (58) of triangular cross-section
terminating at an apex, an elongate polymer channel (49) within said nosepiece for

communicating with the polymer flow passage and a plurality of orifices (72) extending
through said nosepiece into said channel; and
(b) first and second air knife plates (27,28) mounted on either side of said die tip
by mounting means (82,86) to allow selection of the position of the air knife plates with

respect to the die tip, defining air gaps (E) between the nosepiece and air knife plates, and
set back (F) of the air knife plates with respect to the apex of the nose piece;
extruding a molten polymer through the orifices of the die tip;
when it is desired to replace the die tip assembly, discontinuing the extrusion, and
replacing the die tip assembly; and
recommencing extrusion;
said process being characterised by replacing the die tip assembly with a
preadjusted die tip assembly as follows:
additionally providing the die tip assembly with an elongated mounting block (25)
having an upper surface for mating with and being secured to said lower surface of said

die body, such that polymer and air flow passages formed in said mounting block mate
with corresponding passages in said die body; and 
providing a replacement die tip assembly which is preadjusted by assembling the
die tip and air knife plates to the mounting block such that the replacement assembly

exhibits desired values for the air gaps (E) and set back (F) prior to mating and securing
the replacement assembly to the die body.
The method of claim 1 comprising the further step of
preheating the replacement die tip to the approximate temperature

of the die tip in use prior to said step (e).
The method of claim 2 wherein the operating temperature
of the die assembly is between 150 and 409°C (350 and 900 degrees Fahrenheit), and

wherein the replacement die tip is preheated to within 240°C (50 degrees
Fahrenheit) of the operating temperature
The method of claim 3 wherein the operating temperature
of the die assembly is between about

174 and about 315°C (about
400 and about 700 degrees 

Fahrenheit) and wherein the replacement die tip is preheated
substantially to the operating temperature.
The method of claim 4 wherein the die assembly is
maintained at the operating temperature during replacement of the

die tip with the replacement die tip.
The method of claim 1 wherein the die block includes an

elongate cavity (17) formed therein and the die tip is mounted on a
mounting block, which is complementary in cross-section to the

cross-section of said cavity, the mounting block with the die tip
mounted thereon being slidable into and out of said cavity.
The method of claim 6 wherein the cross-section of said
elongate cavity includes longitudinal support ribs (22,23) extending along

opposed walls (21a,21b) of said cavity, and the cross-section of said
mounting block defines elongate slots (32,33) accepting said support ribs,

whereby said step of moving the replacement die tip into the die
assembly includes the step of sliding said block with the die tip

mounted thereon into said cavity from one end thereof, such that
said ribs fit within said slots to support said block.
The method of claim 1, wherein said die block defines a
cavity (17) for receiving the die tip assembly, and said step (e) is

performed by lifting the die tip assembly into said cavity. 
A die assembly (11) for a meltblowing machine, said assembly comprising:

(a) an elongated die body (19) defining a polymer flow passage (24) and air flow
passages (51) on either side thereof, said die body receiving heaters (14) for heating

polymer and air flowing in said passages,
(b) a die tip (26) having an outwardly-extending nosepiece (58) of triangular cross-section
terminating in an apex, an elongate polymer channel (49) being formed within said

nosepiece for communicating with the polymer flow passage, and a plurality of orifices
(72) being formed in at least one row along the apex and communicating with said

polymer channel; and
(c) first and second air knife plates (27,28) on opposite sides of the nosepiece and
therewith defining converging air passages (54,55) for communication with said air flow

passages, said air knife plates being spaced from said nosepiece by air gaps (75,76);

said assembly being characterised by said die body defining a surface (18) for
receiving a mounting block (25), and said polymer and air passages terminating at said

surface for mating with corresponding passages (45,52,53) defined by said mounting
block;
and said assembly additionally including:
(d) an elongate mounting block (25) adapted to be received by and secured to said
surface of said die body such that polymer and air flow passages in said mounting block

mate with corresponding passages in said die body;
(e) means (82,86; 83,87) for adjustably securing the air knife plates to the
mounting block, said means for securing permitting adjustment of the air gaps (E) and set

back (F) of the air knife plates with respect to the apex of the nosepiece; and
(f) means (34,35) for clamping the mounting block with the die tip and air knife
plates secured thereto to the die body and being releasable to permit the mounting block

with the die tip and air knife plates secured thereto to be removed therefrom.
The die assembly of claim 9, wherein the die body
has an elongate cavity (17) therein, said cavity in said die

body and said mounting block define mating shoulders (22,23) and
grooves (32,33), whereby said mounting block may be supported

within said cavity in said die body as said mounting
block is slid into said cavity from one end thereof.
The die assembly of claim 9 wherein said means for
adjustably securing said air knife plates to the mounting

block comprises means (84a-84c, 85, 86) defining a plurality of selectable
discrete vertical positions of the air knife plates with

respect to the apex of the nosepiece, and selectable
spacer members (83,87) for determining the lateral positions of

the air knife plates with respect to the nosepiece.
The die assembly of claim 11 wherein said means 
defining a plurality of selectable discrete vertical

positions of the air knife plates with respect to the
apex of the nosepiece comprises a plurality of sets of

vertically and laterally spaced dowel pin receiving holes (84a-84c)
formed in one of said mounting block and each of said air

plates, and a like plurality of sets of vertically
aligned and laterally spaced dowel pin receiving holes (85)

formed in the other of said mounting block and each of
said air plates.
The die assembly of claim 9, wherein said means for
clamping the mounting block to the die body comprises a

plurality of compression rods (34,35) spaced along the length of
the die body, and adapted to urge the mounting block into

engagement with the die body.
The die assembly of claim 13 wherein said
compression rods comprise threaded members threadingly

engaging the die body.
The die assembly of claim 9, wherein said mounting
block is adapted to be lifted to said die body.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
