<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634709</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of producing holograms and diffraction gratings
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03H118	G03H126	G03H104	G03H118	G03H104	G03H102	G03H102	G03H128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hologram is fabricated by opening a volume 
phase reflection hologram formed in a recording medium (15) 

such as a positive photoresist. The opening occurs by 
forming a second hologram, such as an off-axis hologram, 

in the same recording medium. The opened hologram can 
be replicated in metal and the metal can be used to 

emboss the fringe pattern of the opened hologram into 
plastic. A full range of colors in the visible spectrum 

may be obtained by metallizing the embossed plastic 
structure and then by overcoating it with appropriate 

clear dielectric layers. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLAROID CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLAROID CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COWAN JAMES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COWAN, JAMES J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to a method of
producing diffraction gratings and holograms.A hologram is a recording of an interference
fringe pattern between two beams of light. One of these
beams usually comprises light reflected from a real
object and is called an "object beam," while the other
beam is usually a pure and unmodulated beam and is
called a "reference beam." If the object beam is pure
and unmodulated like the reference beam, then a set of
regular interference fringes is recorded and the
hologram is referred to as a holographic diffraction
grating. When a hologram is illuminated with only the
reference beam, the object beam is exactly reproduced in
phase and amplitude.There are two types of holographic recording
configurations that are in prevalent use today. The
first is called an off-axis, or "Leith-Upatniaks,"
hologram. In forming this type of hologram, the object
beam and the reference beam impinge upon a recording
medium from the same side and from directions which are
separated by a small angle. As shown in FIG. 1, the
planes of the resulting interference fringes, which
planes bisect the angle, are formed substantially
perpendicular to the surface of the recording medium. 
Holographic diffraction gratings and embossed display
holograms in use today are predominantly formed from
this type of hologram.This hologram is considered to be an
improvement over the original hologram invented by
Gabor, before the advent of the laser and its coherent
light made off-axis configuration possible. With the
Gabor, or in-line hologram, the object and reference
beams fall in a line on the same axis. Because of the
considerable difficulties involved in separating these
beams, this hologram never came into wide use. As shall
be seen later, however, one embodiment of the present
invention exploits this configuration to useful
advantage.Embossed display holograms are typically
formed from off-axis holograms in a multi-step process.
The first step usually involves making a primary
off-axis hologram where the real object is positioned
some distance from the surface of the recording medium
and the reference beam is a collimated or parallel beam.
The second step usually involves illuminating the
primary off-axis hologram with a collimated beam of
light to project a real image of the object into space.
A second hologram is then made by positioning a new
recording medium at the position of the projected real
image and by introducing a new reference beam at an
angle. After development, the second hologram can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a hologram comprising the
steps of: forming a volume phase reflection hologram in a

medium (15) by projecting two beams of light into the
medium from opposite sides thereof, one of the beams having

first impinged upon an object to form a reflection hologram
of the object, and opening up the surface of the medium such that a portion of the interference

fringes of the volume phase reflection hologram can be accessed for
subsequent development by an etchant, by projecting at

least two further beams onto a surface on the same side of
the medium, which beams are disposed at an angle with

respect to each other; and, developing the medium with said
etchant to provide a holographic stepped relief structure.
A method of replicating a hologram, comprising
carrying out a method according to claim 1, and coating the

surface of the volume phase hologram with a metal to form
a master; and embossing the master in a new medium.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
medium (15) is photoresist and the step of opening

comprises exposing the medium to at least three coherent
beams.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the medium is photoresist and the
at least two further beams are generated by projecting a

coherent beam through a coarse Ronchi grating.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
medium (15) is photoresist and the step of opening

comprises exposing the medium to a first unmodulated beam
and to a second beam which is first passed through or is

reflected from a body which scatters light randomly.
A method for forming a volume phase reflection
hologram comprising the steps of: exposing a holographic

phase medium by projecting onto one of its surfaces two
beams disposed at an angle to one another to form in the

medium interference fringes that are substantially
perpendicular to the surface and have a predetermined

periodicity; further exposing the medium from opposite
sides with two more beams to form therein interference 

fringes that are parallel to the medium surfaces and of
finer periodicity than that of the predetermined

periodicity of the perpendicular fringes so that both the
parallel and perpendicular interference fringes combine to

provide an exposure pattern in the medium that varies in
exposure level both over the surface and depth of the

medium; and developing the medium to provide a holographic stepped relief structure.
A method according to claim 6, wherein the
step of developing said medium comprises removing exposed material

therefrom to provide said holographic stepped relief structure
whose shape is substantially the complement of said

exposure pattern.
A method according to claim 6 or claim 7, further
including varying the angle with which the two beams enter

the opposite sides of the medium (15).
A method according to claim 7, further including the
step of coating the surface of the medium (15) with a

metal.
A method according to claim 9, further including the
step of overc
oating the metal coating on the surface with
a dielectric.
A method according to any of claims 6-10, wherein one
of the beams used to further expose said medium from

opposite sides thereof is a beam from an object.
A method according to claim 11, wherein said medium is
coated on a transparent substrate and said object is

encapsulated in an index matching medium matched to the
index of the substrate on the other side of said substrate

and wherein said object is illuminated from a reference
beam incident to the exposed surface of said medium whereby

said parallel fringes are created by the interference
between the reflection of the reference beam from the

object with the incoming reference beam and said
perpendicular fringes are created by the interference

between the reflection of the reference beam off the
interface between said substrate and said medium and the

reference beam reflected from the object. 
A method according to any of claims 6-10, wherein the
step of further exposing said medium from opposite sides

thereof with two beams further comprises the step of
placing a reflecting medium on one side thereof and

projecting a single beam through said medium from one side
thereof onto said reflecting medium to provide a reflected

beam therefrom directed back through said medium from the
same side on which the reflecting medium is placed so that

the original beam and reflected beam interface to provide
said parallel fringes.
A method according to any of claims 6-10, wherein one
of the beams used in making said further exposure of said

medium is an object beam from a master hologram that is
reconstructed by illuminating it with a reference beam.
A method according to claim 14, wherein said
holographic medium is disposed in front of and at an angle

to a mirror and wherein a portion of the reference beam
used to reconstruct said master hologram impinges on said

mirror and is reflected thereby toward the other side of
said holographic medium while another portion of said

reference beam directly impinges on the other side of said
holographic medium.
A method for forming a volume phase reflection
hologram according to claim 6, wherein the exposure pattern varies

in the form of fine generally
varying multiple steps distributed depthwise in the medium

within a coarser surface pattern.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
