<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637408</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR GENERATING AND EMPLOYING A HIGH DENSITY OF EXCITED IONS IN A LASANT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S306	H01S306	H01S3094	H01S3094	H01S30941	H01S30941	H01S311	H01S311	H01S316	H01S316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser system uses a high-power diode laser in cooperation with a nonimaging concentrator (58) to end pump a relatively thin, solid-state, highly doped lasant (12). The laser system generates a very high density of excited ions in the lasant mode volume to produce high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRO SCIENT IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRO SCIENTIFIC INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAIRD BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREEZ RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUN YUNLONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAIRD, BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREEZ, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUN, YUNLONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 -1 .METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR GENERATING AND EMPLOYING A HIGH DENSITY OF EXCITED IONS IN A LASANTTechnical FieldThe invention relates to lasers and, in particular, to a method and an apparatus for generating a high density of excited ions within a solid-state lasant of a Q-switched laser to generate high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse repetition freguencies.Background of the Invention The background description is presented herein only by way of example to methods for employing semiconductor lasers to pump solid-state diode lasers. For example, in U.S. Patent No. 3,982,201, Rosenkrantz et al. describe a solid-state laser that is pumped by single diodes or arrays of diodes to which the laser rod is directly end-coupled. Because the output wavelength of the diode laser array is a function of its temperature, the diode lasers are operated in a pulsed mode at a low duty cycle to maintain the array at a low enough temperature so that its output wavelength remains matched to the absorption bandwidth of the solid-state laser rod. The output power characteristics of this laser system are limited by the relatively inefficient match between the output of the diode lasers and mode volume of the solid- state laser rod.In "Efficient LiNdPi012 Lasers Pumped with a Lase Diode," Applied Optics, vol. 13, No. 23 (Dec. 1, 1979), 

 Kubodera and Otsuka describe the well-known practice of collecting the output light of a diode laser and focusing its expanded output light using conventional lenses, such as two microscope condenser lenses. This method is particularly well suited for applications where the emitter width and divergence of the diode laser are small. However, as the emitter dimensions and beam divergence increase, it becomes increasingly difficult to efficiently collect the output beam with collimating lens or lenses. It also becomes more difficult to focus the expanded beam into the solid-state laser crystal with sufficient depth of focus to allow efficient overlap of the pump beam throughout the resonator mode volume within the lasant. In U.S. Patent No. 4,710,940, Sipes, Jr. describes a neodymium: ttrium aluminum garnet (Nd:YAG) solid-state laser that is end-pumped by a diode laser array or by two diode laser arrays that have been combined by use of polarizing beam-splitting cubes. Sipes, Jr., cites the analysis of D.G. Hall in "Optimum Mode Size Criteria for Low Gain Lasers," Applied Optics, 1579-1583, vol. 20, (May 1, 1981), to suggest that the "pump profile shape
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for generating in a lasant mode volume a substantially high density of excited active ions having an effective fluorescence lifetime in a metastable excitation state, the method comprisingr optically pumping a lasant having a geometry, mode volume, and high concentration of active ions preselected to enhance the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume and thereby to reduce the effective fluorescence lifetime of active ions in metastable excitation state.
2. The method of claim 1 in which the lasant mode volume contains a ground state active ion population that is substantially decreased during optical pumping.
3. The method of claim 1 in which the high density of excited active ions within the lasant mode volume induces transitions from the metastable excitation state.
4. The method of claim 1 in which the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume exceeds about 1% of the active ions in the lasant mode volume.
5. The method of claim l further comprisingr employing a Q-switch to generate substantially high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of repetition frequencies. 6. The method of claim 1 in which the optically pumping step includes the use of a diode laser that generates greater than about 1 watt of power.
7. The method of claim 1 in which the optically pumping step includes efficiently coupling light generated by a pumping source into the lasant mode volume.
8. The method of claim 1 in which the lasant is of a solid-state type.
9. The method of claim 1 in which the lasant comprises a nonstoichiometric compound. 10. The method of claim 1 in which the lasant comprises NdrYLF. 


 11. The method of claim 1 in which the lasant comprises a rod having a length of about 0.5 to 5 mm.
12. The method of claim 1 in which the lasant comprises a platelet. 13. The method of claim 1 in which the optically pumping step includes employing a nonimaging concentrator to couple light generated by a pumping source into the lasant mode volume.
14. The method of claim 13 in which the nonimaging concentrator is end-coupled to the lasant.
15. The method of claim 13 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a high refractive index, crystalline, dielectric material.
16. The method of claim 13 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a cylindrical lens ground onto its input aperture.
17. The method of claim 13 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a substantially parabolic taper. 18. A laser system for generating in a lasant mode volume a substantially high density of excited active ions having an effective fluorescence lifetime in a metastable excitation state, comprising: a high-power pumping source for generating light; a lasant having a geometry, mode volume, and high concentration of active ions preselected to enhance the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume; and an optical coupler that couples light generated by the pumping source into the lasant mode volume to generate a high density of excited active ions therein and thereby to reduce the effective fluorescence lifetime of active ions in the metastable excitation state. 19. The laser system of claim 18 in which the 


high density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume induces transitions from the metastable excitation state.
20. The laser system of claim 18 in which the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume exceeds about 1% of the active ions in the lasant mode volume.
21. The laser system of claim 18 in which the pumping source comprises a diode laser that generates greater than 1 watt of power.
22. The laser system of claim 18 in which the lasant is solid state and comprises a nonstoichiometric compound.
23. The laser system of claim 18 in which the lasant comprises Nd:YLF.
24. The laser system of claim 18 in which the lasant comprises a platelet.
25. The laser system of claim 18 in which the coupling means comprises a nonimaging concentrator. 26. The laser system of claim 25 in which the nonimaging concentrator is end-coupled to the lasant.
27. The laser system of claim 25 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a high refractive index, crystalline, dielectric material. 28. The laser system of claim 25 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a cylindrical lens ground onto its input aperture.
29. The laser system of claim 25 in which the nonimaging concentrator is of substantially conical shape with a substantially linear taper.
30. The laser system of claim 25 in which the lasant is positioned within a resonator cavity, the laser system further comprising a Q-switch positioned within the resonator cavity for generating high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse 


repetition frequencies.
31. The laser system of claim 30 in which the pulse repetition frequencies exceed 1000 Hz.
32. The laser system of claim 30 in which the laser pulses are suitable for OTF repair of DRAMs at a very high PRF.
33. The laser system of claim 30 in which it is operable in continuous wave mode.
34. A laser system, comprising: a large-area pumping source and a lasant; and a nonimaging concentrator positioned between the pumping source and the lasant and composed of a high refractive index, crystalline, dielectric material to efficiently couple light generated by the pumping source into the lasant.
35. The laser system of claim 34 in which the nonimaging concentrator is end-coupled to the lasant.
36. The laser system of claim 34 in which the nonimaging concentrator has a profile with a cylindrical lens ground onto its input aperture.
37. The laser system of claim 34 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a substantially parabolic taper.
38. The laser system of claim 34 for generating in a lasant mode volume a substantially high density of excited active ions having an effective fluorescence lifetime in a metastable excitation state, the laser system further comprisingr a lasant having a geometry, a mode volume, and a high concentration of active ions preselected to enhance the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume and thereby to reduce the effective fluorescence lifetime of active ions in the metastable excitation state. 39. The laser system of claim 38 further 


comprising a Q-switch for generating high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies.
40. A Q-switched laser system for generating substantially high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies, comprisingr a substantially high power pumping source that generates light at a wavelength within an absorption bandwidth of a lasant positioned within a resonator cavity, the lasant having a geometry, mode volume, and high active ion concentration preselected to enhance the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume; and a nonimaging concentrator that efficiently couples the light generated by the pumping source into the mode volume contained within the lasant, thereby to excite a substantially high density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume and substantially eliminate roll-off energy per pulse over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 14 October 1993 (14.10.93); new claims 41-78 added; other claims unchanged (4 pages)]
 comprising a Q-switch for generating high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies.
40. A Q-switched laser system for generating substantially high peak power pulses having comparable magnitudes over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies, comprisingr a substantially high power pumping source that generates light at a wavelength within an absorption bandwidth of a lasant positioned within a resonator cavity, the lasant having a geometry, mode volume, and high active ion concentration preselected to enhance the density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume; and a nonimaging concentrator that efficiently couples the light generated by the pumping source into the mode volume contained within the lasant, thereby to excite a substantially high density of excited active ions in the lasant mode volume and substantially eliminate roll-off energy per pulse over a wide range of pulse repetition frequencies.
41. The laser system of claim 34 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises substantially conical shape with a substantially linear taper. 42. The laser system of claim 34 in which the pumping source comprises a diode laser having an active emitting dimension and the nonimaging concentrator comprises an input aperture that is larger than the active emitting dimension. 43. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant comprises a mode volume having an input dimension and the nonimaging concentrator comprises an output aperture that is smaller than the input dimension.
44. The laser system of claim 34 in which the coupling of the light generated by the pumping source is efficient. 


 45. The laser system of claim 34 further comprising a Q-switch.
46. The laser system of claim 34 in which the pumping source comprises a diode laser that generates greater than about 1 watt of power.
47. The laser system of claim 34 in which the pumping source comprises a diode laser that generates greater than 3 watts of power.
48. The laser system of claim 34 in which the pumping source comprises a high power, graded-index separate confinement heterostructure , AlGaAs, single- emitter diode laser.
49. The laser system of claim 34 in which the pumping source comprises a diode laser having emitting dimensions greater than about 2001m.
50. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant is of a solid-state type.
51. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant comprises a platelet. 52. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant comprises a nonstoichiometric compound.
53. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant comprises NdrYLF.
54. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant comprises a rod having a length of about 0.5 to 5 mm.
55. The laser system of claim 34 in which the lasant is highly doped.
56. The laser system of claim 46 in which the lasant comprises a platelet.
57. The laser system of claim 56 in which the nonimaging concentrator is end-coupled to the lasant.
58. The laser system of claim 57 in which the lasant is highly doped. 


 59. The laser system of claim 58 in which the lasant comprises NdrYLF.
60. A laser system for processing a target, comprisingr a pumping source; a lasant; a nonimaging concentrator positioned between the pumping source and the lasant to couple light generated by the pumping source into the lasant; and a Q-switch positioned between the pumping source and the target.
61. The laser system of claim 60 in which the pumping source is nonsolar.
62. The laser system of claim 60 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a high refractive index, crystalline, dielectric material.
63. The laser system of claim 60 in which the pumping source comprises a large emission dimension. 64. The laser system of claim 62 in which the lasant comprises a platelet and the pumping source generates greater than about 1 watt of power.
65. A method for generating laser emission, comprising directing from a pumping source, optical pumping power through a non-imaging concentrator toward a lasant, the nonimaging concentrator being positioned between the pumping source and the lasant and composed of a high refractive index, crystalline, dielectric material; and generating laser emission from the lasant.
66. The method of claim 65 further comprisingr employing a Q-switch to shape the laser emission.
67. The method of claim 65 further comprisingr 


 employing optical pumping power of greater than about 1 watt.
68. The method of claim 65 in which the lasant comprises a platelet. 69. The method of claim 65 in which the optical pumping power is nonsolar.
70. The method of claim 65 in which the nonimaging concentrator is end-coupled to the lasant.
71. A method for generating laser emission, comprisingr directing optical pumping power through a non¬ imaging concentrator toward a lasant; generating laser emission from the lasant; and employing a Q-switch to shape the laser emission.
72. The method of claim 71 in which the pumping source is nonsolar.
73. The method of claim 72 in which the nonimaging concentrator comprises a high refractive index, crystalline, dielectric material.
74. The method of claim 72 further comprisingr employing optical pumping power of greater than about 1 watt.
75. The method of claim 72 in which the lasant comprises a platelet.
76. The method of claim 72 in which the nonimaging concentrator is end-coupled to the lasant.
77. The laser system of claim 45 in which the Q-switch is positioned within a resonator of the laser system.
78. The laser system of claim 60 in which the Q-switch is positioned within a resonator of the laser system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
