<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620448</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Position and orientation measurement.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S100	G01S100	G01S502	G01S502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S1	G01S1	G01S5	G01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A remote object position and orientation 
determining system employs electromagnetic coupling to 

sense the position and orientation of a remote object. A 
plurality of electromagnetic fields are generated having 

steady state components by applying time-division 
multiplexed pulsed DC signals to a plurality of field 

generating elements having spatially independent components 
defining a source reference coordinate frame. In this 

manner, the fields are distinguishable from one another. 
The generated electromagnetic fields are sensed with a 

remote sensor having a plurality of passive field-sensing 
elements having spatially independent elements in order to 

detect the rate-of-change of each of the generated 
electromagnetic fields. The output of the remote sensors 

are integrated in order to establish the steady state 
components of the generated electromagnetic fields. The 

steady state components are resolved into remote object 

position and orientation relative to the source reference 
coordinate frame. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLHEMUS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLHEMUS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON PETER TRANEUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON PETER TRANEUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to remote 
object position and orientation determining systems 
employing electromagnetic coupling and, more 
particularly, to a unique sensing and processing 
technique for such systems. Remote object position and orientation 
determining systems employing AC electromagnetic coupling 
are disclosed in United States Patent No. 3,868,565 
issued to Jack Kuipers for an OBJECT TRACKING AND 
ORIENTATION DETERMINING MEANS, SYSTEM AND PROCESS and 
United States Patent No. 4,054,881 issued to Frederick 
Raab for a REMOTE OBJECT POSITION LOCATOR. Such systems 
traditionally have a source assembly that includes a 
plurality, typically three, of concentrically positioned, 
orthogonal field generating antennas for generating a 
plurality of electromagnetic fields. Signals are applied 
to the field generating antennas that are multiplexed so 
that the resulting electromagnetic fields are 
distinguishable from one another. Located at the remote 
object is a sensor having a plurality, also typically 
three, of concentrically positioned, orthogonal receiving 
antennas for receiving the electromagnetic fields 
generated by the transmitting antenna and producing 
signals corresponding to the received electromagnetic 
fields. A processor resolves the signals produced by the 
receiving antenna into remote object position and 
orientation in the reference coordinate frame of the 
source. In United States Patent No. 4,945,305 issued to 
Ernest B. Blood for a DEVICE FOR QUANTITATIVELY 
MEASURING THE RELATIVE POSITION AND ORIENTATION OF TWO 
BODIES IN THE PRESENCE OF METALS UTILIZING DIRECT CURRENT 
MAGNETIC FIELDS, a remote object position and orientation  
 
determining system is disclosed in which the transmitting 
antennas are driven sequentially by a pulsed, direct 
current signal. The generated electromagnetic fields are 
sensed by a DC-field-sensitive sensor in each of the 
three orthogonal components of the sensor reference 
coordinate frame and are resolved into remote object 
position and orientation relative to the source reference 
coordinate frame. The purpose of the system disclosed in 
Blood is to reduce field distortions resulting from the 
decay of eddy currents induced in electrically conductive 
materials by magnetic fields. Blood teaches that these 
disadvantages are overcome by applying a pulsed-DC signal 
to a source axis, which will induce an eddy current in 
any surrounding conducting metal only at the beginning of 
the pulse. The Blood system waits enough time for the

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for determining the position and 
orientation of a remote object relative to a reference 

coordinate frame comprising: 
   a source having a plurality of field generating 

elements that are adapted to generate electromagnetic 
fields, the field generating elements having spatially 

independent components defining a source reference 
coordinate frame; 

   a driver that is adapted to apply to the plurality of 
field generating elements, signals which generate a 

plurality of electromagnetic fields, the electromagnetic 
fields being distinguishable from one another; 

   a remote sensor having a plurality of field sensing 
elements that are adapted to sense each of the generated 

electromagnetic fields, the sensing elements having 
spatially independent components; and 

   a processor, including an integrator arranged to 
integrate the sensed electromagnetic fields in order to 

establish the steady state components of the generated 
electromagnetic field, the processor being adapted to 

process the output of the sensor into remote object 
position and orientation relative to the source reference 

coordinate frame. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which the processor 
includes the integrator which is adapted to integrate the 

output of at least one of the sensing elements in order to 
produce an integral of the or each output and a calculator 

that is adapted to calculate remote object position and 
orientation from the integral(s). 
Apparatus in claim 1 or 2, wherein the driver 
generates pulsed-DC signals that are applied sequentially 

to the field generating elements, defining a field 

generation cycle, whereby the electromagnetic fields have 
steady state components and are time-division multiplexed. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the 
integration is performed over one field generation cycle. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 or 4, wherein the 
processor samples the integral approximately at the end of 

each of the pulsed-DC signals. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, 4 or 5, wherein the 
processor samples the integral a plurality of times during 

each of the pulsed-DC signals. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3,4,5 or 6, wherein the 
processor resets the integrator after a given period and 

samples the integral before and after resetting the 
integrator. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3,4,5,6 or 7, wherein 
the signal integrator is adapted to integrate the outputs 

of all of the sensing elements. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
each of the field sensing elements is a passive sensor that 

responds to the rate-of-change of the electromagnetic 
fields. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the processor 
calculates remote position and orientation from a matrix S 

where  
where 

   XsrcXsen = AD(XSRC,Xinteg) - .75 AD(RESET,Xinteg) - .25 AD(NOSRC,Xinteg) 
   XsrcYsen = AD(XSRC,Yinteg) - .75 AD(RESET,Yinteg) - .25 AD(NOSRC,Yinteg) 

   XsrcZsen = AD(XSRC,Zinteg) - .75 AD(RESET,Zinteg) - .25 AD(NOSRC,Zinteg) 
   YsrcXsen = AD(YSRC,Xinteg) - .50 AD(RESET,Xinteg) - .50 AD(NOSRC,Xinteg) 

   YsrcYsen = AD(YSRC,Yinteg) - .50 AD(RESET,Yinteg) - .50 AD(NOSRC,Yinteg) 
   YsrcZsen = AD(YSRC,Zinteg) - .50 AD(RESET,Zinteg) - .50 AD(NOSRC,Zinteg) 

   ZsrcXsen = AD(ZSRC,Xinteg) - .25 AD(RESET,Xinteg) - .75 AD(NOSRC,Xinteg) 
   ZsrcYsen = AD(ZSRC,Yinteg) - .25 AD(RESET,Yinteg) - .75 AD(NOSRC,Yinteg) 

   ZsrcZsen = AD(ZSRC,Zinteg) - .25 AD(RESET,Zinteg) - .75 AD(NOSRC,Zinteg) 
and where, for X, Y and Z sources and X, Y and Z sensor 

integrators, 
   AD (iSRC, jinteg) is the sampled integrator value for 

the jth sensor integrator; while the ith source is 
transmitting, 

   AD (RESET, jinteg) is the sampled integrator value for 
the jth sensor integrator during an integrator reset 

interval, and 
   AD (NOSRC, jinteg) is the sampled integrator value for 

the jth sensor integrator during an interval when no 
transmission source is transmitting. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 10 wherein 
each of the field sensing elements is a dipole antenna. 
A method of determining the position and orientation 
of a remote object relative to a reference coordinate frame 

comprising:
 

   generating a plurality of electromagnetic fields in a 
source reference coordinate frame, the fields having 

spatially independent components and being distinguishable 
from one another; 

   sensing the generated electromagnetic fields with a 
remote sensor having a plurality of field sensing elements, 

the sensing elements having spatially independent 
components in order to detect each of the generated 

electromagnetic fields; 
   integrating the sensed electromagnetic fields; and 

   processing the output of the remote sensor into remote 
object position and orientation relative to the source 

reference coordinate frame. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, including integrating 
the output of the field sensor over a given period of time 

in order to produce the integral and resolving the integral 
into remote object position and orientation. 
A method as claimed in claim 12 or 13, wherein the 
generating includes applying pulsed-DC signals sequentially 

to a plurality of field generator elements having spatially 
independent components, defining a field generation cycle, 

whereby the electromagnetic fields have steady state 
components and are time-division multiplexed. 
A method of claim 14 wherein the processing includes 
integrating the output of the field sensor over a given 

period of time that is one field generation cycle. 
A method of claim 14 or 15, wherein the processing 
includes sampling the integral approximately at the end of 

each of the pulsed-DC signals. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, 15 or 16, wherein the 
processing includes sampling the integral a plurality of 

times during each of the pulsed-DC signals. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, 15, 16 or 17, wherein 
the processing includes resetting the integral after the 

given period. 
A method as claimed in claim 18, including sampling 
the integral before and after the resetting. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 12 to 19, wherein 
the sensing includes use of passive sensing elements that 

respond to the rate-of-change of the electromagnetic 
fields. 
A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the resolving 
includes calculating remote position and orientation from 

a matrix S where 
 

where 
   XsrcXcen = AD(XSRC,Xinteg) - .75 AD(RESET,Xinteg) - .25 AD(NOSRC,Xinteg) 

   XsrcYsen = AD(XSRC,Yinteg) - .75 AD(RESET,Yinteg) - .25 AD(NOSRC,Yinteg) 
   XsrcZsen = AD(XSRC,Zinteg) - .75 AD(RESET,Zinteg) - .25 AD(NOSRC,Zinteg) 

   YsrcXsen = AD(YSRC,Xinteg) - .50 AD(RESET,Xinteg) - .50 AD(NOSRC,Xinteg) 
   YsrcYsen = AD(YSRC,Yinteg) - .50 AD(RESET,Yinteg) - .50 AD(NOSRC,Yinteg) 

   YsrcZsen = AD(YSRC,Zinteg) - .50 AD(RESET,Zinteg) - .50 AD(NOSRC,Zinteg) 
   ZsrcXsen = AD(ZSRC,Xinteg) - .25 AD(RESET,Xinteg) - .75 AD(NOSRC,Xinteg) 

   ZsrcYsen = AD(ZSRC,Yinteg) - .25 AD(RESET,Yinteg) - .75 AD(NOSRC,Yinteg) 
   ZsrcZsen = AD(ZSRC,Zinteg) - .25 AD(RESET,Zinteg) - .75 AD(NOSRC,Zinteg) 

and where, for X, Y and Z sources and X, Y and Z sensor 
integrators,

 
   AD(iSRC, jinteg) is the sampled integrator value for 

the jth sensor integrator; while the ith source is 
transmitting, 

   AD(RESET, jinteg) is the sampled integrator value for 
the jth sensor integrator during an integrator reset 

interval, and 
   AD(NOSRC, jinteg) is the sampled integrator value for 

the jth sensor integrator during an interval when no 
transmission source is transmitting. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
