<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619908</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RF TAGGING SYSTEM AND RF TAGS AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B1324	G08B1324	G09F300	G09F300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B13	G08B13	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
RF tagging system (10) has a plurality of resonant circuits (13) on a tag (12). When the tag (12) enters a detection zone (14), the system determines the resonant frequencies of each of the resonant circuits (13) and produces a corresponding code. Preferably, resonant frequency detection is implemented by simultaneously radiating signals at each possible resonant frequency for the tag circuits (13). The system is useful for coding any articles such as baggage or production inventory. Preferably, the radiated signals are phase shifted during the detection process, and signals received by receiver antennas, besides transmitter signals, may be monitored to improve the reliability of detecting the resonant circuits (13). Also, a preferred step adjustment configuration for capacitive metalizations (106, 110) of the resonant circuits is described. For radiating signals into the detection zone (14), focused beam antennas (201) may be used such that each resonant circuit location on the tag can be separately monitored. Also, an apparatus (300) for producing customized resonant circuit tags in accordance with a specified input code is described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN RUDYARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO GEORGE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM, SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN, RUDYARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO, GEORGE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RF Tagging System and RF Tags and MethodField of InventionThe present invention generally relates to the field of RF tagging systems, and RF tags, in which the presence of resonant circuits resonant at specific known frequencies in a detection zone is used to generate a code determined in accordance with which resonant circuits are detected as being in the detection zone. More particularly, the present invention is directed to the fields of an improved RF tagging system which more accurately and/or rapidly determines when circuits resonant at specific frequencies are in the detection zone, a preferred configuration for metalizations which form a resonant circuit for an RF tag, improved RF tag construction and methods, a system configuration which allows individual monitoring of specific tag areas on which a single resonant circuit may be provided, and an apparatus which allows producing customized resonant tags in response to a specified input code.Background of the InventionPrior art systems are known in which the existence of a single resonant circuit in a detection field or zone is utilized as an anti-theft type apparatus. Essentially, if an article having a single resonant frequency tag passes through a detection zone, an alarm is generated which indicates the unauthorized presence of store goods in the 

detection zone. Such resonant circuits have been constructed in accordance with standard printed circuit board techniques . These systems do not identify which specific goods are in the detection zone since only a single code is used for tagging or identifying all tagged goods in a store inventory.Some prior RF tagging systems have provided multiple different tuned (resonant) circuits on a tag so as to specifically identify the goods to which the tag is attached or the destination to which those goods should be directed. Such systems have been proposed for parcel or other article delivery systems wherein resonant circuits are utilized to provide a destination or sender code rather than printed bar codes.The use of resonant circuit tagging is advantageous in that it is not subject to problems such as dirt obscuring a portion of a printed bar code and causing an error in determining the code associated with the article. Also, exact alignment of the tag with the detection system may not be required in RF tagging systems, since generally it is desired only to detect the presence of the resonant circuits somewhere in a broad detection zone. This can be achieved without precise alignment between the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. RF tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said passive resonant circuits resonant at a different resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; means for detecting said plurality of passive resonant circuits on said tag, when said tag is in a detection zone, and then providing a corresponding code signal, out of plurality of possible code signals, indicative of which of said resonant frequencies for said passive resonant circuits were detected in said detection zone; wherein said detection means comprises means for simultaneously radiating RF energy at at least each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies in said detection zone, and means for providing said one code signal by measuring signals indicative of absorption of said radiated energy at each one of said known resonant frequencies in said detection zone by said passive resonant circuits on said tag.
2. RF tagging system according to claim 1 wherein said detection means comprises means for producing a plurality of different oscillator signals at each one of said plurality of known resonant frequencies, means for simultaneously radiating each of said different frequency oscillator signals in said detection zone, and means for providing said one code signal by measuring signals indicative of 


absorption of radiated energy at each one of said known resonant frequencies in said detection zone by said passive resonant circuits on said tag.
3. RF tagging system according to claim 2 wherein said code signal providing means measures said measured signals during said simultaneous radiation of each of said different frequency oscillator signals.
4. RF tagging system according to claim 3 wherein said measured signals indicative of absorption of radiated energy are provided by measuring magnitudes of said different frequency oscillator signals which are radiated.
5. RF tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said passive resonant circuits resonant at a different resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; means for detecting said plurality of passive resonant circuits on said tag, when said tag is in a detection zone, and then providing a corresponding code signal, out of plurality of possible code signals, indicative of which of said resonant frequencies for said passive resonant circuits were detected in said detection zone; wherein said detection means comprises means for radiating RF energy at at least each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies 


in said detection zone, and means for providing said one code signal by measuring signals indicative of absorption of said radiated energy at each one of said known resonant frequencies in said detection zone by said passive resonant circuits on said tag, wherein said measured signals are provided in response to when said tag is in said detection zone and said radiated energy is provided with a first phase shift, and said measured signals are also provided in response to when said tag is in said detection zone and said radiated energy is provided with a second and different phase shift, detection of whether one of said resonant circuits in said detection zone is resonant at one of said plurality of known resonant frequencies being dependent on absorption of radiant energy which occurs when said RF ennergy is radiated with any of said first and second phase shifts.
6. RF tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said passive resonant circuits resonant at a different resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; means for detecting said plurality of passive resonant circuits on said tag, when said tag is in a detection zone, and then providing a corresponding code signal, out of a plurality of possible code signals, indicative of which of said resonant frequencies for said passive resonant circuits were detected in said detection zone; 


 wherein said detection means comprises means for radiating RF energy at at least each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies in said detection zone, and means for providing said one code signal by measuring signals indicative of absorption of said radiated energy at each one of said known resonant frequencies in said detection zone by said passive resonant circuits on said tag, wherein said measured signals are provided in response to when said tag is in said detection zone and said radiated energy is provided with a first polarization, and said measured signals are also provided in response to when said tag is in said detection zone and said radiated energy is provided with a second and different polarization, detection of whether one of said resonant circuits in said detection zone is resonant at one of said plurality of known resonant frequencies being dependent on absorption of radiant energy which occurs when said RF energy is radiated with any of said first and second polarizations.
7. RF tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said passive resonant circuits resonant at a different resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; means for detecting said plurality of passive resonant circuits on said tag, when said tag is in a detection zone, and then providing a corresponding code signal, out of a plurality of possible code signals, indicative of which of said resonant 


frequencies for said passive resonant circuits were detected in said detection zone; wherein said detection means comprises means for radiating RF energy at at least each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies in said detection zone, and means for providing said one code signal by measuring signals indicative of absorption of radiated energy at each one of said known resonant frequencies in said detection zone by said passive resonant circuits on said tag, wherein said code signal providing means includes means for measuring both voltage and current at each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies and wherein said measured voltage and current signals are measured when said tag is inside and outside said detection zone, said code signal providing means including means for comparing said measured voltage and current signals when said tag is inside said detection zone with said measured voltage and current signals measured when said tag is outside of said detection zone to indicate the presence of resonant circuits on said tag at any of said predetermined plurality of known frequencies . 8. RF tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said passive resonant circuits resonant at a resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; means for detecting said plurality of passive resonant circuits on said tag, when said tag is in a 


detection zone, and then providing a corresponding code signal, out of plurality of possible code signals, indicative of which of said resonant frequencies for said passive resonant circuits were detected in said detection zone; wherein said detection means comprises means for radiating RF energy at at least each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies in said detection zone, and means for providing said one code signal by measuring signals indicative of absorption of radiated energy at each one of said known resonant frequencies in said detection zone by said passive resonant circuits on said tag, wherein said detection means includes means for sensing an object having any number of said resonant circuits, including zero, approaching said detection zone, and wherein said code signal providing means includes means for storing a no load reference value of said measured signals in response to determining the approach of an object to said detection zone by said object approaching sensing means and utilizing said stored signals for comparison with said measured signals measured in response to detecting positioning of said object in said detection zone. 9. RF tag comprising: a tag base having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said circuits resonant at a resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; wherein each of said plurality of resonant circuits on said tag base comprises a first metalization area determining an inductance and a 


second metalization area determining a capacitance for said resonant circuit, said second metalization area defining a capacitor plate having a plurality of planar capacitive metalization projections each connected to one another by a thin conductor runner, whereby step adjustment of the resonant frequency of the resonant circuit is readily achieved by removing one or more of said conductor runners either during initial manufacture or subsequently. 10. RF tag according to claim 9 wherein said plurality of capacitive metalization projections all are disposed about and extend generally inward toward a central location with said runners disposed away from and outward with respect to said central location.
11. RF tag comprising according to claim 9 which includes an insulating layer provide on and covering at least a portion of said first metalization area, wherein said second metalization area is provided on said insulating layer and determines said capacitance for said resonant circuit due to overlap with said first metalization area, wherein said second metalization area plurality of planar capacitive metalization projections on said insulating layer are positioned above and horizontally overlapping said first metalization area, wherein said first metalization area has a boundary and wherein said runners are positioned beyond the boundary of said first metalization area and nonhorizontally overlapping said first metalization area, whereby step adjustment of the resonant frequency of the resonant circuit is readily 


achieved by removing one or more of said conductor runners either during initial manufacture or subsequently.
12. RF tag according to claim 11 wherein said plurality of capacitive metalization projections all are disposed about and extend generally inward toward a central location with said runners disposed away from and outward with respect to said central location. 13. RF tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said circuits resonant at a frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies, each of said resonant circuits provided at a different location on a planar surface of said tag; means for detecting said plurality of passive resonant circuits on said tag when said tag is in a detection zone, and then providing a corresponding code signal out of a plurality of possible code signals indicative of which of said resonant frequencies for said passive resonant circuits were detected as being in said detection zone; wherein said detection means includes at least one antenna for radiating each of said plurality of known resonant frequencies, said antenna constructed to provide a narrow focused radiation beam in said detection zone having a focus area of a size X on said tag planar surface, and wherein each of said resonant circuits provided on said tag planar surface has an area of no more than X, and wherein only one 


of said resonant circuits is provided in the focus area X at any one time.
14. RF tagging system according to claim 13 which includes a plurality of said focused beam antennas each of which is fixed in position with respect to others of said focused beam antennas and each of which radiates each of said predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies, said plurality of focused beam antennas forming an antenna array.
15. RF tagging system according to claim 14 wherein for each of said resonant circuits on said tag a different one of said focused beam antennas is provided. 16. RF tagging system comprising; a tag having thereon a plurality of passive circuits, each of said circuits being capable of being adjusted to a different resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; input means for determining a predetermined code to be provided on said tag by the selection of different ones of said plurality of known resonant frequencies for each of said circuits on said tag; computation means for receiving said input code and determining which resonant frequencies should be provided for the circuits on said tag to implement providing said code on said tag; adjustment means, responsive to the output of said computation means, for modifying said plurality of circuits on said tag to implement the coding of 



said tag in accordance with said predetermined input code.
17. RF tagging system according to claim 16 wherein said adjustment means comprises conductive metalization printing means for selectively adding metalization to said tag.
18. RF tagging system according to claim 16 wherein said adjustment means comprises means for selectively removing metalizations from said tag to adjust the resonant frequency of said circuits on said tag in accordance with the output of said table look up.
19. RF tagging system according to claim 18 wherein said adjustment means comprises means for removing inductance from one of said circuits on said tag by disconnecting metalization, said metalization comprising inductance of said one circuit, in accordance with a cut directed radially with respect to a central location defining the center of a spiral of inductance metalization forming an inductor of said one circuit.
20. RF tagging system according to claim 18 wherein said adjustment means comprises means for implementing a circular cut to disconnect metalizations on said tag and thereby adjust the resonant frequency of one of said circuits on said tag, inductance for said one circuit on said tag being provided in the form of a spiral conductor and said circular cut being centered at the origin of said spiral conductor.
21. RF tagging system according to claim 16 wherein said computation means includes a look up 


table for receiving said input code and, in response thereto, determining which resonant frequency should be provided for circuits on said tag to implement providing said code on said tag. 22. RF tag comprising: a tag base having thereon a plurality of passive resonant circuits, each of said circuits resonant at a resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies; wherein each of said plurality of resonant circuits on said tag base comprises at least a first metalization area determining at least one of an inductance and capacitance for each of said resonant circuits, said first metalization area formed of printed conductive ink provided on said base.
23. RF tag according to claim 22 wherein each of said plurality of resonant circuits also includes a printed nonconductive ink deposited on said first metalization area and a printed second metalization area, formed of conductive ink, deposited on said nonconductive ink, said first and second metalization areas determining said inductance and capacitance for said resonant circuit.
24. RF tag according to claim 23 wherein said nonconductive ink is provided in a pattern with a hole therein, and a conductive feedthrough between said first and second metalization areas is provided in said hole.
25. A method for providing any of the RF tags of claims 23, 24 and 25 comprising the step of printing with conductive ink on said base at least said first metalization area for each of said plurality of 


resonant circuits to be provided on said tag base, said first metalization area determining at least one of an inductance and capacitance for each of said resonant circuits. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
