<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616288</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic invocation of computational resources without user intervention
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F944	G06F314	G06N500	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F1125	G06F944	G06F1730	G06F1730	G06F1125	G06N502	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06N	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06N	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F3	G06N5	G06F3	G06F3	G06F11	G06F9	G06F17	G06F17	G06F11	G06N5	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system is described for automatically invoking 
computational resources without intervention or request from 

a user of the system. In the system a query-free information 
retrieval system is described in which the exact technical 

documentation contained in existing user or other 
technical manuals is provided to a user investigating apparatus 

having a fault. The user enters symptoms based upon 
the user's analysis of the apparatus, and in response the 

system provides information concerning likely faults with 
the apparatus. As the symptoms are entered, the relative 

value of individual faults is determined and related to the 
symptoms they cause. The user can then select technical 

information relating to probable faults in the system. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH COMPANY, LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHAM JAMEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHAM JAMEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to expert systems, and in
particular to a system in which data bases are
invoked by a user without direct intervention.
"Data bases" will be called in the following also computational resources.The increasing use of expert systems as diagnostic
tools in service industries has established that knowledge
embedded systems can provide quality expertise within
defined domains. Most prior systems, however, do not
appreciate the usefulness of technical documentation as a
resource for human experts when performing diagnostic tasks.
On-line technical manuals can aid the user by greatly
enhancing the potential for success. Typical prior art
systems which do recognize this asset simply provide
interfaces for browsing on-line documentation in a "help
text" format. This documentation, however, is usually the
result of experts and developers rewriting, in an
abbreviated form, the content of technical manuals. The
exact technical documentation contained in the manuals, and
used by most technicians in the field, is not provided. By
rewriting the documentation, the experts and developers
increase the time to develop a system, and decrease the
original content. Because the documentation does not rely
on the actual manuals, which are maintained independently,
the life cycle costs of maintaining this "help text"
documentation is high.Some help systems have relied on expert systems to
add "intelligence" to the help system. One such prior art
system is described in U.S. Patent 5,103,498, entitled
"Intelligent Help System." In that system a monitoring
device "watches" the system-user interface and determines
what monitoring information to store. This information, 
together with the physical state of the system, is stored in a knowledge base. An inference
engine tests rules against the knowledge base data to generate help text. Unfortunately, in
this system the user must request help, and that help is supplied as help text.A system applied specifically to the medical information field provided a
method of automatic information retrieval by evaluating the observed manifestations and
possible diagnosis. It then provided access to relevant medical texts. The system is described
in P. L. Elkin, etal., "Closing the Loop on Diagnostic Decision Support Systems, "
14th Annual Symposium on Computer Applns. in Medical Care, Standards in Medical Informatics,
Washington, D. C. (Nov. 1990), IEEE Computer Soc. Press. Unfortunately, the
technical details of the system are still unclear.Furthermore, in many prior art
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of accessing a data base, when a base application runs on a data processing
system, and said method comprising:


a) receiving a series of user interactions in the base application, thereby activating
nodes of a belief network, probabilities being assigned to alliances of said network;

and
b) accessing the data base based on the activated nodes;
c) ranking of information in said data base based on said probabilities;
d) displaying only those information or making known its availability which is
ranked above a threshold.
A method of claim 1, wherein:

the series of user interactions establish a context; and
in response to the series of user interactions, the data base is automatically
accessed.
A method as in claim 1 or 2, wherein the data base comprises an information
retrieval system.
A method as in claim 2, wherein the data base is invoked with appropriate initial
conditions. 
A method as in claim 1, wherein the belief network is comprises by an expert
syst
em.
A method as in claim 3, wherein:

the sequence of user interactions comprise the entry of symptoms about a condition;
and
in response to the entry of symptoms the information retrieval system displays at
least the availability of information about the condition.
A method as in claim 6, wherein:

the belief network includes probabilistic information relating individual symptoms
to the condition, which causes those symptoms; and
in response to the entry of symptoms the information retrieval system displays
documentation about the condition.
A method as in claim 2, wherein:

the context is relevant to a task to be performed having a set of possible conditions;
and wherein
the sequence of user interactions represent user specified information about actual
conditions relevant to the task;
and comprising for said ranking and displaying the steps of:

determining the relationship of the user specified information upon the set of
possible conditions;
in response to the user specified information reevaluating each of the possible
conditions; and
presenting information to the user about those possible conditions which were
most affected by at last one of the sequence of user specified information.
A method as in claim 8, wherein the computational resource comprises an information
retrieval system. 
A method as in claim 8, wherein the belief network is comprised by an expert
system.
A method as in claim 10, wherein:

the sequence of user specified information comprises the entry of a series of
symptoms about a condition; and
in response to the entry of the series of symptoms, the information retrieval
system displays at least the availability of information about the condition.
A method as in claim 11, wherein:

the expert system includes probabilistic information relating individual symptoms
to the condition which causes those symptoms; and
in response to the entry of symptoms the information retrieval system displays
documentation about the condition.
A method as in claim 11, wherein the step of displaying at least the availability
of information about the condition comprises displaying an icon.
A method as in claim 11, wherein the possible conditions each have associated
therewith a probability and the probability for each condition is displayed.
A method as in claim 2, wherein:

the belief network is comprised by an expert system application, the context is
relevant to an external system, the external system having possible conditions, which

manifest themselves as symptoms; and
the sequence of user interactions is received as a sequence of the symptoms about
conditions in the external system into the expert system application; and
comprising for said ranking and displaying the steps of: 

determining the effect of individual symptoms entered upon the conditions present
in the external system;
in response to individual symptoms entered reevaluating each of the possible
conditions;
for those symptoms entered having at least a threshold effect upon at least one
condition, providing information about at least one of the condition or the symptom;
reevaluating the possible conditions; and
providing information to the user about those possible conditions most affected
by the last symptom entered.
A computer program, which causes a computer to perform the method of any of
claims 1 to 15, when loaded in the computer or when running on said computer.
A system for performing a method of accessing a database,
comprising a data processing system having loaded a base application, and comprising:


a) a belief network, probabilities being assigned to alliances of said network, and a
data base;
b) means for receiving a series of user interactions in the base application and means
for thereby activating nodes of the belief network;
c) means for accessing the data base based on the activated nodes;
d) means for ranking of information in said data base based on said probabilities;
e) means for displaying only those information or making known its availability
which is ranked above a threshold.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
