<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONNECTOR FOR ENDOTRACHEAL TUBES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1604	A61M1604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M16	A61M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MEDICAL CONCEPTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEVES, LEONIDES, Y.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CONNECTOR FOR ENDOTRACHEAL TUBES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates, generally, to endotracheal tubes of the type having an auxiliary lumen. More particularly, it relates to a connector therefor.2. Description of the Prior ArtU.S. patent No. 4,967,759 to the present inventor discloses an endotracheal tube having an auxiliary lumen integrally formed therewith along the extent thereof.Due to the close spacing of the auxiliary lumen and the main endotracheal tube, connection of the auxiliary lumen to preselected auxiliary equipment and connection of the main endotracheal tube to a supply source for the gaseous fluids to be administered to the patient is problematic. Note that a total of four primary items must be interconnected, i.e., the auxiliary equipment must be connected to the auxiliary lumen, and the supply source of the gas must be connected to the main endotracheal tube. The connector currently in use is designed to interconnect the proximal end of the main endotracheal tube and the distal end of a tube from said anesthesia supply source; no means are provided for interconnecting the auxiliary equipment and the auxiliary lumen. Thus, the proximal end of the auxiliary lumen merely abuts the connector when the proximal end of the endotracheal tube is connected to said connector. This results in a very unsatisfactory interconnection of the auxiliary equipment and the auxiliary lumen; the connector at the distal end of the tubing extending from the auxiliary equipment is brought around the endotracheal tube connector and brought into connection with the proximal end of the auxiliary lumen. An unacceptably sharp bend must be formed where the tubing from 

the auxiliary equipment meets the proximal end of the auxiliary lumen, resulting in an unacceptable constriction. Moreover, this arrangement requires the use of two separate connectors, i.e., a first connector for interconnecting the supply source and primary endotracheal tube and a second connector for interconnecting the auxiliary equipment and the auxiliary lumen. Since connectors are bulky, each connector interferes with the other when the various tubes are interconnected.In the above-mentioned patent, this problem was overcome by making the auxiliary lumen substantially shorter than the main endotracheal tube so that the bend could be more gradual, thereby eliminating the constriction. However, this was unsatisfactory for other reasons. Specifically, the main endotracheal tube and auxiliary lumen are best
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
DED LAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 16 March 1993 (16.03.93); original claim 1 amended; new claim 8 added; other claims unchanged (4 pages)]
1. A connector, comprising: a cylindrical base member of predetermined longitudinal extent having a proximal end and a distal end; a first tubular projection disposed on said proximal end o said base member; a second tubular projection disposed on said proximal end o said base member; said first and second tubular projections being disposed i parallel relation to one another said first tubular projection being disposed radially inwardly of said second tubular projection; a third tubular projection disposed on said distal end o said base member; a fourth tubular projection disposed on said distal end o said base member; said second and fourth tubular projections being disposed i parallel relation to one another; said third tubular projection being disposed radially inwardly of said fourth tubular projection; a first bore means formed in said base member for providin fluid communication between said first and third tubula projections; a second bore means formed in said base member for providin fluid communication between said second and fourth tubula projections; said first and third tubular projections being in axial alignment with one another; said second and fourth tubular projections being in axial alignment with one another; whereby the distal end of an anesthesia supply tube i releasably connectable to said first tubular projection and th proximal end of an endotracheal tube is releasably connectable t said third tubular projection so that anesthesia may be delivere to the lungs of a patient; whereby the distal end of an auxiliary tube is releasabl connectable to said second tubular projection and the proxima end of an auxiliary lumen is releasably connectable to sai 


fourth tubular projection so that conditions in the lungs of said patient may be monitored by said auxiliary equipment; and whereby a single connector interconnects said anesthesia supply tube to said endotracheal tube and said auxiliary tube to said auxiliary lumen and wherein said anesthesia supply tube, endotracheal tube, auxiliary tube, and auxiliary lumen are substantially free of constrictions.
2. The connector of claim 1, wherein said first tubular projection is disposed radially inwardly of said second tubular projection, and wherein said third tubular projection is disposed radially inwardly of said fourth tubular projection.
3. The connector of claim 1, wherein said endotracheal tube and said auxiliary lumen are integrally formed with one another and share a common length.
4. The connector of claim 1, wherein said first and second bore means are disposed in parallel relation to one another.
5. The connector of claim 1, further comprising a CO port formed in said first tubular projection.
6. The connector of claim 1, wherein said auxiliary lumen has a diameter that is at least one millimeter.
7. The connector of claim 5, wherein said CO port has a diameter that is at least one millimeter.
8. A connector, comprising: a base member of predetermined longitudinal extent having a proximal end and a distal end; a first tubular projection disposed on said proximal end of said base member; a second tubular projection disposed on said proximal end of said base member; said first and second tubular projections being disposed in parallel relation to one another; said first tubular projection being disposed radially inwardly of said second tubular projection; a third tubular projection disposed on said distal end of said base member; a fourth tubular projection disposed on said distal end of said base member; 


 \ 2 said second and fourth tubular projections being disposed i parallel relation to one another; said third tubular projection being disposed radiall inwardly of said fourth tubular projection; a first bore means formed in said base member for providin fluid communication between said first and third tubula projections; a second bore means formed in said base member for providin fluid communication between said second and fourth tubula projections; said first tubular projection disposed in axial alignmen with said third tubular projection; said second tubular projection disposed in axial alignmen with said fourth tubular projection; an endotracheal tube; an auxiliary lumen having an internal diameter of at leas one millimeter being integrally formed with said endotrachea tube; said endotracheal tube being releasably connectable to sai third tubular projection and said auxiliary lumen bein releasably connectable to said fourth tubular projection; a radially outwardly extending C0
2
 port formed in said firs tubular projection, said CO port having an internal diameter o at least one millimeter; whereby the distal end of an anesthesia supply tube i releasably connectable to said first tubular projection and th proximal end of said endotracheal tube is releasably connectabl to said third tubular projection so that anesthesia may b delivered to the lungs of a patient; whereby the distal end of an auxiliary tube is releasabl connectable to said second tubular projection and the proxima end of said auxiliary lumen is releasably connectable to sai fourth tubular projection so that conditions in the lungs of sai patient may be monitored; and whereby a single connector interconnects said anesthesi supply tube to said endotracheal tube and said auxiliary tube t said auxiliary lumen and wherein said anesthesia supply tube 


endotracheal tube, auxiliary tube, and auxiliary lumen are substantially free of constrictions. 

U
STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
Applicant acknowledges that the structure of Svadjian at first glance resembles the structure described in claim l. However, upon closer inspection, it becomes clear that the elements 18, 42 of Svadjian (which are more accurately referred to as elements 18, 18, because reference numeral 42 denotes a cap) , neither teach nor suggest Applicant's first and second tubular projections because they are capped and are never attached to a tube of any type. Thus, such elements do not 


 5
suggest Applicant's uncapped tubular mounting means. Note in col.
4, lines 54-67, that each tube 12 that corresponds to a cap 42 must be closed whenever the cap is opened to avoid collapse of the patient's lung, and for that reason means are provided to close off tubes 12 (by rotating them with handles 30) whenever a cap is opened. Note also that Svadjian's entry port 22 (or ports
122, 122 in the second embodiment) is the closest equivalent of
Applicant's first and second tubular projections. Note further that Svadjian's equivalent structure to Applicant's third and fourth tubular projections is elements 116, 116, and that said elements are not in axial alignment with entry ports 118, 118.
Thus, Applicant's claims now point out that his structure includes entry and exit ports that are in axial alignment with one another. It would not have been obvious to eliminate the right angle orientation of the corresponding ports in the
Svadjian device because such would have required the elimination of the capped tubular projections 18, 18 and thus would have required a substantial redesigning of the Svadjian apparatus with
Applicant's invention used as the blueprint for such redesigning.
Any transformation of the Svadjian structure into Applicant's for the sake of producing Applicant's apparatus obviously requires that Applicant's invention be available for such purpose, but
Applicant's invention did not pre-exist itself and thus was not available to those of ordinary skill at the time the Svadjian invention was made. It follows that one of ordinary skill would not have ejected capped ports 18, 18 from the Svadjian device and re-positioned port 22 (first embodiment) or ports 122, 122
(second embodiment) where the ejected ports had been. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
