<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TUNNEL TRACK-PNEUMATIC CONDUIT SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G5100	B65G5103	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G51	B65G51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conveyor system (10) for feeding containers along a path includes a pair of plenums (24) located on opposite sides of the path. Each plenum (24) has an inner wall (22) which has apertures (23) along the center thereof, with flanges extending from each wall to define chambers or guide channels that receive opposite ends of the container. The system (10) further consists of rigid pneumatic conduits (50, 60) for delivering pressurized fluid from a centrifugal blower (70) to the plenums (24). The pressurized fluid is introduced into the plenums (24) and flows through the apertures (23) to substantially suspend the containers in the chamber. The pneumatic conduits (50, 60) and the centrifugal blower (70) are integrally associated with the dual plenums (24), thereby structurally enhancing the entire conveyor system (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEWTON AND HARRINGTON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEWTON AND HARRINGTON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON STANLEY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON, STANLEY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a dual plenum air-power conveyor
system wherein the cans or articles are moved along the conveyor
system through the use of air-powered jets, and more
particularly, to an air powered conveyor system wherein the
entire air delivery system is of the "hard-pipe" variety and is
integrally associated with the dual plenum system, thereby
structurally enhancing the entire conveyor system.Historically, most conveyor systems have relied on belts or
chains to move the articles along their way in a conventional
conveyor system.However, belts and chains are subject to breaking or
stretching, and/or jamming of the articles being conveyed is
commonplace. In recent years, air power systems have been
developed whereby air pressure is utilized to move the articles
along the conveyor system from one station to another. For
example, mass movement of a plurality of containers along a
conveyor system may be improved by utilizing pressurized air for
raising the containers above the surface of the table to
minimize friction. However, the pressurized air is typically
delivered to these conveyor systems by a flex hose system
connected to an external blower. The flex hose systems of the
prior art present many maintenance problems, such as the hoses
splitting or breaking due to harmonic vibrations and fatigue,
causing a leakage cf air in the conveyor system, which
necessitates a shutdown of the entire system, resulting in an
expensive delay in terms of lost production. Furthermore, as
the articles move along the conveyor system, a point is reached
wherein the article is required to be changes from a vertical
orientation to a horizontal orientation or vice versa. The use 
of a gravity spiral has been attempted, however, it cannot maintain the speed of the
remainder of the system and as a result, frequent jamming occurs. As one would
expect, the jamming of a conveyor system requires that the entire line be shut down
until the jam is cleared. This can be an expensive delay in terms of lost production in
man hours required to clear the jam. Additionally, the frequency of the jam compounds
the problem and likewise increases the overall cost.US-A-5,037,244 describes an air powered can conveyance system in accordance with the preamble of claim 1 and having
a pair of plenums that are located on opposite sides of the path for the cans or articles.
Each plenum has an inner wall which has apertures along the centre thereof. The inner
walls of the plenums are spaced from each other by a substantially constant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tunnel track pneumatic conduit system (10) for transporting articles
along a path, comprising:


a pair of opposed article supporting and guiding means (15,16), wherein
each of said article supporting and guiding means (15,16) has air plenum means (24)

for receiving air from a pressure supply means (70);
jet plate means (22) cooperating with said air plenum means (24) to
provide an air cushion to articles being transported therein; and
pneumatic conduit means including said pressure supply means,

   characterised in that said pneumatic conduit means is arranged to support
said air plenum means and includes at least one rigid primary pneumatic conduit (60)

and a plurality of rigid secondary pneumatic conduits (50), said primary pneumatic

conduit (60) being operably connected to said pressure supply means, being separate
and spaced from said air plenum means (24), and generally parallel thereto, and being

operably connected to said plurality of secondary pneumatic conduits (50), and said
plurality of secondary pneumatic conduits (50) being operably connected to said air

plenum means (24).
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 1,
wherein said pressure supply means includes a centrifugal blower (70).
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 1,
wherein said article supporting and guiding means further includes adjustment means

for adjusting the distance between said upper and lower article supporting and guiding
means, whereby articles of different sizes can be accommodated. 
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 1,
wherein said jet plate means comprises a generally U-shaped member operably

attached to said air plenum means, said jet plate means (22) having a plurality of
spaced louver punches (23) forming openings through said jet plate means, whereby

air can exit from said air plenum means into the vicinity of the articles passing through
said tunnel track system.
A tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 4, wherein
said louver punches are centrally located in the base portion of the U-shaped member

and extend the full length thereof with said louver punches extending into said air
plenum means and acting as air scoops directing the air into the vicinity of the articles

passing through said tunnel track system.
A tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 1 or 2,
further comprising:


friction reducing means (40) operably connected to portions of said air
plenum means and said jet plate means and arranged to reduce frictional forces acting

on articles being transported; and
pressure indicating and control means (26,28) operably connected to said
pneumatic conduit means for maintaining a predetermined pressure in said air plenum

means (24).
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 6,
wherein said pressure indicating and control means comprises a butterfly valve (26)

operably positioned in said at least one rigid conduit and rotatable handle means (28)
for positioning said butterfly valve in its desired position to regulate the flow of air

therethrough. 
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 7,
wherein said pressure indicating and control means further comprises a pressure gauge

(17) operably connected to said air plenum means to provide a reading of the pressure
therein.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 6,
wherein said friction reducing means comprises wear strips (40) with friction reducing

properties positioned to assist the movement of the articles and also prevent marring
or scratching of the surfaces of the articles.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 6,
wherein said air plenum means comprises a generally U-shaped elongated member

having a pair of opposed flanges interconnected by a base portion, said base portion
being supported by a plurality of spaced support angle members; said jet plate means

(22) also comprising a generally U-shaped elongated member received between said
opposed flange of said air plenum means and secured thereto, thereby forming said air

plenum means.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 10,
wherein said U-shaped elongated member of said jet plate means (22) further

comprises a pair of opposed flanges interconnected by a base portion, said opposed
flanges of said air plenum means and said jet plate means terminating at the same point.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 11,
wherein said friction reducing means (40) is received over the ends of said opposed

flanges of said air plenum means and said jet plate means to prevent marring or
scratching of the articles passing through said tunnel track system. 
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 6,
wherein said jet plate means (22) further includes a plurality of spaced louver notches

(23) for permitting exit of air pressure in said air plenum means to the vicinity of
passing articles in the tunnel track system.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 6 in
which at least a portion of said pair of article supporting and guiding means are

incrementally twisted sufficient to cause an article which is received therebetween to
be reoriented 90° while passing therethrough.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system according to Claim 1 in
which said secondary pneumatic conduits are integrally associated with said plenum

means, each of said secondary pneumatic conduits (50) further being disposed in a
plane transverse to said plenum means (24), whereby said primary and secondary

pneumatic conduits and said pressure supply means provide structural rigidity to said
tunnel track system.
The tunnel track pneumatic conduit system of Claim 15, wherein said
pneumatic conduit means tracks said air plenum means throughout a canning plant.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
