<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640038</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIRE PROTECTIVE FLEXIBLE COMPOSITE, SYSTEM INCLUDING SAME METHOD OF MAKING THE COMPOSITE, AND METHOD OF FIRE-PROOFING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B194	B32B1702	B32B1514	B32B1514	E04B194	B32B1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	B32B	B32B	B32B	E04B	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B1	B32B17	B32B15	B32B15	E04B1	B32B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Previously known fire resistant materials are not suitable for use in dynamic (moving or subject to movement) structures. Flexible composite materials of the present invention are suitable for use as fire barriers for either static or dynamic joints and are cost effective and easy to install. In one preferred embodiment the flexible composite includes: (a) a first layer material having first and second major surfaces, the first layer material including inorganic fibers and a binder in the form of a flexible mat; (b) a second layer material adhered to the first major surface of the first layer material, the second layer material being metal foil, the metal foil having a melting temperature of at least 350  DEG C; and (c) a third layer adhered to the second major surface of the first layer material, the third layer material including an intumescent fire retardant composite material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON VERNON H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON, VERNON H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to flexible composite materials suitable for use in
deterring the spread of fire, smoke, and fumes as may happen in a fire in a
multi-floor building.Fire, smoke, and fumes in confined spaces, such as multi-floor buildings,
can be extremely life threatening. Frequently, if fire originates in the space
between a floor and ceiling of such a structure, the fire, and resultant smoke
and fumes, will tend to spread to other open spaces in the building, especially
to open spaces above the point of origin of the fire.The reasons behind this spread of fire, smoke, and fumes to higher areas
are varied. The areas between conduits, piping, and the like, and
floors/ceilings through which they pass, are known as "through-penetrations".
If not fire protected, through- penetrations offer areas of low resistance to fire,
smoke, and fumes, and in essence serve as "chimneys". These areas may be
filled with commercially available fire retardant and intumescent putties, caulks,
wraps, or mats, known in the art as "firestops". Representative firestop
products are disclosed in product brochure number 98-0701-3508-6 (published
1990) from Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company (3M). The 3M
products are currently known under the trade designations "CP 25WB", "CP 25N/S",
"CP 25S/L", and "Firedam" (caulks); "MPP-4S" and "MPS-2"
(moldable putties); "FS-195" and "CS-195" (moldable strips); and "Interam"
and "Interam E-5" (mats). These products are variously described in assignee's
U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,916,057; 4,273,879; 4,305,992; 4,364,210; 4,433,732; and
4,467,577.The above firestop products and others have been widely used for
reducing or eliminating the chimney effect for through-penetrations and pass the 
rigorous American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) fire endurance test
(ASTM E-814) after intumescing and charring. However, even if the fire is
contained in the space between one floor and the next highest floor by a
firestop, serious hazards remain. This is because many multi-level buildings
will have joints between exterior walls and floors constructed as illustrated in
side elevation in FIG. 1. Shown is "vision" or "spandrel" (i.e., ornamental)
glass 10, which may form the exterior of a building. (Alternatively, 10 may be
concrete, marble, and the like.) Typically, an inorganic fibrous material 12 is
installed for thermal insulation (referred to in the art as a "curtain wall"). The
inorganic fibrous material may be glass fiber, mineral wool, and the like.
Thermal insulation 12 is fastened to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A flexible composite material, suitable for use as a fire barrier for
static joints, characterized by having:


(a) a first layer (28) in the form of a flexible mat having first and second major
surfaces, the first layer material being inorganic fibers and a binder;

and
(b) a layer (26) of metal foil adhered to the first layer by an adhesive, the
metal foil having a melting temperature of at least 350°C.
Flexible composite material in accordance with claim 1 further
characterized by (c) having a third layer (29) adhered to the second major surface of

the first layer material (28), the third layer material being an intumescent fire
retardant composite material.
Flexible composite material in accordance with claim 1 or 2 further
characterized by said inorganic fibers being selected from the group consisting

of alumina-silicate fibers, mineral wool fibers, glass fibers, refractory
filaments, crystalline alumina whiskers, and mixtures thereof.
Flexible composite material in accordance with claim 1, 2, or 3, further
characterized by said metal foil (26) being selected from the group consisting of

aluminum and stainless steel.
Flexible composite material in accordance with claim 4, wherein
the stainless steel foil (26) is a type 304 stainless steel foil. 
Flexible composite material in accordance with any one of claims 2 to 5, further
characterized by said intumescent fire retardant material being from 15 to 80

weight percent hydrated alkali metal silicate, from 15 to 40 weight percent of
an organic binder, at most 40 weight percent of an organic char-forming

component, and at most 50 weight percent filler. 
A flexible composite material, suitable for use as a fire barrier,
characterized by having:


(a) a first layer (28) in the form of a flexible mat having first and second major
surfaces, the first layer material being inorganic fibers and a binder;
(b) a second layer adhered to the first major surface of the first
layer, the second layer material being an intumescent fire retardant

composite material;
(c) a third layer adhered to the second layer, the third layer being
inorganic fibers; and
(d) a fourth layer adhered to the third layer, the third layer being an
intumescent fire retardant composite material.
A flexible composite material, suitable for use as a fire barrier,
characterized by having:


(a) a first layer (28) in the form of a flexible mat having first and second major
surfaces, the first layer material being inorganic fibers and a binder;
(b) second and third layers adhered to the first and second major
surfaces of the first layer, respectively, the second and third layers being

inorganic fibers;
(c) fourth and fifth layers adhered to the second and third layers,
respectively, the fourth and fifth layers being an intumescent fire retardant

composite material.
An apparatus (70) for thermally insulating and fire-proofing an exterior wall (10)
and an exterior wall (10)/floor (20) joint of a building, wherein the wall includes a

mullion (13) and exterior sheet material (10), and wherein the floor (20) includes a material
which is rigid at room temperatures but experiences sagging due to its weight at

fire temperatures, the apparatus characterized by having:

(a) an insulating component (12) positioned within the shape defined by the
mullion upon attachment to the mullion and having interior and exterior facing 

surfaces, the insulating component being an inorganic, thermally insulating material;
(b) a safing component (14) positioned between an exterior butt end of the
floor and insulating component; and
(c) a fire barrier flexible composite material (72, 74), the fire barrier having first (72)
and second (74) components, the first component positioned adjacent and parallel to

the insulating component, and the second component positioned substantially above the
safing component (14) in a curved fashion, the second component having first and

second ends, the first end attached to the top surface of the floor and the second
end attached to the first component, and the first component of the fire barrier

attached to the mullion, wherein the second component has at least one curved
portion which provides slack, thus allowing the fire barrier to remain intact

during relative movement of the wall and floor.
The apparatus of claim 9 further characterized by the first component (72) of
the fire barrier being positioned adjacent the interior facing surface of the

insulating component (12) and having a lower terminus attached to the mullion (13) and
an upper terminus attached to the second fire barrier component (74), the second

terminus extending between the insulating component and safing component, the
second component (74) being an S-shaped curve, and wherein the safing component (14) is supported

by one or more Z-clips (15).
The apparatus of claim 10 further characterized by the flexible
composite material according to any one of claims 1 to 8.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
