<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630518</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VERTICAL MICROELECTRONIC FIELD EMISSION DEVICES AND METHODS OF MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J130	H01J1304	H01J902	H01J902	H01J2904	H01J2904	H01J2987	H01J2987	H01J3112	H01J3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J1	H01J1	H01J9	H01J9	H01J29	H01J29	H01J29	H01J29	H01J31	H01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vertical microelectronic field emitter (10) includes a conductive top portion (15) and a resistive bottom portion (16) in an elongated column (12) which extends vertically from a horizontal substrate (11). An emitter electrode (17) may be formed at the base of the column, and an extraction electrode (18) may be formed adjacent the top of the column. The elongated column reduces the parasitic capacitance of the microelectronic field emitter to provide high speed operation, while providing uniform column-to-column resistance. The field emitter may be formed by first forming tips (15) on the face of a substrate and then forming trenches (22) in the substrate (11) around the tips to form columns (12) in the substrate, with the tips lying on top of the columns. The trenches are filled with a dielectric (19) and a conductor layer (18) is formed on the dielectric. Alternatively, trenches may be formed in the face of the substrate (11) with the trenches defining columns (12) in the substrate. Then, tips (15) are formed on top of the columns. The trenches are filled with dielectric and the conductor layers is formed on the dielectric to form the extraction electrodes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCNC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCNC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES GARY WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNE CHING-TZONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES GARY WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNE CHING-TZONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VERTICAL MICROELECTRONIC FIELD EMISSION DEVICES AND METHODS OF MAKING SAMEField of the InventionThis invention relates to semiconductor devices and fabrication methods and more particularly to microelectronic field emission devices and methods of fabricating the same.Background ofthe Invention Microminiature emitters are well known in the microelectronics art, and are often referred to as "field emitters". These microminiature field emitters are finding widespread use as electron sources in microelectronic devices. For example, field emitters may be used as electron guns. When the electrons are directed to a photoluminescent material they may be used for high density display devices. Moreover, the field emitter may be coupled to appropriate microelectronic control electrodes to produce a microelectronic analog to a vacuum tube and thereby produce vacuum integrated circuits.A field emitter typically includes a microelectronic emission surface, also referred to as a "tip", to enhance electron emissions. Conical, pyramidal and linear pointed tips are often used. Alternatively a flat tip of low work function material may be provided. An emitter electrode typically 

electrically contacts the tip. An extraction electrode is typically provided adjacent but not touching the field emission tip, to form an electron emission gap therebetween. Upon application of an appropriate voltage between the emitter electrode and the extraction electrode, quantum mechanical tunneling or other known phenomena cause the tip to emit an electron beam. In microelectronic applications, an array of field emission tips may be formed on the horizontal face of a substrate such as a silicon semiconductor substrate. Emitter electrodes, extraction electrodes and other electrodes as necessary may also be provided on or in the substrate. Support circuitry may also be fabricated on or in the substrate, using well known microelectronic techniques.Field emitters may be classified as either "vertical" field emitters or "horizontal" field emitters, depending upon the orientation of the emitted electron beam relative to the horizontal substrate face. Horizontal emitters emit a beam of electrons generally parallel to the horizontal face of the substrate on which they are formed. Typically, these emitters are formed by fabricating discrete horizontal emitters and horizontal electrodes in a single horizontal layer parallel to the horizontal face of the semiconductor substrate. In other words, horizontal emitters, horizontal extraction electrodes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A microelectronic field emitter comprising: a substrate; an elongated column on said substrate, extending therefrom, said column having a wall, a resistive bottom portion adjacent said substrate and a conductive top portion opposite said substrate; an electron emission surface on said conductive top portion; an insulating layer on said substrate, extending adjacent said wall; and at least one electrode on said insulating layer, extending adjacent said electron emission surface, for extracting electrons therefrom.
2. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said resistive bottom portion comprises gold-doped amorphous silicon.
3. The emitter of Claim 2 wherein, said conductive top portion comprises.titanium.
4. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said at least one electrode overhangs said insulating layer adjacent said electron emission surface.
5. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said electron emission surface comprises a conical, pyramidal or linear pointed tip.
6. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said electron emission surface comprises a layer of low work function material on said conductive top. 


 7. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said electron emission surface comprises a cap of low work function material, for emitting electrons from an edge thereof.
8. The emitter of Claim 1 further comprising a coating layer on said wall.
9. The emitter of Claim 1 further comprising a cover over said electron emission surface, and spaced therefrom, for encapsulating said electron emitter.
10. The emitter of Claim 9 wherein said cover includes at least one electrical device therein.
11. The emitter of Claim 9 wherein said cover is electrically connected to said at least one electrode.
12. The emitter of Claim 9 wherein said cover includes multilevel interconnection layers therein.
13. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said field emitter further comprises a second electrode at' the base of said column, adjacent said bottom resistive portion.
14. The emitter of Claim 1 wherein said at least one electrode comprises at least one split electrode.
15. A microelectronic field emitter array comprising: a substrate; an array of elongated columns on said substrate, orthogonally extending therefrom, each 


column having a wall, a conductive top portion opposite said substrate and a resistive bottom portion adjacent said substrate; an electron emission surface on each top; an insulating layer on said substrate, between said columns, extending onto said walls adjacent said electron emission surface; a first electrode on said insulating layer, extending parallel to said substrate, and adjacent said electron emission surface; and a second electrode adjacent said resistive bottom portion and electrically connected thereto, extending parallel to said substrate, for extracting electrons from said electron emission surface upon application of voltage between said first and second electrodes.
16. The emitter of Claim 15 wherein said resistive bottom portion comprises gold-doped amorphous silicon.
17. The emitter of Claim 16 wherein said conductive top portion comprises titanium.
18. The emitter of Claim 15 wherein said first electrode overhangs said insulating layer, adjacent said electron emission surface.
19. The emitter of Claim 15 wherein said electron emission surface comprises a conical, pyramidal or linear pointed tip.
20. The emitter of Claim 15 wherein said electron emission surface comprises a layer of low work function material on said conductive top. 


 21. The emitter of Claim 15 wherein said electron emission surface comprises a cap of low work function material, for emitting electrons from an edge thereof.
22. The emitter of Claim 15 further comprising a coating layer on said walls, between said insulating layer and said walls.
23. The emitter of Claim 15 further comprising a cover over said field emitter array, and spaced therefrom, for encapsulating said electron emitters..
24. The emitter of Claim 23 wherein said cover includes at least one electrical device therein.
25. The emitter of Claim 23 wherein said cover further comprises a plurality of partitions therein, for forming a plurality of encapsulation chambers.
26. A method of fabricating a microelectronic field emitter comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; then forming electron emission surfaces on a face of said substrate; and then forming trenches in said substrate around said electron emission surfaces, to form columns in said substrate, with said electron emissions surfaces lying on said columns.
27. The method of Claim 26 wherein said substrate providing step comprises the step of providing a substrate having a resistive layer on a face thereof and a conductive layer on said resistive layer; wherein said electron emission surfaces forming 


step comprises the step of forming electron emission surfaces in said conductive layer; and wherein said trenches forming step comprises the step of forming trenches in said resistive layer around said electron emission surfaces.
28. The method of Claim 26 further comprising the step of: filling said trenches with a dielectric.
29. The method of Claim 28 further comprising the step of: forming a conductor layer on said dielectric.
30. The method of Claim 29 wherein said conductor forming step comprises the steps of: forming a lift-off layer on said electron emission surfaces; forming a conductor layer on said dielectric and on said lift-off layer; and removing said lift-off layer, and said conductor layer thereon, from said electron emission surfaces.
31. The method of Claim 26 further comprising the step of encapsulating said electron emission surfaces.
32. The method of Claim 31 wherein said encapsulating step comprises the steps of: - forming a cantilever over at least some of said electron emission surfaces, and spaced therefrom; and forming a cover layer on said cantilever, to encapsulate said electron emission surfaces. 


 33. The method of Claim 31 wherein said encapsulating step comprises the steps of: placing a cover on said microelectronic field emitter, adjacent said electron emission surfaces and spaced therefrom; and bonding said cover to said microelectronic field emitter.
34. The method of Claim 33 wherein said bonding step takes place in a vacuum.
35. A method of fabricating a microelectronic field emitter comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; then forming trenches in a face of said substrate, said trenches defining columns in said substrate; and then forming electron emission surfaces on said columns.
36. The method of Claim 35 wherein said substrate providing step comprises the step of providing a substrate having a resistive layer on a face thereof and a conductive layer on said resistive layer; wherein said trenches forming step comprises the step of forming trenches in said conductive layer and said resistive layer; and wherein said electron emission surfaces forming step comprises the step of forming electron emission surfaces in said conductive
'
 layer.
37. The method of Claim 36 further comprising the step of: filling said trenches with a dielectric. 


 38. The method of Claim 37 further comprising the step of: forming a conductor layer on said dielectric.
39. The method of Claim 38 wherein said conductor forming step comprises the steps of: forming a lift-off layer on said electron emission surfaces; forming a conductor layer on said dielectric and on said lift-off layer; and removing said lift-off layer, and said conductor layer thereon, from said electron emission surfaces.
40. The method of Claim 35 further comprising the step of encapsulating said electron emission surfaces.
41. The method of Claim 40 wherein said encapsulating step comprises the steps of: forming a cantilever over at least some of said electron emission surfaces, and spaced therefrom; and forming a cover layer on said cantilever, to encapsulate said electron emission surfaces.
42. The method of Claim 40 wherein said encapsulating step comprises the steps of: placing a cover on said microelectronic field emitter, adjacent said electron emission surfaces and spaced therefrom; and bonding said cover to said microelectronic field emitter.
43. The method of Claim 42 wherein said bonding step takes place in a vacuum. 


 44. A display comprising: a substrate; an array of field emitters on said substrate, for emitting electrons therefrom in electron emission paths; a display screen parallel to said substrate and in the electron emission paths; and a standoff between said substrate and said display screen, for maintaining said emitters and said substrate in spaced apart relation, said standoff comprising a grid of intersecting walls extending parallel to said substrate, to surround the electron emission paths.
45. The display of Claim 44 wherein said standoff is mounted on one of said substrate and said display screen.
46. The display of Claim 45 further comprising a second standoff mounted on the other of said substrate and said display screen, said second standoff comprising a second grid of intersecting walls extending parallel to said substrate, to surround the electron emission paths.
47. The display of Claim 44 further comprising at least one spacer between said standoff and one of said substrate and said display screen, for maintaining said standoff in spaced apart relation between said one of said substrate and said display screen. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
