<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623308</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for non-invasive measurement of concentration of constituents in blood.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5145	A61B5145	A61B51455	A61B51495	G01N924	G01N924	G01N2131	G01N2135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G01N9	G01N9	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the detection of the concentration of an 
analyte in the blood of a living animal or person includes the steps of 

non-invasively irradiating a body part of the animal or person having a 
first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and detecting radiation 

emitted from the body part, non-invasively irradiating a body 
part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio and 

detecting radiation emitted from the body part, and calculating 
the concentration of the blood analyte based on the detected 

emitted radiation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIASENSE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIASENSE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIGGINS RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIGGINS, RICHARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to techniques for non-invasively 
detecting the concentration of analytes in the blood of living animals 
or persons, and in particular to the use of infrared and near-infrared 
spectroscopic techniques for the non-invasive detection 
of glucose concentrations in the blood of humans. In the diagnosis and treatment of various conditions, 
it is important to measure the concentration of various constituents 
in the blood. For example, in the treatment of diabetes, 
the concentration of glucose in the blood must be measured on a 
periodic basis. For persons experiencing insulin-dependent or 
Type I diabetes, it is often necessary or desirable to measure 
blood glucose concentration several times each day. Obtaining 
accurate readings of cholesterol concentrations is important in 
the prevention of coronary artery disease. The measurement of 
the concentration of other blood analytes such as bilirubin and 
alcohol, is also important for various diagnostic purposes. The accurate measurement of concentrations of such 
blood constituents, as it is now practiced, requires obtaining a 
blood sample, such as by pricking a finger. The obtaining of 
blood samples by invasive techniques, such as pricking the 
finger, is both painful and inconvenient. In the case of diabetics, 
the need to lance a finger several times a day to monitor 
glucose levels results in a build-up of substantial scar tissue.  
 
Indeed, many diabetics are believed not to monitor their glucose 
level as frequently as recommended because of the pain and 
inconvenience of the invasive method. The result of such a 
failure to monitor glucose levels is a greater risk of experiencing 
the long-term health effects of diabetes. These health 
effects include damage to the eyes, resulting in partial and 
often total loss of vision, and damage to the extremities, which 
can result in the need to amputate. Millions of individuals in 
the United States alone suffer from diabetes. As a result, the 
failure of individuals afflicted with diabetes reliably to 
monitor their glucose levels is a significant public health 
problem. In order to provide an alternative to the existing 
invasive blood glucose monitoring techniques, various non-invasive 
blood glucose detection techniques have been proposed. One 
of the most promising of these techniques is the non-invasive 
infrared spectroscopic technique. In this technique, a portion 
of the patient's skin is irradiated with infrared or near-infrared 
radiation, either at selected
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the detection of the concentration of 
a constituent of blood of a living animal or person, comprising 

the steps of: 

(a) non-invasively irradiating a body part having 
a first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and detecting radiation 

emitted from the body part; 
(b) non-invasively irradiating a body part having 
a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio and detecting 

radiation emitted from the body part; and 
(c) calculating the concentration of the constituent 
in blood based on the radiation detected in said steps (a) 

and (b). 
The method of claim 1, wherein the body part 
having a first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and the body 

part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio are the 
same body part. 
The method of claim 2, wherein, simultaneously 
with said step (b), pressure is applied to the body part to 

decrease the blood volume to tissue volume ratio in the body 
part. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the body part is 
the ear lobe. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the emitted 
detected radiation has been transmitted through the earlobe. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the body part is 
the finger. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the body part is 
the interior of the mouth. 
The method of claim 2, wherein said step (a) is 
performed during a first portion of the pulse cycle of the animal or 

person, and wherein said step (b) is performed at a second 
portion of the pulse cycle of the animal. 
The method of claim 2, wherein the body part 
includes a vein close to the skin, and, in one of said steps (a) 

and (b), the vein has been manually drained of substantially all 
blood by non-invasively compressing the vein. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step (a) and 
said step (b) are performed simultaneously, and wherein the body 

part having a first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and the 
body part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio, 

are different body parts. 
A method for calibrating an instrument for non-invasively 
determining the concentration of an analyte in the 

blood of a living animal or person, comprising the steps of: 

(a) non-invasively irradiating a body part of the 
animal having a first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and 

detecting radiation emitted from the body part to obtain a first 
absorbance spectrum; 
(b) non-invasively irradiating a body part of the 
animal having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio and 

 
detecting radiating emitted by the body part to obtain a second 

absorbance spectrum; 
(c) invasively detecting the concentration of the 
analyte in the blo
od of the animal substantially simultaneously 
with said steps (a) and (b); and 
(d) employing the first absorbance spectrum, the 
second absorbance spectrum, and the invasively-detected concentration, 

to calibrate the instrument. 
The method of claim 11, wherein said step (d) 
comprises employing a multivariate analytical technique. 
The method of claim 12, wherein said multivariate 
analytical technique is partial least squares. 
The method of claim 11, wherein the body part 
having a first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and the body 

part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio are the 
same body part. 
The method of claim 14, wherein, simultaneously 
with said step (b), pressure is applied to the body part to 

decrease the blood volume to tissue volume ratio in the body 
part. 
The method of claim 15, wherein the body part is 
the ear lobe. 
The method of claim 16, wherein the emitted 
detected radiation has been transmitted through the earlobe. 
The method of claim 15, wherein the body part is 
the finger. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the body part is 
the interior of the mouth. 
The method of claim 14, wherein said step (a) is 
performed during a first portion of the pulse cycle of the animal or 

person, and wherein said step (b) is performed during a second 
portion of the pulse cycle of the animal. 
The method of claim 14, wherein the body part 
includes a vein close to the skin, and, in one of said steps (a) 

and (b), the vein has been manually drained of substantially of 
all blood by non-invasively compressing the vein. 
The method of claim 11, wherein said step (a) and 
said step (b) are performed simultaneously, and wherein the body 

part having a first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and the 
body part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio, 

are different body parts. 
An apparatus for the non-invasive detection of the 
concentration of a constituent of blood of a living animal or person, 

comprising: 

(a) means (10) for non-invasively irradiating a body part 
(20) of the animal or person, 
(b) means (20) for detecting radiation emitted from 
the body part; and 
(c) data processing means (80,85,90) for receiving a first 
signal from said detecting means (20) representative of the intensity 

of radiation detected during irradiation of a body part having a 
first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and calculating and 

 
storing a first absorbance spectrum based on said first signal; 

receiving a second signal from said detecting means (20) representative 
of the intensity of radiation detected during irradiation of 

a body part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio 
and calculating and storing a second absorbance spectrum based on 

said second signal; and calculating from said first absorbance 
spectrum and said second absorbance spectrum the concentration of 

the constituent in the blood. 
An apparatus for calibrating an instrument for 
non-invasive determination of the concentration of an analyte in 

the blood of a living animal or person, comprising: 

(a) means (10) for non-invasively irradiating a body 
part of the animal or person; 
(b) means (20) for detecting radiation emitted from 
the body part; and 
(c) data processing means (80,85,90) for receiving a first 
signal from said detecting means (20) representative of the intensity 

of radiation detected during irradiation of a body part having a 
first blood volume to tissue volume ratio and calculating and 

storing a first absorbance spectrum based on said first signal; 
receiving a second signal from said detecting means (20) representative 

of the intensity of radiation detected during irradiation of 
a body part having a second blood volume to tissue volume ratio 

and calculating and storing a second absorbance spectrum based on 
said second signal; receiving an input representing an 

invasively-detected concentration of the analyte in the blood of 
 

the animal; and based on said first absorbance spectrum, said 
second absorbance spectrum, and said invasively-detected concentration, 

calibrating the instrument. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
