<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626999</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULATION OF ENZYME ACTIVITIES IN THE -I(IN VIVO) CLONING OF DNA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N922	C12N922	C12N1510	C12N1510	C12N1564	C12N1564	C12N1566	C12N1566	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and recombinant vectors suitable for accomplishing the in vivo alteration of a nucleic acid molecule are disclosed. The invention in particular discloses the use of recombinases such as Cre to accomplish in vivo recombination.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIFE TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIFE TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEBEE ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTLEY JAMES L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEBEE, ROBERT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTLEY, JAMES, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TI LE OF THE INVENTION;MODULATION OF ENZYME ACTIVITIES IN THE IN VIVO CLONING OF DNAFTTCT.n OF THE INVENTION;The invention relates to vectors and methods for modulating the expression of enzyme activities, such as ligases, nucleases, and recombinases, in order to thereby facilitate the in vivo cloning of DNA molecules.CROSS-REFERENCE TO PTTA-nϋn APPLICATIONS:This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/825,267 (filed January 24, 1992).BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:The techniques of molecular biology have found extensive use in the cloning and analysis of DNA molecules. The most commonly used methods for cloning a gene sequence involve the in vitro use of site-specific restriction endonucleases, and ligases. In brief, these methods rely upon the capacity of the "restriction endonucleases" to cleave double-stranded DNA in a manner that produces termini whose structure (i.e. 3' overhang, 5* overhang, or blunt end) and sequence are both well defined. Any such DNA molecule can then be joined to a suitably cleaved vector molecule (i.e. a nucleic acid 

molecule, typically double-stranded DNA, having specialized sequences which permit it to be replicated in a suitable host cell) through the action of a DNA ligase. The gene sequence may then be duplicated indefinitely by propagating the vector in a suitable host. Methods for performing such manipulations are well-known (see, for example, Perbal, B. A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning. John Wiley & Sons, NY, (1984), pp. 208-216; Maniatis, T., et al. (In: Molecular Cloning. A Laboratory Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1982); Old, R.W. et al.. In: Principles of Gene Manipulation. 2nd. Ed. , University of California Press, Los Angeles, (1981) , all herein incorporated by reference) . Depending upon the size and characteristics of the desired target molecule, any one of the three different types of vectors — plasmids, baσteriophage, or cos ids — can be employed (See, generally, Watson, J.D., In: Molecular Bioloσv of the Gene. 4th Ed. , W.A. Benjamin, Inc., Menlo Park, CA (1987), which reference is incorporated herein by reference) .The use of plasmids in cloning is quite well known (see, for example, Cohen et al. - U.S. Patent 4,237,224; Itakura, U.S. Patent 4,356,270; Fraley, R.T. et al.. PCT Application WO 84/02919; etc.). In general, the most pronounced deficiency of plasmid vectors is the relatively small amount (up to about 5-10 kb) of DNA which can be cloned into them. In general, the larger the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for accomplishing in vivo alteration of a target molecule in a host cell which comprises the steps: a) providing to said host cell a first vector, said vector containing (i) a preselected gene and (ii) a replicon, wherein said preselected gene is capable of being expressed in said host cell, and said replicon is sufficient to permit the replication of said vector; b) providing to said host cell a second vector, said vector containing (i) said target molecule which is to be altered, (ii) a replicon, and (iii) a determinant that has the capacity to inhibit the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector; c) culturing said host cell under conditions sufficient to permit the expression of said preselected gene, to thereby mediate the desired alteration of said target molecule; wherein said second vector inhibits said expression, and thereby results in the modulation of the expression of said preselected gene.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said inhibition is reversibly modulatable.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said inhibition is irreversibly modulatable.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said determinant of said second vector inhibits the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector by expressing a gene present on said second vector.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said expressed gene of said second vector effects the excision of said preselected gene from said first vector. 


 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said determinant of said second vector inhibits the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector by comprising an incompatibility determinant sufficient to inhibit the replication of said first vector, and thereby causing the loss of said vector from the said host cell.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said replicon of said first vector is a PI replicon, and wherein said incompatibility determinant comprises an incA regulatory element.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said PI replicon of said first vector lacks at least one naturally present incA regulatory element.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said alteration is a recombinational alteration, and wherein said preselected gene is a recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one site recognized by said recombinase.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said recombinase is Cre, and wherein said site is a loxP site.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein said alteration is a recombinational alteration, and wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein said alteration is a recombinational alteration, and wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein said alteration is a recombinational alteration, and wherein said preselected 


gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site.
14. A host cell containing a first and a second vector, wherein said first vector contains (i) a preselected gene and (ii) a replicon, wherein said preselected gene is capable of being expressed in said host cell, and said replicon is sufficient to permit the replication of said vector; and wherein said second vector contains (i) a target molecule, (ii) a replicon, and (iii) a determinant that has the capacity to inhibit the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector.
15. The host cell of claim 14, wherein said determinant of said second vector inhibits the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector by comprising an incompatibility determinant sufficient to inhibit the replication of said first vector.
16. The host cell of claim 15, wherein said replicon of said first vector is a PI replicon, and wherein said incompatibility determinant comprises an incA regulatory element.
17. The host cell of claim 16, wherein said PI replicon of said first vector lacks at least one naturally present incA regulatory elements.
18. The host cell of claim 15, wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site.
19. The host cell of claim 16, wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site. 


 20. The host cell of claim 17, wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site.
21. A kit, being specially adapted to contain in close compartmentalization: a) a first container which contains a first vector which contains a replicon and a preselected gene, said vector being capable of expressing said preselected gene in a host cell; b) a second container, said container containing a second vector, said vector having a determinant that has the capacity to inhibit the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector, and being specially adapted to facilitate the introduction of a desired target molecule.
22. The kit of claim 21, wherein said determinant of said second vector inhibits the expression of said preselected gene of said first vector by comprising an incompatibility determinant sufficient to inhibit the replication of said first vector, and thereby causing the loss of said vector from the said host cell.
23. The kit of claim 22, wherein said replicon of said first vector is a PI replicon, and wherein said incompatibility determinant comprises an incA regulatory element.
24. The kit of claim 23, wherein said PI replicon of said first vector lacks at least one naturally present incA regulatory elements.
25. The kit of claim 22, wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site. 


 26. The kit of claim 23, wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site.
27. The kit of claim 24, wherein said preselected gene is a cre recombinase gene, and said target molecule possesses at least one loxP site. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
