<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653899</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Formable magnetic flux concentrator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01F112	H01F126	H05B602	H05B602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01F	H01F	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01F1	H01F1	H05B6	H05B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A formable composite magnetic flux concentrator is 
composed of about 65 to 90 percent ferromagnetic 

material, such as iron powder, and about 35 to 10 percent 
binder, the binder being a mixture of an epoxy and one or 

more catalysts. The concentrator is provided in a 
formable state as a putty-like body which can be worked 

into any desired shape dictated by the configuration of 
the induction heating coil used in a particular 

application. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEARMAN THOMAS JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEARMAN, THOMAS JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to induction 
heating and, more particularly, to a formable composite 
magnetic flux concentrator for use in induction heating 
applications. The present invention also relates to a 
method of making the concentrator. Induction heating is a relatively efficient manner 
of generating heat in an electrically conductive part. 
When changing electrical current flows in an induction 
heating coil, it will cause a changing magnetic field to 
be generated about the coil. If the electrically 
conductive part is placed within the coil, then the 
changing magnetic field will induce a current to flow 
around the part which will generate heating of the part 
due to its inherent electrical resistance to the current 
flow. No contact is necessary between the coil and part. 
The magnetic flux field is passed through an air gap 
between the coil and part. By placing a composite magnetic flux concentrator on 
the induction heating coil, a stronger magnetic field is 
generated in the air gap between the coil and part. The 
stronger the magnetic field, the faster and more 
efficiently the part will be heated. The magnetic flux 
concentrator is formed of a magnetically conductive 
material that, when placed on the coil, creates a more 
efficient and controlled magnetic flux path and increases 
the intensity of the magnetic flux field. The use of a magnetic flux concentrator also has the 
following additional benefits. The concentrator (1) 
increases the magnetic coupling into the part, thus using 
less energy; (2) decreases the potential hazardous 
magnetic and RF exposure to which machine operators are 
exposed; (3) defines the specific area that is to be  
 
induction heated, thereby holding the heat-affected zone 
to a controlled or minimum which is metallurgically 
beneficial to the part; and (4) allows the 
focusing/shielding of the magnetic energy into/from zones 
that would not otherwise be achievable without the use of 
the concentrator. There are basically three different types of prior 
art magnetic flux concentrators in commercial use. The 
first type of prior art concentrator is provided in the 
form of laminations of numerous thin sheets of steel. 
Each sheet is electrically insulated from the other 
sheets. The laminations are custom fitted to the shape 
required and placed side by side over the coil. However, 
undesirably high eddy currents are generated within the 
sheets and excess heat energy is produced within the 
concentrator. At higher frequencies, thinner
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A formable composite magnetic flux 
concentrator, comprising a composition of: 


(a) a ferromagnetic material, in a percent by 
weight range of from 65% to 90%; 
(b) a binder, in a percent by weight range of from 
35% to 10%. 
A concentrator according to claim 1 wherein 
said ferromagnetic material is an iron powder having 

particles of a first diameter size and a second diameter 
size different than said first diameter size. 
A concentrator according to claim 2 wherein 
said particles of said first diameter size are 

predominately non-spherical, disc-shaped particles, and 
said particles of said second diameter size are 

predominately spherical-shaped particles. 
A concentrator according to any of claims 1 to 
3 wherein said binder is a mixture of an epoxy and at 

least two catalysts which start to react at different 
temperatures. 
A concentrator according to any of claims 1 to 
4 wherein said composition provides a putty-like body in 

a formable state which can be hand-worked into different 
selected shapes. 
A concentrator according to claim 5 wherein an 
insulated powder is added to said composition to form a 

skin thereon that decreases a slightly tacky surface on 
an outside of said putty-like body. 
A concentrator according to claim 5 further 
comprising: 

   a dry shell of a coating material, preferably a 
mixture of plaster of paris and water, applied to said 

body so as to hold said body in the selected shape. 
A concentrator according to claim 7 wherein 
said coating material also includes a dry coloured powder 

added to said coating material to indicate a formulation 
assigned to said concentrator. 
A concentrator according to claims 1 to 5 
wherein said composition also includes a fumed silica, in 

a percent by weight within the range of from about 0.01% 
to 6%. 
A formable composite magnetic flux 
concentrator, comprising a putty-like body in a formable 

state which can be hand-worked into different selected 
shapes, said body having a composition comprising: 


(a) a ferromagnetic iron material, in a percent by 
weight range of about 65% to 90%; and 
(b) a binder, in a percent by weight range of about 
35% to 10%. 
A concentrator according to claim 10 wherein 
said ferromagnetic material is an iron powder having 

particles of a first diameter size and a second diameter 
size being different than said first diameter size. 
A concentrator according to claim 11 wherein 
the particles of said first diameter size are 

predominately non-spherical, disc-shaped particles and 
the particles of said second diameter size are 

 
predominately spherical-shaped particles. 
A concentrator according to any of claims 10 to 
12 wherein said binder is a mixture of a high viscosity 

epoxy and at least two catalysts which start to react at 
different temperatures. 
A concentrator according to any of claims 10 to 
13 which includes a dry shell of a coating material, 

preferably of plaster of paris and water, applied to said 
body so as to hold said body in the selected shape. 
A concentrator according to claim 14 wherein 
said coating material also includes a dry coloured powder 

added to said coating material to indicate a grade 
assigned to said concentrator. 
A concentrator according to any of claims 10 to 
13 wherein said composition also includes a fumed silica, 

in a percent by weight within the range of from about 
0.01% to 6%. 
A method of making a formable composite 
magnetic flux concentrator, comprising the steps of: 


(a) preparing a body in a formable putty-like state 
by mixing together a ferromagnetic material and a binder; 

and 
(b) shaping said body while in said formable putty-like 
state into a selected shape. 
A method according to claim 17 wherein said 
preparing of said body includes mixing said ferromagnetic 

material in a percent by weight in the range of about 65% 
to 90%, with said binder, in a percent by weight range of 

 
about 35% to 10%. 
A method according to claim 17 or claim 18 
wherein said binder is a mixture of an epoxy and at least 

one catalyst and preferably catalysts which start to 
react at different temperatures. 
A method according to any of claims 17 to 19 
which includes solidifying said body by applying heat to 

said body to activate the or each catalyst of said binder 
to change said formable body having the selected shape to 

the solid body. 
A method according to claim 17 in which the 
binder contains no catalyst and which includes heating 

the binder to between 193°C (380°F) and 204°C (400°F) to 
harden the binder. 
A method according to any of claims 17 to 21 
wherein said shaping includes applying a coating material 

to the body to form a dry shell thereof about the 
exterior of the body so that the body will hold said 

selected shape. 
A method according to claim 22 wherein said 
shaping includes adding a dry coloured powder to the 

coating material to indicate a grade assigned to the 
concentrator. 
A method according to any of claims 16 to 21 
wherein said preparing includes adding a fumed silica to 

the ferromagnetic material and binder in an amount which 
is preferably within the range of from 0.01 (trace) to 6 

percent by weight of the total composition of the 
 

concentrator body. 
A method according to any of claims 16 to 24 
which includes embedding hollow elements in the body 

while the body is in said formable putty-like state to 
provide a means by which the concentrator can be cooled 

during use. 
A method according to any of claims 16 to 25 
which includes graining the body while the body is in 

said formable putty-like state by applying a magnetic 
field to the body in the direction of the proposed end 

use of the concentrator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
