<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636048</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELECTIVE REMOVAL OF AFLATOXIN FROM AZADIRACHTIN CONTAINING COMPOSITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N6526	A23L1015	A23L1015	A62D300	A62D300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A23L	A23L	A62D	A62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N65	A23L1	A23L1	A62D3	A62D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGRIDYNE TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGRIDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLENBERGER SUZANNE RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLENBERGER WILLIAM P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLENBERGER SUZANNE RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLENBERGER WILLIAM P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SELECTIVE REMOVAL OF AFLATOXIN FROM AZADIRACHTIN CONTAINING COMPOSITIONSBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method for th selective removal of contaminants, including aflatoxins, fro azadirachtin-containing materials. More particularly, this invention relates to a method of reducing the aflatoxin content of azadirachtin-containing materials through the selective binding of aflatoxin by charcoal. Charcoal is defined as a black form of carbon produced by partially burning wood, coal, lignin, bone or other organic matter in a kiln from which air is excluded. Some of the synonyms for charcoal include carbon, activated carbon, and activated charcoal. Charcoal may be prewashed with acid or base with or without subsequent neutralization and may be in powder, granular or pelletized forms.Extracts of the neem (Azadirachta indica) and the chinaberry (Melia azedarach) trees have long been known to have insecticidal activity (Natural Pesticides from the Neem Tree, Proc. 1st Int'l Neem Conf., Rottach-Egern, 1980 (H. Schmutterer, et al. eds. 1982) ; Natural Pesticides from the Neem Tree and Other Tropical Plants, Proc. 2nd Int'l Neem Conf., Rauisch holzhausen, 1983 (H. Schmutterer and K.R.S. Asher eds. 1984) ; Natural Pesticides from the Neem Tree and other Tropical Plants, Proc. 3rd Int'l Neem Conf., Nairobi, 1986 (H. Schmutterer and K.R.S. Asher eds. 1987)). These extracts have generated intense academic research interest 

including the isolation and identification of at least sixty di ferent chemical entities from various parts of the neem tree (P. Jones, et al. , "The Chemistry of the Neem Tree," in Phytochemical Pesticides, Vol. 1 (M. Jacobson ed. , CRC Press, 1988) .The active ingredient of the neem and chinaberry extracts, azadirachtin, is a limonoid of the tetranortriterpenoid type. This compound has been shown to be a potent insect growth regulator and feeding deterrent (Yamasaki, R. B., et al. (1987) J. Agric. Food Chem. 3_5:467-471) . Several synthetic analogs of azadirachtin have been prepared (Yamasaki, R. B., et al. (1987) supra); Ley, S. V., et al. (1989) Tetrahedron 45:5175) and organic synthesis of the molecule has been accomplished (Ley, S. V., et al. (1987) Tetrahedron Lett. 28_:221; Brasca, M. G., et al- (1988) Tetrahedron Lett. 29_:1853; Ley, S. V., et al. (1989) Tetrahedron 45:2143; Nishikimi, Y. , et al. (1989) J. Org. Chem 54.:3354). Due to the complexity of the azadirachtin molecule, however, the economic synthesis and commercialization of a synthetic product is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS What we claim is:
1. A method for the selective removal of aflatoxin from an azadirachtin-containing composition contaminated therewith which comprises contacting said azadirachtin- containing composition with an aflatoxin-selective binding agent, whereby said binding agent selectively binds aflatoxin compared to azadirachtin.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the binding agent is activated carbon.
3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the activated carbon is charcoal.
4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the aflatoxin- selective adsorbent is added in an amount and for a time sufficient to remove substantially all of said aflatoxin from said azadirachtin-containing composition.
5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said contacting is accomplished by making a flowable mixture of said azadirachtin-containing composition in a solvent which is non-degrading to azadirachtin, and subjecting said mixture to an aflatoxin-selective binding agent.
6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the azadirachtin- containing composition is a neem seed extract.
7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the selective removal of aflatoxin is carried out in a succession of treatments.
8. A method according to claim 5 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of nitriles, substituted aro atics, chlorinated aliphatics, aromatic 


 aldehydes, sulfones, ethers, esters, amides, sulfoxides, alcohols, alkyl carbonates, ketones, and mixtures thereof.
9. A method according to claim 5 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of acetone, benzene, dichloromethane, ethanol, ethyl acetate, ethylene dichloride, methanol, methyl acetate, methyl t-butyl ether, methyl formate, 2-propanol, and mixtures thereof.
10. A method for the selective removal of aflatoxin from an azadirachtin-containing composition contaminated therewith which comprises the steps of:
(a) mixing said azadirachtin-containing composition with an azadirachtin-soluble solvent and an aflatoxin- selective binding agent for a time sufficient to bind aflatoxin, wherein said solvent is non- degrading to azadirachtin, and whereby aflatoxin is selectively bound to said binding agent; and
(b) separating the binding agent and bound aflatoxin from the azadirachtin-containing composition.
11. A method according to claim 10 wherein the binding agent is charcoal.
12. A method according to claim 10 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of nitriles, substituted aromatics, chlorinated aliphatics, aromatic aldehydes, sulfones, ethers, esters, amides, sulfoxides, alcohols, alkyl carbonates, ketones, and mixtures thereof.
13. A method according to claim 10 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of acetone, benzene, dichloromethane, ethanol, ethyl acetate, ethylene dichloride, methanol, methyl acetate, methyl t-butyl ether, methyl formate, 2-propanol, and mixtures thereof. 


14. A method according to claim 10 wherein the aflatoxin- selective binding agent is added in an amount and for a time sufficient to bind substantially all of said aflatoxin from said azadirachtin-containing composition.
15. A method according to claim 10 wherein the solvent is ethyl acetate.
16. A method for the selective removal of aflatoxin from an azadirachtin-containing composition contaminated therewith which comprises the steps of:
(a) admixing said azadirachtin-containing composition with a solvent which is non-degrading to azadirachtin, wherein a flowable mixture is formed; and
(b) passing said mixture through a column of aflatoxin- selective binding agent wherein said agent selectively binds aflatoxin compared to azadirachtin; and optionally
(c) repeating step (b) to remove substantially all of said aflatoxin.
17. A method according to claim 16 wherein the binding agent is charcoal.
18. A method according to claim 16 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of nitriles, substituted aromatics, chlorinated aliphatics, aromatic aldehydes, sulfones, ethers, esters, amides, sulfoxides, alcohols, alkyl carbonates, ketones, and mixtures thereof. 


19. A method according to claim 16 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of acetone, benzene, dichloromethane, ethanol, ethyl acetate, ethylene dichloride, methanol, methyl acetate, methyl t-butyl ether, methyl formate, 2-propanol, and mixtures thereof.
20. A method according to claim 16 wherein the azadirachtin- containing composition is a neem seed extract.
21. A method for removing a contaminant from an azadirachtin- containing composition comprising contacting said composition with charcoal, whereby said charcoal selectively binds aflatoxin compared to azadirachtin.
22. A method according to claim 21 wherein the azadirachtin- containing composition is a neem seed extract. 

AMENDED CLAIMS —
[received by the International Bureau on 13 September 1993 (13.09.93) ; original claims 21 and 22 cancelled; other claims unchanged (1 page) ]
19. A method according to claim 16 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of acetone, benzene, dichloromethane, ethanol, ethyl acetate, ethylene dichloride, methanol, methyl acetate, methyl t-butyl ether, methyl formate, 2-propanol, and mixtures thereof .
20. A method according to claim 16 wherein the azadirachtin- containing composition is a neem seed extract. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
