<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Printing press.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1500	G03G1500	G03G1501	G03G1501	G03G1532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for the automatic production of 
business forms, wallpaper, newspapers or the like from a web 

of continuous printing material (W) comprises a printing 
station (12) including an endless movable printing device 

such as a rotating cylinder (40). An image is projected to 
a surface of the device. The image is transferred to the 

web of continuous material (W) at the printing station (12). 
Immediately after the printing station, the image is erased 

from the device so that a remaining portion of the image may 
be projected onto its surface. In this manner the device 

appears to provide a printing surface of indeterminate 
length and so is designed without relation to the image to 

be projected. A plurality of such printing stations may be 
arranged in series for color printing. Furthermore, the 

operation of the printing station and associated activities 
may be controlled by a pre-selected computer program. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L 
&
 C FAMILY PARTNERSHIP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L 
&
 C FAMILY PARTNERSHIP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARPER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLFBERG LARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARPER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLFBERG LARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for 
automatically printing a web of paper in the production of 
business forms, or any form of printing such as but not 
limited to, newspapers or publications with the copy 
transmitted nationwide from a central location, or as 
another example production of wallpaper from rolls with 
infinitely variable patterns. In the art of manufacturing continuous, multi-part 
business forms, and in the printing press art in general, a 
major shortcoming is that the size of the print pattern is 
limited to the size, i.e., the diameter, of the printing 
cylinder. As a result, printing cylinders must be changed 
often in order to accommodate various lengths or repeats in 
the desired work product.  US-A-3701966 discloses a printing system having an 
electrostatic drum which may be charged to attract dry toner 
particles in a desired image. The toner is embedded in an 
image receiving paper as the paper passes between the 
electrostatic drum and a pressure drum. A discharge station 
is provided after the printing station. US-A-4297716 discloses a printer having a 
photosensitive image receiving drum for transferring an 
image to fan folded paper. The image is formed by a laser 
beam, made visible by electrically charged toner particles, 
and transferred to the image receiving paper by transfer 
rollers and a corona discharger. According to this invention, the printing cylinder has 
an indeterminate length in the sense that it is able to 
print at any desired length or pattern repeat without the 
necessity of changing cylinders. In this respect, the 
cylinder surface may be regarded as a constantly moving 
surface, miles long, rather than any fixed size. This is 
because an ionized beam is projected onto the cylinder to 
create an image thereon which is transferred to a 
continuously moving web. As the cylinder revolves past the 
printing position, the image is erased and another image is 
formed, so as to present a constantly  
 
changing image to the web for continuous printing 
independent of cylinder size. More specifically, the drum or print 
cylinder is provided with an image receiving 
photoconductor surface which is rotated past a 
charging or projection station where laser beams 
are utilized to project images on the cylinder 
surface. This is accomplished using laser printing 
technology such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 
3,836,917. The cylinder is then rotated to a 
development station where a powder or toner is 
selectively deposited on only the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of printing a web (W) of continuous 
printing material on a printing press comprising the steps 

of: 

(a) feeding a web (W) of continuous printing material 
from a supply roll (30) to a printing station (12); 
(b) projecting a changing image onto an endless 
moving printing device (40), applying toner to the device 

(40) and developing the image; 
(c) transferring said developed image to said web at 
said printing station (12) as the web (W) and the printing 

device (40) move past each other, the length of the image 
applied to the web being independent of any dimension of the 

printing device (40); and 
(d) erasing the image from said printing device (40) 
immediately after step (c). 
A method as defined in claim 1 and further 
comprising the step of printing according to said steps (a) 

to (d) at a plurality of printing stations, each printing 
station for printing in a different color. 
A method as defined in claim 2 wherein printing 
is carried out at a plurality of printing stations arranged 

in series. 
A method as defined in claim 2 or claim 3 and 
including the step of printing at one printing station in 

black, and at another printing station in a primary color 
selected from red, green or blue. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim 
wherein step (b) is carried out by projection from a light 

source (42). 
A method as defined in claim 5 wherein step (b) 
is carried out by projection from at least one laser. 
A method as defined in claim 6 wherein step (b) 
is carried out by projection from a plurality of lasers. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim 
wherein step (b) comprises projecting a charged image on a 

light receiving surface of said printing device (40) and 
said transferring step transfers toner to the web (W) of 

continuous printing material in accordance with the charged 
image. 
A method as defined in claim 8 further comprising 
the step of fixing the toner image on the web (W) of 

continuous printing material. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim 
further comprising the step of monitoring the thickness of 

the web prior to step (b). 
A method as defined in any preceding claim 
further comprising the step of slitting the web in 

predetermined locations. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim 
further comprising the step of perforating the web in 

predetermined locations. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim and 
 

further including the step of controlling steps (a) to (e) 
by a computer program. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim and 
including the step of printing constantly changing 

alphanumeric character data to produce a business form, the 
amount of alphanumeric data being independent of any 

dimension of the printing device. 
A printing press for printing a changing image on 
a web (W) of continuous printing material characterized by: 


(a) feeder means (34,38) for feeding the web (W) of 
continuous printing material from a supply roll (30) to a 

printing station (12); 
(b) an endless moving printing device (40) for 
receiving the image to be printed; 
(c) drive means for driving said printing device past 
the printing station (12); 
(d) projection means (42) for projecting the image 
onto said printing device (40), applications means for 

applying toner to said image and developing means (44) for 
developing said image, the length of the image applied to 

the web being independent of any dimension of the printing 
device; 
(e) transfer means for transferring the developed 
image on said printing device (40) to the web (W) at said 

printing station (12) as the web (W) and printing device 
(40) move past one another; and 
(f) erase means (46) for erasing the image from said 
printing device (40) immediately after said printing 

station. 
A printing press as defined in claim 15 wherein 
said printing device (40) is adapted for periodic removal. 
A printing press as defined in claim 15 or claim 

16 and further comprising a computer for controlling the 
printing press. 
A printing press as defined in any of claims 15-17 
and comprising a plurality of printing stations adapted 

for printing in a plurality of colors. 
A printing press as defined in any of claims 15-18 
and further comprising means (24) for slitting the web 

(W) of continuous printing material. 
A printing press as defined in any of claims 15-19 
and further comprising means (14) for perforating the web 

(W) of continuous printing material at predetermined 
locations. 
A printing press as defined in any of claims 15-20 
wherein said projection means (42) charges the surface of 

said printing device (40) with a charged image corresponding 
to the image to be printed, and said transfer means 

transfers the toner to said web (W) to print the image as 
said printing device (40) and the web (W) move past each 

other, 
   said printing press further comprising fixing means 

 
(48,50) for fixing the toner on said web (W). 
A printing press as defined in claim 21 wherein 
said erase means (46) comprises discharge means for 

discharging the charged image on the surface of said 
printing device (40). 
A printing press according to any of claims 15-22 
wherein said printing device (40) is a cylinder. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
