<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645038</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT CARD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4314	B29C4314	B29C4318	B29C4318	B29C4322	B29C4328	B29C4514	B29C4514	B32B3714	B32B3720	B42D1510	B42D1510	G06K19077	G06K19077	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B32B	B32B	B42D	B42D	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C45	B29C45	B32B37	B32B37	B42D15	B42D15	G06K19	G06K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEC AVERY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEC-AVERY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARVIS CHARLES RICHARD ACACIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARVIS, CHARLES RICHARD, 12 ACACIA DRIVE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT C.A ΩThis invention relates to an integrated circuit card and to a method of manufacturing such a card.An integrated circuit card is a card incorporating one or more electronic components, including an integrated circuit, capable of storing and, when activated by external means, processing data. Such cards may be used for storing personal data, and authorising and controlling monetary and other transactions, for example. The card of the invention may, for example, be of the type disclosed and claimed in our UK Patent No. 2173623.In a known technique for the manufacture of such cards, as disclosed and claimed for example in our UI Patent Application No. 2219960, the card comprises an insert consisting of a flexible substrate upon which are formed conductive tracks and to which the or each of the electronic components are adhered and provided with electrical connection to the tracks. The insert is adhered to a high tensile polyester skin in a mould, with a second skin spaced from the first at the opposite side of the mould space, and a reactive liquid polymer mix is injected into the space between the skins. The mould is then closed and, under the action of heat, the liquid polymer cures to a solid polymeric body. While the cards produced by such a process are satisfactorily durable, there can be a tendency for the 

surface of the card to follow the contours and outline of the insert within the card to a small degree. While this has no adverse effect on the operation of the card, its appearance can be slightly marred.Additionally, there are difficulties in handling a liquid reactive polymeric material.It is an object of the present invention to provide a method of manufacturing an integrated circuit card wherein the aforesaid disadvantages are minimised or overcome.According to the present invention, a liquid reactive polymeric material is replaced by a curable polymer/filler mix having a consistency of dough and hereinafter referred to as a polymeric dough.Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of manufacturing an integrated circuit card, the card comprising an insert including at least one electronic component, the method comprising the steps of mounting at least one electronic component on a flexible substrate having a conductive circuit, providing electrical connectors between the or each electronic component and the circuit, mounting the insert on a first layer of a polymeric dough curing the first layer, and locating a second layer of a polymeric dough on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit card, the card comprising an insert including at least one electronic component, the method comprising the steps of mounting at least one electronic component on a flexible substrate having a conductive circuit, providing electrical connections between the or each electronic component and the conductive circuit to form an insert, mounting the insert on a first layer of a polymeric dough, curing said first layer, locating a second layer of a polymeric dough on the first layer with the insert therebetween, and curing said second layer.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first and second layers are cured substantially simultaneously.
3. A method according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein a polymeric skin is applied to the outer face of each of said layers before said layer is cured.
4. A method according to claim 3, comprising locating one of said polymeric dough layers on one of the polymeric skins, mounting the insert on the upper face of the layer and curing the layer, locating the second of said polymeric dough layers on the first layer with the insert therebetween, locating a second polymeric skin on said second layer, and curing the second layer. 


 5. A method according to Claim 3 or , comprising securing the insert to a perforated flexible support, positioning the support and the insert between said two polymeric dough layers and with a respective polymeric skin covering the outer surface of each layer, and pressing the resultant structure in a mould while curing the polymeric dough layers.
6. A method according to claim 3, 4 or 5, comprising the step of rolling to expel air from within the multilayer structure.
7. A method according to any of claims 3 to 6 wherein each polymeric skin is coated with an acrylic blocked catalyst adhesive on the surface thereof which confronts the respective polymeric dough layer.
8. A method according to any preceding Claim, wherein the layers are cured by heating.
9. A method according to any preceding Claim, wherein the layers comprise a filled liquid polyester mix to provide the dough like consistency.
10. A method according to Claim 9, wherein the filler comprises particulate silica or a fibrous material such as calcium metasilicate. 


 11. An integrated circuit card comprising an insert formed by a flexible substrate having an electrical circuit thereon, at least one electronic circuit component mounted on the substrate and connected to the circuit, the insert being sandwiched between layers of a cured dough-like polymeric material having skins applied to the outer surfaces thereof.
12. An apparatus for carrying out the method as claimed in claim 1, comprising feed means for feeding an insert in the form of a flexible substrate having at least one electronic component mounted thereon and electrically connected thereto between first and second layers of polymeric dough-like materials, means for pressing the sandwich so formed to embed the insert in the layers, and means for curing the polymeric dough layers sufficiently to ensure the integrity of" the laminar structures of the sandwich.
13. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit card, said card comprising an insert including at least one electronic component, the method comprising the steps of mounting at least one electronic component on a flexible substrate, said substrate having a conductive circuit thereon, providing electrical connections between said at least one electronic component and said conductive circuit to form an insert, mounting said insert on a first layer of a polymeric dough-like material, curing said first layer, 


locating a second layer of a polymeric dough-like material on said first layer with said insert therebetween, and curing said second layer.
14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said first and second layers are cured substantially simultaneously.
15. A method according to claim 13 wherein a polymeric skin is applied to an outer face of each of said first and second layers before said first and said second layers are cured.
16. A method according to claim 15, comprising locating one of said first and second polymeric dough-like layers on one of said polymeric skins, mounting said insert on an upper face of said layer and curing said layer, locating said second of s"aid polymeric dough-like layers on said first layer with said insert therebetween, locating a second polymeric skin on said second layer, and curing said second layer.
17. A method according to claim 15 comprising securing said insert to a perforated flexible support, positioning said support and said insert between said two polymeric dough-like layers and with a respective one of said polymeric skins covering an outer surface of each said layer to form a sandwich strucutre, and pressing said sandwich structure in a mould while curing said polymeric dough-like 


layers .
18. A method according t claim 15 comprising the step of rolling to expel air from within a sandwich structure formed of said skins, said layers and said insert.
19. A method according to claim 15 wherein each said polymeric skin is coated with an acrylic blocked catalyst adhesive on a surface thereof which confronts a respective one of said polymeric dough-like layers.
20. A method according to claim 13 wherein said layers are cured by heating.
21. A method according to claim 13 wherein each said polymeric dough-like layer comprises a filled liquid polyester mix to provide said dough-like consistency.
22. A method according to Claim 9, wherein a filler of said filled liquid polyester mix comprises particulate silica or a fibrous material such as calcium metasilicate.
23. An integrated circuit card comprising an insert formed by a flexible substrate having an electrical circuit thereon, at least one electronic circuit component mounted on said substrate and connected to said circuit, said insert being sandwiched between layers of a cured polymeric dough-like material having skins applied to outer 


surfaces thereof.
24. An apparatus for carrying out the method as claimed in claim 13, comprising feed means for feeding an insert comprising a flexible substrate having at least one electronic component mounted thereon and electrically connected thereto between first and second layers of polymeric dough-like material to form a sandwich, means for pressing said sandwich so formed to embed said insert in said layers, and means for curing said polymeric dough-like layers sufficiently to ensure integrity of the laminar structures of the sandwich. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
