<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618838</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRODIALYTIC RECOVERY PROCESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6142	B01D6144	C01D100	C01D138	C23F146	C23F146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01D	C01D	C23F	C23F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D61	B01D61	C01D1	C01D1	C23F1	C23F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multivalent metal hydroxide is separated as a solid from an alkali hydroxide or from another multivalent metal hydroxide in an electrodialytic cell. The separation process is regulated by varying the pH or concentration of alkali hydroxide in a feed compartment electrolyte by matching the rate alkali cations are fed and removed from the electrolyte. As a result, one multivalent metal cation separates as a solid in the feed electrolyte or one multivalent cation separates as a solid and one multivalent cation is ionically mobile and electrotransportable from the electrolyte. This electrodialytic method can be used to continuously regenerate sodium hydroxide etchants containing dissolved aluminum, when the dissolved aluminum is removed from the etchant as a solid and the sodium hydroxide is returned as a solution for etching.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAUGHAN DANIEL J DR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAUGHAN DANIEL J DR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAUGHAN DANIEL J DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAUGHAN DANIEL J DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EL-ECΓRODIAI-YTIC RECOVERY PROCESS FIEM OF T11E INVENTION This application is a continuation-in-part application of United States Serial Number 183,040, filed April 19, 1988.This invention relates broadly to a process for separation of a multivalent metal hydroxide from an alkali hydroxide in sols, gels, colloidal dispersions or solutions of the hydroxides. More specifically, this invention relates to an electrodialytic process for separation of sols, gels, dispersions or solutions of multivalent metal hydroxides and alkali hydroxides by electrotransport of alkali cations from a sol, gel, dispersion or solution.Specifically, this invention relates to an electrodialytic process using an electrodialytic cell for separation of multivalent metal hydroxides and separation of multivalent metal hydroxides from alkali hydroxides in an electrolyte wherein the pH or concentration of alkali hydroxide of εaid electrolyte is controlled by electrotransport of alkali cations from said electrolyte at the rate alkali cations enter said electrolyte whereby a multivalent metal hydroxide in a sol, gel, dispersion or solution feed is separated as, a solid in the electrolyte or a multivalent metal hydroxide is separated as a .solid' and a multivalent metal hydroxide is converted to a salt having an ionically mobile cation. The ionically mobile cation is electrotransported through a cation permeable membrane to a catholyte solution in which the electrotransported alkali 

cations are converted in the catholyte solution to an alkali hydroxide. The result is an electrodialytic method for separation of multivalent metal hydroxides, and an efficient method for restoring and reforming alkali hydroxide etchants of aluminum and other sols, gels, dispersions or solutions containing multivalent and alkali hydroxides.One embodiment of the process of this invention relates to an electrodialytic process comprising an electrodialytic cell having an anolyte compartment and a catholyte compartment separated by a cation permeable membrane. The anolyte compartment contains an anode and an anolyte of an aqueous solution comprising an alkali hydroxide with or without a soluble anion of an acid. The catholyte compartment contains a cathode and an aqueous solution of an alkali hydroxide.Λ sol, gel, dispersion or solution comprising an alkali hydroxide and a multivalent hydroxide is fed continuously to the anolyte compartment of the cell. Alkali cations are continuously electrotransported from the anolyte through the cation permeable membrane
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A process for the electrodialytic separation of an aqueous feed of a multivalent metal hydroxide and an alkali hydroxide into a solid multivalent metal hydroxide and a solution of an alkali hydroxide in an electrodialytic cell having an anolyte compartment and a catholyte compartment separated by a cation membrane having electro-conductive and electrotransport characteristics, comprising the steps of: a) placing an alkali hydroxide electrolyte solution in the anolyte and the catholyte compartments; b) connecting the anode and the cathode of the respective anolyte and catholyte compartments to an electrical source and supplying continuous direct current to provide electrotransport of alkali metal cations of the alkali
"
 hydroxide from the anolyte compartment to the catholyte compartment; c) supplying a continuous aqueous feed of a mixture of a multivalent metal hydroxide and an alkali hydroxide to the anolyte compartment at a rate to maintain desired alkali hydroxide weight percentage in the anolyte; d) removing a multivalent metal hydroxide precipitate from the anolyte compartment; and, e) removing alkali hydroxide solution from the catholyte compartment.
2. The process of Claim 1 wherein said aqueous feed is a sol, gel, colloidal dispersion or solution of an alkali hydroxide and a multivalent metal hydroxide selected from hydroxides of multivalent metals that are substantially insoluble in water, and dilute solutions of alkali hydroxide. 


 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein said electrolyte is an aqueous solution containing an alkali hydroxide selected from hydroxides of the alkali metals, and the anolyte contains a soluble anion of an acid to maintain the pH at a value less than the pH required to precipitate the multivalent metal hydroxide.
4. A process for the electrodialytic separation of an aqueous feed comprising at least two multivalent metal hydroxides and an alkali hydroxide into a solid multivalent metal hydroxide and a salt of a multivalent metal having an ionically mobile cation and a solution of an alkali hydroxide in a electrolyte comprising an anion of an acid in an electrodialytic cell wherein the pH of said electrolyte is continuously controlled by electrotransport of alkali cations from said electrolyte whereby a multivalent metal hydroxide is separated as a solid in said electrolyte and a multivalent metal hydroxide is converted to a salt having an ionically mobile multivalent metal cation in said electrolyte that can be electrotransported from said electrolyte and said alkali cations are converted to an alkali hydroxide.
5. The process of Claim 4 wherein said feed is a sol, gel, colloidal dispersion or solution comprising an alkali hydroxide and at least two multivalent metal hydroxides selected from hydroxides of multivalent metals that form salts having ionically mobile cations at a different pH in an aqueous solution.
6. The process of Claim 4 wherein said electrolyte is an aqueous solution comprising an anion of an acid selected from acids of sulfur, halogen, nitrogen, phosphorous and 


 carbon which acid in a one normal solution would have a pH no greater than one and forms a water soluble salt with a multivalent cation.
7. The process using an electrodialytic cell for the electrodialytic separation of an aqueous feed of an alkali hydroxide and a multivalent metal hydroxide in a first aqueous solution to an anolyte in the first compartment of an electrodialytic cell into a solid multivalent metal hydroxide and solution of alkali hydroxide, which comprises the steps of: a) passing an electric current through said electrodialytic cell and electrotransporting alkali cations from said first aqueous solution in a first anolyte compartment of said electrodialytic cell through a cation permeable membrane into a second catholyte compartment containing a second aqueous solution, and, b) introducing a soluble anion of an acid to the anolyte at a rate to control the concentration of alkali hydroxide or pH in said first aqueous anolyte solution whereby said multivalent metal hydroxide separates as a solid in said first aqueous solution, and an alkali hydroxide is generated in said second aqueous solution which is in electrical communication with the cathode of said electrodialytic cell.
8. The process of Claim 7 wherein said aqueous feed is selected from a sol, gel, colloidal dispersion or solution comprising an alkali hydroxide and a multivalent metal hydroxide that is substantially insoluble in water or dilute solutions of alkali hydroxide. 


 9. The process of Claim 7 wherein said first aqueous solution comprises an alkali hydroxide and a solid multivalent metal hydroxide.
10. The process of Claim 7 wherein said first aqueous solution has a pH greater than nine.
11. The process of Claim 7 wherein said feed is an alkali hydroxide etchant of aluminum or alloys of aluminum containing etched aluminum.
12. The process of Claim 7 wherein said second aqueous solution is a solution of an alkali hydroxide.
13. The process of Claim 11 wherein said solid multivalent hydroxide is aluminum hydroxide.
14. The process of Claim 11 wherein said alkali hydroxide is sodium hydroxide.
15. A process using an electrodialytic cell for the electrodialytic separation of a feed comprising an alkali hydroxide and a multivalent hydroxide into a solid multivalent hydroxide and a solution of alkali hydroxide which comprising passing electric current through said electrodialytic cell having at least an anolyte compartment containing an anode and a first aqueous solution as an anolyte separated by a cation permeable membrane from a second compartment containing a second aqueous solution separated by a cation permeable membrane from a catholyte compartment containing a cathode and a catholyte of an aqueous solution of said alkali hydroxide and feeding said aqueous feed to said second aqueous solution 


 and electrotransporting alkali cations from said second aqueous solution in said second compartment at a rate to control the concentration of alkali hydroxide or pH of said second aqueous solution whereby a multivalent metal hydroxide in said feed is separated as a solid in said second aqueous solution and said alkali cations electrotransported from said second aqueous solution are electrotransported to said catholyte and converted to said alkali hydroxide.
16. The process of Claim 15 wherein said first aqueous solution contains an anion of an acid selected from acids of sulfur, halogen, nitrogen, phosphorous and carbon which acid in a one normal solution would have a pH no greater than 3.
17. The process of Claim 15 wherein said feed to said second aqueous solution is selected from a sol, gel, dispersion or solution comprising an alkali hydroxide and a multivalent metal hydroxide that is substantially insoluble in water or dilute solutions of alkali hydroxide.
18. A process using an electrodialytic cell for the electrodialytic separation of an aqueous feed comprising two or more multivalent metal hydroxides and an alkali hydroxide into a solid multivalent metal hydroxide and a salt of multivalent metal cation and solution of an alkali hydroxide which comprising passing electric current through said electrodialytic cell having at least an anolyte compartment containing an anode and a first aqueous solution as an anolyte separated by a cation permeable membrane from a second compartment containing a second aqueous solution separated by a cation permeable membrane from a catholyte compartment 


containing a cathode and a catholyte of an aqueous solution of said alkali hydroxide and adding said feed to said first aqueous solution and electrotransporting alkali cations from said first aqueous solution through said cation permeable membrane into said second aqueous solution at a rate to control the pH of said first aqueous solution whereby a multivalent metal hydroxide is separated as a solid in said first aqueous solution and a multivalent metal hydroxide is converted to a salt in said first aqueous solution having an ionically mobile multivalent metal cation electrotransported from said first aqueous solution through said cation membrane into said second aqueous solution and ionically immobilized said alkali cations electrotransported from said first aqueous solution to said catholyte and converted to an alkali hydroxide.
19. The process of Claim 18 wherein said aqueous feed is a sol, gel, dispersion or solution comprising an alkali hydroxide and at least two multivalent metal hydroxides selected from hydroxides that form salts having ionically mobile cations at a different pH.
20. The process of Claim 18 wherein said first aqueous solution comprises an anion of an acid selected from acids of sulfur, halogen, nitrogen, phosphorous and carbon which acid in a one normal solution would have a pH no greater than three and forms a salt in said first aqueous solution having an ionically mobile multivalent metal cation.
21. The process of Claim 18 wherein said multivalent metal hydroxides are hydroxides of ferric iron and copper. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
