<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646979</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MATERIAL FOR GENERATING ELECTRIC ENERGY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M618	H01M406	H01M618	H01M616	H01M460	H01M614	H01M616	H01M614	H01M436	H01M406	H01M1005	H01M1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M6	H01M4	H01M6	H01M6	H01M4	H01M6	H01M6	H01M6	H01M4	H01M4	H01M10	H01M10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This material is a compound having N-F bonds which generates energy such as electricity. The material can 
be handled easily as an active substance for a cell, an electrolyte, or the like. It is possible to provide a method 

and apparatus for generating energy such as electricity which uses the material having a high adaptability to the 
environment, and a cell which uses the compound. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for
generating energy such as electricity, a device therefor
and a compound having a N-F bond for generating energy
such as electricity and a battery using the compound, and
particularly relates to a process for generating energy
such as electricity by the use of materials for an active
material for a battery, an electrolyte, or the like,
which can be handled easily and is superior in
environmental acceptability.As a typical conventional apparatus using a
process to generate energy such as electricity, there is a
battery, and various compounds are used as an electrolyte
and an active material for positive electrodes.Batteries are prerequisites as electric energy
sources easily used for national livelihood or as
important energy sources for highly developed apparatus,
and various kinds of batteries have been researched and
developed depending on the required characteristics.Batteries typically comprise active materials
for positive electrodes, electrolytes and active
materials for negative electrodes, and are usually so
manufactured in combination use of various different
materials as to comply with the diversified requirements
such as compactness, lightness or large size, and
furthermore long life time, high output, high
electromotive force, long-term low output, wide usable
temperature range, safety, and the environmental
acceptability. For example, primary lithium batteries
known as a closed type primary battery are excellent in
high energy density, low self-discharge rate, wide usable
temperature range, strict sealing, or the like. Examples 
thereof are carbon fluoride/lithium batteries using
organic electrolytic solution and carbon fluorides as
active materials for positive electrodes, manganese
dioxide/lithium batteries using manganese dioxides as
active materials for positive electrodes, and copper
oxide/lithium batteries using copper oxides as active
materials for positive electrodes. The features of the
respective batteries are high electromotive force and long
storage life in the carbon fluoride/lithium batteries,
high electromotive force and low price in the manganese
dioxide/lithium batteries, and interchangeability with the
conventional batteries (1.5 V) in the copper oxide/lithium
batteries.Also, as the primary lithium battery, there is a
thionyl chloride/lithium battery having particularly high
electromotive force and energy density. Thionyl chloride
of that battery, which is in the form of liquid at room
temperature, are used as both the active
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for generating an electric energy
by electrochemical reaction between a compound

having a N-F bond and a compound giving electrons to said
compound.
The process for generating an electric energy
of Claim 1, wherein
 the compound having a N-F
bond is brought into contact directly with the said

compound giving the electron.
The process for generating an electric energy
of Claim 1, wherein a compound having a N-F

bond, which generates an electromotive force of not
less than 3 V as electric energy by the electrochemical

reaction, is selected.
The process for generating an electric energy
of Claim 1, wherein polar compounds are

further added into the compound having a N-F bond.
The process of Claim 1 as a battery for
generating an electric energy by the

electrochemical reaction between the compound having a N-F
bond and the compound giving electrons.
A device for generating electric energy,
wherein the energy is generated by electrochemical reaction

between a compound having a N-F bond and a compound giving
electrons to said compound.
The device of Claim 6,
wherein the compound having a N-F bond and the compound

giving the electrons are brought into contact directly
with each other.
The device of Claim 6 
wherein a compound having a N-F bond

and generating an electromotive force of not less than 3 V
as an electric energy is selected.
The device of Claim 6,
wherein polar compounds are further added into the

compound having a N-F bond.
The device of Claim 6,
wherein the energy generating device is a battery.
Use of a compound having a N-F bond
to generate electric energy

by electrochemical reaction caused by receiving
electrons from a compound giving the electrons as an active material for positive electrode.
The use of the compound having a N-F bond according to Claim 11,
wherein the compound having a N-F bond comprises at least

nitrogen atom, carbon atom and fluorine atom
The use of the compound having a N-F bond according to Claim 11,
wherein the compound having a N-F bond comprises at least

nitrogen atom, carbon atom and fluorine atom and has an
ionic bond.
The use of the compound having a N-F bond according to Claim 11,
wherein the compound having a N-F bond comprises nitrogen

atom, carbon atom, fluorine atom and one or more of atoms different
therefrom.
The use of the compound having a N-F bond according to Claim 11,
wherein one or more of atoms different from nitrogen atom,

carbon atom and fluorine atom are H, B, O, Aℓ, Si, P, S,
Cℓ, As, Br, Sb or I.
The use of the comopund having a N-F bond according to Claim 11,
wherein the compound having a N-F bond which generates an 

electromotive force of not less than 3 V as electric
energy by an electrochemical reaction is selected.
The use of the compound having a N-F bond of according to Claim 11,
wherein polar compounds are further added into the said

compound having a N-F bond.
The device of Claim 6, wherein the device is a liquid electrolytic battery comprising a
positive electrode, a negative electrode and an

electrolytic solution wherein an active material for the
positive electrode is a compound having a N-F bond.
The device of Claim 18,
wherein electroconductive materials are further added into

the compound having a N-F bond as the active material for
the positive electrode.
The device of Claim
18, wherein polar compounds are further added into the

compound having a N-F bond
The device of Claim 6, wherein the device is a paper type battery comprising a negative
electrode with an active material and with a current

collector, and a positive electrode with an active
material and with a current collector, wherein the active

material for the positive electrode is a film-like
compound which has a N-F bond and is arranged between the

negative electrode and the current collector for the
positive electrode.
The device of Claim 21,
comprising a three-layer structure of the current

collector for the positive electrode, the film-like active
material for the positive electrode, and the negative

electrode
The device of Claim 21,
wherein there is used a positive electrode made by coating 

the said current collector for the positive electrode with
the compound having a N-F bond.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
