<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613179</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Heat sink.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2334	H01L23473	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A water cooled heat sink particularly for use with traction 
power semiconductor comprises a plate like body having channels in 

both faces separated by a central partition but forming a common 
circulatory channel. The channels are of spiral form the walls 

separating adjacent channels providing a support for a 'lid' which is 
sealed to each face. Water is then pumped through the channels, in 

contact with the 'lids' from an inlet to an outlet port. The 'lids' 
are formed by composite tiles, each consisting of a wafer of ceramic 

of good thermal conductivity, having on both sides a layer of copper 
intimately bonded to it. Maximum heat transference ability is 

achieved by the thin-ness of the tile and the channel structure, while 
maintaining the necessary electrical insulation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEC ALSTHOM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEC ALSTHOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASSETT ROGER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCKINGHAM ANDREW DOUGLAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASSETT,ROGER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCKINGHAM,ANDREW DOUGLAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to heat sinks and particularly, but 
not exclusively, to heat sinks for use with power semiconductor 
assemblies in electric traction vehicles. Power semicondcutor 
devices, e.g. GTO thyristors, are commonly in the form of a 
semiconductor element between flat plate electrodes. In such 
electrical components a considerable amount of heat is generated in 
operation and this has to be removed if the device is not to be 
damaged by overheating. It has been proposed to clamp the device between two flat-plate 
cooling blocks having passages through which a coolant liquid is 
pumped. It is also known to use a series of semiconductor devices and 
such cooling blocks alternately, so that both faces of the cooling 
blocks are used to absorb heat. In such arrangements, where a cooling 
block is sandwiched between two semiconductor devices the cooling 
blocks are sometimes referred to as intercoolers. A further problem associated with the use of such electrical 
components is that the electrode face, from which heat is most easily 
extracted, is commonly at a high voltage, whereas the cooling block 
and its water supply (where water is used as the cooling fluid)  
 
may be required to be at earth potential. The interposition, between 
the electrode and the cooling block, of a layer of electrical 
insulation generally increases the thermal resistance of the path from 
semiconductor heat source to heat sink but is unavoidable in the 
particular circumstances. An object of the present invention is to provide a heat sink 
for a heat-generating electrical component, the heat sink providing 
electrical insulation and a significantly reduced thermal resistance. According to the present invention, a heat sink for an 
electrical component comprises a coolant enclosure of metal and of 
plate-like form having opposed plate surfaces, an internal metal 
partition structure providing mechanical support between the plate 
surfaces and also providing an extensive coolant interface determining 
a coolant flow path, the enclosure being closed on at least one of the 
plate surfaces by a tile member of elctrically insulating ceramic 
having a relatively low thermal resistance, the tile member having a 
layer of metal intimately bonded to the coolant face of the tile 
member and the layer of metal being intimately bonded to the coolant 
enclosure, and the heat sink futher comprising port means coupled to 
the enclosure forthe entry and exit of coolant. The metal 
layer is preferably one of two metal layers
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat sink for an electrical component, the heat sink 
comprising a coolant enclosure of metal and of plate-like form having 

opposed plate surfaces, an internal metal partition structure 
providing mechanical support between the plate surfaces and also 

providing an extensive coolant interface determining a coolant flow 
path, the enclosure being closed on at least one of the plate surfaces 

by a tile member of electrically insulating ceramic having a 
relatively low thermal resistance, the tile member having a layer of 

metal intimately bonded to the coolant face of the tile member and the 
layer of metal being intimately bonded to the coolant enclosure, and 

the heat sink further comprising port means coupled to the enclosure 
for the entry and exit of coolant. 
A heat sink according to Claim 1, wherein said metal layer 
(33) is one of two metal layers (33,35) between which the ceramic 

layer (31) is sandwiched and to which it is intimately bonded. 
A heat sink according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said 
partition structure is provided by channels formed in the body of the 

coolant enclosure, the channels opening on to the plate surface and 
being closed by said tile member to form a coolant duct. 
A heat sink according to Claim 3, wherein said channels 
(5,7) occupy a major part of plate surface and the intervening 
walls 
(17,19) are of generally curved form. 
A heat sink according to Claim 4, wherein said walls (17,19) 
extend up from an integral base portion (21) and have a thickness 

which increases from the plate surface to the base portion (21). 
A heat sink according to Claim 5, wherein the wall thickness 
at the base portion (21) is approximately twice the wall thickness at 

the plate surface. 
A heat sink according to any of Claims 3 to 6, wherein said 
channels (5,7) are of generally spiral form. 
A heat sink according to Claim 7, wherein walls formed 
between said channels (5,7) are of varying thickness from the outer 

periphery to the centre. 
A heat sink according to Claim 7 or Claim 8, wherein inlet 
and outlet ports (23,25) for coolant are incorporated in a peripheral 

wall (9) of the enclosure and the channels (5,7) comprise interleaved 
ingoing and outgoing channels. 
A heat sink according to Claim 9, wherein the enclosure is 
circular, the spiral channels (5,7) are formed by interleaved spiral 

walls (17,19), each spiral wall being connected to the peripheral wall 
(9) by respective diametrically opposite wall sections (13,15) to 

separate the channels (5,7). 
A heat sink according to any of Claims 7 to 10, wherein the 
enclosure (1) is circular and the outer metal layer (35) of the tile 

member (29) is of smaller diameter than the enclosure (1) to increase 
electrical breakdown resistance between the outer metal layer (35) and 

the enclosure (1). 
A heat sink according to Claim 10, wherein said spiral walls 
(17,19) are relatively closely spaced in a central region of the 

enclosure (1) and relatively widely spaced in the outer region of the 
enclosure, the arrangement being such as to provide greater mechanical 

compressive strength in the central region for the support of an 
electrical component urged against the outer metal layer (35). 
A heat sink according to any preceding claim, wherein the 
inner metal layer (33) on the coolant face of the tile memberis bonded 

to the enclosure (1) by brazing. 
A heat sink according to any of Claims 1-12, wherein said 
inner metal layer (33) is bonded to the enclosure (1) by fusion 

bonding. 
A heat sink according to any of Claims 1-12, wherein said 
inner metal layer (33) is bonded to the enclosure (1) by highly 

conductive adhesive. 
A heat sink according to any preceding claim, wherein said 
inner metal layer (33) is bonded to the enclosure (1) and partition 

(17,19,41) structure at all points of contact. 
A heat sink according to any preceding claim, wherein said 
inner metal layer (33) is copper and said enclosure (1) is copper. 
A heat sink according to any preceding claim, wherein the 
ceramic layer (31) is alumina. 
A heat sink according to any of Claims 1-17, wherein the 
ceramic layer (31) is aluminium nitride. 
A heat sink according to any preceding claim, having a 
similar channel formation and tile member (29) on each plate surface 

of the enclosure (1), the two channel formations (5,7) being separated 
by a common integral base portion (21). 
A heat sink according to Claim 20 wherein the ceramic layer 
(31) extends beyond each said metal layer (35) and beyond the 

enclosure (1). 
A heat sink according to Claim 21, wherein the region around 
the enclosure (1) and between the ceramic layers (31) is filled with 

flexible insulation material (40). 
A heat sink according to Claim 20 as appendent to Claim 9, 
wherein said inlet and outlet ports (23,25) each straddle the base 

portion (21) so as to access both channel formations (5,7). 
A heat sink according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said 
partition structure comprises a honeycomb structure (41) of prismatic 

ducts (43) extending between the plate surfaces, each prismatic duct 
(43) having a side aperture (45) at each end into adjacent prismatic 

ducts (43) to provide a coolant path between inlet (23) and outlet 
port means which includes each of the prismatic ducts (43). 
A heat sink according to Claim 24, wherein said honeycomb 
structure (41) is intimately bonded at all points of contact with a 

tile member inner metal layer (33). 
A heat sink according to Claim 24 or Claim 25, wherein each 
prismatic duct (43) is of hexagonal section. 
A heat sink according to any of Claims 24-26, wherein the 
coolant enclosure is encapsulated in an insulating resin (47) the tile 

member (29) being exposed for abutment with a heat source. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
