<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617669</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MARGIN CONTROL FOR LASER PRINTERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2435	B41J247	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Circuitry for controlling the margin of a laser printer is provided which times a preset margin on a first scanline of a page at high frequency for high accuracy. Thereafter, subsequent scanlines on the page are positioned responsive to the count generated responsive to the preset margin. Hence, the laser may be directly modulated at speeds higher than the standard frequency without a reduction in the relative accuray of the margin.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPAQ COMPUTER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS GREGORY K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, GREGORY, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MARGIN CONTROL FOR LASER PRINTERSThis invention relates in general to computer peripherals, and more particularly to a method and device for accurately and automatically locating margins produced by a laser printer.Laser printers form an image on paper similar to that of a photocopy device. A photocopy device forms an image on a print drum by exposing chemicals on the drum to a light source. The chemicals are then washed off, except in the regions of exposure. The exposed regions will pick up ink and transfer the ink to paper which is pressed against the drum.A laser printer exposes an electrically charged drum which is permanently coated with a photosensitive insulator. The exposed regions electrically attract particles of ink or "toner". This toner is then transferred to paper by applying a charge to the paper causing the toner to move from the drum to the paper. Typically, laser printers are designed around a print engine manufactured by a third party. The basic components of the print engine are the laser, a drum, and a rotating mirror which directs the laser beam in a straight line across the drum (the "scanline") . In order 

 to generate the image, the laser beam is pulsed on and off as desired while the mirror rotates to expose dots on the drum.Importantly, each print engine is adjusted at the factory to ensure that the first dot on each scanline is precisely aligned. In most cases, the laser scans across the drum from left to right; however, the alignment problem exists regardless of the direction of the scanning. In order to align the first dots on each scanline, a sensor placed to the left of the drum detects the laser beam prior to the beginning of the scan. Once the laser beam is detected by the sensor, the beam is disabled for a predetermined number of clock cycles. When the predetermined number of clock cycles have expired, the laser is enabled to begin pulsing to form the image across the scanline. The distance between the sensor and the start of printing is referred to as the "margin". It should be noted that the number of clock cycles between sensing the laser beam and enabling the laser will vary depending upon the paper size.Accordingly, a number of predetermined margins are supported by the engine to accommodate various standard paper sizes.Each print engine is tuned at the factory, by adjusting the number of clock cycles of delay after sensing the beam, such that the left margin will typically be accurate within 1/4 of a dot using the print engine standard frequency. Thus, for a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS:
1. Apparatus for controlling a print engine comprising: circuitry for defining a margin responsive to one or more signals from the engine for a first line; and circuitry for automatically duplicating said margin for subsequent lines at a high resolution.
2. The control apparatus of Claim 1 and further comprising circuitry for resetting said margin responsive to a control signal.
3. The control apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said circuitry for receiving one or more signals comprises counting circuitry operating at a multiple of a clock associated with said print engine.
4. The control apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said counting circuitry operates at a multiple dependent upon a desired resolution.
5. The control apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said print engine is a laser jet engine.
6. A method of controlling a print engine comprising the steps of: defining a margin responsive to signals from said engine for a first line; automatically duplicating said margin for subsequent lines at a high resolution. 



 7. The method of Claim 6 and further comprising the step of resetting the defined margin responsive to a control signal.
8. The method of Claim 6 wherein said defining step comprises the step of timing said one or more signals at a frequency which is a multiple of a clock associated with said engine.
9. The method of Claim 8 wherein said timing step comprises the step of timing said one or more signals at a multiple dependent upon a desired resolution.
10. The method of Claim 6 wherein said print engine is a laser jet engine.
11. Circuitry for use with a print engine for precisely aligning the margin between first and second locations of a scanline, said print engine comprising a print medium for generating an image on the scanline, a sensor for generating a first signal responsive to detection of said print medium at the first location and circuitry for generating a second signal indicating movement of the print medium to the second location,comprising: circuitry for generating a number indicative of the elapsed time between the first and second signals; and circuitry, coupled to said number generating circuitry, for generating a start signal for enabling printing responsive to said first signal and said generated number.
12. The circuitry of Claim 11 and further comprising circuitry for receiving a signal indicative of a new page and wherein said start signal generating 


 circuitry comprises circuitry for generating a start signal responsive to said second signal for the first scanline of a new page.
13. The circuitry of Claim 12 wherein said number generating circuitry comprises counter circuitry for counting at a predetermined frequency responsive to said first and second signals.
14. The circuitry of Claim 13 wherein said predetermined frequency is dependent upon the print resolution.
15. The circuitry of Claim 13 wherein said predetermined frequency is a fixed frequency.
16. The circuitry of Claim 13 wherein said number generating circuitry further comprises circuitry for detecting said new page signal such that the counter circuitry is enabled for the first scanline of each page and disabled for subsequent scanlines of such page.
17. The circuitry of Claim 11 wherein start signal generating circuitry comprises counter circuitry for counting at a predetermined frequency responsive to said first signal and for generating the start signal.
18. The circuitry of Claim 17 wherein said counter circuitry comprises presettable counters.
19. The circuitry of Claim 18 and further comprising logic circuitry for generating the l's complement of said generated number and loading said l's complement of said generated number into said presettable counters. 


 20. The circuitry of Claim 11 wherein said print medium is a laser beam.
21. The circuitry of Claim 11 wherein said print medium is an ink jet head.
22. A printer comprising: a print engine comprising: a print medium for generating an image on the scanline; a sensor for generating a first signal responsive to detection of said print medium at a first location on the scanline; and circuitry for generating a second signal responsive to movement of the print medium to a predetermined second location on the scanline; circuitry for generating a number indicative of the elapsed time between the first and second signals; and circuitry, coupled to said number generating circuitry, for generating a start signal for enabling printing responsive to said first signal and said generated number.
23. The circuitry of Claim 22 and further comprising circuitry for receiving a signal indicative of a new page and wherein said start signal generating circuitry comprises circuitry for generating a start signal responsive to said second signal for the first scanline of a new page.
24. The circuitry of Claim 23 wherein said number generating circuitry further comprises circuitry for detecting said new page signal such that the counter 


 circuitry is enabled for the first scanline of each page and disabled for subsequent scanlines of such page.
25. The circuitry of Claim 22 wherein start signal generating circuitry comprises counter circuitry for counting at a predetermined frequency responsive to said first signal.
26. The circuitry of Claim 25 wherein said counter circuitry comprises presettable counters.
27. The circuitry of Claim 26 and further comprising logic circuitry for generating the l's complement of said generated number and loading said l's complement of said generated number into said presettable counters.
28. A method of precisely aligning a margin between first and second positions of a print engine scanline, comprising the steps of: generating the number indicative of the elapsed time between first and second signals generated by the print engine indicative of movement of said print medium to the first and second positions, respectively; and generating a start signal to enable printing responsive to receiving the first signal after delaying a number of cycles corresponding to said generated number.
29. The method of Claim 28 and further comprising the steps of receiving a signal indicative of a new page and generating the start signal responsive to the second signal for the first scanline of the new page.
30. The method of Claim 29 wherein said number generating step comprises counting at a predetermined 


 frequency responsive to the first signal until the second signal is received.
31. The method of Claim 30 wherein said step of counting at a predetermined frequency comprises the step of counting at a predetermined frequency dependent upon the print resolution.
32. The method of Claim 30 wherein said step of counting at a predetermined frequency comprises the step of counting at a fixed predetermined frequency dependent upon the maximum print resolution.
33. The method of Claim 30 wherein said number generating step further comprises the steps of detecting the new page signal and enabling counting at the predetermined frequency for the first scanline of each new page.
34. The method of Claim 28 wherein said start signal generating step comprises the step of counting at a predetermined frequency responsive to said first signal.
35. The method of Claim 34 and further comprising the step of generating the l's complement of the generated number.
36. The method of Claim 35 wherein said counting step comprises the step of counting at the predetermined frequency starting at said l's complement of the generated number. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
