<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614179</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disc player with carriage and tray transport mechanism
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1722	G11B1726	G11B1722	G11B1726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disk player has a magazine for holding disks and mechanisms for 
transporting disks between four positions, an eject position, a load position, a 

playback position, and a store position. A disk reader is positioned to read a 
selected disk in the playback position while the selected disk overlaps disks in 

the magazine. The disks are held on carriages in the magazine and are 
transported on the carriages to the disk reader. Each carriage has a V-shaped 

aperture which provides for access by the disk reader to a recording surface 
of the selected disk. Clearance for playing the selected disk is also provided 

by the V-shaped apertures of adjacent carriages in the magazine. The selected 
disk is raised by the disk reader into an area within the V-shaped aperture of 

the carriage in the magazine which is above the disk being played. A selected 
carriage is carried by a tray between the eject position and the load position. 

The selected carriage is partially removed from the tray during transport from 
the load position to the playback position. The partial removal elongates an 

access aperture for the disk rider and allows a shortened tray length to be 
achieved. The tray has protrusions which extend into the V-shaped aperture 

and provide supplemental support for a disk held in the selected carriage. 
Countersunk apertures extend into the protrusions to facilitate removal of a 

disk from the tray and carriage. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMICHI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMICHI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMICHI NIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMICHI, NIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a disk player with a disk transport
mechanism, and more particularly, to a disk player having a carriage and tray
transport mechanism for transporting a disk from a position outside the disk
player to a disk reader within the disk player.Disk players are available with magazines for holding a plurality disks
where the disks in the magazine can be selectively played. This type of disk
player is referred to herein as a changer-type player. The magazines of such
disk players are often removable from the disk player. When the magazine is
mounted in the disk player, a selected disk in the magazine is transported to
an optical reader for playing.Various types of this kind of changer-type player have been proposed
and marketed. An example of such a disk player is disclosed is U.S. Patent
No. 5,123,001. The disclosed disk player provides carriages for holding disks
which are transported between an ejection, a playback, and a storage position,
wherein the storage position locates a selected disk positioned within the
magazine. The disks are arranged concentrically within the magazine and the
magazine moves in a first direction perpendicular to the disks and relative to
a disk reader. Disks are transported in a straight line in a second direction,
perpendicular to the first direction, by a disk transport mechanism. Disks in
the playback position are completely removed from the magazine by the disk
transport mechanism for the purpose of playing. Disks accepted at the eject 
position are transported on a carriage held by a moving tray to the playback
position where the disks are then lifted from the tray and played.The above design provides for efficiency in operation and offers the
advantage of playing a selected disk or a sequence of disks from the magazine
without manual handling. However, the locating of independent eject,
playback, and storage positions in a single plane requires a larger depth
dimension then is desirable and interferes with producing a compact design.
One alternative is to position the magazine to the side of the playback position
instead of in-line with the playback position. This alternative however does
not permit efficient design of the transport mechanism because transport from
the magazine to the playback position is in a different direction than transprt
from the playback to the eject position thereby requiring redundant
mechanisms which increase the cost of production. Therefore, other design
architectures are sought to further reduce the size of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disk player for playing a selected disk (36) of a plurality of disks,
comprising:


a magazine (40) for storing disks in a plurality of holding locations;
a carriage (20) having an area for holding said disk (36);
a tray (10) having means for slidably supporting said carriage (40);
a reading element (30) for reading said disk (36); and
transport means for transporting said tray (10) with said carriage (20)
therein between an eject position and a load position and for transporting said

carriage (20) from said load position to a playback position;
said disk player characterized by:

said carriage defining a first aperture (25) intersecting said area for holding
said disk (36);
said tray (10) defining a second aperture (12), said tray (10) supporting
said carriage (20) within said second aperture (12) such that said first and second

apertures are joined to form a combined aperture (28);
said transport means including means (34) for at least partly disengaging
said carriage (20) from said tray (10) at said load position, whereby said combined

aperture (28) is enlarged; and
a protruding member (16) on said tray extending into said second aperture
to provide a supplemental support for said disk (36) at least when said disk is

held in said carriage (20) at said eject position.
The disk player according to claim 1 wherein said second aperture (12)
has a rim substantially conforming to a portion of a perimeter of said disk (36)

when said disk is held in said carriage (20) and said carriage is fully inserted into
said tray at said load position.
The disk player according to claim 1 wherein:

said carriage (20) includes a recessed surface having a diameter suitable for
accepting said disk (36), and
said protruding member (16) has a surface substantially on a same level as
said recessed surface when said carriage is inserted into said tray (10).
The disk player according to claim 3 wherein:

said carriage (20) has a second recessed surface, within said recessed
surface, having a smaller diameter than said diameter of said recessed surface;

and
said smaller diameter is suitable for accepting a second type of disk.
The disk player according to claim 4 wherein said protruding
member (16) has an arcuate edge substantially conforming to a perimeter of said

second type of disk held on said second recessed surface when said carriage (20)
is fully inserted in said tray (10).
The disk player of claim 5 wherein said protruding member has a
side edge and said side edge abuts an edge of said first aperture (25) of said

carriage (20) when said carriage is fully inserted in said tray (10). 
The disk player of claim 6 wherein:

said tray (10) has a front plate (11) with an inside surface;
said reading element is disposed at said playback position and has a
sensing portion and a body with a top surface with a front edge; and
a distance from said inside surface to said rim of said second aperture (12)
is less than a distance from said sensing portion to said front edge of said reading

element.
The disk player according to claim 4 wherein said protruding
member (16) has a second surface substantially on a same level as said second

recessed surface when said carriage is inserted into said tray (10).
The disk player of claim 2 wherein:

said tray (10) has a front plate with an inside surface;
said reading element has a body with a top surface with a front edge;
said reading element has a sensing portion in said top surface; and
a distance from said inside surface to said rim of said second aperture (12) is
less than a distance from said sensing portion to said front edge of said reading

element.
The disk player of claim 9 wherein a distance from an outer most
track of said disk to said inside surface of said front plate is greater than said

distance from said sensing portion to said front edge of said reading element

when said disk (36) is in said carriage at said playback position.
The disk player of claim 1 wherein said transport means includes:

means for transporting a disk from said playback position to a store
position coinciding with a selected one of said holding locations; and
alignment means for aligning a selected holding location with said store
position.
The disk player of claim 1 wherein said protruding member has
a side edge and said side edge abuts an edge of said first aperture (25) of said

carriage (20) when said carriage is fully inserted in said tray (10).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
