<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644298</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for unclogging drains.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03C112	E03C1306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03C	E03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03C1	E03C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device (D) for unplugging drains (12) 
comprises an elongated body (16) defining therein a 

longitudinal bore (18) and including a pair of 
opposed end sections (30,32) each adapted to 

threadably receive a standard hose (4,34) and 
provided with two different configurations of L-shaped 

lugs (36,38) for connection to various drain 
pipe strainers (10). The device (D) defines central 

outside threaded sections (20) with an enlarged nut 
(22) being engaged thereon. Between the central 

threaded sections (20) and both the end sections 
(30,32) are defined smooth annular neck sections 

(24,26) adapted to receive a resilient annular 
member (28) for sealing the mouth (14) of the drain 

pipe (12) when the device (D) is mounted to the 
strainer (10) thereof. Water supplied by the hose 

(H) through the bore (18) of the device (D) provides 
water pressure in the drain pipe (12) for unclogging 

the same. Various adapters (A,58) which can be 
fitted to the end sections (30,32) of the device (D) 

are contemplated for allowing the device (D) to be 
used with further drain configurations (14a) and 

also with compressed air (60). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IATROPOULOS GEORGES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IATROPOULOS, GEORGES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IATROPOULOS GEORGES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IATROPOULOS, GEORGES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an 
improved device for unplugging drain pipes which 
have become locked or restricted by an accumulation 
of foreign materials. U.S. Patent 1,558,161 issued on October 
20, 1925 to Gunderson discloses a drain cleaning 
device which comprises a hook to engage the guard 
cross provided in the drain pipe, a resilient plug, 
and a wing nut for causing the resilient plug to 
close the drain opening. Water can be supplied in 
the bore defined in the device to unplug the drain. 
Alternatively, pressurized air can be supplied in 
the drain cleaning device through a threaded 
extremity provided therefor on the device. U.S. Patent 2,197,716 issued on April 16, 
1940 to Whitaker discloses a drain cleaning device 
including a pair of L-shaped hooks which engage the 
guard cross of the drain, and a sealed plug to cover 
the opening of the drain pipe. Water is used in this 
device to unplug the drain pipe. U.S. Patent 2,583,694 issued on January 
29, 1952 to Fulton discloses a pair of L-shaped lugs 
adapted to engage the cruciform bar strainer of the 
drain pipe. U.S. Patent 4,790,356 issued on December 
13, 1988 to Tash contemplates the use of either 
pressurized air or water in a single adapter to 
unplug a drain pipe. U.S. Patent 1,985,813 issued on December 
25, 1934 to Baden teaches the use of a hook for 
engaging the spider of a drain pipe, and a rubber 
disk for sealing the pipe.  U.S. Patent 2,061,553 issued on November 
24, 1936 to Acosta discloses a pair of hooks which 
are adapted to engage the spider of the drain pipe. U.S. Patent 4,187,563 issued on February 
12, 1980 to Semke discloses a flushing device 
including a resilient sealing disk for closing the 
drain opening and a pair of L-shaped members which 
define threaded portions for receiving nuts which 
urge the L-shaped members and bring the sealing 
means into sealing engagement with the pipe. It is therefore an aim of the present 
invention to provide an improved device for 
unplugging drains. It is also an aim of the present invention 
to provide a device for unplugging drains which can 
be adapted to more than one drain pipe 
configuration. It is a further aim of the present 
invention to provide a device for unplugging drains 
which includes various adapters in order that it may 
be adapted to further configurations of drain pipes. Therefore, in accordance with the present 
invention, there is provided a device for cleaning 
drains of the type including an entrance mouth and a 
spider therebelow in the drain,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for cleaning drains of the type 
including an entrance mouth and a spider therebelow 

in the drain, the device comprising a body having 
first and second ends, said body defining a fluid 

passage extending between said first and second 
ends, said first and second ends each having means 

for connection to a supply of fluid under pressure 
and each end having one of a pair of different 

connection means adapted for detachable connection 
to different configurations of spiders, at least one 

sealing means being provided on said body between 
said first and second ends for blocking said drain 

mouth, wherein an appropriate one of said first and 
second ends is connected to the spider by its 

connection means with the other end being connected 
to the supply of pressurized fluid by its means for 

connection to a supply, whereby the fluid will flow 
from said other end, through said fluid passage and 

said one end and then in the drain for cleaning the 
same. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 1, 
wherein said sealing means comprises a nut 

threadably engaged on said body between said first 
and second ends for longitudinal displacement 

therebetween, and a resilient annular member 
positioned between said nut and said one end, 

whereby, once said one end is secured to the spider, 
said nut is displaced towards said one end into 

urging abutment with said resilient member for 
sealing the mouth of the drain. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 2, 
wherein an annular smooth neck is defined on said 

 
body between said nut and each one of said first and 

second ends for receiving said resilient annular 
member. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 2, 
wherein said resilient annular member can be 

selectively positioned on either side of said nut 
depending on which one of said first and second ends 

is being detachably secured to the spider. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 1, 
wherein said first and second ends each comprise a 

tubular free end. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 5, 
wherein said tubular free end defines an inside 

thread adapted for connection to the threaded end of 
a standard hose. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 5, 
wherein said connection means comprises hook means 

extending outwardly from said tubular free end for 
connection to the spider, said hook means including 

at least two L-shaped lugs. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 7, 
wherein said hook means of said first and second 

ends comprise respectively four L-shaped lugs for 
connection to a cruciform-shaped spider and three L-shaped 

lugs for connection to a three-arm spider. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 1, 
wherein said device also comprises an adapter means 

including first and second ends and defining a fluid 
passage therebetween, one of said first and second 

ends being adapted for connection to said first and 
 

second ends of said body with the other end 
including a further connection means adapted for 

detachable connection to a spider configuration 
different than those for which said first and second 

ends of said body are intended, said sealing means 
being adaptable on said adapter means adjacent said 

other end thereof for blocking the drain when said 
other end of said adapter means is connected to the 

spider with said other end of said first and second 
ends of said body being connected to the pressurized 

fluid while said one end of said first and second 
ends of said body is connected to said one end of 

said adapter means, whereby the fluid will flow from 
said other end of said body, through said one end of 

said body and through said one end of said adapter 
means, and then through said other end of said 

adapter means and in the drain for cleaning the 
same. 
A cleaning device as defined in Claim 1, 
wherein said device also comprises an adapter means 

having first and second ends with one end being 
adapted for connection to either one of said first 

and second ends of said body while the other end of 
said adapter means is provided with a nipple means 

adapted for connection to a pressurized air source, 
whereby pressurized air is supplied through said 

adapter means and said fluid passage towards the 
drain for cleaning the same. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
