<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651888</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SHIELDED DOSE CALIBRATION APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01T700	G01T702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01T	G01T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01T7	G01T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shielded dose calibration apparatus including one or more hand-held portable shield units (11) containing a vessel (12) with a radioactive sample in a shielded chamber and a calibration station (13) for calibrating the sample in the vessel without removing the vessel from the protections of the shielded chamber. The shield units (11) include on-board detectors (36) for measuring the radioactivity from the sample. The calibration station (13) may include a separate controller unit (16) and one or more base units (14). To calibrate a sample, the portable shield unit (11) is placed on a base unit (14), which senses the presence of the shield unit. The shield unit then communicates an identification signal and the data measured by the on-board detectors (36) to the controller unit (16) via the base unit (14). Power may also be transmitted to the shield unit (11) via the base unit (14), avoiding the need for an on-board power source. In another embodiment the portable shield unit may be entirely self-contained, including an on-board power source (35), detectors, processing electronics, and readout mechanism (40).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUNOL TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUNOL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANE STEPHEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUSSIN STANLEY G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRACKLEN HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANE, STEPHEN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUSSIN, STANLEY, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRACKLEN, HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SHIELDED DOSE CALIBRATION APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to radiation dose calibration instrumentation for use with medical radioisotopes.Radioisotopes are used in medicine for such purposes as diagnosing a patient's condition, imaging various organs, tumors or malignancies in the body, and providing direct therapeutic treatment of a patient's condition. Typically the radioisotope samples used for such purposes are short-lived, highly radioactive substances that are obtained on demand from a specialized radioisotope generator. The samples are produced by a radioactive decay process occurring within the generator and are prepared for extraction from the generator by various processing steps within the generator. To minimize radiation exposure of the operating personnel, the radioactive decay process and the various processing steps take place within a chamber in the radioisotope generator that is protected by a lead shield. The sample being generated is transferred to a collection vial connected to the generator by a special collection mechanism. The vial is itself usually enclosed in a small, portable shielded container that can be transported easily from the generator to the location where the sample is to be used.When the collection vial is disconnected from the generator, but before the rapidly decaying radioisotope sample is administered to a patient or otherwise used in a procedure, the vial must be assayed to determine the quantity of contained radioactivity for calibration purposes and for compliance with standards set by the United States Food and Drug Administration in the U.S. Pharmacopeia, National Formulary <821>. This assay is typically performed in a separate dose calibration apparatus and may expose the operating personnel to harmful radiation. For example, in one common type of dose calibration apparatus known as a re-entry type calibrated gas ionization chamber a worker removes the collection vial from its portable shielded container, transfers the vial to an ionization chamber in the dose calibration apparatus, and, following the assay, transfers the vial back to the portable shielded unit for further processing or dispensing. During this procedure operating personnel are exposed to the radiation emanating from the unshielded collection vial, the exposure being most intense to the fingers, hands and forearms. The exposure to these body parts is usually monitored by a dosimeter placed on a finger, and it is difficult to use the exposure measured in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for use in calibrating radioisotopes comprising: a hand-holdable portable shield unit dimensioned to be carried about by a user comprising: a radiation shielding member formed to contain a vessel holding a radioactive sample for absorbing radiation emitted by said sample; at least one radiation detector disposed within said shielding member to detect radiation emitted by said radioactive sample, said at least one detector providing an unprocessed electrical detector signal including a representation of the detected radiation; processing electronics coupled to said at least one radiation detector to receive said unprocessed electrical signal for providing a data signal representative of the radiation detected by said at least one detector; and first communication means for communicating the data content of said data signal; and a calibration station detached from said shield unit comprising: second communication means for communicating with said first communication means to receive the data content of said signal; data reduction means receiving said data content from said second communication means and determining radiation calibration parameters therefrom; and means for providing said radiation calibration parameters to a user.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 , comprising at least two detectors uniformly spaced about said vessel.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, consisting of a pair of detectors positioned opposite one another with respect to said vessel and extending beyond the reach of said vessel.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said detectors are in the form of strips extending vertically above and below said vessel.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said pair of detectors comprises a semiconductor material responsive to radiation incident from said sample and providing 


said unprocessed electrical detector signal to said processing electronics representative of said incident radiation.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein said at least one detector comprises a semiconductor material responsive to radiation incident from said sample and providing said unprocessed electrical detector signal to said processing electronics representative of said incident radiation.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, comprising at least two detectors in the form of strips extending vertically at least about the length of said vessel and disposed uniformly about the circumference of said vessel.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said strips extend above and below the upper and lower extremities of said vessel.
9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said radioactive sample emits gamma radiation and said at least one radiation detector further comprises: converter means emitting electrons in response to gamma radiation incident thereon from said sample; and said semiconductor material is further responsive to said electrons in providing said unprocessed electrical detector signal to said processing electronics.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, comprising at least two detectors in the form of strips extending vertically at least about the length of said vessel and disposed uniformly about the circumference of said vessel.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said strips extend above and below the upper and lower extremities of said vessel.
12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and second communication means comprises an optical coupling between said portable shield unit and said calibration station for data communications.
13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said portable shield unit includes no self-contained source of electrical power for said processing electronics, and said portable 


shield unit and said calibration station further comprise means for communicating power from said calibration station to said portable shield unit during calibration.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said means for communicating power comprises an inductive coupling between said portable shield unit and said calibration station for power communications.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising means for providing a waveform to said inductive coupling, said waveform carrying power to said portable shield unit and also carrying information to said processing electronics to cause said processing electronics to provide said representative data signal.
16. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said portable shield unit and said calibration station are in wireless communication with one another for both data and power communications.
17. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising at least two radiation detectors and wherein said processing electronics provides a plurality of data signals corresponding in number to the number of said detectors, said data signals being representative of the radiation detected independently by each detector.
18. A self-contained hand-holdable portable apparatus for use in calibrating radioisotopes comprising: a housing dimensioned to be carried about by a user; a shield unit contained within said housing and comprising: a radiation shielding member formed to contain a vessel holding a radioactive sample for absorbing radiation emitted by said sample; and at least one radiation detector disposed within said shielding member to detect radiation emitted by said radioactive sample, said at least one detector providing an unprocessed electrical detector signal including a representation of the detected radiation; said housing further containing processing electronics coupled to said at least one radiation detector to receive said unprocessed electrical signal for providing a data signal representative of the radiation detected by said at least one detector; a calibration station comprising data reduction means receiving the data content of said data signal and determining radiation calibration parameters therefrom; 


 means for providing said radiation calibration parameters to a user; and a power source providing power for operation of said apparatus. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
