<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635188</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL AUDIO/VIDEO INSERTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	H04N5268	G11B2010	H04N5926	H04N593	H04N716	H04N716	H04N591	H04N593	H04N591	H04N5268	H04N5926	H04H2010	H04H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	H04N	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04H	H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	H04N5	G11B20	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04H20	H04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital audio/video insertion and broadcast system takes audio/video source information and digitizes, compresses and stores the information. The storage is in a random access medium such as magnetic or optical disks. Playing apparatus decompresses the information and regenerates an analog signal. Patching apparatus inserts the regenerated analog signal into a broadcast or cable channel at preselectable times. Editing apparatus may be provided for editing a stored video file prior to playing.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to audio/video
advertisement insertion and broadcast systems.Automated advertisement insertion systems have
been developed to insert audio/video advertisements
into interruptions in broadcast or cable programming.
Examples of prior art advertisement insertion systems
are disclosed in United States Patent 4,724,491 to
Lambert and United States Patent 5,029,014 to
Lindstrom. Lambert employs multiple video tape
recorders for advertisement insertion and Lindstrom
teaches a system employing laser disks for inserting
messages in an order different from the order in which
they are recorded in the laser disk. Neither system
digitizes, compresses and stores the original analog
source material nor do the prior art systems permit
editing of a particular commercial segment as part of
the audio/video advertisement insertion or broadcast
process. Nor can they control a broadcast system.Aspects of the invention are set out in the independent
claims to which reference should be made. The Preferred
embodiment further includes editing apparatus
interconnected with the digitizing, compressing and
storing apparatus for editing the digitized
information before it is played and inserted into a
communications channel. In this specification the
term "advertisement insertion" is meant to include any
material regardless of length, inserted or broadcast
in a communication channel.Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration of a digital
audio/video advertisement insertion and broadcast
system at a main business location;Fig. 2 is a schematic illustration of a digital
audio/video advertisement insertion and broadcast
system at a headend site or local broadcast site.The digital audio/video advertisement insertion
and broadcast system of the invention will be
described with reference to a paradigm cable
television system, typical of a present day
installation, having 20 channels. The system of the
invention, nevertheless, is applicable to any
broadcast system. The cable system's headend, main
office and studios may or may not be located at a 
common site. In the present invention, video and
audio source material is digitized. The video portion
of the information is compressed via JPEG technology
to a user selected degree of image resolution. JPEG
chips are available from C-Cube of Milpitas,
California. The stored digital audio/video (DAV)
files are 60 fields per second, full motion, full
resolution video and stereo audio files. Suitable
JPEG compression technology is known.
The DAV files may be stored on suitable
magneti
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Digital advertisement insertion apparatus comprising:

means (14) for storing digitized broadcast quality motion video information in
a plurality of files in computer-readable form;
playing means (12) for retrieving the stored data in computer-readable form
to produce broadcast-quality motion video in broadcastable form;
patching and synchronizing means for inserting said broadcast-quality motion
video into a broadcast programme at a selected time.
Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising computer editing
means for editing a video programme using the stored digitized motion video

information stored on the storing means (14).
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising means
for digitizing an analogue motion video sequence to produce said digitized motion

video information.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising
means for compressing the digitized motion video information for storage on the

storage means, wherein the playing means includes means for decompressing the
compressed digitized motion video information.
Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the compressing means
comprises a circuit for performing JPEG compression on 60-field per second full-motion,

full resolution motion video information.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
playing means includes a synchronization generator to provide a synchronization

signal of the broadcast-quality motion video to the patching means. 
Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the synchronization generator
provides indirect vertical and horizontal synchronization of the input signal to the

broadcast programme using a colour frequency signal.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the playing
means comprises an array of players and the patching and synchronizing means

comprises a digitally controlled signal matrix switcher.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims further comprising
means for editing a channel insertion log for defining the selected time for inserting

said broadcast-quality motion video into the broadcast programme.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the storing
means is a computer-readable and rewriteable random access medium for digitally

storing in a data file image data for a sequence of digital still images defining the
digitized broadcast quality motion video information.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
digitized broadcast-quality motion video information includes an image corresponding

to each field of the broadcast-quality motion video.
Digital advertisement insertion method comprising:

storing digitized broadcast quality motion video information in a plurality of files in
computer-readable form;
retrieving and playing the stored data in computer-readable form to produce
broadcast-quality motion video in broadcastable form;
inserting and synchronizing said broadcast-quality motion video with a
broadcast programme at a selected time.
A method according to claim 12, further comprising editing a video
programme using the stored digitized motion video information.
A method according to claim 12 or 13, further comprising digitizing an
analogue motion video sequence to produce s
aid digitized motion video information. 
A method according to any of claims 12 to 14 further comprising
compressing the digitized motion video information for storage, wherein the step of

retrieving includes the step of decompressing the compressed digitized motion video
information.
A method according to claim 15 wherein the step of compressing
includes performing JPEG compression on 60-field per second full-motion, full-resolution

motion video information.
A method according to any of claims 12 to 16, wherein the step of
retrieving includes generating a synchronization signal for inserting and synchronizing

the broadcast quality motion video.
A method according to claim 17, wherein the synchronization signal is
a colour frequency signal.
A method according to any of claims 12 to 18, further comprising
editing a channel insertion log for defining the selected time for inserting said

broadcast-quality motion video into the broadcast programme.
A method according to any of claims 12 to 19, wherein the digitized
broadcast-quality motion video information is stored on a computer-readable and

rewriteable random access medium in a data file.
A method according to any of claims 12 to 20, wherein the digitised
broadcast-quality motion video information includes an image corresponding to each

field of the broadcast-quality motion video.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
