<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for transmitting or storing digital television pictures, and device for receiving said pictures
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N9804	H04N754	H04N9804	H04N752	H04N764	H04N5783	H04N764	H04N5783	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	H04N7	H04N9	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	H04N7	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device for transmitting or storing digital television pictures 
in which a 

maximum possible number of data of a group of transformed pixel 
blocks (DB₁ ... 

DB₁₂) is transmitted in the form of variable-length code 
words (V₁ ... V
N
) in a 
corresponding channel block of predetermined length (Fig. 5A). 

If all code words of the 
groups of blocks are accommodated in the corresponding channel 

block (Fig. 5C), the 
channel block will also comprise surplus data of other blocks. 

The boundary, within a 
channel block, between these code words and surplus data is 

transmitted in the form of 
an address (P) which is accommodated at a predetermined position 

of the channel block. 
If the channel block length is inadequate for transmitting 
all code words of 

the group of blocks, the channel block (Fig. 5B), will comprise 

at least the code words 
which are representative of the DC coefficient and a number of 

important AC 
coefficients of each block. Said code words are accommodated in 

successive channel 
block sections (L₁ ... L₁₂), with a code (C) for 

the length of these channel block sections 
being transmitted at predetermined positions of the channel block. 
Furthermore, a flag (STA) is added to indicate, that surplus data 
have been generated and are to be found in another channel block. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE WITH PETER HENDRIK NELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN GESTEL WILHELMUS JACOBUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE WITH, PETER HENDRIK NELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN GESTEL, WILHELMUS JACOBUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device for transmitting or storing digital
television pictures and to a device for receiving digital television pictures. The invention also
relates to a storage medium on which digital pictures are stored.For digital transmission and storage of television pictures, picture
transform of two-dimensional blocks of, for example 8*8 pixels is generally used. By means
of this transform, for example Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT), a block of coefficients is
obtained whose number equals the number of pixels in each block. One of these coefficients,
the DC coefficient, represents the average brightness or colour of the block. The other
coefficients are AC coefficients. Each of them represents the extent to which a given picture
detail is present.The quantity of bits per picture is not reduced by the transform.
Consequently, the digital picture signal is compressed before transmission or storage. This
compression is obtained by quantizing the coefficients after scanning (serializing) in
decreasing order of significance and subjecting them to variable-length coding. Quantization
leads to many coefficients having the value of zero. In variable-length coding, series of these
zero coefficients are coded effectively. Coding of a series of zero coefficients at the end of a
block may even be dispensed with because the end of a block is marked by an End-Of-Block
(EOB) code. In this way each block of pixels is converted into a block of code words. Such
a block, which comprises a variable number of code words of variable length, will
hereinafter be referred to as data block. The transmission of variable-length code words
instead of pixels or coefficients appears to provide the possibility of a considerable bit rate
reduction. This is offset by the fact that the transmission of the code words is sensitive to
transmission errors. A transmission error generally results in loss of synchronization at the
receiver end. Not only the relevant code word but also the subsequent code words are no
longer recognized.To make the compressed video signal less vulnerable to transmission
errors, IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, Vol.CE-37, No.3, August 1991, 
Yoneda et al. "An Experimental Digital VCR with New DCT-Based Bit-Rate Reduction
System", and Globecom '92, Vol.3, December 1992, Raychaudhuri et al. "A Flexible and
Robust Packet Transport Protocol for Digital HDTV" disclose arrangements which packetize
the data stream in packets of fixed length. In such embodiments, the data stream maintains
its
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device (2) for transmitting or storing digital television pictures,
comprising means for dividing each television picture into blocks of pixels, coding means

(22-24) for coding each block of pixels in a data block (DB) of variable length code words
(V
1
-V
n
) in a decreasing order of significance, and formatting means (25) for:

accommodating at least the most significant code words (V
1
-V
3
) of one or more
data blocks (DB
1
-DB
12
) in a corresponding channel block of fixed
length;
if the channel block provides insufficient space for all the code words (V
1
-V
N
)
of the data block(s), accommodating the surplus of code words in other channel

blocks; and
if the channel block has space left after all the code words (V
1
-V
N
) of the data
block(s), filling up said space with the surplus of code words of other data

blocks;

characterized in that the formatting means (25) are further adapted to:
accommodate a status code (STA) indicating the absence or presence of said
surplus of code words in the channel block, said status code being

accommodated at a predetermined position of each channel block; and
accommodate a start address (P) of said surplus of code words in channel
blocks being filled up with said surplus of code words, said start address being

accommodated at a predetermined position of the channel block which in
channel blocks not having a surplus of code words is used to accommodate code

words.
A device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the start address (P) is expressed in
an integral number of fixed word lengths.
A device as claimed in Claim 2, which is further adapted to fill up the
space between code words of said data block and surplus code words of other data blocks

with the start of a variable-length code word which is longer than said space.
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims, characterized in
that the formatting means are further adapted to accommodate the most significant code 

words of at least two data blocks in corresponding successive sections of a channel block
while a length code which is indicative of the length of a channel block section is

accommodated at predetermined positions of the channel block for each channel block
section.
A device as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the coding means are adapted to
classify data blocks as to picture energy content, the length code being constituted by a

classification code (C) representing said classification.
A device as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the length code represents an
integral number of fixed word lengths.
A device for receiving digital television pictures in the form of a series of
channel blocks of fixed length, comprising:


deformatting means for splitting channel blocks into code words of one or more
corresponding data block and surplus data of other data blocks and for adding

surplus data to the code words of the respective data block;
decoding means for decoding the data blocks in television pictures;

characterized in that the deformatting means are adapted to perform said split-up of a channel
block in response to a status code (STA) indicating the absence or presence of said surplus of

code words in the channel block, said status code being accommodated at a predetermined
position of each channel block, and in response to a start address (P) of said surplus of code

words in channel blocks being filled up with said surplus of code words, said start address
being accommodated at a predetermined position of the channel block which in channel

blocks not having a surplus of code words is used to accommodate code words.
A device as claimed in Claim 7, characterized in that it is adapted to
allocate code words accommodated in predetermined successive parts of a channel block to

corresponding data blocks, the length of each block section being fixed in response to a
length code accommodated in the channel block for said purpose.
A video recorder comprising a device as claimed in any one of Claims 1-6,
and a device as claimed in Claim 7 or 8. 
A digital video signal representing digital television pictures which have
been coded in data blocks of variable length code words having a decreasing order of

significance, at least the most significant code words of one or more data blocks being
accommodated in a corresponding channel block of fixed length, a surplus of code words of

the data block(s) not fitting in the channel block being accommodated in other channel
blocks, and a shortage of data in a channel block being filled up with the surplus of code

words of other data blocks, characterized in that the signal inludes:

a status code (STA) indicating the absence or presence of said surplus of code
words in the channel block, said status code being accommodated at a

predetermined position of each channel block; and
a start address (P) of said surplus of code words in channel blocks being filled
up with said surplus of code words, said start address being accommodated at a

predetermined position of the channel block which in channel blocks not having
a surplus of code words is used to accommodate code words.
A video signal as claimed in Claim 10, wherein the address is expressed
in an integral number of fixed word lengths.
A video signal as claimed in Claim 11, wherein the space between data of
the corresponding data block(s) and surplus data is filled up with the start of a variable-length

code word which is longer than said space.
A video signal as claimed in any one of Claims 10-12, characterized in
that selected code words of at least two data blocks are accommodated in corresponding

successive sections of a channel block, while a length code which is indicative of the length
of a channel block section is accommodated at predetermined positions of the channel block

for each channel block section.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
