<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Upgradable multi-chip module.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23P2100	B23P2100	H01L2334	H01L2340	H01L25065	H01L25065	H05K114	H05K114	H05K118	H05K118	H05K336	H05K336	H05K720	H05K720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23P	B23P	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23P21	B23P21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L25	H01L25	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A substrate, an alignment plate, a heat sink, a back plate, a 
plurality of spacers, and a plurality of nuts are used to removably package a 

number of semiconductor packages into a single module. The semiconductor 
dies are packaged with TAB packages having LGA outer lead bumps. The 

substrate comprises a number of land patterns, a number of alignment cavities, 
and a number of join cavities. The alignment plate is fabricated with a number 

of alignment pins, a number of housing cavities, and a number of join cavities. 
The heat sink is fabricated with a number of stems and a number of join 

cavities. The back plate is fabricated with a number of extrusions having 
threaded ends. The spacers are fabricated with flanged openings at both ends, 

and each spacer is loaded with a number of spring washers. The nuts are 
fabricated with stepped heads. The extrusions, the land patterns and the 

alignment and join cavities of the substrate, the alignment pins and the housing 
and join cavities of the alignment plate, the stems and the join cavi
ties of the 
heat sink, the spring washer loaded spacers, and the stepped head nuts are 

coordinated in their numbers, sizes and geometric locations. As a result, the 
semiconductor packages may be easily replaced at a later time with enhanced 

versions, and the replaced semiconductor packages are salvageable. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTE ALFRED S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOO MIKE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTE, ALFRED S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOO, MIKE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of semiconductor 
packaging. More specifically, the present invention relates to packaging a 
plurality of semiconductor packages, including very large scale integration (VLSI) 
chips, into a single module. Packaging a plurality of semiconductor packages into a single 
module is well known in the art. Typically, the semiconductor packages are 
mounted onto the module by one of a number of well known techniques, such as 
flip chip, tape automated bonding (TAB) or wire bonding. These prior art 
mounting/packaging techniques all have a common disadvantage in that they 
require the semiconductor packages to be permanently mounted to the board or 
substrate of the module. The only way to upgrade the digital system comprising 
the module is to replace the entire module, and the permanently mounted 
semiconductor packages are not salvageable. This is especially undesirable 
when the semiconductor packages are the more costly VLSI microprocessor chip 
and related application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), and the digital system 
is a microprocessor based computer system. Thus, it is desirable to be able to 
package a number of semiconductor packages into a single module in an 
upgradable manner. That is, the semiconductor packages are not permanently 
mounted, they can be easily replaced with enhanced versions at a later time, and 
the replaced semiconductor packages are salvageable. As will be disclosed, the  
 
present invention provides for an upgradable multi-chip module which 
advantageously achieves the desired results.  The desired results are advantageously achieved by packaging the 
semiconductor dies with TAB packages having land grid array (LGA) outer lead 
bumps. The semiconductor packages are then packaged into a single module 
using a substrate, an alignment plate, a heat sink, a back plate, a plurality of 
spacers, and a plurality of nuts. The substrate comprises a plurality of land 
patterns, a plurality of alignment cavities, and a plurality of join cavities. The 
alignment plate is fabricated with a number of alignment pins, a plurality of 
housing cavities, and a plurality of join cavities. The heat sink is fabricated with a 
plurality of stems, and a plurality of join cavities. The back plate is fabricated with 
a number of extrusions having threaded ends. The spacers are fabricated with 
flanged openings at both ends, and each spacer is loaded with a number of 
spring washers. The nuts are fabricated with stepped heads. The extrusions of 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-chip module comprising: 

a) a plurality of semiconductor packages having a first plurality of densely 
disposed electrical contacts; 
b) a substrate comprising a second plurality of densely disposed electrical 
contacts, said semiconductor packages being removably placed on top of said 

substrate with said first and second plurality of densely disposed electrical 
contacts precisely contacting each other correspondingly; 
c) alignment means removably cooperating with said semiconductor 
packages and said substrate for maintaining said precise contacts between said 

first and second densely disposed electrical contacts; 
d) heat dissipation means removably cooperating with said alignment 
means and said semiconductor packages for directly conducting heat away from 

said semiconductor packages during operation; and 
e) join means cooperating with said substrate, said alignment means, and 
said heat dissipation means for removably joining
 said substrate, said alignment 
means, and said heat dissipation means. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 1, wherein, 
   said semiconductor packages are TAB semiconductor packages; 

   said first plurality of densely disposed electrical contacts are densely 
disposed LGA outer lead bumps; 

   said second plurality of densely disposed electrical contacts are densely 
disposed pad of land patterns. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 2, wherein, said land patterns 
are disposed on said substrate in a symmetrical manner. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 1, wherein, 
   said alignment means is an alignment plate having a plurality of alignment 

pins; and 
   said substrate also has a plurality alignment cavities for accommodating 

said alignment pins when said alignment plate is removably placed on top of said 
substrate, said alignment cavities and said alignment pins being coordinated in 

numbers, sizes and geometric locations. 
The multi-hip module as set forth in claim 4, wherein, said alignment pins 
and said alignment cavities are disposed on said alignment plate and said 

substrate respectively in a symmetric manner. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 5, wherein, 
   said alignment plate and said substrate comprise two alignment pins and 

two alignment cavities respectively; 
   said two alignment pins and said two alignment cavities being disposed at 

mid-points of opposite edges of said alignment plate and said substrate 
respectively. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 4, wherein, 
   said alignment plate also has a plurality of housing cavities for 

accommodating said semiconductor packages when said alignment plate is 
removably placed on top of said substrate after semiconductor packages have 

been removably placed on top of said substrate; and
 

   said heat dissipation means is a heat sink having a plurality of stems for 
making direct physical contact with said semiconductor packages when said heat 

sink is removably placed on top of said alignment plate, said semiconductor 
packages, said housing cavities, and said stems being coordinated in numbers, 

sizes and geometric locations. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 7, wherein, 
   said housing cavities and said stems are disposed on said alignment plate 

and said heat sink in a symmetric manner. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 8, wherein, 
   said multi-chip module comprises four semiconductor packages; 

   said alignment plate and said heat sink comprise four housing cavities and 
four stems respectively; 

   said four housing cavities and said four stems being disposed in four 
quadrants of complimentary surfaces of said alignment plate and said heat sink. 
The multi-chip modules as set forth in claim 7, wherein, 
   said substrate also comprises a first plurality of join cavities; 

   said alignment plate also comprises a second plurality of join cavities; 
   said heat sink also comprises a third plurality of join cavities; 

   said join means comprises a back plate having a plurality of extrusions 
having threaded ends, a plurality of spacers, and a plurality of mating nuts, 

   said extrusions being coordinated with said first, second, and third 
plurality of join cavities in numbers, sizes, and geometric locations, each of said 

spacers having flanged openings at both of its ends and being loaded with spring 
washers of known deflection constants, said mating nuts having stepped heads,

 
   said back plate, said substrate, said semiconductor packages, said 

alignment plate, said heat sink, and said spring washer loaded spacers being 
removably joined together and secured as a single module by removably 

threading said mating nuts onto said threaded ends of said extrusions until said 
mating nuts firmly press against said spring washer loaded spacers 

correspondingly, said extrusions being accommodated by said first, second, and 
third plurality of join cavities when said back plate, said substrate, said 

semiconductor modules, said alignment plate, said heat sink, and said spring 
washer loaded spacers are removably joined together and secured as a single 

module. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 10, wherein, said first, second 
and third plurality of join cavities, and said extrusions are disposed on said 

substrate, said alignment plate, said heat sink, and said back plate in a symmetric 
manner. 
The multi-chip modules as set forth in claim 11, wherein, 
   said join means comprises five extrusions, five spacers, and five mating 

nuts; 
   said substrate, said alignment plate, and said heat sink comprise a first, a 

second, and a third five join cavities respectively; 
   said first, second, and third five join cavities are symmetrically disposed at 

corners and centers of said substrate, said alignment plate, and said heat sink 
respectively. 
A multi-chip module comprising: 
a) a plurality of semiconductor packages having a plurality of 
semiconductor dies packaged with tapes having densely disposed LGA outer 

lead bumps; 
b) a substrate comprising a plurality of land patterns with densely disposed 
pads, a plurality of housing cavities, and a first plurality of join cavities, said 

semiconductor packages being removably placed on top of said land patterns 
with said densely disposed LGA outer lead bumps precisely contacting said 

densely disposed pads; 
c) an alignment plate having a plurality of alignment pins, a plurality of 
housing cavities, and a second plurality of join cavities, said alignment pins being 

coordinated with said alignment cavities in numbers, sizes, and geometric 
locations, said housing cavities being coordinated with said semiconductor 

packages and said land patterns in numbers, sizes, and geometric locations, said 
alignment plate being removably placed on top of said substrate with said 

housing cavities accommodating said semiconductor packages, and said 
alignment pins accommodated by said alignment cavities; 
d) a heat sink having a plurality of stems and a third plurality of join 
cavities, said stems being coordinated with said semiconductor packages and 

said land patterns in numbers, sizes and geometric locations, said heat sink 
being removably placed on top of said alignment plate with said stems contacting 

said semiconductor packages directly; 
e) a back plate having a plurality of extrusions having threaded ends, said 
extrusions being coordinated with said first, second and third plurality of join 

cavities in numbers, sizes, and geometric locations, said back plate being placed 
underneath said substrate with said extrusions being accommodated by said first, 

second, and third plurality of join cavities; 
f) a plurality of spacers, said spacers being coordinated with said 
extrusions in numbers and sizes, each of said spacers having flanged openings 

at both of its ends and being loaded with spring washers with known deflection 
constants; and 
g) a plurality of nuts having stepped heads, said step headed nuts being 
coordinated with said spacers and said extrusions of said back plate in numbers 

and sizes, said nuts being removably threaded onto said threaded ends of said 
extrusions firmly joining and securing said back plate, said substrate, said 

semiconductor packages, said alignment plates, said heat sink, and said spring 

washer loaded spacers together as a single module. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 13, wherein, 
   said land patterns, said alignment cavities, and said first plurality of join 

cavities are disposed on said substrate in a symmetric manner; 
   said alignment pins, said housing cavities, and said second plurality of join 

cavities are disposed on said alignment plate in a symmetric manner; 
   said stems and said third plurality of join cavities are disposed on said heat 

sink in a symmetric manner; and 
   said extrusions are disposed on said back plate in a symmetric manner. 
The multi-chip module as set forth in claim 14, wherein, 
   said multi-chip modules comprises four semiconductor packages; 

   said substrate comprises four land patterns, two alignment cavities, and a 
first five of join cavities; 

   said alignment plate comprises two alignment pins, four housing cavities, 
and a second five of join cavities; 

   said heat sink comprises four stems and a third five of join cavities; and
 

   said back plate comprises five extrusions; 
   said four land patterns and said four stems being disposed in quadrants of 

said substrate and heat sink respectively; 
   said two alignment pins and said two alignment cavities being disposed at 

mid-points of opposite edges of said alignment plate and said substrate 
respectively; 

   said extrusions, and said first, second, and third five of join cavities being 
disposed at corners and centers of said black plate, said substrate, said 

alignment plate, and said heat sink respectively. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
