<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657679</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Connector unit, particularly of the multiple-connection rapid-engagement type.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L3900	F16L3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L39	F16L39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A connector unit of the multiple-connection, rapid-engagement 
type includes a first connector part (12) and 

a second connector part (14) which can be coupled face to 
face as a result of a relative movement along a general axis 

(A) of the first connector part (12). The second 
connector part (14) is carried by a movable body (4) 

adapted to stop close to the first connector part (12) so 
that these face each other. The connector parts (12, 14) 

include mutual centring means (22, 22a). One (12) of 
these two connector parts (12, 14) is movable transverse 

the direction of coupling to compensate for any 
transverse misalignment relative to this direction. The 

movable connector part (12) is carried by an auxiliary 
support structure (18) with the interposition of 

resiliently yielding members (34) so as to be 
swingable relative to the support structure. These 

resilient members (34) are preloaded so as, in their 
undeformed condition, to define a rest position 

corresponding to the aligned condition of the two 
connector parts (12, 14). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IF 1 SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IF-1 S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASCIO FRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASCIO, FRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a connector unit , 
particularly of the multiple-connection, rapid-engagement 
type, comprising a first connector part and a second 
connector part which can be coupled face to face as a 
result of a relative movement along a direction of 
coupling defined by a general axis of the first connector 
part, in which the second connector part is carried by a 
movable body adapted to stop close to the first connector 
part so that the first and second connector parts 
substantially face each other, these connector parts 
having means for mutually centring them on the direction 
of coupling, and at least one of the connector parts 
being movable transverse the direction of coupling so 
that, during coupling with the other connector part, the 
transversely-movable connector part can compensate for 
any transverse misalignment with the direction of 
coupling. Connector units of the type indicated above are used, 
for example, in test lines for engines. Such lines 
generally include a plurality of platforms, or pallets, 
movable along a predetermined path and each carrying a 
respective engine rigidly fixed thereto. Each pallet is adapted to stop at a plurality of test  
 
stations each of which includes means for collecting data 
for the test to be carried out and is adapted to supply 
electrically or with fluids the engine , 
totally independently, so that the test may be carried 
out successfully. Since it is not economic to bring each pallet to a stop 
at an extremely precise position at each test station as 
the pallet is movable along sliding guides with clearances, or 
play, both to allow the pallet to travel around curved 
paths and because of inevitable wear to parts of the 
system as a whole, it is preferred to allow the pallets 
to stop at positions which are not defined too precisely 
at each station. For this reason, the two connector 
parts must be made to compensate for any misalignments 
with the ideal direction of coupling due to the said 
clearances. In some known systems the connector part associated with 
the pallet is formed as a plate and mounted on the pallet 
so as to be movable transverse the direction of coupling 
of the two connector parts. More particularly, the 
pallet has a plurality of pins which project parallel to 
the direction of coupling and engage in slots in the 
connector plate. These slots have dimensions which are 
considerably bigger than the pins so that there are 
clearances between the pins and the peripheries of the 
slots.  Since the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector unit, particularly of the multiple-connection, 
rapid-engagement type, comprising a 

first connector part (12) and a second connector 
part (14) which can be coupled face to face as a 

result of a relative movement along a direction of 
coupling defined by a general axis (A) of the first 

connector part (12), in which the second connector 
part (14) is carried by a movable body (4) adapted 

to stop close to the first connector part (12) so 
that the first and second connector parts (12, 14) 

substantially face each other, these connector parts 
(12, 14) having means (22, 22a) for mutually 

centring them on the direction of coupling, and at 
least one (12) of the connector parts (12, 14) being 

movable transverse the direction of coupling so 
that, during coupling with the other connector part 

(14), the transversely-movable connector part (12) 
can compensate for any transverse misalignment with 

the direction of coupling, 
characterised in that the transversely-movable
 
connector part (12) is carried by an auxiliary 

support structure (18) and it is swingably mounted with 
respect to it with the interposition of resiliently-yielding, 

transverse position-adjustment means 
(34), the position-adjustment means (34) being 

preloaded so as, in the undeformed condition, to 
 

define a rest position corresponding to the aligned 
condition of the two connector parts (12, 14). 
A unit according to Claim 1, characterised in that 
preloaded, resiliently-yielding, axial position-adjustment 

means (34) are interposed between the 
swingable connector part (12) and the auxiliary 

structure (18) so that the reciprocable connector 
part (12) can also swing parallel to the 

direction of coupling relative to the auxiliary 
support structure (18) so as to compensate for any 

play in this direction. 
A unit according to Claim 2, characterised in that 
the auxiliary structure (18) is carried by an apparatus 

(8) including actuator means (16) for driving its 
movement along the direction of coupling, when the 

two connector parts (12, 14) face each other, 
between a position remote from the other connector 

part (14) and a close position for coupling of the 
two connector parts (12, 14). 
A unit according to Claim 2 or Claim 3, 
characterised in that the transverse and axial 

position-adjustment means include resilient members 
(34) each having a respective abutment head (44) 

with a substantially hemispherical abutment surface 
for abutment by the swingable connector part 

 
(12). 
A unit according to Claim 4, characterised in that 
each of the resilient members (34) includes a 

preload setting device (37, 38). 
A unit according to Claim 5, characterised in that 
each preload setting device (37, 38) is of the 

screw/nut type and includes a respective device (48, 
52, 54) for preventing unscrewing. 
A unit according to any one of Claims 4 to 6, 
characterised in that the swingable connector 

part (12) includes a base plate associated with the 
auxiliary structure (18) so as to be floating 

thereon, means (24, 24a, 25, 26) being provided for 
limiting the movement of the base plate (12) in the 

axial direction. 
A unit according to Claim 7, characterised in that 
the auxiliary structure (18) has at least three 

associated resilient members (34) acting along axes 
substantially parallel to the general axis (A), the 

auxiliary structure (18) also having a pair of 
resilient members (34) beneath it acting along 

vertical axes transverse the general axis (A) and a 
pair of resilient members (34) acting along a common 

horizontal axis transverse the general axis (A). 
A unit according to Claim 8, characterised in that 
the base plate (12) has vertical support legs (56) 

of adjustable length each adapted to rest on an 
abutment head (44) of a respective resilient member 

(34). 
A unit according to Claim 9, characterised in that 
the base plate (12) is made of a lighter material 

than that constituting the auxiliary structure (18). 
A unit according to Claim 1, characterised in that 
the second connector part (14) is fixed to a support 

platform (4) of a power unit (M), this platform (4) 
being movable along a test line (2) for power units 

(M). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
