<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614689</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integrated treatment system for refinery oily sludges.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2939	B01D2939	B01D3700	B01D3702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D29	B01D29	B01D37	B01D37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for the treatment of refinery oily 
sludges to produce an oily fraction that is 

reprocessed in the refinery into (i) salable 
products and (ii) a solid residue meeting 

environmental regulatory agency requirements for 
disposal in non-hazardous solid waste landfills. 

The process includes mixing the refinery oily sludge 
with a particulate filter aid and preferably a 

single solvent selected from refinery intermediate 
and product streams and contacting this mixture with 

plate filters in a closed filter vessel. A cake 
residue forms on the filter plates and a filtrate 

mixture of oil, water and solvent is produced. The 
filtrate is separated into an oily fraction and a 

water fraction. The oily fraction is rerouted to 
refinery operating units for processing into salable 

products. The water fraction is routed to a 
refinery water treatment system. When filter cake 

residue has built to a predetermined level, charge 
to the filter vessel is discontinued. The filter 

cake residue is washed with a predetermined quantity 
of solvent and then steam stripped to remove 

petroleum hydrocarbons to a desired residual level, 
e.g. less than about 1,000 ppm or less than 500 ppm. 

The steam stripped filter cake is then removed from 
the filter vessel for disposal in an environmentally 

approved landfill. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KERR MC GEE CHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KERR MC GEE CHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAUDE ALAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON STEPHEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAUDE ALAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON STEPHEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the treatment of 
refinery sludges in a closed integrated system 
utilizing refinery-generated solvents and recycling 
solvent and oil removed from the sludge back to the 
refinery for further processing leaving a residue of 
filtered solids which can be disposed of in a land 
fill. Refinery sludges are generated during refining 
operations at various stages in the process of 
refining crude petroleum oils to finished products. 
Refinery oily sludges containing entrained oil may 
be found for example in heat exchanger bundle 
cleaning solids, leaded or unleaded tank bottoms, 
slop oil emulsion solids and API separator sludge. 
These sludges have been defined by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as Listed 
Hazardous Wastes. As such, these wastes must be 
disposed of as a hazardous waste unless firstly, 
they are treated to meet EPA land disposal treatment 
standards and, secondly, a petition to delist the  
 
particular waste is approved by the EPA. In the 
past, one acceptable method of disposal of such 
oil-entrained refinery solids has been incineration. 
However, incineration is an expensive process that 
does not recover the entrained oil for recycle to 
refineries. Thus treatment of refinery sludge for 
the recovery of oil and separation of solids has 
long been considered a desirable but yet 
unattainable alternative. In particular, a process has long been sought 
to treat oily sludges to produce an oil portion that 
can be further treated to produce a saleable product 
and a solid portion that can be disposed of in a 
non-hazardous solid waste landfill. To allow such 
disposal, the solids must meet the EPA's Treatment 
Standards for Land Disposal, generally based on 
contaminant concentrations achieved by the Best 
Demonstrated Available Technology (BDAT), and 
Toxicity Characteristic Leach Procedure (TCLP) 
standards for disposal in a hazardous landfill site 
and must be delisted by the EPA. Upon delisting, 
the solids must then meet standards set by the 
particular State for disposal in non-hazardous solid 
waste landfills in their forum. This means of 
disposal, in a non-hazardous solid waste landfill as 
opposed to hazardous waste landfill, is the lowest 
cost method but has heretofore either not been 
achievable or has been achievable only with such 
high sludge processing cost as to be uneconomical.  U.S. Patent No. 4,260,489 of Greil is directed 
to the treatment of oily sludge utilizing precoated 
surface filters such as plate, leaf and tube or 
cand
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An integrated method for the treatment of 
refinery oily sludge with refinery generated solvent 

to remove oil from the sludge for recycling to said 
refinery and produce a sludge cake residue from 

sludge solids that is sufficiently free of petroleum 
hydrocarbons oil to qualify for landfill disposal, 

the method comprising the steps of: 
   mixing refinery oily sludge with a 

particulate filter aid in a vessel to produce a 
filter charge; 

   introducing said filter charge into a 
closed filter vessel containing a plurality of 

filter plates; 
   charging a solvent from said refinery into 

said closed filter vessel substantially 
simultaneously with the entry of said filter charge 

into said closed filter vessel, said solvent 
commingling with said filter charge entering said 

closed filter vessel; 
   contacting said filter charge commingled 

with said solvent with said plurality of filter 
plates to filter out onto said plates a solid 

residue in the form of filter cake and to produce a 
filtrate of a mixture of oil, water and solvent; 

   directing said oil, water and solvent 
mixture out of said closed filter vessel and 

thereafter separating said water from said mixture 
 

and recycling remaining oil and solvent in the 
mixture to said refinery for further processing; 

   continuing said contacting to filter a 
solid residue filter cake until the filter cake 

builds to a predetermined depth, then discontinuing 
said introducing of filter charge and charging of 

solvent; 
   washing the predetermined depth of solid 

residue filter cake with a predetermined quantity of 
solvent; 

   stripping the solid residue filter cake of 
hydrocarbons to a desired level of residual total 

petroleum hydrocarbons; 
   separating the stripped filter cake 

residue from said filter plates and causing the 
filter cake residue to fall by gravity within said 

closed filter vessel; and 
   removing said filter cake residue from 

said filter vessel, without exposing surrounding 
environment to potentially hazardous levels of 

petroleum hydrocarbons originally contained in the 
refinery oil sludge, and containerizing the removed. 

filter cake residue for disposal at an 
environmentally approved landfill. 
The method set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said refinery solvent is selected from the group 

consisting of gasoline from a fluidized catalytic 
cracker, naphtha from a fluidized catalytic cracker, 

 
gasoline from a hydrocracker and gasoline from a reformer. 
The method set forth in claim 1 or 2, further comprising 
adding a composition to fix heavy metal ions in the oily sludge before 

introducing the filter charge to the filter vessel. 
The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the filter plates 
of the filter vessel are horizontal during the contacting to filter 

out solid residue. 
The method set forth in any preceding claim, wherein 
said filter plates are precoated with a particulate filter aid prior 

to introducing said filter charge into said closed filter vessel. 
The method set forth in any preceding claim wherein the 
particulate filter aid is selected from the group consisting of 

diatomaceous earth, vermiculite, wood chips, lime, sand, perlite, and 
polymeric beads. 
The method set forth in any preceding claim wherein the 
removing includes discharging, by means of a screw conveyor, a filter 

cake residue having a total petroleum hydrocarbon content of less than 
1000 ppm, preferably less than 500 ppm. 
The method of any preceding claim wherein the removing 
includes removing a filter cake residue having a total petroleum 

hydrocarbon content of less than 1000 ppm, preferably less than 500 
ppm. 
The method of any preceding claim wherein the step of 
recycling filtrate for further processing includes charging to a 

refinery processing unit selected from the group consisting of a 
fluidized catalytic cracker fractionator, a crude oil distillation 

column, a heavy oil hydrocracker, a hydrotreater, a visbreaker and a 
coker. 
The method of any preceding claim wherein the filter 
vessel is maintained at a temperature in the range from -4°C to + 

177°C (25 to 350°F) and a pressure in the range from 138 KPa to 1724 
KPa (20 to about 250 psig). 
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising 
adding a heavy metals fixation chemical to the filter cake residue. 
An integrated method for the treatment of 
refinery oily sludge with refinery generated 

solvents to remove oil from the sludge for recycling 
to said refinery and produce a sludge cake residue 

from sludge solids that is sufficiently free of 
petroleum hydrocarbons to qualify for landfill 

disposal, the method comprising the steps of: 
   precoating a plurality of filter plates 

contained in a filter vessel with a particulate 
filter; 

   mixing refinery oily sludge with a 
particulate filter aid in a vessel to produce a 

filter charge; 
   introducing said filter charge into the 

filter vessel containing a plurality of filter 
plates; 

   charging a single solvent selected from 
the group consisting of gasoline from a fluidized 

catalytic cracker, naphtha from a fluidized 
catalytic cracker, gasoline from a hydrocracker, and 

gasoline from a reformer, into said filter vessel 
substantially simultaneously with the entry of said 

filter charge into said filter vessel, said solvent 
commingling with said filter charge entering said 

filter vessel; 
   maintaining said filter vessel at a 

temperature from about 25°F to about 350°F to 
facilitate filtration;

 
   contacting said filter charge commingled 

with said solvent with said plurality of filter 
plates while maintaining a pressure drop of about 30 

to about 150 psi across the filter plates to filter 
out onto said plates a solid residue in the form of 

a filter cake and to produce a filtrate of a mixture 
of oil, water and solvent; 

   directing said filtrate out of said filter 
vessel, separating said water from said filtrate and 

recycling remaining oil and solvent to a refinery 
unit, selected from the group consisting of a 

fluidized catalytic cracker fractionator, a crude 
oil distillation unit, a heavy oil hydrocracker, a 

hydrotreater, a visbreaker and a coker, for further 
processing; 

   continuing said contacting to filter a 
solid residue filter cake until the filter cake 

builds to a predetermined depth, then discontinuing 
said introducing of filter charge and charging of 

solvent; 
   washing the predetermined depth of solid 

residue filter cake with a predetermined quantity of 
a solvent; 

   steam stripping the solid residue filter 
cake to remove hydrocarbons to achieve a residual 

level of total petroleum hydrocarbons of less than 
about 1,000 ppm in the filter cake residue; 

   separating the steam stripped filter cake 
residue from said filter plates and causing the 

 
filter cake residue to fall by gravity within the 

filter vessel; and 
   removing filter cake residue from the 

filter vessel, without exposing surrounding 
environment to potentially hazardous levels of 

petroleum hydrocarbons in said filter vessel, and 
containerizing the removed filter cake residue for 

disposal at an environmentally approved landfill. 
The method of claim 12 wherein the steam 
stripping of the solid residue filter cake reduces 

total petroleum hydrocarbons to less than about 
500 ppm. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said 
removing of filter cake residue includes discharging 

filter cake from the filter vessel by means of a 
screw conveyor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
