<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641508</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENHANCING SHARPNESS OF A SEQUENCE OF IMAGES SUBJECT TO CONTINUOUS ZOOM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T340	H04N5208	G06T520	H04N5253	H03H1702	G06T340	H04N5228	H04N5253	H04N5228	H04N5262	G06T520	H03H1702	H04N5208	H04N5262	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	H04N	G06T	H04N	H03H	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	G06T	H03H	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T3	H04N5	G06T5	H04N5	H03H17	G06T3	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	G06T5	H03H17	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bandpass enhancement filter (10) has a pass-band that tracks changes in spatial frequency due to the use of a zooming process upon a digital image signal. The primary pass-band of the enhancement filter is derived from a combination of a plurality of secondary bandpass filter sections (30a-30d), each having a different frequency response and each responsive to a gain adjustment (34a-34d). A control signal (26) reflecting a particular zoom ratio is used in the adjustment of the gain applied to the filter sections, thereby proportioning the output of each filter section so that the combined output tracks the zooming process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVERIDGE JENNIFER CLARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARMAN RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVERIDGE, JENNIFER CLARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARMAN, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of image
signal processing, especially for the purpose of
enhancing image features.The invention has particular relevance to an
electronic imaging system in which the input images are
either stationary images or time-varying sequences of
images, and in which the output images are subject to a
static or dynamic digital zoom. The static zoom
effects size changes in a stationary image, and the
dynamic zoom effects continuing size changes, often on
a frame-to-frame basis in a video environment, on a
time-varying sequence of images. The zooming process,
which may be implemented in a spatial interpolator,
such as described in EP-A-0 579 795, may be required
for spatial standards conversion, or for image
magnification within a given spatial standard.The effect of zooming upon sampled image data
must be carefully considered in order to avoid the
problem of aliasing. As known to those skilled in this
art, an image can be characterized by a two-dimensional
parameter known as spatial frequency. According to the
Nyquist sampling theorem, in order not to lose
information contained in a signal, the signal must be
sampled at a sampling frequency (fs) that is equal to
at least twice the bandwidth of the signal. The actual
bandwidth is ordinarily established by prefiltering the 
analog signal before it is sampled, so that the band
edge of the signal does not exceed the upper frequency
limit, which is called the Nyquist frequency, required
for sampling.In further considering the effect of zooming,
it should be intuitive that, if the image is
compressed, the lines appear to the viewer to become
closer together, and the spatial frequency of the image
is thus increased. This has the ancillary effect of
increasing the upper band edge of the image's spatial
frequencies. If the upper band edge now exceeds the
Nyquist frequency, information is lost and aliasing
results. This is handled in the prior art by
inserting, before compression, a variable bandwidth
digital filter that is responsive to a scaling factor
representative of the degree of compression to
accordingly band-limit the digital signal, and thereby
to avoid any aliasing that might result from subsequent
compression (see, for example, U.S. Patent Nos.
4,760,605; 4,805,129; and 4,660,081). If the image is
enlarged, so that lines appear to the viewer to become
further apart, the upper spatial frequency of the image
is decreased and the upper band limit is accordingly
decreased. According to the prior art (e.g., the
aforementioned U.S.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for enhancing the sharpness of
an image signal subject to a zooming process that

changes the spatial frequency of the image signal, said
apparatus comprising:


means (12) for generating the image signal;
means (26,28) for generating a control signal
indicative of the amount of zoom performed on the image

signal; and
means (10) for enhancing the image signal;

characterized by: said enhancing means (10)
being operative within a primary two-dimensional

spatial pass-band derived from a plurality of different
spatial pass-bands (30a,b,c,d) each of which is

responsive to a gain adjustment; and

   means (24) responsive to the control signal
for adjusting the gain (34a,b,c,d) applied to the

different pass-bands (30a,b,c,d) according to a
predetermined function of the amount of zoom performed

on the image signal, whereby the primary pass-band of
said enhancing means tracks changes in the spatial

frequency of the image signal due to the zooming
process.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein
said enhancing means (10) comprises a plurality of

bandpass filters (30a,b,c,d) , each operative within
one of the pass-bands, and an adder (36) for summing

the filtered signals in each of the pass-bands to
obtain the filtered output of the primary pass-band.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein
said enhancing means (10) includes a plurality of non-linear

processors (32a,b,c,d) , each operative on the
filtered signal within one of the pass-bands

(30a,b,c,d), for providing a plurality of enhanced
signals.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein
said enhancing means comprises a plurality of filter 

coefficient sets (A,B,C,D) corresponding to each of the
pass-bands, a plurality of multipliers (90a,b,c,d) each

responsive to the gain adjustment for proportioning the
coefficient sets according to the amount of gain

applied to each set, and an adder (92) for summing the
proportioned coefficient sets to derive a primary

coefficient set for the primary pass-band.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein
said enhancing means includes a bandpass filter (94)

utilizing the primary coefficient set to generate a
filtered signal within the primary pass-band.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein
said enhancing means includes a non-linear processor

(32) operative upon the filtered signal within the
primary pass-band for providing an enhanced signal.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 for
filtering a digital image signal, wherein:


the control signal comprises a ratio signal;
the enhancing means (10) comprises filtering
means (30a,b,c,d, 32a,b,c,d, 34a,b,c,d) having a

primary bandpass characteristic derived from a
predetermined combination of a plurality of secondary

bandpass filter sections, each operative upon the
digital image signal and each responsive to a gain

adjustment; and
the means (24) responsive to said control
signal for adjusting the gain applied to said bandpass

filter sections effects said predetermined combination.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein
said filtering means comprises a digital filter

(30a,b,c,d) responsive to a discrete array of image
signals.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein
said bandpass filter sections comprise a plurality of

digital bandpass filters each responsive to a different
two-dimensional array of image signals.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein
the frequency response of each digital bandpass filter 

is determined by a set of filter coefficients arranged
in an "X" (Figures 8E,F) over the two-dimensional array

of image signals.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 further
including non-linear processing means (32) for

generating an enhanced image signal from the output of
the bandpass filter sections.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein
said non-linear processing means (32) comprises a

plurality of non-linear processors (32a,b,c,d), each
opera
tive on the output of a bandpass filter section.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein
said filtering means includes means (36) for summing

the filtered output of the bandpass filter sections in
order to obtain a filtered signal having the primary

bandpass characteristic.
Method for enhancing the sharpness of an
image signal subject to a zooming process that changes

the spatial frequency of the image signal, said method
comprising the steps of:


generating the image signal;
generating a control signal indicative of the
amount of zoom performed on the image signal;
providing a plurality of bandpass filters
having different spatial pass-bands;
proportioning the response of each of the
bandpass filters in response to the magnitude of the

control signal; and
summing the proportioned response of each of
the bandpass filters to thereby form a composite

bandpass filter having a pass-band that tracks changes
in the spatial frequency of the image signal due to the

zooming process.
The method as claimed in claim 14 wherein
the step of proportioning the response comprises

adjusting the gain applied to each of the filters.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
