<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640249</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRONGLY-LINKED OXIDE SUPERCONDUCTOR AND A METHOD OF ITS MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01G100	C01G100	C01G300	C01G300	C04B3501	C04B3545	C04B3565	C04B3565	H01B1300	H01B1300	H01L3912	H01L3912	H01L3924	H01L3924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01G	C01G	C01G	C01G	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	H01B	H01B	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01G1	C01G1	C01G3	C01G3	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	H01B13	H01B13	H01L39	H01L39	H01L39	H01L39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A strongly-linked polycrystalline oxide superconductor article includes an oxide superconductor selected from the group consisting of 124-type and 247-type oxide superconductors having fine, highly aligned oxide superconductor grains less than 50  mu m along a longest dimension. The oxide superconductor article has at least a 25 % retention of critical current density in a 0.1 Tesla field. A method for preparing a strongly-linked oxide superconductor includes shaping a finely divided metallic precursor of an oxide superconductor; oxidizing the finely divided metallic precursor to produce a finely divided sub-oxide species while avoiding conversion of an appreciable amount of the sub-oxide species into the oxide superconductor; annealing and deforming the article, in either order, the annealing carried out at a temperature and for a time sufficient to convert some of the sub-oxide species into fine grains of the oxide superconductor thereby forming a mixture of sub-oxide species and oxide superconductor and the deformation carried out such that the fine grains of oxide superconductor are rotated into alignment parallel to an intended current carrying direction of the article without fracturing or pulverization of the oxide superconductor grains; alternating annealing and deformation of the article until no further improvement in alignment is observed; and subjecting the aligned grains to a final anneal in order to react any remaining sub-oxide species and maximize the growth and sintering of existing aligned grains.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASUR LAWRENCE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PODTBURG ERIC R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASUR, LAWRENCE, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PODTBURG, ERIC, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Strongly-Linked Oxide Superconductor and a Method of Its ManufactureField of the Invention This invention relates to strongly-linked polycrystalline oxide superconductor and oxide superconductor composites. This invention further relates to a method for producing strongly-linked polycrystalline oxide superconductor articles.Background of the InventionPolycrystalline, randomly oriented oxide superconductors exhibit critical current densities orders of magnitude lower than that of single crystal or highly oriented materials. The decrease in critical current density , as measured across grain boundaries in a randomly oriented material, is attributed to grain boundary impurities or grain boundary mismatch. The decrease in critical current density (Jc) as measured across grain boundaries and, in particular, in the presence of a magnetic field is known as "weakly-link" behavior.Grain alignment or crystallographic texture has been shown to mitigate weakly-link behavior of certain oxide superconductors and to permit "strongly- linked" behavior, allowing high current densities even in strong magnetic fields. Techniques used to produce grain alignment in oxide superconductors include melt texturing, magnetic alignment and mechanical deformation. Both melt texturing and magnetic alignment suffer from extremely slow processing speeds and the inability to process large amounts of material. Melt texturing has been used to process oxide superconductors, in particular, the yttrium barium cuprate (YBCO) and bismuth strontium calcium cuprate (BSCCO) systems. Melt textured oxide superconductors have good grain alignment, high critical current density and strongly-linked grains. These qualities are obtained by forming large (millimeter scale) well-aligned grains. While such large grains are highly desirable for current transport, melt textured materials are brittle and can not be easily formed into complex shapes. A fine grained material (micron scale) would have the greater flexibility required for bulk applications such as current-carrying wires. 

 Mechanical deformation is widely used in the metal and ceramic arts to induce alignment by a purely mechanical means, for example, the alignment of fibers in a fiber-reinforced metal. In ceramic and ceramic composite materials, deformation processing is used to rotate, and thereby align, grains and particles having high aspect ratios. Grain rotation by mechanical means in brittle materials, such as oxide superconductors, is challenging because of the tendency for the oxide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. A strongly-linked polycrystalline oxide superconductor article, comprising: an oxide superconductor selected from the group consisting of 124- type and 247-type oxide superconductors having fine, highly aligned oxide superconductor grains, such that the oxide superconductor article has at least a 25% retention of critical current density in a 0.1 Tesla field at 4.2K.
2. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 wherein the oxide superconductor comprises 

3. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 wherein the oxide
superconductor comprises 

4. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 further comprising a noble metal selected from the group consisting of silver, gold and their alloys.
5. The oxide superconductor article of claim 4 wherein the noble metal is in intimate contact with the oxide superconductor.
6. The oxide superconductor article of claim 4 wherein the noble metal s~. contactingly surrounds the oxide superconductor.
7. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 wherein the oxide superconductor article is a wire. 


 8. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 wherein the oxide superconductor article is a ribbon or tape.
9. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 wherein the oxide superconductor article is a sheet.
10. A strongly-linked polyctystalline oxide superconductor composite article, comprising: at least one oxide superconductor filament contained by a noble metal, the oxide superconductor selected from the group consisting of 124-type and 247-type oxide superconductors having fine, highly aligned oxide superconductor grains, such that the article has at least a 25 % retention of critical current density in a 0.1 Tesla field.
11. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 or 10 wherein said superconductor grains are less than 1000 μm along a longest dimension.
12. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 or 10 wherein said superconductor grains are less than 500 μm along a longest dimension.
13. The oxide superconductor article of claim 1 or 10 wherein said superconductor grains are less than 100 μm along a longest dimension. 


 14. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the noble metal is selected from the group consisting of silver, gold and their alloys.
15. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the oxide superconductor comprises YBa
2
Cu O
8
.
16. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the oxide superconductor comprises [Y(Ca)]
1
Ba
2
Cu
4
O
g
.
17. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the oxide superconductor filament further comprises an intimate mixture with a noble metal, the noble metal selected from the group consisting of silver, gold and their alloys.
18. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the article comprises a plurality of oxide superconductor filaments.
19. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 or 18 wherein the oxide superconductor filament has a lateral cross-section of less than 25 μm
2
.
20. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 18 wherein the article comprises a number of oxide superconductor filament in the range of 100 to 200,000. 


 21. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the article is a wire.
22. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the
article is a tape or ribbon.
23. The oxide superconductor composite article of claim 10 wherein the
article is a sheet.
24. A method for preparing a strongly-linked oxide superconductor
article, comprising the steps of:
(a) producing a metallic precursor of an oxide superconductor in a desired shape;
(b) oxidizing the finely divided metallic precursor at a temperature sufficient to produce a finely divided sub-oxide species and insufficient to convert an appreciable amount of the sub-oxide species into the oxide superconductor;
(c) annealing and deforming the article, in either order, the annealing carried out at a temperature and for a time sufficient to convert some of the sub-oxide species of the article into fine grains of the oxide superconductor such that a mixture of sub-oxide species is formed and oxide superconductor and the deformation carried out such that the fine grains of oxide superconductor are rotated into alignment parallel to an intended current carrying direction of the 


article without substantial fracture or pulverization of the oxide superconductor grains;
(d) alternating annealing and deformation of the article until no further improvement in alignment is observed; and (e) subjecting the aligned grains to a final anneal in order to react any remaining sub-oxide species and maximize the growth and sintering of existing aligned grains.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the metals of the metallic precursor is finely divided.
26. The method of claim 24 wherein one of the constituent metals of the metallic precursor is a solid continuous phase and the remainder of the constituent metals of the metallic precursor is finely divided.
27. The method of claim 24 wherein the desired shape is a wire and the wire is formed by introducing the finely divided metallic precursor into a noble metal sheath and extruding.
28. The method of claim 24 wherein a multifilamentary wire is formed by grouping together a plurality of extruded wires and further co-extruding the
grouped wired. 


 29. The method of claim 24 wherein the desired shape is a tape and the tape is formed by introducing the finely divided metallic precursor into a sheath and rolling.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein a multi-laminar tape is formed by stacking a plurality of tapes and subjecting the stacked tapes to the deformation and annealing of step (c).
31. The method of claim 24 wherein the finely divided metallic precursor further includes a finely divided noble metal.
32. The method of claim 24 or 31 wherein the finely divided metallic precursor is obtained from mechanical alloying.
33. The method of claim 24 wherein the temperature of step (b) is in the range of 300-500°C.
34. The method of claim 24 wherein the annealing temperature of step (c) is in the range of 550-960°C.
35. The method of claim 24 wherein the deformation of step (c) includes an operation selected from the group containing pressing, rolling, drawing, extruding, swaging and applying a Turk's head. 


 36. The method of claim 24 wherein the desired oxide superconductor is selected from the group consisting of 123-type, 124-type and 247-type oxide superconductors.
37. The method of claim 24 wherein the number of deformation steps in step (f) is in the range of 2 to 10.
38. The method of claim 24 wherein the deformation step includes applying a strain in the range of 5 % to 75 % thickness reduction.
39. A method for preparing a strongly-linked 124-type oxide superconductor wire, comprising the steps of:
(a) introducing a finely divided metallic precursor of a 124-type oxide superconductor into a silver sheath; (b) extruding the sheathed finely divided metallic precursor into a wire;
(c) oxidizing the wire at a temperature in the range of 300- 500°C;
(d) annealing and deforming the wire, in either order, the annealing carried out at a temperature in the range of 550-800°C and for a time sufficient to convert some of the sub-oxide species of the article into fine grains of 124-type oxide superconductor such that a mixture of sub-oxide species is formed and 124-type oxide superconductor and the deformation carried out such that the fine grains of oxide superconductor are rotated into alignment parallel to an 


intended current carrying direction of the wire without substantial fracture or pulverization of the oxide superconductor grains;
(e) alternating annealing and deformation of the wire until no further improvement in alignment is observed; and (f) subjecting the aligned grains to a final anneal in order to react any remaining sub-oxide species and maximize the growth and sintering of existing aligned grains. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
