<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1040859</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pleated filter media with strip spacers and method of making
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2901	B01D2901	B01D2911	B01D2911	B01D4600	B01D4600	B01D4610	B01D4610	B01D4652	B01D4652	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D29	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pleat filter arrangement and method of making the same wherein longitudinally
extending sheets of filter media are pleated to include pliable strips adhesively extending

between at least one face of the opposed pleat faces to separate the opposed pleat faces so as to
allow fluid flow therethrough, the pleated filter media being cut to size as pleated filter medium

units and framed.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AAF INTERNAT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AAF INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOI KYUNG-JU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOI, KYUNG-JU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a filter medium
arrangement and method of making the same and more
particularly, to a pleated filter medium which utilizes
pliable adhesive spacer strips between opposed pleat faces
to allow fluid flow therethrough, arresting particulate
matter in a fluid stream as it passes through the pleated
filter medium.Pleated filter medium utilizing spacer arrangements
between pleats of the medium for treating particulate
bearing fluid streams to be passed therethrough are
generally well known in the filter art. A number of issued
patents which disclose pleat spacers formed from the filter
medium, some of which spacers are of tapered contour, are
noted herein. In this regard, attention is directed to U.S.
Patents No. 4,268,290, issued to R.B. Barrington on May 19,
1981, No. 5,028, 331, issued to H. Lippold on July 2, 1991
(subsequent similar patents by this inventor not being
listed herein); No. 5,064,598, issued to H. Seiler on Nov.
12, 1991; and, No. 5,066,40, issued to G.J. Rocklitz, et
al. On November 19, 1991. Attention is further directed to
a number of issued U.S. Patents, which disclose the use of
external spacers between the filter medium, some of which
spacers are also of tapered contour, such as U.S. Patents
No. 4,177,050, issued to R.M. Culbert et.al. On December 4,
1979, No. 4,537,812, issued to R.W. Elbers on August 27,
1985 and to No. 5,744,036, issued to K-J. Choi on April 28,
1998-this patent teaching fluid flow through thermo-bondable
screening. For the most part, the structures
disclosed in the aforenoted patents have been comparatively
complex and expensive in manufacture, and assembly,
requiring numerous parts and assembly steps and adding
comparatively high fluid resistance to the treated fluid
stream. The present invention provides a pleated filter medium arrangement, which is
economical and straightforward in manufacture and assembly, requiring a minimum of parts and
a minimum of method steps and, at the same time, providing a pleated filter medium which is
comparatively stable and readily producible in various shapes and configurations to present an
optimum amount of filter medium face to a fluid stream to be treated with a minimum amount of
resistance.Various other features of the present invention will become obvious to one skilled in the
art upon reading the disclosure herein.More particularly, the present invention provides a pleated filter medium arrangement for
removing particulate matter from a fluid steam comprising: at least one sheet of porous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pleated filter medium arrangement for removing particulate matter from a fluid
stream comprising: at least one sheet of porous filter medium having opposed sheet faces, said

filter medium sheet being pleated into a plurality of longitudinally extending spaced pleats of
porous filter medium with adjacent pleats having opposed upstream and downstream pleat faces;

at least one elongated pliable adhesive spacer strip extending in longitudinal nesting relation
with and adhesively engaging between said opposed pleat faces along at least one of the opposed

faces of said porous filter medium sheet to separate said opposed pleat faces to permit fluid flow
of said fluid stream therethrough.
The pleated filter arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive spacer strip being
a bondable synthetic material.
The pleated filter media arrangement of Claim 1, both sheet faces of said porous
filter medium sheet having at least one pliable adhesive strip extending in nesting relation with

and engaging between said opposed pleat faces along both of said opposed faces of said porous
filter medium sheet.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said pliable adhesive
strip extends continuously between substantially all of said longitudinally extending spaced

pleats of said filter medium sheet.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said pliable adhesive
strip comprises: separate individual strip segments with at least one strip segment between each

of said opposed pleat faces of said adjacent pleats.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive strip
being bonded to at least one pleat face of adjacent pleat faces of said filter medium.
The pleated filter arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive strip being
bonded to both opposed faces of adjacent pleat faces of said filter medium.
The pleated filter arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive strip having a
substantially similar circular cross-section throughout.
The pleated filter arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive strip having a
substantially similar cross-section throughout of preselected geometric configuration.
The pleated filter arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive elongated strip
having a cross-sectional area, which varies in cross-sectional area from one extremity thereof to

the other to provide a tapered strip spacer segment.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, wherein a row of at least two
spaced pliable adhesive strip segments extend in nesting relation with and engage between said

opposed pleat faces along at least one of the opposed faces of said filter medium sheet.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said arrangement is
of flame retardant added materials.
The pleated filter media arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said pliable adhesive
strip includes a preselected amount by weight of calcium carbonate.
The pleated filter media arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said pliable adhesive
strip includes a preselected amount by weight of clay.
The pleated filter media arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said pliable adhesive
strip includes a preselected amount by weight of phosphate derivatives.
The pleated filter media arrangement of Claim 1, wherein said pliable adhesive
strip includes a preselected amount by weight of halogenate derivatives.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said porous filter medium
being composed of glass fiber.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said porous medium being of
synthetic material.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said porous medium being a
combination of glass fiber and synthetic material.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said porous medium being of
natural fiber material.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive strip
being of polymeric material.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, said pliable adhesive strip
being a polyvinyl acetate and polyolefin blend.
The pleated filter medium arrangement of Claim 1, and a flow-through support
frame for said arrangement.
A pleated filter medium arrangement for removing particulate matter from a fluid
stream comprising: a sheet of porous filter medium having opposed sheet faces, said filter

medium sheet being pleated into a plurality of longitudinally extending spacer pleats of porous
filter medium with adjacent pleats presenting opposed upstream and downstream pleat faces

providing upstream and downstream crests and valleys; at least two spaced row sets of spaced
parallel adhesively bondable pleat strip spacer strip segments, the major preselected portion by

weight of which segments are formed of polymeric material and a minor preselected portion by
weight of which are formed of flame retardant qualities with one spaced parallel row set of strip

segments extending from upstream crests along upstream valleys of said pleats substantially
normal to the longitudinal lines defined by said upstream crests and valleys and bonded to at

least one upstream face of said pleats and with the other spaced, parallel row set of strip
segments extending from downstream crests to downstream valleys of said pleats substantially

normal to the longitudinal lines defined by said downstream crests and valleys and bonded to at
least one downstream face of said pleats, said sets of bondable spacer strip segments being of

preselected geometric cross-section, decreasing in cross-sectional area from crest to valley, to
provide tapered spacers strips; and a peripheral frame member for said pleated, bonded sheet of

filter medium.
A method of making pleat supported pleated filter units comprising: feeding a
longitudinally extending continuous sheet of filter media having opposed faces from a filter

media supply zone to a first spacer applicator zone; applying at preselected time periods

adhesively pliable spacer material in the form of preselectively spaced adhesive spacer strips to
extend longitudinally in spaced rows of spaced spacers across at least one of said faces of said

longitudinally extending sheet of filter media between said longitudinal edges thereof, said sheet
moving at timed speeds in said first spacer applicator zone; folding said continuous sheet of

filter media preselectively after said spacer strips have been applied thereto in a filter medium
folding zone to fold said filter media into a continuous sheet of spaced pleats with said spacer

strips nesting between said pleats; and, passing said continuous sheet of pleated filter media to a
severing zone to cut said media at preselected intervals to provide spaced pleat supported pleated

filter medium units of preselected length.
The method of Claim 24, wherein said spacer strips are substantially segmentally
applied in said spacer applicator zone.
The method of Claim 24, wherein said spacer strips are transversely between
spaced longitudinal edges of said sheet with an inertial and die swell effect and in controlled

quantities to provide varying amounts of material to form tapering spacer segments extending
between said longitudinal edges of said filter media.
The method of Claim 24, wherein a pair of spaced spacer strips are applied in a
row to at least one face of each pleat.
The method of Claim 24, and passing said filter medium units to a framing zone
to provide a peripheral frame member for each of said filter units.
The method of Claim 24, wherein said sheet of filter media is manipulated to
present an opposed filter media face in a second applicator zone and applying adhesively

bondable spacer material in the form of preselectively applied adhesive spacer strips extending
in spaced relation transversely between longitudinal edges across said opposed faces of said

longitudinally extending sheet of filter media.
The method of Claim 28, wherein said spaced strips in a row on one face of said
filter media sheet are in staggered, offset relationship to said row of strips on said opposite face

of said filter media sheet to provide spacer strip segments on both sheet faces.
The method of Claim 30, wherein said spacer strips on opposed faces are
connected to provide continuous spacer strips.
A method of making pleat supported pleated filter units comprising: selectively
feeding a longitudinally extending continuous sheet of porous filter media having opposed faces

from a filter media supply zone to a first spacer applicator zone; applying to one face of said
filter media adhesively pliable fluid bondable plastic spacer material in the form of

preselectively spaced elongated tapered pleat spacer segments, each tapered spacer segment
being applied in inertial and die swell effect by one of a row of spaced first dispensers, with

movement of said dispenser coordinated with movement of said filter media sheet so that
controlled amounts of plastic material for said spacer segment is varyingly applied along the

elongated segment so as to provide a tapered spacer segment; passing said filter media sheet over
a turning roller to manipulatively present the opposite face of said filter media sheet; applying to

said opposite face of said filter media sheet adhesively pliable fluid bondable material as spaced,
tapered pleat spacer segments from a row of second spaced dispensers in the same manner as

applied to the opposite face of said sheet of filter media with the strip segments on said one face
of said filter media being intermediately offset from the strip segments on said opposed face of

said filter media; passing said filter media sheet with said spaced taper strips on opposed faces
thereon to a folding zone to fold said sheet into a continuous sheet of spaced pleats with said

spacer segments nesting in the pleats on opposed pleated face of said filter media; passing said
pleated sheet with said spacer tasting segments to a severing zone to cut said media at

preselected intervals providing pleated filter medium units of preselected length, breadth and
depth, and, framing said severed units to provide a peripheral frame member for each of said

filter units.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
