<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1374019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BROWSER SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING IT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F116	G06F116	G06T1740	G06T1740	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06T17	G06T17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A browser system (1) is described that can display spatially arranged information on a browser (1) movable by a user, for example a handheld browser such as a PDA or a mobile telephony unit. The browser determines its position and orientation and calculates the view of the virtual world based on the position and orientation of the browser together with the inferred eye position of the user. The relevant view is projected onto the screen of the browser. Subsequent movement of the browser provides scroll and zoom control of the spatially arranged information displayed.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATHENGINE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATHENGINE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANGRAVE LAWRENCE CHRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSBORN WILLIAM ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONGE RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALLEN LINCOLN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANGRAVE, LAWRENCE, CHRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSBORN, WILLIAM, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONGE, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALLEN, LINCOLN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: BROWSER SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING ITDESCRIPTIONThe invention relates to a browser system for displaying spatially arranged information, and in particular to a hand held browser system. The invention also relates to a method of using the browser system.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION A wide variety of systems suitable for displaying information from a computer system are known. The most widely available are the conventional cathode ray tube displays of a conventional computer monitor. Smaller computer systems such as laptops and palmtops generally use liquid crystal displays and a number of other forms of display are known.A particular form of display is a head-up display which is used in virtual reality systems. The intention of 

a virtual reality system is to immerse the wearer of the system in a virtual world created in the computer. The head-up display therefore includes a display in the form of goggles or a helmet fixed on the head of a user and displaying an image of a virtual world. The virtual world is a virtual 3 -dimensional space with a number of objects within it which can be seen, viewed and frequently also manipulated by the virtual reality user.A development of virtual reality is so called augmented reality. Augmented reality combines an experience of reality with additional computer generated virtual reality. Applications may include tele-medicine, architecture, entertainment, repair and construction. Augmented reality differs from virtual reality; the former adds information to the real world whereas the latter is the simulation of a real or imagined environment which can be experienced visually in 3 -dimensions and can provide an interactive experience.Existing augmented reality systems almost all employ either static displays on traditional computer monitors or projectors or alternatively head mounted virtual-reality type displays. In general, a camera is used together with complex image analysis software which matches the image captured on the camera from the real world with information contained in the virtual world. In general, this requires determining the position of one or more real reference objects in the real world in the field of view of the camera. Knowledge of the position of these reference 

objects with respect to the camera is then used to generate the virtual world.There is a development of such augmented reality systems due to Sony, known as the Navi-Cam system, which reads bar-code information from the real world and displays information relating to the bar
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of displaying to a user portions of a virtual information space having information arranged spatially in a virtual co-ordinate system, the method comprising providing a browser apparatus having a display and a position detector for determining the position of the browser apparatus, the browser apparatus being movable by the user to different real space positions including different positions relative to a real or implied position of a user ' s eye, determining information characterising at least one of the position and orientation of the browser apparatus in real space, projecting the virtual information space onto the display using at least one of the inferred eye position, the browser position and orientation and a relationship between the real and virtual co-ordinate systems, and displaying on the display of the browser the calculated portion of the virtual information space.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the virtual information space includes a plurality of 2-dimentional images arranged in a 3 -dimensional space.
3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the 2- dimensional images are web pages.
4. A method according to claim 2 wherein the browser apparatus is moved to change the displayed resolution of the 2 -dimensional image. 

5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the virtual information space is a virtual 3 -dimensional world including at least one 3 -dimensional object.
6. A method according to claim 5 further comprising the steps of selecting at least one object, and updating the position of the selected at least one object by determining the position of the browser apparatus and keeping the position of the selected at least one object in a predetermined functional relationship to the position of the browser apparatus so that the object can be moved in the virtual world by moving the browser apparatus .
7. A method according to claim 6 further including the step of deselecting the object to cease updating the position of the object based on the movement of the browser apparatus .
8. A method according to claim 1 in which the eye position is inferred to be at a fixed distance in front of the centre of the screen along an axis perpendicular to the screen.
9. A method according to claim 1 in which the eye position is inferred to be fixed.
10. A method according to claim 1 including the step of switching between a first mode in which the eye position is inferred to be at a fixed distance in front of the centre of the screen along an axis perpendicular to the screen, and 


 a second mode in which the eye position is inferred to be at a fixed position.
11. A method according to claim 1 including the step of measuring the eye position. 5 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the browser apparatus includes a camera and the step of measuring the eye position includes recording an image of the user's head on the camera, identifying the user's eyes in the image, and 10 calculating the user's eye position.
13. A method according to claim 1 wherein the browser apparatus includes an accelerometer, and the step of determining the position of the browser apparatus uses, at least in part, dead reckoning based on the output of the 15 accelerometer over time.
14. A method according to claim 5 wherein the objects relate to real world objects, the virtual information system providing additional information about the real world objects. 20 15. A method according to claim 5 wherein the virtual world is independent of the real world.
16. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of controlling at least one navigation parameter by the 25 position and/or orientation of the browser apparatus in space, and navigating through the virtual world by updating the position of the browser apparatus in the virtual world 


 depending on the value of the said at least one navigation parameter.
17. A method according to claim 16 wherein the step of navigating through the virtual world updates the position
5 of the browser apparatus by reading the velocity of the browser apparatus in the virtual world, updating the velocity depending on the value of the said at least one navigation parameter, 10 updating the position of the browser apparatus using the updated velocity, and storing the updated velocity of the browser apparatus .
18. A method according to claim 5 further comprising the 15 step of adding content to the virtual world under the control- of the browser apparatus.
19. A method according to claim 1 including the step of obtaining information about at least part of the virtual information space from a remote server.
20 20. A method of displaying to a user portions of a virtual information space having objects arranged spatially in a virtual co-ordinate system, using a browser apparatus movable by the user to different positions in real space, the browser apparatus having a display and a
25 position detector for determining the position of the browser apparatus, the method comprising displaying an image of the virtual world including at least one object on the browser apparatus, 


 selecting an object in the virtual world, and moving the browser apparatus to move or change the selected object in the virtual world.
21. A browser apparatus for displaying to a user portions 5 of a virtual information space having information arranged spatially in a virtual co-ordinate system, comprising a display, a memory, a position detector for determining the position of 10 the browser apparatus, code stored in the memory for determining the position of the browser apparatus in real space, code stored in the memory for determining the relationship between an inferred eye position in real 15 space, the browser apparatus position in real space and the virtual co-ordinate system, code stored in the memory for projecting virtual information space onto the display using the inferred eye position and the browser position, and 20 code for displaying on the display of the browser the calculated portion of the virtual information space, wherein the browser apparatus is movable by the user to different positions in real space and different positions relative to the eye. 25 22. A browser apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising a transmitter and a receiver for remotely connecting the browser apparatus to a network. 

23. A browser apparatus according to claim 22 further comprising a decompression unit for decompressing compressed data received from the network by the receiver.
24. A browser apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising a rendering engine for rendering image data.
25. A network system, comprising a browser apparatus movable by a user to different positions in real space and different positions relative to the user's eye, the browser apparatus having a display, a memory, a position detector for determining the position of the browser apparatus, a transmitter and receiver for networking the browser apparatus, code stored in the memory for determining the position of the browser apparatus in real space, code stored in the memory for determining the relationship between an inferred eye position in real space, the browser apparatus position in real space and the virtual co-ordinate system, code stored in the memory for projecting virtual information space onto the display using the inferred eye position and the browser position, and code for displaying on the display of the browser the calculated portion of the virtual information space; the network system further comprising a server network having a store containing data about 


the virtual world, and a transmitter and receiver for transmitting information between the browser apparatus and the server.
26. A network system according to claim 25, wherein the server network further comprises a filter in the server for selecting information relating to part of the virtual world and transmitting it to the browser.
27. A method of displaying on a browser apparatus movable by a user, portions of a virtual information space having information arranged spatially in a virtual co-ordinate system, the method comprising, determining the position and orientation of the browser apparatus, inferring the position of the user's eye, and displaying on the display a projected view, from the inferred position of the user's eye, of the spatially arranged information in the virtual information space. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
