<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1208299</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRESSURE REGULATION METHOD FOR A FUEL INJECTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B1300	F02B1304	F02B2310	F02B2310	F02B4300	F02B4300	F02D4100	F02D4100	F02D4102	F02D4102	F02D4106	F02D4106	F02D4122	F02D4122	F02F124	F02F124	F02M6700	F02M6702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02F	F02F	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B13	F02B13	F02B23	F02B23	F02B43	F02B43	F02D41	F02D41	F02D41	F02D41	F02D41	F02D41	F02D41	F02D41	F02F1	F02F1	F02M67	F02M67	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a method of controlling the gas pressure in a dual fluid injection system wherein the gas is used to deliver a metered quantity of fuel to a combustion chamber (60) of an internal combustion engine (20). On detection of an abnormal fuel supply condition, gas pressure in the fuel injection system is regulated to a level less than the fuel pressure deliverable by a fuel supply system of the engine (20) under the abnormal fuel supply condition. In this way, fuel may be delivered as required to the dual fluid fuel injection system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORBITAL ENG PTY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORBITAL ENGINE COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARCHER MARK DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRAHM JEFFRY ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARCHER, MARK, DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRAHM, JEFFRY, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRESSURE REGULATION METHOD FOR A FUEL INJECTION SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is generally directed to dual fluid fuel injection systems for internal combustion engines, and in particular to a method of regulating the air pressure required in such dual fluid fuel injection systems. The present invention is applicable for both two and four stroke engines and may be adapted for use on both single and multi-cylinder engines. BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTIONDual fluid fuel injection systems typically utilise compressed gas during each injection event to entrain and atomise a metered quantity of fuel for delivery into the combustion chambers of an internal combustion engine. The Applicant has developed such fuel injection systems and one version thereof is described in the Applicant's U.S. Patent No. RE36768, the details of which are incorporated herein by reference. Generally, a source of compressed gas, for example an air compressor, is required for these fuel injection systems to operate satisfactorily. The term "air" is used herein to refer not only to atmospheric air, but also to other gases including air and exhaust gas or fuel vapour mixtures. In operation, such dual fluid fuel injection systems typically rely on the existence of a differential pressure between the fuel which is metered for subsequent delivery and the compressed gas, typically air, which is used to deliver the fuel to the engine. In this regard, it is normal that the fuel pressure is slightly higher than the air pressure such that the fuel may be metered into a volume of compressed gas in a manner akin to that described in U.S. Patent No. RE36768 above. Without the existence of such a pressure differential, fuel would not be able to be metered for subsequent delivery.A typical dual fluid fuel direct injection system is capable of operating in both a homogenous charge mode and a stratified charge mode. A homogenous charge mode has a substantially homogenous distribution of fuel throughout the combustion chamber at ignition whereas a stratified charge mode has a substantially stratified distribution of fuel throughout the combustion chamber at ignition.To ensure effective operation under a wide range of operating conditions, both the fuel supply system and the air supply system of the dual fluid fuel 

injection system may be provided with excess capacity and appropriate regulation devices. This excess capacity and regulation devices ensure that the fuel supply system normally operates at a predetermined optimum pressure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. A method of controlling gas pressure in a dual fluid fuel injection system wherein the gas is used to deliver a metered quantity of fuel to a combustion chamber of an internal combustion engine including, where an abnormal fuel supply condition is detected: regulating the gas pressure in the fuel injection system to a level less than the fuel pressure deliverable by a fuel supply system of the engine under the abnormal fuel supply condition such that fuel is delivered as required to the dual fluid fuel injection system.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein gas pressure in the dual fluid fuel injection system is regulated to a level less than expected gas pressure in the dual fluid fuel injection system when the engine is operating under normal running conditions.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said method is implemented at start-up of the engine.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein said method is implemented at start-up of the engine under cold ambient conditions.
5. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein a delivery injector of the dual fluid fuel injection system is operated at timing to maintain the gas pressure within the gas supply system at a desired level below the deliverable fuel pressure of the fuel supply system.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the gas pressure in said gas supply system is controlled as a function of at least one of the duration of opening of said delivery injector, timing of opening of said delivery injector timing of opening of said delivery injector.
7. The method of claim 5 or 6 wherein actuation of said delivery injector is controlled to establish a desired pressure differential between fuel and gas. 

8. The method of any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein actuation of said delivery injector occurs between normal fuel delivery events thereof.
9. The method of any one of claims 5 to 8 wherein actuation of said delivery injector overlaps with a normal fuel delivery event.
10. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein said engine is a four stroke engine and said delivery injector is actuated to reduce gas pressure during a portion of at least one of a latter portion of an intake stroke, an early portion of a compression stroke and an exhaust stroke.
11. The method of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein said engine is a two stroke engine and said delivery injector is actuated to control gas pressure in said gas supply system during a portion of at least one of a latter portion of an exhaust/intake stroke and an initial portion of a compression stroke.
12. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein gas pressure level is determined by an engine control means as a function of actual or predicted engine battery voltage.
13. The method of any one of claims 5 to 12 wherein start of opening of said delivery injector and open duration is determined by an engine control means as a function of at least one engine operating condition.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said control means programs a cycle of open events for said delivery injector, determining the start of opening and open duration for each one.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein said cycle is terminated when desired gas pressure in the gas supply system is reached.
16. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 including at start-up of the engine: 


 (a) determining battery operating voltage by a sensor or as a function of ambient temperature;
(b) determining deliverable fuel pressure of said fuel supply system as a function of battery operating voltage; and
(c) controlling the gas pressure in the gas supply system to a level less than said deliverable fuel pressure.
17. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the gas supply system is pressurised by a pump-up sequence including actuation of at least one delivery injector in at least one pump-up event when cylinder pressure is greater than gas supply pressure, the gas supply pressure being regulated so as not to exceed the fuel pressure during gas supply system pressurisation.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein a predetermined differential between fuel and gas supply pressure is maintained during gas supply system pressurisation by a pump-up sequence.
19. The method of claim 17 or claim 18 wherein the timing and duration of opening of said delivery injector is controlled such that the gas supply system pressure does not exceed the deliverable fuel pressure during gas supply system pressurisation by a pump-up sequence.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein delivery injector opening for pressurising the gas supply system is enabled less frequently than once per cylinder cycle.
21. The method of any one of the preceding claims including controlling the rate of increase of gas pressure as a function of sensed battery voltage.
22. The method of any one of claims 17 to 21 wherein a pump-up sequence is not invoked or is interrupted when said abnormal fuel supply condition prevails. 

23. The method of any one of claims 17 to 22 wherein said pump-up sequence is delayed when said abnormal fuel supply condition prevails.
24. The method of any one of claims 17 to 23 wherein a delivery injector is opened to reduce gas supply pressure during a pump up sequence.
25. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein said gas supply system is provided with a relief valve which is operated to control gas supply system pressure.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein timing and duration of relief valve opening is controlled to control the pressure in said gas supply system.
27. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the pressure of said gas supply system is reduced prior to shutdown.
28. The method of any one of the preceding claims including adaptive control to implement said method for a specific fuel pump of said engine.
29. An engine operated in accordance with the method of any one of the preceding claims.
30. The engine of claim 29 being a four-stroke engine having at least one cylinder.
31. The engine of claim 30 being a two-stroke engine having at least one cylinder.
32. An electronic control unit for the engine of any one of claims 29 to 31 being programmed to control said method of controlling gas pressure. 

33. A method of operating an internal combustion engine upon starting of the engine, the engine having dual fluid fuel injection system which includes a gas supply system adapted to supply pressurised gas to said fuel injection system and a fuel supply system adapted to supply pressurised fuel to said fuel injection system, said method comprising the steps of determining the fuel supply pressure during at least start-up of the engine and regulating said gas supply pressure to be less than said fuel supply pressure.
34. A method according to claim 33 wherein the pressure of said pressurised fuel is determined by use of a pressure sensor in said fuel supply system.
35. A method according to any one of claim 33 or 34 wherein said fuel pressure is measured relative to the pressure of said pressurised gas.
36. The method according to claim 33 wherein the pressure of said pressurised fuel is estimated from at least one engine operating condition.
37. The method according to claim 36 wherein said at least one engine operating condition comprises ambient temperature, engine temperature, coolant temperature, battery voltage, or battery current at cranking.
38. The method according to any one of claim 36 or 37 wherein the pressure of said pressurised fuel is estimated from an electronic look up map stored in an electronic control unit of said engine, said look up map having been derived from characteristics of at least one of said engine, said fuel injection system, said fuel supply system or said gas supply system.
39. The method according to any one of claims 33 to 38 wherein a delivery injector of said dual fluid fuel injection system is operated with a timing to maintain the gas pressure within the gas supply system at a desired level below the fuel pressure of the fuel supply system. 

40. The method according to claim 39 wherein the gas pressure in said gas supply system is controlled as a function of at least one of the duration of opening of the delivery injector, the timing of opening of the delivery injector or the timing of closing of the delivery injector.
41. The method according to claim 39 or 40 wherein actuation of said delivery injector is controlled to establish a desired pressure differential between the pressure of fuel in the fuel supply system and the pressure of gas in the gas supply system.
42. The method according to any one of claims 39 to 41 wherein said engine is a two stroke engine and said delivery injector is actuated to control the pressure of gas in said gas supply system during a portion of at least one of a latter portion of an exhaust stroke, a latter portion of an intake stroke, or an initial portion of an intake stroke.
43. The method according to any one of claims 33 to 41 wherein said engine is a four stroke engine and said delivery injector is actuated to reduce gas pressure during a portion of at least one of a latter portion of an intake stroke, an early portion of a compression stroke or an exhaust stroke.
44. The method according to any one of claims 33 to 43 wherein the gas supply system is pressurised by a pump-up sequence including actuation of a delivery injector in a number of pump-up events when cylinder pressure is greater than gas supply pressure, the gas pressure in the gas supply system being regulated so as not to exceed the pressure of fuel in the fuel supply system.
45. The method according to claim 44 wherein the gas pressure of said gas supply system is controlled so as not to exceed a predetermined differential pressure relative to the fuel pressure of said fuel supply system. 

46. The method according to any one of claim 44 or 45 wherein said pump-up event comprises actuating at least one delivery injector so as to transfer gas from a cylinder into said gas supply system.
47. An electronic control unit for controlling the operation of an internal combustion engine having a dural fluid fuel injection adapted to supply fuel entrained in gas into a combustion chamber of said engine, said electronic control unit adapted to operate according to the following: determining that an abnormal fuel supply condition exists; regulating the gas pressure in the fuel injection system to a level less than the fuel pressure in the fuel injection system under said abnormal fuel supply condition such that fuel is delivered as required to said fuel injection system.
48. An electronic control unit as claimed in claim 47 wherein said dual fluid fuel injection system comprises a gas supply system, a fuel supply system and at least one delivery injector, said gas supply system communicating gas under a pressure to said delivery injector and said fuel supply system communicating fuel under pressure to said delivery injector and wherein actuation of said delivery injector delivers said fuel communicated to said delivery injector entrained in said gas communicated to said delivery injector.
49. An electronic control unit as claimed in any one of claim 47 or 48 wherein said gas pressure is regulated to a level less than expected gas pressure in the fuel injection system when the engine is operating under normal running conditions.
50. An electronic control unit as claimed in any one of claim 47, 48 or 49 further adapted to monitor said engine at start-up to determine that said abnormal fuel supply condition exists.
51. An electronic control unit as claimed in claim 50 wherein said monitoring occurs under cold ambient conditions. 

52. An electronic control unit as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 51 further adapted to operate a delivery injector of said fuel injection system with a timing to maintain the gas pressure within the gas supply system at a desired level below the deliverable fuel pressure of the fuel supply system.
53. An electronic control unit as claimed in claim 52 wherein said delivery injector is actuated to regulate the pressure of the gas in said gas supply system as a function of at least one of the duration of opening of said injector, the timing of opening of said injector, or the timing of closing of said injector.
54. An electronic control unit as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 53 wherein actuation of said of said delivery injector is controlled to establish a desired pressure differential between the fuel pressure and the gas pressure.
55. An electronic control unit as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 54 further adapted to receive input from a pressure sensor measuring said fuel pressure whereby said electronic control unit determines that an abnormal fuel supply condition exists.
56. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 47 to 55 wherein said fuel pressure is measured relative to the pressure of said pressurised gas.
57. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 47 to 54 wherein the pressure of said pressurised fuel is estimated from at least one engine operating condition whereby said electronic control unit determines that an abnormal fuel supply condition exists.
58. An electronic control unit according to claim 57 wherein said at least one engine operating condition comprises ambient temperature, engine temperature, coolant temperature, battery voltage, or battery current at cranking.
59. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 57 or 58 wherein the pressure of said pressurised fuel is estimated from an electronic look up map 


stored in said electronic control unit, said look up map having been derived from characteristics of at least one of said engine, said fuel injection system, said fuel supply system or said gas supply system.
60. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 47 to 59 further adapted to pressurise said gas supply by a pump-up sequence including actuation of at least one delivery injector in at least one pump-up event when cylinder pressure is greater than gas supply pressure.
61. An electronic control unit according to claim 61 further adapted to control pressurisation of said gas supply by a pump-up sequence whereby gas supply pressure is regulated so as not to exceed the fuel pressure of said fuel supply system.
62. An electronic control unit as claimed in claim 60 or 61 further adapted to regulate said gas supply by a sequence of pump-up events during pressurisation of said fuel supply system after start-up of said engine.
63. An electronic control unit as claimed in any one of claims 60 to 62 further adapted to regulate said gas supply by a sequence of pump-up events whereby a predetermined differential between fuel and gas pressure is maintained.
64. An electronic control unit for controlling operating an internal combustion engine upon starting of the engine, the engine having dual fluid fuel injection system which includes a gas supply system adapted to supply pressurised gas to said fuel injection system and a fuel supply system adapted to supply pressurised fuel to said fuel injection system, said electronic control unit adapted to operate so as to determine the fuel supply pressure during at least start-up of the engine and regulating said gas supply pressure to be less than said fuel supply pressure.
65. An electronic control unit according to claim 64 wherein said electronic control unit is adapted to receive pressure signal input whereby said electronic control unit is adapted to determine said fuel supply pressure. 

66. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 64 or 65 wherein said fuel pressure is measured relative to the pressure of said pressurised gas.
67. An electronic control unit according to claim 64 further adapted to determine the pressure of said pressurised fuel from at least one engine operating condition.
68. An electronic control unit according to claim 67 wherein said at least one engine operating condition comprises ambient temperature, engine temperature, coolant temperature, battery voltage, or battery current at cranking.
69. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 67 or 68 wherein the pressure of said pressurised fuel is estimated from an electronic look up map stored in said electronic control unit, said look up map having been derived from characteristics of at least one of said engine, said fuel injection system, said fuel supply system or said gas supply system.
70. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 64 to 69 further adapted to actuate a delivery injector of said dual fluid fuel injection system with a timing to maintain the gas pressure within the gas supply system at a desired level below the fuel pressure of the fuel supply system.
71. An electronic control unit according to claim 70 further adapted to actuate the delivery injector as a function of at least one of the duration of opening of the delivery injector, the timing of opening of the delivery injector or the timing of closing of the delivery injector so as to regulate the pressure of gas in the gas supply system.
72. An electronic control unit according to claim 70 or 71 wherein actuation of said delivery injector is controlled to establish a desired pressure differential between the pressure of fuel in the fuel supply system and the pressure of gas in the gas supply system. 

73. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 64 to 72 wherein said engine is a two stroke engine and said electronic control unit is further adapted to actuate said delivery injector so as to control the pressure of gas in said gas supply system during at least one of a latter portion of an exhaust stroke, a latter portion of an intake stroke, or an initial portion of an intake stroke.
74. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 64 to 72 wherein said engine is a four stroke engine and said electronic control unit is further adapted to actuate said delivery injector so as to reduce gas pressure during at least one of a latter portion of an intake stroke, an early portion of a compression stroke or an exhaust stroke.
75. An electronic control unit according to any one of claims 64 to 74 further adapted to actuate at least one delivery injector whereby the pressure of the gas in the gas supply system is regulated by at least one pump-up event when cylinder pressure is greater than gas supply pressure such that the gas pressure in the gas supply system does not to exceed the pressure of fuel in the fuel supply system.
76. An electronic control unit according to claim 75 further adapted to control the gas pressure of said gas supply system so as not to exceed a predetermined differential pressure relative to the fuel pressure of said fuel supply system.
77. An electronic control unit according to claim 75 or 76 wherein said pump- up event comprises actuating at least one delivery injector so as to transfer gas from a cylinder into said gas supply system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
