<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1374009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION OF A SINGLE DOCUMENT PROVIDING MULTIPLE LEVEL ACCESS PRIVILEGES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1214	G06F1214	G06F2100	G06F2100	G06F2124	H04L908	H04L908	H04L914	H04L916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F12	G06F12	G06F21	G06F21	G06F21	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for selectively encrypting and decrypting different sections of a document provides different access levels in a technique employing different keys. The documents may be encrypted at a document section level ("section" here used according to its general meaning) and uses a different set of encryption keys for each section. A user A with an access level 1 may access only those section encoded with access level 1 plus unencoded sections. An application example of this technique is in hospitals. A patients records may each be segmented into separately-encrypted portions giving access to nurses for only suitable material while giving broader access to doctors. The nurse would be provided with his/her access level private key to gain access to those parts of the document for which nurses have rights. There could also be a level to which only the primary care physician or health care proxy has access.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRASINSKI RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSNER MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRASINSKI, RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSNER, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

Multiple encryption of a single document providing multiple level access privileges
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to document encryption and access restrictions on documents and more particularly to the encryption of each portion of a document such that access rights to respective portions may be obtained with corresponding keys.


BACKGROUND
Various kinds of document access protection are known. In one example, EP 0 848 314 Al for DOCUMENT SECURITY SYSTEM AND METHOD only documents to which the user has rights are generated from a database. Varying security levels are provided. Another system described in US Patent No. 5,052,040 for MULTIPLE USER
STORED DATA CRYPTOGRAPHIC LABELING SYSTEM AND METHOD permits different users to utilize the same files. The system exploits an extension of the file label which contains configuration capabilities and user rights and privileges. The separate user rights and privileges in this case relate to the entire document such as read only, read and write, deletion, etc. The document is encrypted. Another prior art system is described in US
Patent No. 6,011,847 for CRYPTOGRAPHIC ACCESS AND LABELING SYSTEM.
 In this system, encryption and decryption of files uses a relational key generated by the system.


A computer program also generates a series of labels that are encrypted and appended as a trailer to the encrypted message. The encrypted labels provide a history behind the particular encryption and they can be individually selected, separated, and decrypted from the total file.


 An access control module provides access to an encryption portion of the document to users with passphrases by comparing a generated vector or key with a partially decrypted version of a second vector or key stored on a portable storage medium such as a floppy disk. In response, a main key can be generated to encrypt or decrypt the labels. The latter system is mainly concerned with adding descriptive labels to the end of an encrypted document and contains a key exchange method for passing the decryption key between a server and a client.


 Other prior art systems and methods are known, but none contain a very convenient, robust, and straightforward method for encryption-protection of different parts of a document based on access privileges. 


SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
A method and system for selectively encrypting and decrypting different sections of a document provides different access levels in a technique employing different keys. The documents
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS : 1. A method of securely transmitting a first document, comprising the steps   of :    -generating first and second level document keys; -encrypting a first section (130) of said first document with said first level document key and encrypting said first and a second section (135) of said first document with said second level document key; -forming a second document (220) or a portion (520) of said document, said second document or said portion containing said first and second level document keys; -transmitting said first document or said first and second documents as appropriate to the choice in said step of forming.



2. A method as in claim 1, wherein said first and second level document keys are symmetric keys.



3. A method as in claim 1, further comprising receiving at least two public keys from a recipient, said step of forming including encrypting said second document such that a corresponding set of said first and second level document keys is made available by decryption using a first of said at least two public keys and such that a corresponding other set of said first and second level document keys is made available by decryption using said second of said at least two public keys.



4. A method as in claim 3, wherein said step of encrypting including encrypting a first of said at least two public keys in a first portion of said second document or first document portion and encrypting a first and second of said at least two public keys in a second portion of second document or first document portion.



5. A method as in claim 3, wherein said first and second level document keys are symmetric keys. 



6. A method as in claim 1, wherein said step of transmitting includes encrypting said first document or said first and second documents as appropriate to the choice in said step of forming.



7. A method of encrypting a document, comprising the steps of   :    -encrypting a first portion of a document using a first key; -encrypting a second portion of said document using a second key; -encrypting a result of said first and second steps of encrypting using a third key, being a public key of a recipient.




8. A method of encrypting a document as in claim 7, wherein said first key is a first public key of said recipient and said second key is a second public key of said recipient.



9. A method of encrypting a document as in claim 7, wherein said first key is a first symmetric key and said second key is a second symmetric key, and the method includes the step of encrypting said first symmetric key with a public key.



10. A method as in claim 9, wherein said second portion includes a part of said first portion, said part having been encrypted with said first symmetric key.



11. A method of encrypting a document as in claim 9, comprising the step of encrypting said second symmetric key with a second public key.



12. A method of securely providing access to first and second readers of a document, comprising the steps of: -transmitting to a sender of a document, public keys corresponding to readers of said document, said public keys being used to encrypt said document; -receiving encrypted data from said sender; decrypting a portion of said encrypted data using a private key corresponding to one of said public keys; -a result of said first step decrypting being the accessing of a portion of said data corresponding to said one of said public keys; -decrypting a portion of said encrypted data using a private key corresponding to another of said public keys;  -result of said second step decrypting being the accessing of a portion of said data corresponding to said other of said public keys.



13. A method as in claim 12, wherein said first and second steps of decrypting each include decrypting a portion of said data to unlock a respective set of encryption keys.



14. A method as in claim 12, wherein said first and second steps of decrypting further include using said respective set of encryption keys to unlock at least a portion of said encrypted data to provide access to only a portion of said document.



15. A method as in claim 12, wherein said first and second steps of decrypting further include using said respective set of encryption keys to unlock at least a portion of said encrypted data to provide access to said document.



16. A data file (95+220), comprising: an encryption protected document (95,595) containing a key portion (520) and an encrypted document portion (585); -said key portion being at least partly decryptable with a first public key to provide access to a first symmetric key ; -said key portion being at least partly decryptable with a second public key to provide access to a second symmetric key; -a first portion (210) of said encrypted document portion being decryptable with said first symmetric key and a second portion (215) of said encrypted document portion being decryptable with said second symmetric key.



17. A data file containing:   -an    encrypted document (95) and at least two encryption keys; -said encryption keys being encrypted such as to be accessible using at least two public keys and such that a first portion (130) of said encrypted document is accessible by decrypting with a first subset of said encryption keys, said first subset being decryptable using a first of said at least two public keys, and such that a second portion of said encrypted document is accessible by decrypting with a second subset of said encryption keys, said second subset being decryptable using a second of said at least two public keys. 



18. A data set stored on a data storage medium, comprising:   -a    document encrypted in portions using respective keys to encrypt said portions; -a first portion of said document being encrypted with a first of said respective keys ; -a second portion of said document being encrypted with a second of said respective key; -said first and second respective keys being encrypted in a file such as to permit decryption of said first key by a first private key and to permit decryption of said second key by a second private key.



19. A data set stored on a data storage medium, comprising: -document encrypted in portions using respective keys to encrypt said portions; -a first portion of said document being encrypted with first and second of said respective keys; -a second portion of said document being encrypted with said first respective key; -said first and second respective keys being encrypted in a file such as to permit decryption of said first and second keys by a first private key and to permit decryption of said first key by a second private key.



20. A document decrypting program stored on a data storage medium, comprising: -code defining a process capable of selectively decrypting a portion of a data set using a respective key, said portion yielding a respective set of further keys upon decryption; -code defining a further process capable of retrieving from said data set portions of a document corresponding to said respective set of further keys to provide access to only portions of said document corresponding to respective key.



21. A stored program as in claim 20, wherein said respective key is a public key.



22. A stored program as in claim 20, wherein each of said set of further keys is unique to said document. 



23. A stored program as in claim 20, wherein each of said set of further keys is a symmetric key.

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
