<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1116448</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Removable liner and inflatable bladder for snowboard boots and method of manufacture
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B504	A43B1900	A43B1900	A43B504	B29D3500	B29D3500	B29D3514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	B29D	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B5	A43B19	A43B19	A43B5	B29D35	B29D35	B29D35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A removable snowboard boot liner (30) made from Ethyl Vinyl Acetate with an air bladder (10)
attached therein and a method of mass producing such liners. An oily chalk like substance

consisting of 90% sweet starch, 9% lubricant and 1% stearate is included between the two sheets
that make up the bladder. The bladder is attached to the EVA before the EVA is folded, stitched,

heated and molded. This allows the bladder to be attached while the EVA is still flat and allows
the attachment to be performed by machine stitching. The bladder is partially inflated before the

EVA is heated and molded. The oily chalk like substance and the partial inflation of the bladder
allows the installed bladder to pass through the heating and molding steps of the EVA without the

two sheets that make up the bladder melting together. The invention also consists of a design and
installation of the bladder that minimizes the amount of slipping of a wearer's foot and heal within

the boot.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to removable snowboard boot liners and their method of
manufacture. More specifically, the invention relates to unique removable snowboard boot liners
made from Ethyl Vinyl Acetate ("EVA") containing an air bladder and their method of
manufacture.While removable liners present many advantages, one major disadvantage associated with
removable liners is that the foot of an athlete wearing a snowboard boot with a removable liner
has a tendency to slip and move within the boot. This slipping may be caused by the athlete's foot
moving within the liner, by the liner moving within the outer boot, or by a combination of these 
two phenomena. The most common result of this slipping is that the heal of the athlete lifts up
from the bed of the boot. This slipping and lifting makes it more difficult for the athlete to control
the snowboard, results in blisters and increases the likelihood of more serious injuries to the
athlete.This slipping problem has been found in the context of ski boots. Multiple solutions to
this problem in the field of ski boots have been presented including several variations on the theme
of using an air bladder positioned at various locations between the foot of the athlete and the
exterior of the boot. Air bladders also have been used in other types of footwear for various
purposes.This invention is specifically concerned with snowboard boot liners made of EVA having
an inflatable air bladder incorporated therein and the mass production of such liners.Holstine U.S. Pat. No. 5,692,321 discloses an athletic boot such as a snowboard boot
having a bladder system consisting of an upper and lower bladder in communication with each
other disposed between the wearer's foot and the exterior of the boot. The upper and lower
bladder system is a closed system. Thus, the overall inflation level of the bladder system is fixed
and may not be readily adjusted. The system disclosed in Holstine is designed to give increased
support to the ankle of a wearer when downward forces compress the lower bladder causing a
corresponding inflation of the upper bladder. Holstine stresses that the disclosed boot provides
the athlete with increased flexibility and range of motion of the athlete's foot when impact or 
operational forces are removed from the boot. Holstine does not disclose how his boot is to be
produced.Potter, et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5,765,298 discloses an athletic shoe with an inflatable bladder
present in the ankle collar. The bladder has weld lines or other means
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making an inflatable liner for a shoe or boot
from heat bondable material, comprising the steps of:


providing a bladder assembly comprising a first sheet of
material and a second sheet material, wherein the material of

each sheet is heat bondable to the other sheet;
applying heat and pressure to the first and second sheets
to melt selected areas of the first and second sheets together;
inflating the bladder assembly and/or applying a substance
between the first sheet of material and the second sheet of

material prior to applying heat and pressure to the first and
second sheets;
providing a liner assembly comprising a third sheet of
material, said third sheet of material comprising a heat-moldable

material;
securing the third sheet to the bladder assembly;
subsequently heating the liner assembly together with the
bladder assembly to mold the third sheet into a desired shape.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of:

inflating the bladder assembly prior to heating the third
sheet.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of:

applying a powder between the first sheet of material and
second sheet of material prior to applying heat and pressure to

the first and second sheets.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of:

applying oil chalk between the first sheet of material and
second sheet of material prior to applying heat and pressure to

the first and second sheets.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of:

applying a mixture of starch and lubricant between the
first sheet of material and second sheet of material prior to

applying heat and pressure to the first and second sheets.
The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second sheets

   are provided in the form of sheets comprised of thermal
polyurethane.
The method of claim 1 wherein the third sheet is provided
in the form of a sheet comprising ethyl vinyl acetate.
The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second sheets

   are provided in the form of sheets comprised of thermal
polyurethane and the third sheet is provided in the form of a

sheet comprising ethyl vinyl acetate.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of

   cutting the first sheet and the second sheet into a
desired shape of the bladder assembly and cutting the third

sheet into the desired shape of the liner assembly, prior to
the step of heating the third sheet.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of:

providing the first and second sheets in the form of
sheets comprised of thermal polyurethane;
applying a powder between the first sheet of material and
second sheet of material prior to applying heat and pressure to

the first and second sheets, said powder comprising a starch

and a lubricant;
providing the third sheet in the form of a sheet
comprising ethyl vinyl acetate;
inflating the bladder assembly prior to heating the third
sheet; and
cutting the first sheet and the second sheet into a
desired shape of the bladder assembly and cutting the third

sheet into the desired shape of the liner assembly, prior to
the step of heating the third sheet.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of

   placing the liner assembly and bladder assembly on a last
prior to heating the liner assembly. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of

   folding and stitching the liner assembly as desired to
approximate the desired shape of the desired liner assembly.
An inflatable liner assembly for a boot or shoe, said
inflatable liner assembly comprising:


a bladder assembly comprising a first sheet of heat-bondable
material and a second sheet of heat bondable material,

and a layer of powder disposed between the first sheet and the
second sheet;
a liner comprising a heat-moldable material, said liner
being folded an stitched into the approximate shape of the boot

or shoe.
The inflatable liner assembly of claim 13, wherein the
first and second sheet comprise thermal polyurethane.
The inflatable liner assembly of claim 13, wherein the
heat-moldable material of the liner comprises ethyl vinyl

acetate.
The inflatable liner assembly of claim 13, wherein the
first and second sheet comprise thermal polyurethane and the

heat-moldable material of the liner comprises ethyl vinyl
acetate.
The inflatable liner assembly of claim 13 wherein the
powder comprises oil chalk.
The inflatable liner assembly of claim 13 wherein the
powder comprises a starch and a lubricant.
A method of manufacturing snowboard boot liners within
inflatable bladders comprising the steps of:


applying a powdered oil chalk to the surface of a first
sheet of bladder material;
placing a second sheet of bladder material on top of the 
first sheet whereby the powdered oil chalk is between the first

and second sheet;
cutting the shape of the bladder from the two sheets of
bladder material;
creating seams at points where the two sheets of bladder
material are to be attached together;
cutting out the shape of the liner from a sheet of EVA;
attaching the bladder to the EVA at the appropriate
position;
folding and stitching the EVA;
inflating the bladder a small amount;
placing the EVA and first and second sheets on a last;
heating the EVA and first and second sheets and
appropriate amount; and
molding the EVA to a final shape corresponding to the
snowboard boot.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
