<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1175699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT WITH SHALLOW TRENCH ISOLATION AND FABRICATION PROCESS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L213065	H01L2160	H01L2170	H01L2176	H01L21762	H01L21768	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit fabrication system and method of the present invention minimizes the layers required to implement a shallow trench isolation barrier in an integrated circuit. A selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit (200) in which a selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier (250) is adjacent to an intermetal dielectric layer (207). Etching space in the intermetal dielectric layer for a contact plug (291, 292) is performed in a single film layer etch step. The selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier (250) includes selective etch isolation material able to both withstand etching processes directed toward the insulation layer (e.g., to create a space for a contact plug) and facilitate isolation of devices from outside electrical influences. A present invention selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit does not require a shallow trench isolation barrier etch stop layer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS SEMICONDUCTORS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS SEMICONDUCTORS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABRIEL CALVIN TODD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEH EDWARD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABRIEL, CALVIN, TODD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEH, EDWARD, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT WITH SHALLOW TRENCH ISOLATION AND FABRICATION PROCESSA SHALLOW TRENCH INTEGRATED CIRCUIT AND FABRICATIONPROCESSThe present disclosure relates to the field of integrated circuit design and semiconductor chip fabrication. In particular, the present disclosure relates to an efficient and effective system and method for fabricating a self aligned contact in an integrated circuit (IC). More specifically, a selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit chip and fabrication process is disclosed.BACKGROUNDElectronic systems and circuits have made a significant contribution towards the advancement of modern society and are utilized in a number of applications to achieve advantageous results. Electronic technologies such as digital computers, calculators, audio devices, video equipment, and telephone systems have facilitated increased productivity and reduced costs in analyzing and communicating data, ideas and trends in most areas of business, science, education and entertainment. Frequently, electronic systems designed to provide these results include integrated circuits. Traditionally, integrated circuits are manufactured in multistep processes that expend significant time performing sequential steps that consume expensive resources.Integrated circuit manufacturing often includes lithographic processes in which a shallow trench is formed on a wafer made of semiconducting 

material, such as silicon (Si). A layer of a silicon oxide is deposited on the wafer followed by a layer of silicon nitride on top of the silicon oxide. The wafer is then coated with photoresist, exposed to the desired trench isolation pattern and the exposed photoresist is developed away. Silicon nitride in the open areas is plasma etched away and followed by the silicon oxide under the open areas stopping on the silicon semiconducting material. Then the silicon semiconducting material below the openings in the silicon oxide and silicon nitride is plasma etched to form a shallow trench. The trench is then usually filled oxide material. The wafer topography is then flattened in a chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) process leaving the filled trench and the nitride. The remaining nitride is stripped away. Gates and spacers are then formed followed by a first layer of insulation.Traditionally a first layer of insulation is formed by depositing an intermetal layer (or interlayer) of dielectric material. The intermetal dielectric layer usually comprises a nitride layer capped with an oxide layer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit comprising: a transistor adapted to control electrical signal flow; an intermetal dielectric layer overlaying said transistor, said intermetal layer adapted to insulate said transistor from other layers; a contact plug inserted in said intermetal layer, said contact plug adapted to conduct electricity; and a selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier underlying said intermetal dielectric layer, said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier adapted to withstand etching processes directed toward said intermetal layer and facilitate isolation of said transistor from outside electrical influences of other devices.
2. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said selective etch shallow trench, isolation barrier comprises silicon nitride or oxynitride.
3. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said intermetal dielectric layer comprises silicon oxide.
4. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said contact plug is formed by etching a contact hole in said intermetal dielectric layer and stopping on said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier. 

5. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier comprises selective etch isolation material that etches selective to other materials adjacent to said selective etch isolation material.
6. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier comprises material with a relatively high dielectric constant.
7. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier is adapted to isolate electrically floating devices included in said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit.
8. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier has rounded edges.
9. The integrated circuit of Claim 1 wherein said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier has relatively sharp edges.
10. A selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit chip fabrication process comprising the steps of: forming a shallow trench space in a wafer; depositing a selective etch isolation material in a shallow trench space of a device layer to form a selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier; fabricating an intermetal dielectric layer on top of said device layer; etching a contact hole in said intermetal dielectric layer down to said selective etch 


shallow trench isolation barrier; and filling said contact hole with conductive material.
11. A selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier integrated circuit chip fabrication process comprising the steps of: applying layers of oxide and nitride; creating a resistive mask pattern; etching a shallow trench space; depositing a selective etch isolation material in said shallow trench space to form a selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier; fabricating an intermetal dielectric layer; etching a contact hole in said intermetal dielectric layer down to said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier; and filling said contact hole with conductive material.
12. The process of Claim 10 or 11 in which said etching of said contact hole in said intermetal layer down to said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier is a single film layer etch step stopping on selective etch isolation material of said selective etch shallow trench isolation barrier.
13. The process of Claim 12 in which said intermetal dielectric layer comprises oxide and said single film layer etch step is performed by Ar, CF
4
, CHF
3
,CO, and/or C
4
F
8
.
14. The process of Claim 10 or 11 wherein said selective etch isolation 


material etches differently than other material adjacent to said selective etch isolation material.
15. The process of Claim 10 or 11 wherein said selective etch isolation material includes silicon nitride or oxynitride.
16. The process of Claim 10 further comprising the steps of: depositing the selective etch isolation material to fill said shallow trench; and removing excess elective etch isolation material by a chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) process.
17. The process of Claim 10 further comprising the steps of: pre-cleaning a wafer using high purity, low particle chemicals; heating said wafer; exposing said wafer to ultra-pure oxygen in a diffusion furnace under carefully controlled conditions; and forming a silicon dioxide film of uniform thickness on the surface of the wafer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
