<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1031418</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sheet-like object conveying apparatus for sheet-fed rotary printing press
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F2105	B41F2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F21	B41F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a sheet-like object conveying apparatus for a
sheet-fed rotary printing press a cylinder shaft (4) is

rotatably supported between a pair of frames (2) and
rotatably driven during conveyance of a sheet-like

object (6). Gripper pads (10) and grippers (13) grip an end of a
sheet-like object conveyed from an upstream side of a

sheet convey direction. A gripper pad bar (9) and gripper
shaft (11) are supported by the cylinder shaft (4), to support

the gripper pads (10) and grippers (13) in an axial direction of
the cylinder shaft (4). A rod (18) is rotatably supported

parallel to the cylinder shaft (4) and has an eccentric
large-diameter portion (18a). A lever (33), cam follower (34), and

cam (35) rotate the rod (18) through a predetermined angle by rotation
of the cylinder shaft (4). Press members (23) are rotatably

fitted on the large-diameter portion (18a) of the rod (18), to be
displaced in a radial direction along with rotation of

the rod (18). Press levers (25) and braking members (28) convert
displacement of the press members (23), while in surface

contact with them, into a pressure in a direction
perpendicular to the gripper pad bar (9) and gripper shaft (11),

to deflect them in the sheet conveying direction.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOMORI PRINTING MACH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOMORI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IIDA HIROTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IIDA, HIROTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a sheet-like
object convey/conveying apparatus for a sheet-fed rotary printing
press, which grips the end of a sheet-like object fed
from the upstream side of the convey direction and
conveys it to an impression cylinder.Generally, in a sheet convey apparatus of this
type, sheets stacked on a feed unit are attached by the
suction port of a sucker unit one by one, fed onto a
feeder board by rotation of a feed roller, and
conveyed on the feeder board toward a feedboard by a
feed tape or the like. The sheets fed onto the
feedboard are jogged at their leading ends by a register,
and gripped by the grippers of a swing. The gripped
sheet is conveyed to the impression cylinder of a
printing press by the swing motion of the swing
pivotally supported by a swing shaft, and is then
gripped by the grippers of the impression cylinder.In the sheet convey apparatus of this type,
the trailing side of the sheet expands or shrinks in the
right-to-left direction (a direction perpendicular to
the sheet convey direction) by high pressure and a 
water content supplied when the sheet is subjected to
printing. When the sheet expands or shrinks, printing
registration called fan-out registration of the sheet on
the trailing edge for multi-color printing causes
misregistration, leading to defective printing. This
problem is solved in EP-A-0 638 497, see also Japanese Patent Laid-Open
No. 7-52361.The sheet convey apparatus described in this
reference has a rod, a slide member, and a cam plate.
The rod is axially slidable, supported in a swing shaft.
The slide member moves together with the rod and has a
cam follower. The cam plate is fixed to a gripper pad
and has a tapered cam surface. The cam follower comes
into contact with the cam plate. In this arrangement,
when the swing shaft swings, the rod reciprocally moves
in the axial direction accordingly, and the slide member
also reciprocally moves in the axial direction. Then,
the cam follower slides on the cam surface of the cam
plate, and grippers which grip a sheet, and a gripper
shaft supporting the gripper pad are deflected in the
sheet convey direction.In this state, when the sheet is transferred
to the grippers of the cylinder and the gripper pad is
restored to the straight state, the two ends of the
sheet are pulled by the grippers at the two ends so that
the trailing end of the sheet is stretched taut. As a
result, even if the trailing side of the sheet expands 
or shrinks in the right-to-left direction, the trailing
end of the sheet is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sheet-like object convey/conveying apparatus for a sheet-fed rotary
printing press, comprising:


a rotary shaft (4) rotatably supported between a pair of frames (2) and
rotatably driven during conveyance of a sheet-like object;
a plurality of gripper units (10,13) for gripping an end of the sheet-like
object conveyed from an upstream side of a sheet convey direction;
a support shaft (9, 11) supported by said rotary shaft (4) to support said
gripper units (10, 13) in an axial direction of said rotary shaft (4);
a rod (18) rotatably supported parallel to said rotary shaft (4);
a driving mechanism (33, 34, 35) for rotating said rod (18) through a
predetermined angle by rotation of said rotary shaft (4);
a press mechanism (25, 28) for deflecting said support shaft (9, 11) in the
sheet convey direction, 
characterized in that
said rod (18) has an eccentric large-diameter portion (18a),
said apparatus further comprises
a tubular member (23) rotatably fitted on said large-diameter portion
(18a) of said rod (18) to be displaced in a radial direction along with rotation of

said rod (18); and
said press mechanism (25, 28) converts displacement of said tubular
member (23) into a press force in a direction perpendicular to said support shaft

(9, 11) while in surface contact with said tubular member (23).
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said press mechanism has a rotary member (25) which

converts the displacement of said tubular member into a
rotational moment and exerts the rotational moment on

said support shaft as a press force.
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein

said rotary member has an engaging portion
(25b) with which said tubular member engages, and a

support (24, 25a) for supporting a central portion of
said support shaft, a
nd
said rotary member generates the rotational
moment upon displacement of said tubular member which

acts on said engaging member, to press said central
portion of said support shaft through said support.
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein

said engaging portion has a spring member (31)
for rotatably biasing said rotary member in a direction

to come close to said tubular member, and
said tubular member rotates said rotary member
against a biasing force of said spring member in a

direction in which said support shaft is deflected.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said tubular member has a chamfered portion (23a) on an

outer surface thereof to come into surface contact with
said press mechanism,

   said chamfered portion of said tubular member
serves to come into surface contact with said press

mechanism during rotation of said rod, to transmit, in a
substantially still state in a direction parallel to a

contact surface, a press force according to a
displacement of said tubular member to said press

mechanism.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said driving mechanism comprises


a first cam member (35) mounted on said rotary
shaft,
a second cam member (34) engageable with said
first cam member, and
a proximal end portion fixed to said rod, and
a lever member (33) for supporting said second cam

member.
An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein

said first cam member comprises a semi-annular
stationary cam (35a) fixed around said rotary shaft and

having a pair of open ends, and a semi-annular movable
cam (35b) movably supported around said rotary shaft,

forming an annular cam surface together with said 
stationary cam, and having a pair of open ends,
said second cam member comprises a cam
follower which rotationally moves on cam surfaces of

said stationary cam and said movable cam, and
when said cam follower moves from said
stationary cam to said movable cam, said lever member

swings to rotate said rod.
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein
said open ends of said stationary and movable cams form

thin plates, and said open ends of said stationary and
movable cams are stacked on each other to form an

annular cam surface. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, further
comprising


a knob member (41a) which is rotationally
operated, and
an adjusting mechanism (45, 46, 47) for
adjusting a position of said movable cam with respect to

said stationary cam by rotationally operating said knob
member,

   wherein when said movable cam is positionally
adjusted to accompany rotational operation of said knob

member, the deflection amount of said support shaft is
adjusted. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said gripper units comprise


gripper pads (10) and
grippers (13) for gripping the sheet-like
object in cooperation with said gripper pads.
An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein
said support shaft comprises


a gripper pad bar (9) supported parallel to
said rotary shaft to support said gripper pads (10) in

an array, and
a gripper shaft (11) supported parallel to
said gripper pad bar to support said grippers in an

array to correspond to said gripper pads.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
