<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190669</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Brush-writing instruments for health and therapy
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B50476	A61B50482	A61B516	A61B516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a writing brush or instrument that can be
used to enhance general health and render therapeutic effects in treating behaviourial,

psychological, mental and psychosomatic disorders. The writing instrument has one or
more biological detectors embedded in or attached to the shaft of the writing brush or

instrument. The biological detectors record the biological activities of the user that are
associated with the user's sensory, perceptual, emotional, cognitive and physiological

conditions during writing or drawing. Sensory signals from the detectors can provide
ongoing information of the user's graphonomic act and thus enable the user to control and

regulate his or her bodily conditions throughout the writing process by influencing the
changes in the sensory signals. The present invention is capable of improving the user's

general health as well as providing therapeutic treatment for users with physical or mental
disorders.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV HONG KONG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOAN CHING HUI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAO SHANG REN HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOAN, CHING HUI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAO, SHANG REN HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the fields of behaviourial medicine,
psychosomatic medicine, psychiatry, rehabilitation, special education, and clinical and
health psychology. In particular, the present invention relates to a handwriting instrument
for self-regulating bodily activities associated with the handwriting act.Chinese calligraphy is a traditional Chinese art with a history of several
thousand years and is practiced by millions of people in Asia today. Psychological research
in the past twenty years has established that this ancient art is capable of achieving, in the
course of its execution, emotional stabilization, mental relaxation and physiological
slowdown, from the physical perspectives. From the standpoint of the cognitive activities,
studies have confirmed its positive impact on heightened attention and concentration,
enhanced problem-solving capabilities of spatial abilities, spatial and abstract reasoning as
well as quicker response time and improved short-term memory. These original findings
by the author have led to the establishment of a brush calligraphic training as an effective
technique of intervention of a number of psychosomatic, behaviourial and psychological
disorders. These include essential hypertension, type II diabetes, emotional conditions in
mental patients, as well as attentional and behaviourial enhancement in children with
attention deficit and hyperactivity (ADHD) and mild mental retardation.For the general population, these changes associated with brush-writing have
been found to be capable of enhancing their general health condition. Our recent research
has also confirmed that the brush-writing effects are not confined to writing Chinese
characters. Similar effects are found when the writing act involved English letters and
words and other visual forms. These observations help to substantiate the notion that the
beneficial functions of brush handwriting (BHW) go beyond linguistic barriers between
writing systems but are general and universal. This lays the foundation for developing
instruments of brush handwriting, for health improvement, and therapeutic and
rehabilitative intervention, that will have global significance and application. The overall
findings have confirmed the efficacy of a psychomeometric system of BHW as a general 
system of constructive behavior regulation and change. This system specifies the types and
styles of Chinese characters or other visual forms, sequencing of the styles and forms,
duration of training, size and configurations of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A Chinese writing brush with a soft tip to provide biofeedback training to
a user, comprising:


a brush shaft;
a sensing device for sensing and recording the user's sensory signals, which
includes heart rate, EEG, respiration, blood pressure, skin conductance, skin temperature,

digital pulse volume, pulse rate, etc.; and
a display device for showing conditions and changes of the user's
physiological states during the writing act, the display device generating all or any forms of

the visual, auditory, tactile and thermal signals.
A writing instrument of claim 1 further comprising a power unit
embedded in the shaft of the brush, wherein the sensing device is a bio-sensing device

embedded in or externally linked to the brush shaft; and the display device is a biofeedback
display device embedded in the brush shaft.
A soft-tip writing instrument for providing biofeedback training to a user
during the user's writing act, comprising:


a shaft;
a sensing device for sensing and recording the user's sensory signals, which
include heart rate, EEG, respiration, blood pressure, skin conductance, skin temperature,

digital pulse volume, pulse rate, etc.; and
a display device for showing conditions and changes of the user's
physiological states during the writing act, the display device including all and any forms of

visual, auditory, tactile, and thermal signals.
A writing instrument of claim 2 further comprising a power unit
embedded in the shaft of the writing instrument, wherein the sensing device is a bio-sensing

device embedded in or externally linked to the shaft, and the display device is a biofeedback
display device embedded in the shaft of the writing instrument.
A writing instrument of claim 2 wherein the sensing device and the
display device are embedded in the shaft of the writing instrument, or externally linked to

electronic monitoring and display systems.
A writing instrument of claim 2 wherein the sensing device and the
display device are embedded in the shaft of the writing instrument, or externally linked to

polygraph recording equipment or computer system with a monitor.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the power unit comprises micro
batteries.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the writing act is conducted in
1D, 2D or 3D space.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the writing instrument is a
Chinese writing brush.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the sensing device and the
display device are integrated as a sealed bubble gauge.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the sensing device comprises
pressure transducers embedded in the shaft of the writing instrument to monitor the force

exerted thereon by the user in the course of drawing or writing.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the display device is a visual
display device which generates color-coded lights in plural discrete light modes.
A writing instrument of claim 4 wherein the display device is an
auditory display device which generates a continuous tone with plural pitch levels or

discrete tones of varying sound levels.
A writing instrument of claim 4 further comprising a retractable
mechanism capable of retracting the tip of the writing instrument into the shaft in the course

of drawing or writing.
A writing instrument of claim 14 wherein the display device shows the
kinesthetic information of the tip movement.
A writing instrument for self-regulating bodily activities of a user during
the writing act, comprising:
a shaft member;
a sensing device attached to the shaft member for detecting and recording a
sensory signal from the user; and
a display device connected to the sensing device for showing conditions and
changes of the user's physiological states during the writing act.
A writing instrument of claim 16 wherein the sensory signal is a signal
selected from the group consisting of heart rate, EEG, respiration, blood pressure, skin

conductance, skin temperature, digital pulse volume, and pulse rate.
A writing instrument of claim 16 wherein the display device generates a
signal selected from the group consisting of visual, auditory, tactile, and thermal signals.
A writing instrument of claim 16 further comprising a power source,
wherein the sensing device is a bio-sensing device, the display system is a biofeedback

display device, and at least one of the power source, the sensing device and the display
device is embedded in the shaft member of the writing instrument.
A writing instrument of claim 16 further comprising a power source,
wherein the sensing device is a bio-sensing device, the display system is a biofeedback

display device, and at least one of the power source, the sensing device and the display
device is externally linked to the shaft member of the writing instrument.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
