<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1009029</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device and method of producing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01F1700	H01F1700	H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L2352	H01L23522	H01L2704	H01L2704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01F	H01F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01F17	H01F17	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To prevent collapse and delamination without
increasing an occupied area or to reduce the area while

maintaining a necessary strength, an inductor is provided
by being formed on a first insulating layer on a

semiconductor substrate comprises a plurality of metal
layers stacked on the first insulating layer. Among the

plurality of metal layers, the second insulating layer
extends over the end portion of the lower-most metal

layer from the first insulating layer. The other metal
layers comprising the inductor are formed in contact with

the upper surface of the lower-most metal layer which is
not covered with the second insulating layer. The lower-most

metal layer is preferably formed on the first
insulating layer via a bonding layer (not shown). The

lower-most layer is pressed down at the circumference by
the second insulating layer, so an external force is not

imposed directly on the interface between the metal layer
and the insulating layer.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAEN KATSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAEN, KATSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a
semiconductor device having an inducer, more particularly
relates to a GaAs MMIC (monolithic microwave integrated
circuit) or other semiconductor device having an inductor
comprised of metal and a method of producing the same.As shown in the cross-sectional view of Fig.
11, an inductance element (inductor) 100 mounted, for
example, in a GaAs MMIC has been formed by patterning a
stacked film of a bonding film 106 such as a Ti film for
preventing delamination and an Au layer 108 in a spiral
shape as shown in Fig. 10 on an insulating film 104 on a
semiconductor substrate 102.In the inductor 100, however, the strength
against collapse and delamination depends on the bonding
strength at the interface between the insulating film 104
and the metal film (bonding film) 106, so there has been
the disadvantage of susceptability to an externally
imposed force.In such an inductor structure, to improve the 
above strength, it is effective to increase the contact
area of the insulating film 104 and the bonding film 106.In this method, however, as shown in Figs. 10
and 11, there is the disadvantage that when the width a
of a line comprising the inductor 100 increases, the
area occupied by the inductor 100 as a whole increases.The area of an inductor is inherently larger
than that of a transistor etc. Inductors are often used
for grounding the input and output in an MMIC etc.
Therefore, reduction of the area occupied by an inductor
is strongly desired when reducing the size of MMICs.The above measures for prevention of
delamination of an inductor by increasing the contact
area is not preferable since it runs counter to the
desire of reducing the area occupied by the inductor.An object of the present invention is to provide a
semiconductor device structured to be able to prevent
collapse and delamination of an inductor without
increasing an occupied area or to further reduce the area
of the inductor while preventing the collapse and
delamination, and a method of producing the same.A semiconductor device of the present invention
comprises a semiconductor device having an inductor on a 
first insulating layer on a semiconductor substrate,
wherein said inductor is comprised of a plurality of
metal layers stacked on said first insulating layer; a
second insulating layer extends from said first
insulating layer on an end portion of a lower-most metal
layer among said plurality of metal layers; and other
metal layers comprising said inductor are formed
contacting an upper surface portion of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device having an inductor,
comprising:


a substrate;
a first metal layer formed on the substrate;
an insulating layer formed on the first metal
layer;
an opening formed in the insulating layer;
and
a second metal layer formed on the opening;
said insulating layer covering an end portion
of said first metal layer.
A semiconductor device as set forth in claim
1, further comprising a second insulating layer between

said substrate and said first metal layer.
A semiconductor device as set forth in claim
2, further comprising a bonding layer having a higher

bonding strength to the second insulating layer than the
first metal layer does between said second insulating

layer and said first metal layer.
A semiconductor device as set forth in claim
3, wherein said bonding layer is Ti.
A semiconductor device as set forth in claim
1, wherein said inductor is formed in a spiral shape.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
comprising:


a substrate;
a first metal layer on the substrate formed
to be a pattern for configuring the above inductance;
a first insulation layer having an opening
positioned on the upper portion of the first metal film,

covering the circumference of said first metal layer, and
continuously extending on said substrate from the

circumference; and
a second metal layer connected with said
first metal layer via the opening of said first

insulation layer, positioned above said first metal layer
and configuring said inductance together with said first

metal layer.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 6, wherein said second metal film

comprising:

a third metal layer having a thickness of
about the same as that of said first insulation layer;

and
a fourth metal layer formed above the third
metal layer having a thicker thickness than those of the

first metal layer and the third metal layer.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 7, wherein:
said third metal film fills the openings
formed on said first insulation layer; and
said forth metal film is a size of said
opening and extends there above.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 7, wherein:


said first and third metal films are formed
by vapor deposition or sputtering; and
said fourth metal film is formed by plating
method.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 6;

   wherein said second metal film comprises a
fourth metal film formed on said first metal film and has

a thicker thickness than that of the first metal film.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 10, wherein:


said fourth metal film is formed to fill the
opening of said first insulation layer to connect to said

first metal film and extend over the portion covering the
circumference of said first metal film of said first

insulation layer.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 11, wherein


said first metal film is formed by vapor
deposition or sputtering; and
said fourth metal film is formed by plating
method.
A semiconductor device as set forth in claim
6, wherein said bonding layer is Ti.
A semiconductor device as set forth in claim
6, wherein:


said substrate is a GaAs substrate; and
said plurality of metal layers comprising the
inductor is Au.
A semiconductor device having an inductor as
set forth in claim 6, wherein


said substrate is a semiconductor substrate;
a second insulation layer is formed between
said substrate and said first metal film; and
said first insulation layer has an opening
positioned above said first metal film, covers a

circumference of said first metal film and continuously
extends over said second insulation layer from the

circumference.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 15, wherein said substrate is a

GaAs substrate.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 16, wherein said first and second

insulating layers are formed by silicon nitride.
A semiconductor device having an inductor as
set forth in claim 6, wherein said substrate is a semi-insulating

semiconductor substrate.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 18, wherein a first insulation

layer is formed by silicon nitride.
A semiconductor device having an inductance
as set forth in claim 6, wherein said first metal film

and second metal film are formed in a spiral shape on the
surface of the substrate to compose the inductance.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
