<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1179909</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A system and method for providing transaction control on a data network
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L116	H04L116	H04L118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system is described comprising: a source node configured to transmit a
data packet to a target node across a data network, the source node having a first

retry timer set to a first retry time period after which the source node will
retransmit a data packet if it has not received an appropriate response to the data

packet; and a first intermediate node electrically positioned between the source
node and the target node, the first intermediate node having a second retry timer

set to a second retry time period after which the first intermediate node will
retransmit the data packet if it has not received an appropriate response to the

data packet, wherein the first retry time period is longer than the second retry
time period.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECHELON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECHELON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUFFY DARRELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY GLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUFFY, DARRELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY, GLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to network configuration techniques.
More particularly, the invention relates to an improved system and method for
selecting repeaters in a data network.A "repeater" is a communications device that amplifies or regenerates a
data signal in order to extend the transmission distance between two or more
nodes. Repeaters are available for both analog and digital signals and are used
extensively for long distance transmission.The determination as to where repeaters should be configured/positioned
within a network is typically based on the network topology. For example, the
physical distance between nodes on the network may be used to determine
whether a repeater is necessary. Factored into this calculation is the extent to
which data signals will degrade through the physical medium interconnecting
nodes on the network. Different types of physical media (e.g., twisted pair,
coaxial cable, wireless, ... etc) have different signal-loss characteristics.In some circumstances, however, network topology may be unknown at
the time the network nodes are interconnected. For example, in circumstances
where existing power lines are used to support a communications network, 
distances between network nodes may not be easily determined. As such,
repeater positioning must be accomplished manually, through trial-and-error, by
measuring signal strength at various points within the network and configuring
repeaters as required.Accordingly, what is needed is a more efficient system and method for
selecting repeaters within a network. What is also needed is a system and
method wherein nodes on a network which perform a particular function may
configured as repeaters (i.e., in addition to performing that function). A system is described comprising: a source node configured to transmit a
data packet to a target node across a data network, the source node having a first
retry timer set to a first retry time period after which the source node will
retransmit a data packet if it has not received an appropriate response to the data
packet; and a first intermediate node electrically positioned between the source
node and the target node, the first intermediate node having a second retry timer
set to a second retry time period after which the first intermediate node will
retransmit the data packet if it has not received an appropriate response to the
data packet, wherein the first retry time period is longer than the second retry
time period. A better understanding of the present invention can be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system comprising:

a source node configured to transmit a data packet to a target node across
a data network, said source node having a first retry timer set to a first retry time

period after which said source node will retransmit a data packet if it has not
received an appropriate response to said data packet; and
a first intermediate node electrically positioned between said source node
and said target node, said first intermediate node having a second retry timer set

to a second retry time period after which said first intermediate node will
retransmit said data packet if it has not received an appropriate response to said

data packet,

   wherein said first retry time period is longer than said second retry time
period.
The system as in claim 1 further comprising:

a second intermediate node electrically positioned between first
intermediate node and said target node, said second intermediate node having a

third retry timer set to a third retry time period after which said second
intermediate node will retransmit said data packet if it has not received an

appropriate response to said data packet,

   wherein said third retry time period is shorter than said second retry time
period.
The system of claim 2 wherein said first, second and third retry timers
are set by said data packet transmitted from said source node.
The system of claim 1 wherein said source node is configured to
retransmit said data packet a first predetermined number of times if it has not

received an appropriate response to said data packet.
The system of claim 4 wherein said intermediate node is configured to
retransmit said data packet a second predetermined number of times if it has not

received an appropriate response to said data packet.
The system of claim 5 wherein said first predetermined number of
times is greater than said second predetermined number of times.
The system of claim 2 wherein said second intermediate node is a
proxy agent and said first intermediate node is a proxy repeater.
A system for providing proxy communication for a standard set of
network commands comprising:


a source node attaching a proxy header to a packet in which one of said
standard network commands is encapsulated, said proxy header identifying an

agent node,
said agent node, upon receipt of said packet with said proxy header,
communicating with a target node using said standard network command.
The system as in claim 8 further comprising:

a first repeater node electrically positioned between said agent node and
said source node, said first repeater node to forward said packet with said proxy

header to said agent node.
The system as in claim 9 wherein said first repeater node is configured
to remove its address from said proxy header before forwarding said packet.
The system as in claim 9 further comprising:

a second repeater node electrically positioned between said source node
and said first repeater node, said second repeater node configured to forward

said packet to said first repeater node.
The system as in claim 11 wherein said second repeater node is
configured to remove its address from said proxy header before forwarding said

packet on to said first repeater node.
The system as in claim 9 wherein said first repeater is further
configured to store address data for a return path to said source node, said

address data used for forwarding said target node's response to said packet.
The system as in claim 11 wherein said second repeater is further
configured to store address data for a return path to said source node, said

address data used for forwarding said target node's response to said packet.
The system as in claim 8 wherein said standard network command is
a request/response command.
A method for providing transaction control between a source node
and a target node, said source node and said target node communicating across

one or more repeater nodes, the method comprising:
transmitting a data command from said source node to a first repeater
node, said first repeater node configured to transmit said data command to said

target node;
retransmitting said data command from said source node to said first
repeater node if said source node has not received an appropriate response

within a first time period; and
retransmitting said data command from said first repeater node to said
target node if said first repeater node has not received an appropriate response

from said target node within a second time period,

   wherein said first time period is longer than said second time period.
The method as in claim 16 further comprising:

transmitting said data command from said first repeater node to a second
repeater node, said second repeater node configured to transmit said data

command to said target node;
retransmitting said data command from said second repeater node to said
target node if said second repeater node has not received an appropriate

response to said data command within a third time period,

   wherein said third time period is shorter than said second time period.
The method of claim 17 wherein said first, second and third time
periods are set by said data packet transmitted from said source node.
The system of claim 16 wherein said source node is configured to
retransmit said data packet to said first repeater node a first predetermined

number of times if it has not received an appropriate response to said data
packet.
The system of claim 16 wherein said first repeater node is configured

to retransmit said data packet to said target node a second predetermined
number of times if it has not received an appropriate response to said data

packet.
The system of claim 20 wherein said first predetermined number of
times is greater than said second predetermined number of times.
The system of claim 17 wherein said second repeater node is a proxy
agent and said first repeater node is a proxy repeater.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
