<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997043529</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01B900	F01B902	F02B4100	F02B4100	F02B4102	F02B7500	F02B7504	F02B7532	F02B7532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01B	F01B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01B9	F01B9	F02B41	F02B41	F02B41	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal combustion engine includes one or more pistons (4), each of which is mounted to reciprocate in a respective cylinder (2) and is pivotally connected to one end (11) of an elongate link member which is pivotally connected to the associated crank (10) at a point intermediate its ends. The other end of the link member (14) constitutes a rod (18) which is coupled to a first movable mounting member (20) such that relative movement between them is possible only in the direction of the length of the rod (18). The first movable mounting member (20) is connected to a second movable mounting member (26) such that relative motion between them is possible only in rotation about an axis (21). The second movable mounting member (26) is guided to move linearly with respect to a fixed mounting member (24) in a direction transverse to the length of the rod (18) and actuating means (31; 40) cooperate with the second movable mounting member (26) and are arranged to move it linearly. The mounting (20, 26, 24) and the link member (14) are dimensioned and arranged so that the speed of the piston decreases at or around the time at which ignition occurs thereby promoting rapid propagation of the flame front through the air/fuel mixture in the cylinder and the dwell period at the bottom dead centre position of the piston is prolonged.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROADSUPER LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EHRLICH JOSEF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROADSUPER LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EHRLICH, JOSEF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EHRLICH JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EHRLICH, JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINESThe present invention relates to internal combustion engines of reciprocating piston type and is particularly, though not exclusively concerned with engines of the general type disclosed in EP-A-0591153.This prior document discloses an engine in which the or each piston is caused to move over at least a portion of the cycle at a rate which is such that the graph of its displacement against time differs from the sinusoidal shape which is inherently produced in conventional engines in which each piston is connected to a respective crank on a crankshaft by a respective connecting rod. In such a conventional engine attempts are made to match the combustion of the fuel/air mixture to the motion of the piston but the philosophy underlying the construction of the prior document is that the combustion is permitted to proceed in the optimum manner and the piston is caused to move in a manner which "follows" the combustion and is related to the nature and progress of the combustion process.More specifically, the prior document discloses an engine in which the piston is caused to decelerate and thus to move more slowly than in a conventional engine at or around the point in the cycle at which ignition of the fuel/air mixture occurs and then to speed up again prior to reaching the top dead centre position (TDC). This is based on the recognition that in a conventional engine the piston is moving at substantially its maximum speed at the point at which ignition occurs and the compression ratio is altering at substantially its maximum rate and thus impedes the rate of propagation of the flame front through the fuel/air mixture and thus 

impairs the nature and completeness of the combustion process. However, slowing the piston down at around the ignition point means that the rate of increase in the pressure ofthe fuel/air mixture at the time propagation ofthe flame front commences is substantially less than is usual which results in the flame front propagating through the fuel/air mixture very much more rapidly than as usual.The prior document also discloses that the piston is caused to reach its maximum acceleration and maximum speed at something between 0 and 40° after TDC, instead of 90° after TDC as in a conventional engine, and thereafter to move more slowly than in a conventional engine in the latter portion of its working stroke prior to reaching the bottom dead centre position (BDC). This results in a decreased temperature ofthe exhaust gases and thus in reduced emissions of NOx and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An internal combustion engine including one or more pistons (4), each of which is mounted to reciprocate in a respective cylinder (2) and is pivotally connected to a connecting rod (6) which is connected to a respective crank ( 10) on a crankshaft (7), characterised in tiiat die connecting rod (6) is pivotally connected to one end (11) of an elongate link member (14) which is pivotably connected to the associated crank (10) at a point intermediate its ends and whose otiier end constitutes a rod (18) which is restrained by a mounting (20, 26, 24) such tiiat it may pivot about a pivotal axis (21) parallel to the axis (8) of die crankshaft (7) and may move in a direction parallel to its lengtii.
2. An engine as claimed in Claim 1 wherein die mounting includes a first movable mounting member (20) connected to a fixed mounting member (24) to be pivotable witii respect tiiereto about die pivotal axis (21), die first movable mounting member (20) being connected to die rod (18) by a connection which permits relative sliding movement in die direction ofthe rod (8).
3. An engine as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the mounting includes a second movable mounting member (26), which is guided to move linearly witii respect to die fixed mounting member (24) in a direction transverse to die lengtii of the rod ( 18), and actuating means (31 ; 40) cooperating with the second movable mounting member (26) and arranged to move it linearly, the first movable mounting member (20) being connected to die second movable mounting member (26) to pivot witii respect tiiereto about the pivotal axis (21 ). 


4. An engine as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the actuating means includes at least one cam (31) cooperating witii the second movable mounting member (26).
5. An engine as claimed in Claim 4 wherein the actuating means includes two identical cams (31) cooperating in opposition witii die second movable mounting member (26), the two cams (31) being coupled to rotate in synchronism.
6. An engine as claimed in Claim 3 wherein die actuating means includes an eccentric peg (40) cooperating witii the second movable mounting member (26).
7. An engine as claimed in any one of Claims 3 to 6 wherein die actuating means (31 ; 40) is coupled to the crankshaft (4) such that, when die engine is in operation, the second movable mounting member (26) continuously reciprocates linearly.
8. An engine as claimed in any one of Claims 3 to 7 wherein the pivotal axis (21), when in the central position of its linear travel, and die axis (8) of rotation of the crankshaft (7) lie in a plane which extends substantially peφendicular to the axis ofthe cylinder (2).
9. An engine as claimed in any one of die preceding claims wherein the connecting rod (6) is connected to die elongate link member (14) to pivot about a pivotal axis (12), die elongate link (14) and the mounting (20, 26, 24) being so dimensioned and arranged tiiat, when die engine is in operation, die pivotal axis (12) describes a generally elliptical path (30), die major axis of the ellipse extending substantially parallel to die axis of die cylinder (2). 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the Internationa l Bureau on 24 September 1997 ( 24.09.97) ; origi na l c l aims 1 -9 replaced by new cla ims 1 -8 ( 2 pages ) ]
1. An internal combustion engine including one or more pistons (4), each of which is mounted to reciprocate in a respective cylinder (2) and is pivotally connected to a connecting rod (6) which is connected to a respective crank (10) on a crankshaft (7), the connecting rod (6) being pivotally connected to one end (11) of an elongate link member (14) which is pivotably connected to die associated crank ( 10) at a point intermediate its ends and whose other end constitutes a rod ( 18) which is restrained by a mounting (20. 26. 24) such tiiat it may pivot about a pivotal axis (21 ) parallel to the axis (8) of the crankshaft (7). the mounting including a first movable mounting member (20) connected to a fixed mounting member (24), characterised in tiiat the first movable mounting member (20) is connected to the rod (18) by a connection which permits only relative sliding movement in the direction of the rod (18) and that die first movable mounting member (20) is arranged to be pivotable with respect to the fixed mounting member about the said pivotal axis (21).
2. An engine as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the mounting includes a second movable mounting member (26), which is guided to move linearly with respect to the fixed mounting member (24) in a direction transverse to the length of die rod (18), and actuating means (31 ; 40) cooperating witii the second movable mounting member (26) and arranged to move it linearly, the first movable mounting member (20) being connected to the second movable mounting member (26) to pivot with respect thereto about die pivotal axis (21). 


3. An engine as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the actuating means includes at least one cam (31 ) cooperating witii the second movable mounting member (26).
4. An engine as claimed in Claim 3 wherein die actuating means includes two identical cams (31 ) cooperating in opposition with the second movable mounting member (26), the two cams (31 ) being coupled to rotate in synchronism.
5. An engine as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the actuating means includes an eccentric peg (40) cooperating with the second movable mounting member (26).
6. An engine as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 5 wherein the actuating means (31 ; 40) is coupled to die crankshaft (4) such that, when die engine is in operation, the second movable mounting member (26) continuously reciprocates linearly.
7. An engine as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 6 wherein the pivotal axis (21), when in die central position of its linear travel, and the axis (8) of rotation of die crankshaft (7) lie in a plane which extends substantially peφendicular to die axis ofthe cylinder (2).
8. An engine as claimed in any one of die preceding claims wherein the connecting rod (6) is connected to die elongate link member (14) to pivot about a pivotal axis (12), the elongate link (14) and the mounting (20, 26, 24) being so dimensioned and arranged that, when die engine is in operation, the pivotal axis (12) describes a generally elliptical path (30), the major axis of the ellipse extending substantially parallel to the axis ofthe cylinder (2). 


 STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19(1) PCT
US-A- 2506088 discloses an engine whose connecting rod is pivotally connected to one end of an elongate link which is pivotally connected to an associated crank at a point intermediate its ends and whose other end is pivotally connected to one end of an arm, the other end of which is mounted to rotate about an axis extending parallel to the crankshaft axis. In use, the free end ofthe elongate link is thus constrained to rotate about the axis ofthe arm at a speed equal to that ofthe crankshaft. This inherently results in the path described by the pivotal connection between the connecting rod and the elongate link having a major portion which is straight. This in turn results firstly in the piston and connecting rod being subjected to unacceptably high stresses and secondly in there being no dwell or substantial deceleration of the piston at or around the ignition point.
The present invention, as defined in the amended claims filed herewith, is particularly concerned with engines ofthe type disclosed in EP-A-0591 153 and it is therefore desirable that the piston has a dwell period or period of substantial deceleration at or around the point at which ignition occurs to permit the rapid propagation ofthe flame front through the air/fuel mixture. This is achieved by making the axis about which the elongate link pivots with respect to the movable mounting member, which corresponds to the arm in the prior U.S. patent, coincident with the axis about which the movable mounting member pivots with respect to the fixed mounting member, which corresponds to the pivotal shaft ofthe arm in the prior U.S. patent and by ensuring that the only movement of me elongate link which occur relative to the movable mounting member is in sliding and is parallel to the length ofthe elongate link.
These novel features result in the path described by the pivotal connection between the elongate link and the connecting rod being substantially elliptical whereby the piston is not subjected to unacceptable stresses and has a dwell period, whose duration and timing may be adjusted by varying the geometry ofthe components ofthe system, at or around the point at which ignition occurs. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
