<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999047958</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MASSIVE PARALLEL OPTICAL INTERCONNECT SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B638	G02B638	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A connector is provided which includes a fiber optic connector having a polymer ferrule (331, 332) having multiple fibers mounted in V-grooves (336) of the ferrule (331, 332) and beveled edges (335a, 335b) of the ferrule providing for alignment of the ferrule (331, 332) when the fiber optic connector is mated to a receptacle (500) having an alignment assembly and an alignment member mounted within the alignment assembly to provide for precision alignment. A receptacle assembly is provided having a first receptacle half (400) for receiving a fiber optic connector having a first form factor and a second receptacle half (300) for receiving a fiber optic connector having a second form factor. A fiber optical ferrule is also provided having a pair of mutually opposing ferrule halves (331, 332) that join to define a fiber optical support region that receives optical fibers, where at least one of the ferrule halves (331, 332) includes a vertically aligned wall (380, 390) that protrudes toward the opposing ferrule half.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METHODE ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METHODE ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOFIELD PHILIP W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VLADIC DANIEL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS ROGER E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOFIELD, PHILIP, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VLADIC, DANIEL, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS, ROGER, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPECIFICATIONTO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:Be it known that we, Roger E. Weiss, Daniel P. Nladic, and Philip W.Schofield, each citizens of the United States of America and residents of 10 Mary Way, Foxborough, Massachusetts, 42643 Linden Lane, Antioch, Illinois, and 1218 North Euclid, Oak Park, Illinois, respectively, have invented aMASSIVE PARALLEL OPTICAL INTERCONNECT SYSTEMof which the following is the specification. 

 MASSIVE PARALLEL OPTICAL INTERCONNECT SYSTEMThis is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 08/668,922, filed on June 24, 1996, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 08/577,508, filed on December 22, 1995. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention pertains to a fiber optic interconnect system and, in particular, a massive parallel optical interconnect system.Optical fiber connectors having multiple fibers are known in the art. Such multi-fiber connectors are increasingly necessary as greater bandwidth applications are needed. Generally, the array of fibers are mounted in V-grooves which are etched in a silicon material in order to provide for precision positioning of the fibers. Precision positioning of the fibers in the silicon block is imperative so that when two connectors are mated, the fibers align as closely as possible in order to limit any signal loss. The use of silicon blocks is useful in that the V-grooves may be etched precisely. Etching of silicon blocks is well known in the art and generally is accomplished using standard anisotropic etchants, such as ethylene diamine pyrocatechol (EDP) or KOH in combination with a standard etch mask material such as thermally grown SiO2. However, the mounting of silicon blocks within a housing and ensuring the proper alignment of two silicon blocks when they are mated is difficult where automated assembly is desired. Also, silicon is a hard, brittle material which is difficult to polish and is easily broken. Other multiple fiber connectors using silicon blocks have the blocks mounted within a housing and splines mounted next to the blocks which protrude beyond the end face of the block and the connector. This arrangement of assembling the connector having the silicon blocks, splines, fibers and a housing is time consuming. In other designs, splines are inserted within the silicon block. In such an arrangement, the connector having the splines protruding therefrom mates with a connector without splines; so that the first connector splines are inserted into the vacant grooves of the silicon block of the second connector. Such
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An optical receptacle assembly comprising: an optical receptacle including a first and second half; a first connector including a first ferrule, the first ferrule including at least one beveled edge, said first connector received in said first half of said optical receptacle; a second connector including a second ferrule, the second ferrule including at least one hole, said second connector received in said second half of said optical receptacle; and an alignment member received by said hole of said second ferrule and mated with said beveled edge of said first ferrule in order to align the first ferrule to the second ferrule.
2. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 1 wherein the alignment member is a pin mounted within the optical receptacle assembly.
3. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 2, wherein the first and second ferrules receive a plurality of optical fibers.
4. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 2, wherein the first half of the optical receptacle has a first form factor.
5. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 4, wherein the second half of the optical receptacle has a second form factor.
6. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 5, wherein the first form factor provides for a MP style optical connector.
7. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 5, wherein the second form factor provides for a MT style optical connector.
33 

8. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 7, wherein the first form factor provides for the MP style connector, and the second form factor provides for the MTP style connector.
9. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 5, wherein the first form factor provides for a MACII style connector and the second form factor provides for a MT style connector.
10. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 9, wherein the first form factor provides for the MACII style connector and the second form factor provides for a MTP style connector.
11. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 6, wherein the first form factor provides for the MP style connector and the second form factor provides for a MTP style connector.
12. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 4, wherein the optical receptacle includes a plurality of latches integrated within said first half for latching said first connector.
13. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 6, wherein the optical receptacle further comprises a receptacle slot for engaging a polarizing member of said first connector.
14. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 13, wherein the optical receptacle includes a plurality of latches integrated within said second half for latching said second connector.
15. An optical receptacle assembly comprising: an optical receptacle including a first and second receptacle half; a first connector including a first ferrule, the first ferrule including a beveled edge, said first ferrule being inserted into said first receptacle half;
34 


 a second connector including a second ferrule, the second ferrule having an end face inserted into said second receptacle half; and a pair of guide members that engage the end face of said second ferrule and engage said beveled edge of said first ferrule in order to align the first ferrule to the second ferrule.
16. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 15, wherein the pair of guide members are mounted within the optical receptacle assembly.
17. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 16, wherein the first and second connectors receives a plurality of optic fibers.
18. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 17, wherein said first receptacle half has a first form factor.
19. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 18, wherein said second receptacle half has a second form factor.
20. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 19, wherein said first form factor conforms to a MP style connector.
21. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 20, wherein said second form factor conforms to a MT style connector.
22. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 21, wherein the first form factor conforms to the MP style connector and the second connector conforms to the MTP style connector.
23. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 19, wherein the first form factor conforms to a MACII style connector.
35 

24. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 23, wherein the first form factor provides for a MACII style connector and the second form factor provides for a MT style connector.
25. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 19, wherein the second form factor conforms to a MACII style connector.
26. The optical receptacle assembly of claim 15, wherein said guide member is an alignment pin extending from the end face of said second ferrule.
27. A fiber optical ferrule having a proximal and distal side, the ferrule comprising: a ferrule first half containing a first front portion having a first major surface for receiving a plurality individual optical fibers; and a first vertically aligned wall protruding beyond the first major surface and along the proximal side.
28. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 27, further comprising a first beveled edge at the proximal side.
29. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 28, further comprising a first cut-out running along said distal side.
30. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 29, wherein said first cut-out includes dimensions approximately equal to dimensions of the first vertically aligned wall.
31. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 30, further comprising: a ferrule second half aligning over said ferrule first half, said ferrule second half containing a second front portion having a second major surface for receiving a plurality individual optical fibers; a second vertically aligned wall protruding beyond the second major surface along said distal side; and
36 


 a second beveled edge at the distal side.
32. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 31, wherein said first ferrule half contains the first cut-out along said distal side for receiving said second vertically aligned wall.
33. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 32, wherein the second ferrule half contains the second cut-out along the proximal side for receiving said first vertically aligned wall.
34. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 33, wherein said first ferrule half contains a plurality of first V-grooves for receiving individual optical fibers.
35. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 34, wherein said second ferrule half contains a plurality of second V-grooves for receiving individual optical fibers, where said second
V-grooves oppose said first V-grooves.
36. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 35, wherein said first and second beveled edges are spaced to engage at least one guide pin from a MT style connector.
37. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 35 wherein said fiber optical ferrule has a form factor that conforms to a MT style connector.
38. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 35 wherein the first ferrule half and the second ferrule half are hermaphroditic.
39. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 35, wherein said first and second beveled edges are spaced to engage at least one guide pin from a MACII style connector.
40. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 35, wherein said fiber optical ferrule has a form factor that conforms to a MACII style connector.
37 

41. A fiber optical ferrule comprising: a pair of mutually opposing ferrule halves joined to define in part a fiber optical support region for receiving at least one optical fiber; one of said ferrule halves including a vertically aligned wall protruding therefrom towards the other of said ferrule halves at a first side; and a first beveled edge contained within one of said ferrule halves at the first side.
42. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 41, further comprising: a second vertically aligned wall included within one of said ferrule halves and protruding therefrom towards the other of said ferrule halves at a second side; and a second beveled edge contained within one of said ferrule halves at the second side.
43. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 42, wherein said first and second beveled edges are spaced to receive a pair of guide pins.
44. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 43, wherein the fiber support region contains a plurality of opposing V-grooves for receiving individually a plurality of optical fibers.
45. The fiber optical ferrules of claim 44, wherein the fiber support region contains twelve opposing V-grooves.
46. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 44, wherein the first and second beveled edges are spaced to engage at least one guide pin from a MT style connector.
47. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 44, wherein the first and second beveled edges are spaced to engage at least one guide pin from a MACII style connector.
48. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 44, wherein said fiber optical ferrule has a form factor that conforms to a MT style connector.
38 

49. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 44, wherein said fiber optical ferrule has a form factor that conforms to a MACII style connector.
50. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 41 wherein: the fiber optical ferrule is formed of a resin composition with an anisotropy of less than 1.5, where said resin composition consists of at least one resin selected from the group consisting of polyethermides, polyethersulfones, and epoxy resins.
51. A fiber optical ferrule comprising: a top ferrule half including a front portion having an upper major surface; a bottom ferrule half including a front portion having a lower major surface; a plurality of V-grooves formed the upper and lower major surfaces; an upward wall integrally formed with the front portion of the bottom ferrule half, the upward wall axially bordering the front portion of the bottom ferrule half at a proximal side, and the upward wall protruding vertically beyond the lower major surface; a downward wall integrally formed with the front portion of the top ferrule half, the downward wall axially bordering the front portion of the top ferrule half at a distal side, and the downward wall protruding vertically beyond the upper major surface; a first cut-out formed in the bottom ferrule half which axially borders the front portion of the bottom ferrule half at the distal side, wherein the first cut-out receives the downward wall; a second cut-out formed in the top ferrule half which axially borders the front portion of the top ferrule half at the proximal side, wherein the second cut-out receives the upward wall; a first beveled edge formed in the upward wall and axially extending along the front portion of the bottom ferrule half; and a second beveled edge formed in the downward wall and axially extending along the front portion of the top ferrule half.
52. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 51 , wherein said front portion receives twelve optical fibers.
39 

53. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 52, wherein said fiber optical ferrule has a form factor that conforms to a MT style connector.
54. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 51 , wherein said fiber optical ferrule conforms to a MACII style connector.
55. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 54, wherein the first and second beveled edges are spaced to receive a pair of guide pins.
56. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 55, wherein the first and second beveled edges are spaced apart to receive the pair of guide pins protruding from a MT style connector.
57. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 55, wherein the first and second beveled edges are spaced apart to receive the pair of guide pins protruding from a MACII style connector.
58. The fiber optical ferrule of claim 51, wherein the fiber optical ferrule is formed of a resin composition with an anisotropy of less than 1.5, where said resin composition consists of at least one resin selected from the group consisting of polyethermides, polyethersulfones, and epoxy resins.
59. A method for assembling a fiber optical ferrule comprising the steps of: providing a first ferrule half including a first front portion having a first major surface and at least one V-groove formed therein, the first front portion also having a first vertically aligned wall at a proximal side, wherein the first vertically aligned wall protrudes beyond the first major surface and extends axially along the first front portion, and wherein the first vertically aligned wall includes a first beveled edge at the proximal side; placing at least one optical fiber within the V-groove; providing a second ferrule half including a second front portion having a second major surface, the second front portion also having a second vertically aligned wall at a
40 


distal side, wherein the second vertically aligned wall protrudes beyond the second major surface and extends axially along the second front portion, and wherein the second vertically aligned wall including a second beveled edge at the distal side; applying a bonding material to the optical fiber; and mating the first major surface to the second major surface wherein the first and second vertically aligned walls prevent the bonding material from seeping into the respective first and second beveled edges.
60. The method of claim 59, including the steps of: providing the first ferrule half with the first front portion, wherein the front portion also includes a first cut-out at the distal side for receiving the second vertically aligned wall; and providing the second ferrule half with the second front portion, wherein the second front portion also includes a second cut-out at the proximal side for receiving the first vertically aligned wall.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the step of providing the second ferrule half includes providing the second front portion with a second major surface that has at least one V-groove formed therein for placement of at least one optical fiber.
62. The method of claim 59, wherein the step of applying the bonding material to the optical fiber includes applying bonding material comprising anaerobic adhesives.
63. The method of claim 59, including the additional step of curing the bonding material.
64. The method of claim 63, including the additional step of cleaving and polishing the optical fibers within the cured fiber optical ferrule.
65. The method of claim 59, wherein the V-groove is molded into the first major surface of the first ferrule half.
41 

66. The method of claim 59, wherein the V-groove is machined into the first major surface of the first ferrule half.
67. The method of claim 59, wherein the V-groove is etched into the first major surface of the first ferrule half.
68. The method of claim 59, wherein the first beveled edge is molded into the proximal side.
69. The method of claim 59, wherein the first beveled edge is machined into the proximal side.
70. The method of claim 59, wherein the first beveled edge is etched into the proximal side.
42 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
