<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997000438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INSPECTING THE SURFACE OF AN OBJECT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2188	G01N2188	G01N21952	G21C1706	G21C1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G21C	G21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G21C17	G21C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrangement for inspecting the surface of a rotating object (1) which includes object retaining means for retaining whilst rotating the object, means (3) for irradiating the surface of an object when retained and rotated by the object retaining means with a first beam of optical radiation, means (5) for irradiating the surface of an object when retained and rotated by the object retaining means with a second beam of optical radiation detectable as distinct from the first beam, detector means (7) for detecting radiation reflected by the surface of the object from the first beam and for detecting radiation reflected by the surface of the object from the second beam and a signal processor (15) for receiving signals produced by the detector means and for analysing such signals wherein the first beam and the second beam are of different wavelengths or in different wavelength bands and the detector means is capable of simultaneously receiving and detecting radiation received from the same irradiated area of the surface of the object from both the first beam and the second beam and producing a first output signal comprising components representing variations in reflection of the first beam from units of area within the said irradiated area of the object and a second output signal comprising components representing variations in reflection of the second beam from units of area within the said irradiated area of the object and wherein the signal processor is adapted to correlate components of the first output signal with the components of the second output signal whereby information about the reflectivity of units of area of the surface of the object is enhanced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLARK MARK QUENTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLARK, MARK, QUENTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK MARK QUENTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, MARK, QUENTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Inspecting the surface of an objectThe present invention relates to apparatus and a method for inspecting the surface of an object.Product surface inspection procedures are widely used in various industries. One such industry where careful surface inspection is essential is nuclear fuel production. Typically, nuclear fuel pellets are produced to high quality standards and after inspection following manufacture are loaded into tubes known as fuel rods or pins which are assembled together and in due course and loaded for use in a nuclear reactor. It is a customer requirement that inspection of all fuel pellets is carried out before loading into pins. This reduces the possibility of defective pellets causing pin damage when the pin is subject to high temperature and pressure in use.At present, it is conventional for trained inspectors to perform nuclear fuel pellet inspections with the pellets held on trays. This manual inspection procedure has a number of disadvantages, viz:(a) the standard of inspection is variable dependent upon the subjective judgement of the individual inspector, and is open to operator error;(b) the inspector has to be close to the pellets; where the fuel pellets comprise MOX (mixed oxide) fuel pellets, eg comprising mixtures of uranium and plutonium oxides, this may be unacceptable from a safety point of view;(c) the time and cost of the human work required to carry out the inspections is substantial.Optical techniques for automatically inspecting objects such as nuclear fuel pellets are known in the prior art. For example, Applicants' prior EP 0 583 092 Al describes such a technique using reflection of a laser beam spot by the inspected object. 

 One major problem which the known techniques using reflection of light are not capable of solving is that different surface flaw and defect types can reflect light in similar ways and this means that information about the defect or flaw provided by the reflected light may be limited. In some cases it may be difficult for the detection system to differentiate between different defect and flaw types or normal variation in surface appearance and flaws.According to the present invention there is provided an arrangement for inspecting the surface of a rotating object which includes object retaining means for retaining whilst rotating the object, means for irradiating the surface of an object when retained and rotated by the object retaining means with a first beam of optical radiation, means for irradiating the surface of an object when
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An arrangement for inspecting the surface of a rotating object which includes object retaining means for retaining whilst rotating the object, meanε for irradiating the εurface of an object.when retained and rotated by the object retaining meanε with a first beam of optical radiation, means for irradiating the surface of an object when retained and rotated by the object retaining means with a second beam of optical radiation detectable as distinct from the first beam, detector means for detecting radiation reflected by the surface of the object from the first beam and for detecting radiation reflected by the surface of the obj.ect from the second beam and a signal processor for receiving signals produced by the detector means and for analysing such signals wherein the first beam and the second beam are of different wavelengths or in different wavelength bands and the detector means is capable of simultaneously receiving and detecting radiation received from the same irradiated area of the surface of the object from both. the first beam and the second beam and producing a first output signal comprising components representing variations in reflection of the first beam from units of area within the said irradiated area of the object and a second output signal comprising components representing variations in reflection of the second beam from units of area within the said irradiated area of the object and wherein the signal processor is adapted to correlate components of the first output signal with the components of the second output signal whereby information about the reflectivity of units of area of the surface of the object is enhanced.
2. An arrangement as in Claim 1 and which includes one or more further means for irradiating the said surface each with a beam of optical radiatiorj o a different wavelength or in a different wavelength band detectable as distinct from the other beams, the detector means being capable of 


simultaneouεly detecting radiation reflected by the surface from the respective beams and producing for each further beam an output signal comprising components representing variations in reflection of the further beam from units of area within the said irradiated area of the object.
3. An arrangement as in Claim 1 or Claim 2 for inspecting the surface of an object to detect surface flaws such as cracks, chips, pits, inclusions and uncleaned surface areas on the surface of the object.
4. An arrangement as in Claim 1, 2 or 3 and including an object being inspected which comprises a right circular substantially cylindrical body.
5. An arrangement as in Claim 4 and wherein the object
'
 comprises a nuclear fuel pellet, the pellet being either a solid or hollow cylindrical body.
6. An arrangement as in Claim 5 and wherein the pellet is a MOX fuel pellet and is 
"
inside a sealed containment during inspection by the arrangement.
7. An arrangement as in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the said beams comprise light beams having different colours.
8. An arrangement as in any one of the preceding Claims and wherein the beams are arranged to form a co-incident line on the surface of the object.
9. An arrangement as in Claim 8 and wherein the detector means comprises a linescan photodetector capable of detecting light from different colour light sources reflected by the object.
10. An arrangement as in Claim 9 and wherein the photodetector is incorporated in a camera having a field of view restricted substantially to a line on the surface of an object under inspection, the line being illuminated co-incidentally with light of different colours from a plurality of light sources. 


11. An arrangement as in Claim 10 and wherein the object is being rotated about its own axiε whilst being illuminated with the said line.
12. An arrangement as in Claim 11 and wherein the object is also being translated in a direction substantially parallel to its axis.
13. An arrangement as in any one of the preceding Claims and which includes a signal processor for processing outputs of the detector means being output signals corresponding to detection of light of different colours reflected by an object under investigation, the processor being adapted to determine from said signalε defect types, and to determine the dimensions or sizes of detected defect types and to compare the determined dimensions and sizes with pre-recorded threshold values and where the dimensions or sizes exceed the respective threshold value to generate a reject signal. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
