<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999026568</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTHALMIC SURGICAL SYSTEM AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F9007	A61F9007	A61F9013	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A microkeratome for keratomileusis ophthalmic surgery having a base, a carriage mounted to the base and a cutting blade carried in the carriage. The carriage is guided for movement in an axial cutting direction and the cutting blade is movable in an oscillating motion transverse to the cutting direction. In addition, the carriage is movable in the cutting direction without imparting the oscillating motion to the cutting blade.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAWKEN IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAWKEN INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DYBBS ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DYBBS, ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPHTHALMIC SURGICAL SYSTEM AND METHODThis application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/066,725, filed November 21 , 1997.FIELD OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to an ophthalmic surgical system and method including a disposable surgical microkeratome and, more particularly, to a surgical system and method for using such a device in laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK).BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In the past thirty-five years, several opthalmic surgical methods and devices have been developed and increasingly are used to change the shape of the cornea to correct vision defects, including myopia, hyperopia and astigmatism.An early technique included a "primary keratectomy" in which an anterior corneal lenticle is removed by manually pushing a blade of a microkeratome across the cornea. Then a "refractive keratectomy" is performed, wherein an optic correction is carved in the surface of the lenticle with a lathe similar to a contact lens lathe. The lenticle is sutured back in place on the eye. When an even and smooth cut is achieved, the best and most predictable results are obtained. However, the manual microkeratomes are difficult to use and require some skill to propel the blade across the cornea in an even and smooth manner, thereby providing varying qualities of primary keratectomies based on the skill and experience of the surgeon. As a result, the predictability of the refractive correction was minimal. The methods and devices have evolved over the years to an automated, mechanical movement of the microkeratome blade across the cornea which provides a steady, even cut and which improves the predictability of the refractive correction. Furthermore, the lenticle is not completely severed from the cornea. Instead a flap is cut from the cornea, the back of the flap or the exposed stromal bed is sculpted in situ with a laser to provide the refractive 

correction, and the flap is replaced without sutures. This procedure is called laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK). LASIK greatly improves the predictability of the amount of change in refractive correction and greatly reduces the amount of time required for the cornea to heal. In addition, the patient experiences a relative lack of discomfort from this procedure.Unfortunately, problems still remain with some microkeratomes used to make the flap. Some existing microkeratomes still require the surgeon to estimate the length of the cut to make the flap because the cutting distance is not automated. Furthermore, generally
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A microkeratome for keratomileusis ophthalmic surgery comprising: a base, a carriage mounted to the base and a cutting blade carried in the carriage, the carriage being guided for movement in an axial cutting direction and the cutting blade being movable in an oscillating motion transverse to the cutting direction, wherein the carriage is movable in the cutting direction without imparting the oscillating motion to the cutting blade.
2. The microkeratome of claim 1 , wherein the movement of the carriage in the axial direction can be automated.
3. The microkeratome of claim 1 , wherein the carriage is connectable to an axial cable having a shaft movable within a sheath, the base includes an axial retaining clip which engages an axial cable fitting on the cable to hold the sheath such that movement of the shaft imparts movement to the carriage relative to the base.
4. The microkeratome of claim 1 , wherein the base includes at least one guide to retain the carriage adjacent the base and to direct the axial movement of the carriage.
5. The microkeratome of claim 1 , wherein the base has an opening extending from a top surface of the base to a suction chamber on a bottom side of the base, the suction chamber being adapted to be seated on an eye such that at least a portion of a cornea of the eye passes through the opening and protrudes above the top surface of the base 

6. The microkeratome of claim 5, wherein the base includes a fixture having a passage therethrough to the suction chamber, the fixture being connectable to a vacuum source.
7. A microkeratome as set forth in claim 1 , wherein the carriage includes a cutting head having an angled bottom surface with a transverse slot opening thereto, at least one recess in the angled bottom surface and a back surface with a passage extending therethrough to communicate with the transverse slot; a blade holder having a vertical slot and being received in the transverse slot of the cutting head for transverse movement therein, a portion of the blade holder extending below the bottom surface of the cutting head; the cutting blade having a cutting edge and a central opening, the blade holder engaging the central opening in the cutting blade for transverse movement therewith; a wedge having an angled top surface substantially parallel to the angled bottom surface of the cutting head with at least one protrusion extending therefrom to engage the at least one recess in the cutting head and hold the wedge against the cutting head and thereby retain the blade holder and cutting blade; wherein the vertical slot in the blade holder communicates with the passage in the cutting head for receiving an eccentric on an end of a rotating chaft to convert rotational motion into a transverse oscillating motion of the blade holder and the cutting blade; and wherein the cutting assembly is adapted to receive a connection to an axial shaft for moving the cutting assembly across the base.
8. The microkeratome of claim 7, wherein the transverse slot is perpendicular to the angled bottom surface of the cutting head and the passage through the cutting head is parallel to the angled bottom surface. 

9. The microkeratome of claim 7, wherein the carriage is adapted to receive a coupling adjacent the passage through the cutting head to retain the eccentric therein.
10. The microkeratome of claim 1 , wherein substantially all of the microkeratome is molded from a substantially transparent material.
11. A system for keratomileusis ophthalmic surgery comprising: a microkeratome for cutting a section of a cornea of an eye including a base, a carriage mounted to the base and a cutting blade carried in the carriage, the carriage being guided for movement in an axial direction; and a control assembly for controlling the microkeratome, the control assembly including an axial drive for generating linear movement, the axial drive being connected to the microkeratome to impart axial movement to the carriage in an axial direction relative to the base, a rotary drive for generating rotational movement independently of the axial drive, the rotary drive being connected to the microkeratome to impart an oscillating movement to the cutting blade transverse to the axial direction, a controller which controls the axial drive and the rotary drive.
12. The system of claim 11 , wherein the carriage is connectable to an axial cable having a shaft movable within a sheath, the base includes an axial retaining clip which engages an axial cable fitting on the cable to hold the sheath such that movement of the shaft imparts movement to the carriage relative to the base. 


13. The system of claim 12, wherein the axial shaft is connected to the carriage with a coupling that permits the axial cable to rotate without imparting torque to the carriage.
14. The system of claim 11 , wherein the control assembly includes a suction device for supplying suction pressure to the microkeratome, the suction device being connected to the microkeratome for generating a partial vacuum in a suction chamber mounted to the base to maintain a position of the base relative to an eye.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the suction device includes a suction pump which is connected to the base of the microkeratome through a fixture having a passage therethrough to the suction chamber.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the controller stops operation of the axial drive and the rotary drive if the suction pressure drops below a predetermined value.
17. The system of claim 11 , wherein the microkeratome is selected from a plurality of microkeratomes which provide for respective different depths of cut.
18. The system of claim 11 , wherein the microkeratome is disposable and the control assembly is reusable.
19. The system of claim 11 , wherein the control assembly further includes a slide member connected to the axial drive and the rotary drive, the slide member being movable through a range of linear motion by the axial drive; wherein the rotary drive is mounted on the slide member for movement therewith; 


 wherein the slide member is connected to the microkeratome through an axial shaft; and wherein the rotary drive is connected to the microkeratome through a rotary shaft.
5
20. The system of claim 11 , wherein the carriage includes a cutting head, a blade holder, and a wedge; wherein the cutting head has an angled bottom surface with a transverse slot opening thereto, at least one recess therein and a back surface with a o passage extending therethrough to the transverse slot; wherein the blade holder has a vertical slot in a side thereof, the blade holder being received in the transverse slot for transverse movement therein with a portion of the blade holder extending below the bottom surface of the cutting head; s wherein the cutting blade has a cutting edge and a central opening, the blade holder engaging the central opening in the cutting blade for transverse movement therewith; wherein the wedge has an angled top surface substantially parallel to the angled bottom surface of the cutting head with at least one protrusion extending o therefrom to engage the at least one recess in the cutting head and hold the wedge against the cutting head and thereby retain the blade holder and blade; wherein the rotary shaft has an eccentric on an end thereof which communicates with the vertical slot in the blade holder and cooperates therewith to convert the rotational motion of the rotary shaft into a transverse oscillating 5 motion of the cutting blade; and wherein the axial shaft is connected to the carriage to impart axial movement thereto. 

21. The system of claim 20, wherein the transverse slot is perpendicular to the angled bottom surface of the cutting head and the passage through the cutting head is parallel to the angled bottom surface.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the carriage is adapted to receive a coupling adjacent the passage through the cutting head to retain the eccentric therein.
23. A method for keratomileusis opthalmic surgery, comprising: linearly advancing a cutting blade of a microkeratome from an initial position in an axial direction while simultaneously oscillating the cutting blade in a direction transverse to the axial direction; stopping the linear advance and transverse oscillation of the cutting blade at an end position which is removed from the initial position; and linearly retracting the cutting blade to the initial position without imparting transverse oscillation to the blade.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein stopping the linear advance and transverse oscillation of the cutting blade occurs automatically at a predetermined distance from the initial position.
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising: connecting an axial drive to the microkeratome to advance and retract the cutting blade; connecting a rotary drive to the microkeratome to oscillate the cutting blade; applying the microkeratome to an eye; and controlling the axial drive independent of the rotary drive. 

26. The method of claim 25, wherein connecting the axial drive to the microkeratome includes connecting an axial cable to the microkeratome, the microkeratome including a base and a carriage mounted on the base, the carriage carrying the cutting blade, the base including an anchor, the axial cable having an axial shaft which is movable within a sheath; and connecting the axial cable to the microkeratome includes connecting the axial shaft to the carriage and connecting the axial cable to the anchor to hold the sheath.
27. The method of claim 23, further comprising selecting one of a plurality of microkeratomes which provide for respective depths of cut.
28. The method of claim 23, further comprising disposing of a first microkeratome following a first operation and selecting a second microkeratome for a subsequent operation.
29. The method of claim 23, further comprising retaining the position of the microkeratome relative to an eye with a suction device that supplies suction pressure to the microkeratome to create a partial vacuum between the microkeratome and the eye.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising automatically stopping the cutting blade when the suction device fails to maintain a predetermined level of suction pressure.
31. The method of claim 23, wherein stopping includes stopping the linear advance of the cutting blade at an end position which is a less than three quarters of a distance across a cornea of an eye.
32. A method for keratomileusis opthalmic surgery, comprising: 


 connecting a disposable microkeratome to a control unit operative to drive and control a cutting action of the microkeratome; using the microkeratome to at least partially remove a section of a patient's cornea; and discarding the microkeratome after use with a single patient.
33. A microkeratome comprising a base, a carriage mounted to the base for movement, and a cutting blade carried by the carriage for movement therewith, wherein the base and carriage are formed of a molded transparent plastic material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
