<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998040518</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NUCLEIC ACID INDEXING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A restriction site indexing method for selectively amplifying any fragment generated by a Class II restriction enzyme includes adaptors specific to fragment ends containing adaptor indexing sequences complementary to fragment indexing sequences near the termini of fragments generated by Class II enzyme cleavage. A method for combinatorial indexing facilitates amplification of restriction fragments whose sequence is not known. Profiling methods and other methods for characterizing polynucleotides are presented.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GUILFOYLE RICHARD A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GUO ZHEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WISCONSIN ALUMNI RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GUILFOYLE, RICHARD, A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GUO, ZHEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WISCONSIN ALUMNI RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUILFOYLE RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUO ZHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUILFOYLE, RICHARD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUO, ZHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NUCLEIC ACID INDEXINGCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application claims priority to U.S. application serial number 08/815,448 filed March 11, 1997, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is known in the art of molecular biology that a nucleic acid fragment lying between two identified and unique primer sequences can be amplified using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or modifications of the PCR. PCR avoids conventional molecular cloning techniques that require the existence in nucleic acid of advantageous restriction endonuclease cleavage sites. One identified shortcoming of PCR is that fragments greater than about 40 kilobase pairs between the PCR primers are only weakly amplified. It has been difficult to obtain meaningful sequence data from large genomic fragments, particularly when such fragments are resistant to traditional cloning methods. Thus, the art is seeking new methods to obtain the nucleic acid sequences of long, uncharacterized regions of genetic material.Efforts to amplify a specific DNA cleavage fragment from a population of such fragments have included methods that involve cleaving the DNA using Class IIS enzymes or interrupted palindrome enzymes to form fragments having non-specific terminal 5 ' or 3 ' overhangs of various lengths (generally 2 to 5 bases). Smith, D.R., PCR Methods and Applications 2:21-27, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (1992); Unrau, P. and K. Deugau, Gene 145:163-169 (1994); US Patent Number 5,508,169 (Deugau et al . ) ; Zheleznaya, L.A. et al . , Biochemistry (Moscow) 60:1037-1043 (1995). Class IIS enzymes cleave DNA asymmetrically at precise distances from their recognition 

sequences. Interrupted palindrome ("IP") enzymes cleave symmetrically between a pair of interrupted palindromic binding sites. To amplify the products of such cleavages, nucleic acid indexing linkers, containing protruding single strands complementary to the cohesive ends of Class IIS- or IP cleavage sites (rather than recognition sequences) and PCR primer sites, have been annealed and ligated to fragments generated by Class IIS- or IP cleavage.The overhangs vary in base composition, and are determined by the locations of the enzymes' cleavage sites in a genome. The base composition and sequence of the overhang created after cleavage with a Class IIS or IP enzyme cannot be predicted because the sites at which those enzymes cleave DNA are determined by spatial relationship to the recognition sequence, but are not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
WE CLAIM:
1. A method for indexing polynucleotides, comprising the steps of :
(A) combining under base-pairing conditions: (i) one or more distinguishable sets of indexing adaptors, each adaptor comprising at least one terminus having a single-stranded region characterized by, in non- overlapping order inward from the end: (a) an indexing sequence n bases long and (b) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, wherein n is an integer and wherein further each set of adaptors comprises one or more indexing sequences, and
(ii) one or more corresponding polynucleotides, each of which comprises at least one terminus characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end: (a) a region having a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease and (b) a double-stranded region having on one strand a sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of an adaptor and on the other strand a sequence complementary thereto;
(B) base-pairing at least one adaptor terminus and at least one corresponding polynucleotide terminus to form at least one strand-displaced structure wherein the indexing sequence of the single-stranded region of the adaptor terminus is base-paired with the sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of the terminus of the corresponding polynucleotide, and the complementary sequence on the other strand of the polynucleotide terminus is displaced from base- pairing thereto; (C) for each adaptor set, distinguishing the corresponding polynucleotides that form strand-displaced structures, thereby indexing the polynucleotides by their base- pairing to the distinguishable sets of adaptors.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein n is 1 to 4. 

3. A method according to claim 2 wherein n is 2, 3 or 4.
4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the indexing adaptors in all the sets of adaptors together comprise all possible sequences of A, T, G and C n bases long.
5. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of ligating, in a strand-displaced structure, the end of the adaptor strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the corresponding polynucleotide.
6. A method according to claim 1, wherein one or more adaptors further comprise a sequence for amplification.
7. A method according to claim 1, wherein strand- displaced structures are formed at both ends of at least one corresponding polynucleotide.
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the adaptor at each terminus of at least one corresponding polynucleotide further comprises at least one sequence for amplification by PCR.
9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising the step of ligating, in the strand-displaced structure of each terminus of at least one polynucleotide, the end of the adaptor strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the corresponding polynucleotide.
10. A method according to claim 9, further comprising the step of amplifying by PCR corresponding polynucleotides having adaptor strands ligated to each terminus, using the adaptor sequences for amplification. 

11. A method according to claim 6, further comprising the step of amplifying at least one polynucleotide using primers defined by the sequence for amplification.
12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease has a 3 ' -terminated single-stranded region.
13. A method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease has a 5 ' -terminated single-stranded region.
14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease has a blunt end. 

15. A method for characterizing a population of polynucleotides, comprising the steps of:
(A) combining under base-pairing conditions:
(i) one or more distinguishable sets of indexing adaptors, each adaptor comprising at least one terminus having a single-stranded region characterized by, in non- overlapping order inward from the end: (a) an indexing sequence n bases long and (b) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, wherein n is an integer and wherein further each set of adaptors comprises one or more indexing sequences, and
(ii) a population of polynucleotides that includes one or more corresponding polynucleotides, each of which comprises at least one terminus characterized by, in non- overlapping order inward from the end: (a) a region having a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease and (b) a double-stranded region having on one strand a sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of an adaptor and on the other strand a sequence complementary thereto; (B) base-pairing at least one adaptor terminus to at least one corresponding polynucleotide terminus to form at least one strand-displaced structure wherein the indexing sequence of the single-stranded region of the adaptor terminus is base-paired with the sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of the terminus of the corresponding polynucleotide, and the complementary sequence on the other strand of the polynucleotide terminus is displaced from base- pairing thereto;
(C) for each adaptor set, determining one or more corresponding polynucleotides that form strand-displaced structures, or the absence thereof;
(D) characterizing the population of polynucleotides by the corresponding polynucleotides that form strand-displaced structures, or the absence thereof. 

16. A method according to claim 15, wherein n is 1 to 5.
17. A method according to claim 15, wherein the population is a population of cDNAs or other polynucleotides representative of mRNAs .
18. A method according to claim 17, wherein the characterization is indicative of gene expression in a sample from which the population was derived.
19. A method according to claim 15, wherein the population is a population of genomic DNAs or polynucleotides representative of genomic DNAs.
20. A method according to claim 19, wherein the characterization comprises characterizing mutations or the absence thereof in: (a) the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease; (b) the indexing sequence or both (a) and (b) of one or more corresponding polynucleotides in the population.
21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the absence or presence of a mutation thus characterized in one or more corresponding polynucleotides is diagnostic of a potential to develop one or more diseases, or of one or more diseases.
22. A method according to claim 15, further comprising the step of ligating, in a strand-displaced structure, the end of the adaptor-strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the corresponding polynucleotide.
23. A method according to claim 15, wherein one or more adaptors further comprise a sequence for amplification. 

24. A method according to claim 15, wherein strand- displaced structures are formed at both ends of at least one corresponding polynucleotide.
25. A method according to claim 24, wherein the adaptor at each terminus of at least one corresponding polynucleotide further comprises at least one sequence for amplification by PCR.
26. A method according to claim 25, further comprising the step of ligating, in the strand-displaced structure of each terminus of at least one polynucleotide, the end of the adaptor strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the corresponding polynucleotide.
27. A method according to claim 26, further comprising the step of amplifying by PCR corresponding polynucleotides having adaptor strands ligated to each terminus, using the adaptor sequences for amplification either as a primer or as a primer binding site.
28. A method according to claim 15, further comprising, for at least one adaptor set, resolving from one another at least two corresponding polynucleotides that form strand- displaced structures . 

29. A method according to claim 28, wherein the population is a population of cDNAs or other polynucleotides representative of mRNAs in a sample, the size and the quantity of the separated corresponding polynucleotides is determined, each separated corresponding polynucleotide is identified by the indexing sequence and the Class II restriction endonuclease characteristic sequence of the adaptor set with which it formed a strand-displaced structure and by its size, and the quantities of the thus identified corresponding polynucleotides for at least two adaptor sets provides a profile of gene expression in the source from which the cDNA was derived.
30. A method according to claim 28, wherein corresponding polynucleotides for at least one set of adaptors are resolved by size by electrophoresis.
31. A method according to claim 29, wherein the sequences characteristic of a Class II restriction endonuclease and the indexing sequences of the adaptor sets together subdivide the cDNAs or other polynucleotides representative of the mRNAs into sets of corresponding polynucleotides in each of which corresponding polynucleotides can be individually differentiated by electrophoresis.
32. A method for comparing mRNA in two or more samples, comprising the steps of claim 29 to generate a profile of gene expression of a first sample and, independently, a profile of gene expression in a second sample and comparing the profiles of the first and second samples.
33. A set of adaptors, each adaptor comprising at least one terminus having a single-stranded region characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end: (a) an indexing sequence n bases long and (b) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, wherein n is an integer, the set of adaptors comprising adaptors with at least two of the possible indexing sequences n bases long. 

34. A set of adaptors according to claim 33, wherein n is
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
35. A set of adaptors according to claim 34, wherein n is
2, 3 or 4.
36. A set of adaptors according to claim 33, wherein the bases are A, C, G and T.
37. A set of adaptors according to claim 33, wherein the bases are selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, T and modified bases.
38. A set of adaptors according to claim 33, comprising adaptors with all possible indexing sequences of A, C, G or T n bases long.
39. A set of adaptors according to claim 38, wherein n is 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
40. A set of adaptors according to claim 39, wherein n is 2, 3 or 4.
41. A set of adaptors according to claim 33, comprising adaptors with all possible indexing sequences n bases long, the bases being one or more of the group consisting of A, C, G, T and modified bases . 

42. A method for amplifying a polynucleotide, comprising the steps of:
(A) combining under base-pairing conditions:
(1) an adaptor comprising: (a) at least one terminus having a single-stranded region characterized by, in non- overlapping order inward from the end, (i) a sequence n bases long for base-pairing to one or more polynucleotides, where n is an integer and (ii) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, and (b) a region comprising a sequence for amplifying a polynucleotide, and
(2) a polynucleotide comprising at least one terminus characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end, (a) a region having a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease and (b) a double-stranded region having on one strand a sequence that base-pairs with the single- stranded adaptor sequence for base-pairing with a polynucleotide, and on the other strand a sequence complementary thereto; (B) base-pairing the single-stranded adaptor sequence for base-pairing to one or more polynucleotides with the polynucleotide sequence that base-pairs therewith and displacing the complementary sequence on the other strand of the polynucleotide terminus; (C) ligating the end of the adaptor strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the polynucleotide; and
(D) amplifying the polynucleotide using the adaptor sequence for amplifying a polynucleotide.
43. A method according to claim 42, wherein the sequence for amplifying a polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting of a primer for elongating a template by a DNA polymerase and a sequence complementary to a primer for elongating a template by a DNA polymerase. 

44. A method according to 43, wherein adaptors are ligated at both ends of the polynucleotide and exponential amplification of the polynucleotide is carried out by PCR using primers defined by the sequences of the adaptors for amplifying a polynucleotide.
45. A method according to claim 42, wherein more than two adaptors each having a different sequence for base-pairing with a polynucleotide are used to base pair specifically to different polynucleotides in a population of polynucleotides.
46. A method according to claim 42, wherein an adaptor is ligated to each end of the polynucleotides and exponential amplification of the polynucleotides is carried out by PCR using primers defined by the sequences for amplification of the adaptors .
47. A method according to claim 46, wherein the sequences of the adaptors for base-pairing to one or more polynucleotides together comprise all sequences of A, C, G, and T n bases long. 

48. A method for isolating a polynucleotide, comprising the steps of :
(A) combining under base-pairing conditions:
(1) an adaptor comprising: (a) at least one terminus having a single-stranded region characterized by, in non- overlapping order inward from the end, (i) a sequence n bases long for base-pairing to one or more polynucleotides, where n is an integer and (ii) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, and (b) a region comprising a sequence for amplifying a polynucleotide, and
(2) a polynucleotide comprising at least one terminus characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end, (a) a region having a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease and (b) a double-stranded region having on one strand a sequence that base-pairs with the single- stranded adaptor sequence for base-pairing with a polynucleotide, and on the other strand a sequence complementary thereto; (B) base-pairing the single-stranded adaptor sequence for base-pairing to a polynucleotide with the polynucleotide sequence that base -pairs therewith and displacing the complementary sequence on the other strand of the polynucleotide terminus; (C) ligating the end of the adaptor strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the polynucleotide;
(D) amplifying the polynucleotide using the adaptor sequence for amplifying a polynucleotide; and (E) isolating the amplified polynucleotide.
49. A method according to claim 48, wherein the sequence for amplifying a polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting of a primer for elongating a template by a DNA polymerase and a sequence complementary to a primer for elongating a template by a DNA polymerase. 

50. A method according to 49, wherein adaptors are ligated at both ends of the polynucleotide and exponential amplification of the polynucleotide is carried out by PCR using primers defined by the sequences of the adaptors for amplifying a polynucleotide.
51. A method according to claim 48, wherein two or more adaptors each having a different sequence for base-pairing with a polynucleotide are used to base pair specifically to two or more different polynucleotides in a population of polynucleotides .
52. A method according to claim 51, wherein an adaptor is ligated to each end of the polynucleotides and exponential amplification of the polynucleotides is carried out by PCR using primers defined by the sequences of the adaptors for amplifying a polynucleotide.
53. A method according to claim 48, wherein the amplified polynucleotide is resolved from other polynucleotides by gel electrophoresis and then eluted from the gel.
54. A method according to claim 48, further comprising the step of cloning the amplified polynucleotide. 

55. One or more kits together comprising a plurality of adaptors, wherein:
(A) each adaptor comprises at least one terminus having a single-stranded region characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end, (a) an indexing sequence n bases long wherein n is an integer, and (b) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, and
(B) the plurality of adaptors comprises for each given sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease at least one adaptor having at least one specific indexing sequence.
56. A kit or kits according to claim 55, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease is selected from the group consisting of a sequence having a 5 ' overhang and a sequence having a 3 ' overhang.
57. A kit or kits according to claim 56, wherein the Class II restriction endonuclease is selected from the group consisting of Bell, Notl, DpnII, BamHI , Hindlll, Avrll, ApaLI , Kpnl, Sphl , Nsil, and Sad .
58. A kit or kits according to claim 56, wherein n is 1,
2 or 3.
59. A kit or kits according to claim 56, wherein the plurality of adaptors comprises a set of adaptors with indexing sequences that base-pair with each sequence n bases long of A, C, G, and T, where n is an integer. 

60. A kit or kits according to claim 59, wherein the base-pairing specificity of each base of the adaptor indexing sequences is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, T, Py, Pu and N, wherein Py denotes base pairing to A and G, Pu denotes base-pairing to C and T and N denotes base-pairing to A, C, G and T.
61. A kit or kits according to claim 60, wherein the bases of the indexing sequences are selected from the group consisting of A, C, T, G and X, where X is a nucleoside other than A, C, T or G that can form specific base-pairs with A, C, G or T in DNA.
62. A kit or kits according to 61, wherein X contains the modified base 3 ' -nitropyrrole or the modified base 5 ' - nitroindole .
63. A kit or kits according to claim 61, wherein the plurality of adaptors comprises a set of adaptors having each indexing sequence n bases long of A, C, G and T, where n is an integer. 

64. A method for indexing polynucleotides, comprising the steps of :
(A) combining under base-pairing conditions:
(i) one or more distinguishable sets of indexing adaptors, each adaptor comprising a sequence for amplification and at least one terminus having a single- stranded region characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end: (a) an indexing sequence n bases long and (b) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, wherein n is an integer and wherein further each set of adaptors comprises one or more indexing sequences, and
(ii) one or more corresponding polynucleotides, each of which comprises at least one terminus characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end: (a) a region having a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease and (b) a double-stranded region having on one strand a sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of an adaptor and on the other strand a sequence complementary thereto; (B) base-pairing at least one adaptor terminus and at least one corresponding polynucleotide terminus to form at least one strand-displaced structure wherein the indexing sequence of the single-stranded region of the adaptor terminus is base-paired with the sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of the terminus of the corresponding polynucleotide, and the complementary sequence on the other strand of the polynucleotide terminus is displaced from base- pairing thereto;
(C) for each adaptor set, amplifying the corresponding polynucleotides that form strand-displaced structures using the sequence for amplification; and
(D) distinguishing the amplified corresponding polynucleotides thereby indexing the polynucleotides by their base-pairing to the distinguishable sets of adaptors.
65. A method according to claim 64, wherein n is 1 to 4. 

66. A method according to claim 65 wherein n is 2, 3 or
4.
67. A method according to claim 64, wherein the indexing adaptors in all the sets of adaptors together comprise all possible sequences of A, T, G and C n bases long.
68. A method according to claim 64, wherein the sequence for amplification is selected from a group consisting of a PCR primer, a T3 promoter, a T7 promoter, an SP6 promoter, and a sequence complementary to any of the same .
69. A method according to claim 64, wherein the amplification is an exponential amplification.
70. A method according to claim 64, further comprising the step of ligating, in a strand-displaced structure, the end of the adaptor strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the corresponding polynucleotide.
71. A method according to claim 70, wherein strand- displaced structures are formed at both ends of at least one corresponding polynucleotide.
72. A method according to claim 71, wherein the sequence for amplification is a PCR primer.
73. A method according to claim 64, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease has a 3 ' -terminated single- stranded region.
74. A method according to claim 64, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease has a 5 ' -terminated single-stranded region. 

75. A method according to claim 64, wherein the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease has a blunt end.
76. A method for characterizing a population of polynucleotides, comprising the steps of: (A) combining under base-pairing conditions:
(i) one or more distinguishable sets of indexing adaptors, each adaptor comprising a sequence for amplification and at least one terminus having a single- stranded region characterized by, in non-overlapping order inward from the end: (a) an indexing sequence n bases long and (b) a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease, wherein n is an integer and wherein further each set of adaptors comprises one or more indexing sequences, and (ii) a population of polynucleotides that includes one or more corresponding polynucleotides, each of which comprises at least one terminus characterized by, in non- overlapping order inward from the end: (a) a region having a sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease and (b) a double-stranded region having on one strand a sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of an adaptor and on the other strand a sequence complementary thereto;
(B) base-pairing at least one adaptor terminus to at least one corresponding polynucleotide terminus to form at least one strand-displaced structure wherein the indexing sequence of the single-stranded region of the adaptor terminus is base-paired with the sequence that base-pairs with an indexing sequence of the terminus of the corresponding polynucleotide, and the complementary sequence on the other strand of the polynucleotide terminus is displaced from base- pairing thereto;
(C) for each adaptor set, amplifying corresponding polynucleotides that form strand-displaced structures using the sequence for amplification; 


 (D) determining one or more amplified corresponding polynucleotides or the absence thereof; and
(E) characterizing the population of polynucleotides by the amplified corresponding polynucleotides that form strand- displaced structures using the sequence for amplification, or the absence thereof.
77. A method according to claim 76, wherein n is 1 to 5.
78. A method according to claim 76, wherein the population is a population of cDNAs or other polynucleotides representative of mRNAs.
79. A method according to claim 78, wherein the characterization is indicative of gene expression in a sample from which the population was derived.
80. A method according to claim 76, wherein the population is a population of genomic DNAs or polynucleotides representative of genomic DNAs.
81. A method according to claim 80, wherein the characterization comprises characterizing mutations or the absence thereof in: (a) the sequence characteristic of cleavage by a Class II restriction endonuclease; (b) the indexing sequence or both (a) and (b) of one or more corresponding polynucleotides in the population.
82. A method according to claim 81, wherein the absence or presence of a mutation thus characterized in one or more corresponding polynucleotides is diagnostic of a potential to develop one or more diseases, or of one or more diseases.
83. A method according to claim 76, further comprising the step of ligating, in a strand-displaced structure, the end of the adaptor-strand comprising the indexing sequence to the end of the abutting strand of the double-stranded region of the 


corresponding polynucleotide.
84. A method according to claim 83, wherein strand- displaced structures are formed at both ends of at least one corresponding polynucleotide.
85. A method according to claim 84, wherein the sequence for amplification is a PCR primer.
86. A method according to claim 85, further comprising the step of amplifying by PCR corresponding polynucleotides having adaptor strands ligated to each terminus, using the sequences for amplification either as a primer or as a primer binding site.
87. A method according to claim 76, further comprising, for at least one adaptor set, resolving from one another at least two corresponding polynucleotides that form strand- displaced structures.
88. A method according to claim 87, wherein the population is a population of cDNAs or other polynucleotides representative of mRNAs in a sample, the size and the quantity of the separated corresponding polynucleotides is determined, each separated corresponding polynucleotide is identified by the indexing sequence and the Class II restriction endonuclease characteristic sequence of the adaptor set with which it formed a strand-displaced structure and by its size, and the quantities of the thus identified corresponding polynucleotides for at least two adaptor sets provides a profile of gene expression in the source from which the cDNA was derived.
89. A method according to claim 88, wherein corresponding polynucleotides for at least one set of adaptors are resolved by size by electrophoresis. 

90. A method according to claim 88, wherein the sequences characteristic of a Class II restriction endonuclease and the indexing sequences of the adaptor sets together subdivide the cDNAs or other polynucleotides representative of the mRNAs into sets of corresponding polynucleotides in each of which corresponding polynucleotides can be individually differentiated by electrophoresis.
91. A method for comparing mRNA in two or more samples, comprising the steps of claim 88 to generate a profile of gene expression of a first sample and, independently, a profile of gene expression in a second sample and comparing the profiles of the first and second samples.
92. A method according to claim 76, wherein the sequence for amplification is selected from a group consisting of a PCR primer, a T3 promoter, a T7 promoter, an SP6 promoter, and a sequence complementary to same. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
