<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1996019378</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION OF SHIP-BORNE GOODS UNITS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B2500	B63B2522	B63B2700	B63B2716	B65G100	B65G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	B63B	B63B	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B25	B63B25	B63B27	B63B27	B65G1	B65G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a distribution method in passenger vessels, car ferries and similar vessels comprising a number of passenger cabins (2a) and at least one vertical conveyor (1) suitable for transportation of goods and opening to decks containing cabins in order to transport goods units (5) needed in cabins or other ways in numerous similar operation sites (2) within the ship at least between operation sites and ship's loading port (4a) or collection site (4) comprising storage room or centralized handling plant (4) for goods. The distribution method comprises following stages: in the collecting site (4) the goods units (5) are placed onto the transport pallet (6); the transport pallets with their goods units are moved by means of the platform of the ship's internal vertical conveyor to the ship's deck (K), where at least a part of the operation sites (2) are located. If need be, the goods units (5) are transported in reverse direction from the operation sites (2) to the collecting site (4) by means of collecting procedures realized in reverse order.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAPELI PEKKA E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAPELI, PEKKA, E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAPELI PEKKA E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAPELI, PEKKA, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Transport and distribution of ship-borne goods unitsThe present invention relates to a distribution method in passenger vessels, car ferries and corresponding vessels, compricing a number of passenger cabins as well as at least one vertical conveyor able to goods transportation and having access to cabin floors, in order to facilitate the transportation of goods units to cabins or otherways to several corresponding operational sites onboard at least between these operational sites and ship entrance or goods store room or collecting site for centralized goods handling. The invention also relates to the structure of transport pallet to be used in this distribution method as well as to conveyor arrangement for putting into effect the shifting phases included in this distribution method.Large passenger cruisers and car ferries are nowadays taking onboard as much as 2500 passengers and even larger units are yet projected. People going to a cruise or voyage in most cases have a great deal of luggage, because lots of different outfits and travelling requisites are needed or they for other reasons have plenty of luggage. Nowadays the shifting of luggage onboard the ship in most cases takes place as a result of the passenger's own physical effort, i.e. by carrying. This is awkward often even painful for every passenger and especially for older and/or disabled persons. Alternatively passengers can use services provided by porters but even then the shifting of luggage is realized as a result of physical labor. In the previous case the service level to the passenger is nonexistent and in the latter case a very remarkable number of porters is needed for a short period of time. During the voyage there is a need for change of linen in the cabins, which further requires essentially shifting equipment and personnel to collect the used linen and to distribute the clean linen so that these operations can be carried out without disturbing the passengers in a short time period and possibly at wished time. During the voyage it is also needed to shift goods from store rooms to galleys, shops and kiosks and to return empty packing material to store rooms and garbage rooms. There is further need at least to some extent to transport food from the galley to cabins and empty used dishes to reversed direction. All this requires labor and transportation and transporting equipment. Because the cabins, kiosks, and shops and other corresponding sites onboard the ship are mostly situated on different decks than the storerooms, ship
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. Distribution method in passenger ships, car ferries and in corresponding vessels compricing a number of passenger cabins (2a) and at least one vertical conveyor (1) suitable to goods transportation and opening to the decks containing cabins, in order to transport goods units (5) needed in cabins or otherways in numerous similar operation sites (2) at least within the ship between operation sites and ship's loading port (4a) or collection site (4) compricing storage room or centralized handling plant (4b) for goods, characterised in that the distribution method comprices following stages:
- in the collecting site (4) goods units (5) are placed onto transport pallet (6);
- the transport pallets with their goods units are moved with the platform of the internal vertical conveyor (1) onto the ship's deck (K), where at least a part of the operation sites (2) are located; - goods units (5) are unloaded from the transport pallet to operation sites (2); and
- if need be, the same or other goods units (5) are transported in opposite direction from operation sites (2) to collecting sites (4) by means of collecting procedures realized in reversed order to those defined above.
2. Distribution method according to claim 1, characterized in that the goods units (1) are luggage units, linen, food stuff units or alike and that the transport pallet (6) has a surface area accommodating on an average 5 to 20 luggage units, like suit cases placed side by side on it.
3. Distribution method according to claim 1, characterized in that the distribution method in addition contains a stage, where the transport pallets (6) loaded with goods units will be connected (1 1) together by their brims to form bundles of pallets (7), that the goods units are moved in form of these bundles of pallets at least to cabin decks (K4-K8), where the bundles of pallets are disconnected to transport pallets loaded with goods units, and that the bundle of pallets (7) comprices at least two and advantageously from three to five transport pallets.
4. Distribution method according to claim 1 or 3, characterized in that the distribution method in addition comprices following stages:
- pallets (6) or bundles of pallets (7) are placed side by side onto the transport platform (3), whereupon transport platform has a surface area accommodating at least two, advantageously from 3 to five pallets or bundles of pallets; 


- pallets (6) or bundles of pallets (7) on this transport platform are moved from the quay through the loading port (4a) of the ship next to the vertical conveyor (1);
- pallets (6) or bundles of pallets (7) are moved one by one from the transport platform onto the platform (10) of the vertical conveyor and further at least to cabin decks (K4 to K8).
5. Distribution method according to claim 1 or 3, characterized in that the cabin decks and /or other decks of the ship (K) are compricing a cloakroom (8) next to the vertical conveyor (1), which has a surface area not less than that of a transport pallet (6) and advantageously not less than that of a bundle of pallets (7), and that the transport pallets are moved from the platform (10) of the vertical conveyor directly into this cloakroom before the goods units (5) are unloaded from the transport platform.
6. Distribution method according to claim 1, characterized in that the transport pallet (6) on deck (K) containing the actual collecting site (4) will be taken from a location, where transport pallets have been stored after the completed operation in reversed direction, goods units (5) are collected onto the transport pallet from this collecting site, like loundry, galley, store room or other service or handling plant (4b) and the transport pallet with it's goods units is moved by means of a conveyor or powered separate conveyor device onto the platform (10) of the vertical conveyor (1) for further transport to operation sites (2).
7. Distribution method according to claim 1, characterized in that the transport pallet (6) with it's goods units is moved along the cabing deck or correspondingly along other decks (K4 to K8) containing operation sites by means of a powered separate conveyor device (20) and at the same time the goods units (5) are unloaded from the transport pallet, each to respective operation site (2), like cabin (2a), sales office (2b) or alike, after which the empty transport pallet is stored within the deck in question for the coming operation in reversed direction.
8. Distribution method according to claim 1, characterized in that the distribution method in addition comprices in the collecting site (4) and correspondingly on ship's deck containing operation sites (2) the following stages: - a casing (16) is placed on top of the transport pallet (6) loaded with goods units and the said casing is resting on the first lower transport pallet (6a) compricing an upper part (17); - a second transport pallet (6b) is placed on top of the upper part; and 


- goods units (5) are placed onto this second transport pallet; and
- if need be, another casing and possibly further transport pallets and upper parts are placed on top of this said second transport pallet (6b).
9. Distribution method according to claim 7 or 8, characterized in that on the cabin deck or on a similar other deck (K) containing operation sites (2) and correspondingly in a collecting site (4):
- the said second transport pallet (6b) with it's goods units is first moved by means of a powered separate conveyor device (20) in order to facilitate unloading of the goods units (5) on it to the respective operation sites (2) or correspondingly the goods units are removed in a collecting site;
- the said casing (16) is demounted and stored (12) for the coming operation in reversed direction ; and
- the first transport pallet (6a) with it's goods units is moved onto the powered separate conveyor device (20) in order to facilitate unloading of goods units (5) on it to the respective operation sites (2) or correspondingly the the goods units are removed in a collecting site.
10. Distribution method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the goods units (5) are placed mainly side by side onto the transport pallet (6), whose length (LI) in first direction (DI) is greater than it's width (WI), that the transport pallets are connected together one after the other in second direction (D2) to form the said bundle of pallets (7), that the bundles of pallets are placed side by side onto the transport platform (3) one after the other in the third direction (D3) and that the first and the third directions are running parallel and the second direction is perpendicular to them.
1 1. Distribution method according to claim 10, characterized in that the bundles of pallets (7) are moved onto the Transport platform (3) and away from it in the said second direction (D2), onto the platform (10) of the vertical conveyor and from it depending on the respective ship's deck either in the said second direction or in the fourth direction (D4) perpendicular to it.
12. Distribution method according to claim 5, characterized in that at least when the ship is loaded and respectively unloaded in harbor, a part of pallets (6) or bundles of pallets (7) brought onto platforms of the vertical conveyor (1) and containing principally luggage (5), are in the first stage placed on other decks (KO to K3), which are not cabin decks, in cloakrooms (8) next to the lift, wherefrom 


the bundles of pallets in question in the second stage are transported to the very deck (K4 to K8), where the respective operation site (2) is located or respectively through the ship's loading port (4a) to the quay.
13. Distribution method according to claim 1, 6, 7, 8 or 9, characterized in that onto every separate transport pallet (6) or correspondingly onto every bundle of pallets (6a and 6b) only goods units (5) belonging to ship's one and same deck (K) and so to operation sites (2) and/or collecting sites (4) on that deck.
14. Distribution method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the goods units (5) are collected from the operation sites onto the transport pallets (6) or respectively to pairs of pallets (6a and 6b), the pallets are connected to each other to form bundles of pallets (7) and are transported by means of the vertical conveyor (1) and possibly by means of transport platform (3) to the appropriate collecting site (4) in reversed direction to the defined operations and stages and by operations and stages in reversed order and that the goods units are unloaded in the collecting site (4) in question in reversed direction to the defined operations and stages and by operations and stages carried out in reversed order.
15. Distribution method according to claim 1, 7 or 9, characterized in that:
- in the collecting site (4) each goods unit (5) is marked with an individual identifier or tag defining it's operation site and each transport pallet (6) and /or pair of pallets (6a and 6b) correspondingly with an individual identifier or tag defining it's operation site and respective deck (K4 to K8), which identifiers or tags are compricing colors, letters, numbers, other characters or bar code or a combination of these;
- the transport pallets and/or pairs of pallets are moved according to these identifiers or tags from the vertical conveyor (1) to the appropriate deck; and
- the goods units (5) are unloaded by means of these identifiers or tags from the transport pallet (6) to the appropriate operation site (2).
16. Pallet structure to be used in connection with the distrubution method in passenger ships, car ferries and similar vessels, which are compricing a number of passenger cabins (2a) and at least one vertical conveyor (1) suitable for transportation of goods and opening to decks containing cabins in order to transport goods units (5) needed in cabins or otherways in numerous similar operation sites (2) within the ship at least between operation sites and ship's loading port (4a) or collection site (4) compricing storage room or centralized handling plant (4b) for 


goods, characterised in that the transport pallets (6) are in themselves known rectangular, mainly planar structures having parallel opposite edges (18a, b and 19a,b) and that the transport pallets are containing at least at two opposite connecting edges (18a and 18b) members (13) by means of which the transport pallet can be connected (11) to another similar adjacent transport pallet (6) on the same platform.
17. Pallet structure according to claim 16, characterized in that the transport pallets (6) are symmetrical in respect to center line (9) running parallel with the connecting edges (18a, 18b) containing connecting members (13) and the structure at the loading area is thin and that the transport pallets are compricing at least at two opposite edges and advantageously at all edges vertical flanges (14) perpendicular to the pallet plane.
18. Pallet structure according to claim 16 or 17, characterized in that the connecting members (13) are arranged at the connecting edges and at their ends (19a, 19b) and that the connecting members at the edge part of the transport pallet, are formed advantageously of connecting holes (28) in the edge flange (14) and of connecting members (13), which are reaching up to connection holes of the adjacent transport pallets and are containing the connecting pins (15a) matching the connecting holes of both pallets, whereupon the connecting members can be pushed or turned in order to insert the pins into the connecting holes (28) of the adjacent transport pallets and so clamp them together.
19. Pallet structure according to claim 16, characterized in that it comprices a casing (16), which is composed of vertical supports (31) resting at their lower ends on the edge parts (18a,b and 19a,b) of the transport pallet, which by their upper ends are supporting a mainly planar upper part (17) resting parallel with the transport pallet on them, that the supports are composed of a framework or advantageously of walls (31a, b ) running parallel with the opposite edges of the transport pallet, said walls being fixed to the upper part and that the upper part (17) has been devided in two parts along a center line (29) running parallel with the walls, whereupon the casing is composed of two coverparts (16a and 16b) having a transverse section resembling the capital L and suited to storage, which said coverparts are connected (32) to each other by the upper part in order to form a casing (16) shaped as an inverted capital U. 


20. Pallet structure according to claim 17 or 19, characterized in that the longitudinal lower edges (33) of the casing shaped as an inverted U are formed to grooves (34) resting and gripping on the edge flange (14) of the transport pallet below, that the walls have extensions (35) protruding upwards off the upper part in order to keep the on top of it positioned transport pallet in place and that there is at the upper surface of the upper part (17) a roller conveyor (37), whose roller's axle lines (36) are either parallel with the said walls (31a, 31b) or advantageously perpendicular to them.
21. Pallet structure according to claim 20, characterized in that the rollers of the roller conveyor (37) are placed next to the extensions (35) of the walls one after the other in such a direction that at the ends of each line of rollers there is a stopper (40) in order to prevent the transport pallet (6) on top of the casing from moving in this direction during the shifting of pairs of pallets and that a casing (16) has also been placed on top of the upper pallet, if need be.
22. Conveyor arrangement, with which shifting stages belonging to the distribution method are realized in passenger ships, car ferries and similar ships, which are compricing a number of passenger cabins (2a) and at least one vertical conveyor (1) suitable for transportation of goods and opening to decks containing cabins in order to transport goods units (5) needed in cabins or otherways in numerous similar operation sites (2) at least within the ship between operation sites and ship's loading port (4a) or collection site (4) compricing storage room or centralized handling plant (4b) for goods, characterised in that the load platforms (10) of the vertical conveyor (1) are compricing a horizontal conveyor (21 or 22) operating at least in one said first transport direction (D2) and that the decks (K4 to K8) containing operation sites (2) are compricing a horizontal conveyor (21 or 22) operating at least in one transport direction (D2 or D4) next to the lift.
23. Conveyor arrangement according to claim 22, characterized in that the decks (K4 to K8) containing operation sites are compricing vertical conveyors (21b or 22b) operating in the second transport direction (D4) next to the lift, which said transport direction is perpendicular to the first transport direction (D2), that the load platform (11) of the vertical conveyor comprices in addition a horizontal conveyor (21 or 22) operating in this second transport direction (D4) and if need be, the decks containing operation sites in addition are compricing horizontal conveyors (22c) operating in the said first transport direction (D2). 


24. Conveyor arrangement according to claim 23, characterized in that the load platform (11) of the vertical conveyor and other areas (8), containing horizontal conveyors operating in the first and second transport direction (D2, D4), either one, as the case may be, can be hoisted or lowered in order to engage the desired horizontal transport direction(D2 or D4) and that the conveyor arrangement comprices two vertical conveyors (1) side by side mainly transporting goods units between the same decks (K)
25. Conveyor arrangement according to claim 22, characterized in that the transport platform (3) on it's upper surface has a horizontal conveyor (21a or 22a) operating at least in one transport direction and that the said vertical conveyor (1) is a lift. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
