<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624418</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Friction welding
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2012	B23K2012	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K20	B23K20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Holding means for a component in a friction welding 
operation consists of a hollow cassette which is open at 

one end. The component is inserted into the cassette and 
an aperture at the open end is shaped to frictionally 

engage a thickened portion of the component with a force 
greater than forces transmitted to the component during a 

friction welding operation. The component is pressed 
into the cassette to a predetermined depth so that a 

portion remains protruding and forms the weld interface. 
Material upset during the welding operation may be 

sheared by increasing the weld generating force to 
overcome the frictional holding force so the end face 

passes over the weld region. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROLLS ROYCE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROLLS-ROYCE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEARLE JOHN GILBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEARLE, JOHN GILBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to friction welding. It has been known for many years that two components, even metal 
components, can be welded together by reciprocating at least one of 
the components and urging the components together, the frictional 
heat generated between the components melting the material of at 
least one component, and more usually both components, so as to form 
a friction weld. One example of a technical field in which friction 
welding is seen as having useful applications is in the field of 
making compressors or turbines for aircraft engines. Compressor 
assemblies may comprise a blisk (blades plus integral disc), or a 
blum (blades plus integral drum) which is effectively several blisks 
joined together. Holding a blade, or other component, to be friction welded poses 
problems. Conventionally the component is mounted in sets of 
adjustable collet jaws which are adjusted, that is tightened, to 
exert a force gripping the component in the jaws. This known way of 
gripping a component is exemplified by the prior art disclosures 
cited in the search report. For example, in US Patent No 3,699,639 
the rod 162 is gripped by jaws 160 with a force which is increased 
by the action of camming surfaces provided by a conical head portion 
of the collet 158 carrying the gripping jaws. As an axial force is 
applied to the end of rod 162, by urging it against a workpiece 
flange 86, the conical portion causes the gripping force to tighten. 
However, in order to allow the rod 162 to be loaded initially the 
jaws 160 must be retracted otherwise the jamming reaction will 
resist insertion of the component. Similarly GB Patent No 1,488,887 
discloses an arrangement for holding a tubular weld component of the 
kind commonly found in machine tools, such as lathes. The component 
10 is loaded axially into an annular chuck 22 which carries a 
plurality of radially adjustable jaws 24. Again, in order to load  
 
the component 10 into the chuck 22 the jaws 24 must be 
retracted. It is an aim of this invention to provide a new way of holding a 
component to be friction welded. According to one aspect of the invention there is provided a method 
of holding a first component in a friction clamping means during a 
friction welding operation in which the first component is forced 
against a second component with a weld-pressure generating force and 
relative cyclical motion is produced between the two components to 
generate welding heat, characterised in that the friction clamping 
means has a portion formed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of holding a first component (2) in a 
friction clamping means (8) during a friction 

welding operation in which the first component (2) 
is forced against a second component (30) with a 

weld-pressure generating force (E) and relative 
cyclical motion is produced between the two 

components (2,30) to generate welding heat, 
characterised in that the friction clamping means 

(8) has a portion (18) formed with a component 
receiving aperture (10) defined by the internal 

sidewalls of a cavity (16) into which the component 
(2) must be pressed with a substantial force to 

generate a frictional clamping force gripping a part 
(6) of the component (2) with a force at least equal 

to or greater than the weld-pressure generating 
force (E), whereby the component (2) is held solely 

by frictional engagement of the side walls of the 
aperture (10) with opposite sides of the part (6) of 

the component (2). 
A method as claimed in claim 1 further characterised 
in that the clamping force of the friction clamping 

means (8) is not reduced substantially when the 
friction clamping means (8) is pulled off the 

component. 
A method of friction welding in which a first 
component (2) is forced against a second component 

(30) with a weld-pressure generating force (E) while 
relative cyclical motion is produced between the two 

components (2,30) to generate welding heat, and the 
first component (2) is held in a friction clamping 

means (8) characterised in that the friction 
clamping means (8) has an end face (18) formed with  

 
a component receiving aperture (10) defined by the 

internal sidewalls of a cavity (16) into which the 
component (2) must be pressed with a substantial 

force to generate a frictional clamping force 
gripping a part (6) of the component (2) with a 

force at least equal to or greater than the weld-pressure 
generating force (E), whereby the component 

(2) is held solely by frictional engagement of the 
side walls of the aperture (10) with opposite sides 

of the part (6) of the component (2) 
A method as claimed in claim 3 further characterised 
in that the clamping force exerted by the friction 

clamping means (8) is preferably not reduced 
substantially when the friction clamping means (8) 

is pulled off the component. 
A method as claimed in either claims 3 or claim 4 
further comprising removing weld flash between the 

component (2) and the workpiece by causing the 
friction clamping means (8) and the component (2) to 

move relatively towards each other, so that the 
friction clamping means (8) moves relative to the 

component (2) in a weld-flash removal operation 
following a welding operation and removes the weld-flash 

as it passes the weld. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the friction 
clamping means (8) is moved forwards in the 

direction of weld pressure force (E) to remove the 
weld-flash. 
A method as claimed in either claim 5 or claim 6 
further characterised in that the frictional 

relative movement resisting force between the  
 

clamping means (8) and the component (2) is not 
reduced substantially in a flash removal operation. 
Friction clamping means for holding a first 
component (2) during a friction welding operation in 

which the first component (2) is forced against a 
second component (30) with a weld-pressure 

generating force (E) and relative cyclical motion is 
produced between the two components (2,30) to 

generate welding heat, comprising clamping means (8) 
for exerting a frictional clamping force on the 

component (2) characterised in that the friction 
clamping means (8) has a portion (18) formed with a 

component receiving aperture (10) defined by the 
internal sidewalls of a cavity (16) into which the 

component (2) must be pressed with a substantial 
force to generate a frictional clamping force 

gripping a part (6) the component (2) with a force 
at least equal to or greater than the weld-pressure 

generating force (E), whereby the component (2) is 
held solely by frictional engagement of the side 

walls of the aperture (10) with opposite sides of 
the part (8) of the component (2). 
Friction clamping means as claimed in claim 8 
wherein the sides of the aperture (10) which engage 

opposite sides of the component (2) are spaced apart 
such the component (2) is a press fit in th
e 
friction clamping means. 
Friction clamping means as claimed in either claim 8 
or claim 9 wherein the end face (18) of the clamping 

means is provided wit a feature (20) to facilitate 
flash-weld removal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
