<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629328</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OUTBOUND SIGNAL DETECTOR SYSTEM AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J1300	H02J1300	H04B302	H04B332	H04B354	H04B354	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J13	H02J13	H04B3	H04B3	H04B3	H04B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communication system has outbound information in the form of multi-bit messages is carried by cyclic waveforms (11) over an electric power distribution network. The signal is detected independently at any of a plurality of locations remote from the source by obtaining signal data through sampling of the cyclic waveform over a predetermined portion of successive cycles. The predetermined portion is divided into a plurality of predetermined ranges. From a predetermined number of bits at the start of each message, the particular predetermined range which contains the greatest signal strength is selected. For the remaining bits of the message, only those samples in the selected range are analyzed to detect the outbound message. To reject cross-talk, preselected ranges in which cross-talk signals are likely to appear are monitored, and in-phase messages are rejected when the signal strength in the in-phase range is less than the signal strength in at least one of the cross-talk ranges.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DISTRIBUTION CONTROL SYST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DISTRIBUTION CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESSLING JOHN B JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESSLING, JOHN, B., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OUTBOUND SIGNAL DETECTOR SYSTEM AND METHODBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to carrier wave intelligence systems in general and, more particularly, to apparatus useful in detecting and extracting information or intelligence transmitted outbound to electricity meters and the like over electric power distribution networks from a central site.The use of electric power lines for meter reading, load control, and other communications purposes is well known in the art. It is known that a modulation voltage can be superimposed on a power system voltage to cause wave shape perturbations in the carrier wave. In the embodiment described hereinafter, the carrier wave is the voltage wave of an electrical power distribution system or network. Such systems are described in U.S. patents 4,106,007, 4,218,655, and 4,400,688 to Johnston et al, and 4,105,897 to Stratton et al, which patents are incorporated herein by reference.Communication over an electric distribution network is a complex undertaking. Each customer service constitutes a branch in the distribution feeder, and the branching is so extensive that it is impractical to provide filter and by-pass circuitry at each branch point. The distribution network is not an attractive medium for conventional communications due to the attenuation and dispersion of the signals and because noise levels tend to be high. To overcome the high noise levels, it is generally necessary to use narrow band filtering, error-detecting and error-correcting codes, and relatively high signal power levels at low bit rates.The aforementioned problems arise in two areas. The first, to which the present invention relates, concerns 

transmitting information from the central source in the direction of energy flow to the individual customer premises. This transmission of information in the direction of energy flow is referred to as ,/outbound,/ signaling. Information flow in the opposite direction, from customer to central site, is called "in-bound" signaling.For "outbound" signaling, in order to reach line-to-line customers on the three-phase distribution network of a utility, for example, the modulation signal which carries the information preferably should have dominant positive and negative sequence components. This implies that the outbound modulation signal should not appear on all three phases simultaneously at equal strength and phase relationship.At least one outbound signal detector system looks for signals disposed on the voltage carrier at the -10° and the +30°
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In a communication system in which outbound information is carried by cyclic waveforms over an electric power distribution network, said information being transmitted in the form of multi-bit messages, a signal detection method for detecting the outbound messages at a location physically separated from the source of the outbound messages, said signal detection method comprising:
(a) obtaining signal data by sampling the cyclic waveform over a predetermined portion of successive cycles;
(b) dividing the predetermined portion into a plurality of predetermined ranges;
(c) from a predetermined number of bits at the start of each message, selecting the particular predetermined range which contains the greatest signal strength;
(d) for the remaining bits of the message, analyzing only those samples in the selected range to detect the outbound message.
2. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein at least some of the predetermined ranges overlap.
3. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately twenty degrees to approximately five degrees before a zero crossing of the waveform.
4. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately fifteen degrees before to approximately five degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
5. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees before to approximately fifteen degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform. 


 6. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately fifteen degrees before to approximately fifteen degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
7. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees to approximately thirty-five degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
8. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees before to approximately thirty degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
9. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately ten degrees before to approximately thirty degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
10. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees before to approximately thirty-five degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
11. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein steps (c) and (d) are repeated for each subsequent message, whereby the system adapts to changing conditions on the network from message to message.
12. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each message begins with a fixed, multi-bit preamble, said particular predetermined range which contains the greatest signal strength being selected based upon the signal strength of the preamble at the location of detection.
13. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 12 wherein the range with the maximum signal strength is determined by adding those samples in each predetermined range which exceed a threshold, and 


comparing the sums for the various ranges to find the largest sum.
14. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the method of detection is performed independently at each remote location so that each location adapts with each message to the particular network characteristics at that particular location.
15. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selected range includes at least two peaks of the outbound signal.
16. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each message begins with a fixed, multi-bit preamble, said preamble being used to identify valid messages to the remote detectors, each of the predetermined ranges being examined for the bit pattern corresponding to the preamble prior to selection of the predetermined range with the maximum signal strength.
17. The signal detection method as set forth in claim 1 further including preselecting ranges in which cross-talk signals are likely to appear, monitoring the cross-talk ranges for signals, and rejecting in-phase messages when the signal strength in the in-phase range is less than the signal strength in at least one of the cross-talk ranges.
18. In a communication system in which outbound information is carried by cyclic waveforms over an electric power distribution network, said information being transmitted in the form of multi-bit messages, a signal detection system for detecting the outbound messages at a location physically separated from the source of the outbound messages, said signal detection system comprising: means for obtaining signal data by sampling the cyclic waveform over a predetermined portion of successive 


cycles, said predetermined portion being divided into a plurality of predetermined ranges; means responsive to the signal data for examining the signal data and, from a predetermined number of bits at the start of each message, selecting the particular predetermined range which contains the greatest signal strength, said means being responsive to the selection of a particular predetermined range to analyze only those samples in the selected range, for the remaining bits of the message, to detect the outbound message.
19. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein at least some of the predetermined ranges overlap.
20. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately twenty degrees to approximately five degrees before a zero crossing of the waveform.
21. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately fifteen degrees before to approximately five degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
22. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees before to approximately fifteen degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
23. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately fifteen degrees before to approximately fifteen degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
24. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees to approximately thirty-five degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform. 


 25. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees before to approximately thirty degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
26. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately ten degrees before to approximately thirty degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
27. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein one of the predetermined ranges is from approximately five degrees before to approximately thirty-five degrees after a zero crossing of the waveform.
28. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein the selection of a particular range for any given message is independent of the range selected for any other message, whereby the system adapts to changing conditions on the network from message to message.
29. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein each message begins with a fixed, multi-bit preamble, said particular predetermined range which contains the greatest signal strength being selected based upon the signal strength of the preamble at the location of detection.
30. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 29 wherein the range with the maximum signal strength is determined by adding those samples in each predetermined range which exceed a threshold, and comparing the sums for the various ranges to find the largest sum.
31. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein the selected range includes at least two peaks of the outbound signal. 


 32. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein each message begins with a fixed, multi-bit preamble, said preamble being used to identify valid messages to the remote detectors, each of the predetermined ranges being examined for the bit pattern corresponding to the preamble prior to selection of the predetermined range with the maximum signal strength.
33. The outbound signal detection system as set forth in claim 18 wherein the range selecting means further includes means for preselecting ranges in which cross-talk signals are likely to appear, monitoring the cross-talk ranges for signals, and rejecting in-phase messages when the signal strength in the in-phase range is less than the signal strength in at least one of the cross-talk ranges. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
