<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620708</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CASING BRAKE MECHANISM FOR STUFFING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22C1100	A22C1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22C	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22C11	A22C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARLEN RES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARLEN RES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWERS RICHARD G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWERS RICHARD G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CASING BRAKE MECHANISM FOR STUFFING APPARATUSf'/ t i 5 This is a continuation-in-part of S/N 07/818,339 filed January 9, 1992. Background of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention is broadly concerned with10 a casing brake mechanism used in conjunction with a stuffing horn and adapted for selective engaging and braking action against a casing applied over a tubular casing horn. More particularly, it is concerned with such a mechanism which can be remotely adjusted to vary the15 compressive forces exerted against the casing, thereby facilitating filling operations. In preferred forms, a pair of adjacent, obliquely oriented, resilient rings are employed, together with a fluid pressure-actuated, annular thrust ring adjacent the rearmost ring for selectively20 engaging the rings and causing compression thereof against the underlying casing. In order to inhibit passage of air entrapped between the casing and horn into the confines of the latter, the overall stuffing apparatus is provided with a sealing assembly adjacent the brake mechanism. The25 brake mechanism is selectively shiftable between a sealing position wherein the casing is compressed against a sealing member in order to inhibit flow of entrapped air into the confines of the casing, and a braking position serving to control the passage of casing off the horn30 during stuffing.2. Description of the Prior ArtComminuted and whole muscle meat products (e.g. , sausages, bolognas, hams and beef briskets) are often placed within protective casings for sale to the consuming35 public. To this end, sizing equipment is employed which 

 has an elongated, tubular casing horn together with meat- conveying pump means for feeding the meat products into the rear end of the horn. A casing is placed over the forward open end of the horn to receive meat product as it emerges from the open horn end. Conventional clippers are typically used to close the ends of the casing during such filling operations.A persistent problem with sizing equipment of this type is the need to "brake" the casing as it is being filled, in order to prevent too rapid movement of the casing off the casing horn. Without such a braking mechanism, the finished casing will often be loosely filled with product, which is unacceptable both from an aesthetic and sanitary viewpoint. In response to this problem, it has been known to provide casing brakes having a segmented annular metallic ring adapted to fit over a casing horn, along with a "quad" resilient ring as a backing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims ;
1. A casing brake mechanism adapted for selectively engaging and braking a casing positioned over an elongated, tubular casing horn presenting a longitudi- nal axis, said mechanism comprising: a resilient annular ring positioned about said horn for engaging said casing thereover; a thrust element adjacent said ring and presenting a first ring-engaging face and a second trailing face remote from said ring-engaging face; and means for selectively moving said thrust element in a direction generally parallel with said horn longitudinal axis for alternately compressing said ring and causing the ring to engage said casing, and for releasing said ring, said element-moving means including a source of pressurized fluid for selective action against said trailing face in order to effect said ring compression, and means for selectively relieving pressure exerted against said trailing face.
2. The casing brake mechanism of claim 1, said ring presenting an inner casing-engaging surface and an outer, enlarged shoulder region, said thrust element being located adjacent said shoulder region for engaging the same.
3. The casing brake mechanism of claim 2, said shoulder portion being located outwardly of an in lateral- ly spaced relationship to said casing-engaging surface. 


 4. The casing brake mechanism of claim 1, including first and second juxtaposed, resilient annular rings respectively positioned about said horn for simulta¬ neously engaging said casing thereover, said thrust element being located adjacent said first ring, there being thrust means for engaging said second ring, said thrust means being movable with said thrust element.
5. The casing brake mechanism of claim 1, said thrust element comprising an annular body with the ring- engaging face thereof generally transverse to said longi¬ tudinal axis, said body including a trailing leg present¬ ing said trailing face, there being an annular, chamber- defining fixture slidably receiving said leg for guiding the movement of said thrust element, said source of pressurized fluid communicating with said chamber.
6. The casing brake mechanism of claim 5, including an annular resilient compression ring situated within said chamber of said fixture for engaging said trailing face under the influence of said pressurized fluid.
7. The casing brake mechanism of claim 1, said element moving means including: said source of pressurized fluid; atmospheric vent means; a vacuum source; and valve means operatively coupled with said source of pressurized fluid, vent means and vacuum source for selectively and alternately coupling each of the same with said element trailing face. 


 8. In stuffing apparatus including an elon¬ gated tubular stuffing horn adapted to receive casing thereover to be successively stuffed with portions of material to form individual casings thereof, means for feeding individual portions of said material into succes¬ sive sections of said casing material including a piston reciprocal between a retracted position allowing a portion of the material to pass into the horn, and a forward position within the horn is stuffed into a casing section, the improvement which comprises: a casing brake assembly including— a resilient annular braking ring positioned about said horn for engaging said casing thereover; a thrust element adjacent said braking ring and presenting a first ring-engaging face and a second remote trailing face; and means for selectively moving said thrust element in a direction for compressing the braking ring to engage said casing and for alter¬ nately releasing the ring; an annular sealing element separate from said brake assembly and extending circumferentially about the horn to present a radially outwardly extend- ing sealing surface; and means for selectively axially shifting said braking assembly between a sealing position wherein the assembly compresses the casing against said sealing surface during retraction of said piston from said horn in order to prevent air entrapped between the casing and horn to pass into the interior of the horn, and a braking position wherein the braking assembly is spaced from said sealing surface and said braking ring is in 


 engagement with said casing for braking thereof.
9. The stuffing apparatus of claim 8, includ¬ ing means for evacuation of air entrapped between said casing and horn.
10. The stuffing apparatus of claim 8, said shifting means being operable for shifting said braking assembly from said braking to said sealing position thereof during retraction of said piston and for return shifting of the braking assembly from the sealing to the braking position thereof just prior to complete filling of said horn with a portion of material.
11. The stuffing apparatus of claim 10, includ¬ ing a timer forming a part of said shifting means for controlling the return shifting of the braking assembly.
12. The stuffing apparatus of claim 8, said sealing element comprising a resilient O-ring disposed about said horn upstream of the end thereof, said brake assembly being located between said O-ring and said horn end.
13. The stuffing apparatus of claim 8, said thrust element-moving means including a source of pressur¬ ized fluid for selective action against said trailing face in order to effect said ring compression, and means for selectively relieving the fluid pressure exerted against said trailing face. 


 14. The stuffing apparatus of claim 13, said ring presenting an inner casing-engaging surface and an outer, enlarged shoulder region, said thrust element being located adjacent said shoulder region for engaging the same.
15. The stuffing apparatus of claim 13, includ¬ ing first and second juxtaposed, resilient annular rings respectively positioned about said horn for simultaneously engaging said casing thereover, said thrust element being located adjacent said first ring, there being thrust means for engaging said second ring, said thrust means being movable with said thrust element.
16. The stuffing apparatus of claim 13, said thrust element comprising an annular body with the ring- engaging face thereof generally transverse to said longi¬ tudinal axis, said body including a trailing leg present¬ ing said trailing face, there being an annular, chamber- defining fixture slidably receiving said leg for guiding the movement of said thrust element, said source of pressurized fluid communicating with said chamber.
17. The stuffing apparatus of claim 16, includ- ing an annular resilient compression ring situated within said chamber of said fixture for engaging said trailing face under the influence of said pressurized fluid. 

18. The stuffing apparatus of claim 13, said thrust element moving means including: said source of pressurized fluid; atmospheric vent means; a vacuum source; and valve means operatively coupled with said source of pressurized fluid, vent means and vacuum source for selectively and alternately coupling each of the same with said element trailing face. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 4 February 1993 (04.02.93); original claim 3 cancelled; other claims unchanged (1 page)]
1. A casing brake mechanism adapted for selectively engaging and braking a casing positioned over an elongated, tubular casing horn presenting a longitudi¬ nal axis, said mechanism comprising: a resilient annular ring positioned about said horn and including an inner surface for engaging said casing, and an opposed, outer, enlarged shoulder region; a movable thrust element adjacent said ring and presenting a first ring-engaging face and a second trailing face remote from said ring- engaging face; and means for selectively moving said thrust element in a direction generally parallel with said horn longitudinal axis for alternately compressing said ring and causing the ring to engage said casing, and for releasing said ring, said thrust element being movable relative to said annular retainer, said element-moving means including a source of pressurized fluid for selective action against said trailing face in order to effect said ring compression, and means for selectively relieving pressure exerted against said trailing face.
2. The casing brake mechanism of claim 1, said ring presenting an inner casing-engaging surface and an outer, enlarged shoulder region, said thrust element being located adjacent said shoulder region for engaging the same.
3. (Cancelled) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
