<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651919</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A MULTIPOLAR SCREENED CONNECTOR HAVING A COMMON EARTH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1346	H01R2400	H01R13648	H01R13648	H01R13658	H01R13658	H01R2400	H01R1346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R24	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R24	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multipolar, screened connector having a common earth and comprising a male part (1) and a female part (2), wherein the male part comprises a body (4) which is made from an electrically insulating material and which has parts (6) which are adapted to the female part and surround the female part at least partially, and wherein the body includes rows and columns of connector pins (7) which extend through the base part (5) of the body parallel with the surrounding parts (6), and wherein the female part includes a body (9) which is made from an electrically insulating material and which is intended for insertion between the surrounding parts of the body of the male part and which is provided with hole parts (18) which are adapted to the pins of the male part, and channels intended for contact lines (16) which extend from the hole parts to contact devices (15) connecting the pins. According to the invention, the body (9) of the female part (2) is constructed from a plurality of plates (10, 11) having a pitch which corresponds to the columns of pins (7); in that each of the mutually facing sides of the plates is provided with a recess (12) which forms half of the hole parts (18) corresponding to a column of pins and the channels for the contact lines (15). The outer defining surfaces of both the body (4) of the male part (1) and the plates (10, 11) of the female part (2) are metallized with the exception of areas immediately around the pins (7) and in the hole parts (18) and the channels respectively.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VEMAKO AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VEMAKO AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANJURA GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANJURA, GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a multipolar, screened 
connector having a common earth and comprising a male 
part and a female part, wherein the male part includes a 
body manufactured from an electrically insulating 
material and having parts which are adapted to the female 
part and which at least partially surround said part, and 
further comprising rows and columns of connector pins 
which extend through the base part of the body parallel 
with said surrounding parts, and wherein the female part 
includes a body which is manufactured from an electrically 
insulating material and which is adapted for 
insertion between the surrounding parts on the male-part 
body and is provided with hole-parts into which the pins 
on the male-part fit and from which channels extend for 
the accommodation of contact lines or conductors extending 
from contact devices to said pins. Screened, multipolar connectors of this kind are known to 
the art. The screen is constructed from metal plates 
which are inserted in slots in the female-part body 
between the rows of holes and connection-line channels. 
The plates are also coated with an insulating material, 
in some cases. The plates are mutually connected electrically 
and to earthing means, such as to form a screen 
around the female part. The drawback with constructions 
of this kind is that they include a relatively large 
number of separate components which render the task of 
assembling the connector both complicated and time-consuming. 
Furthermore, the screen on the female part  
 
does not extend fully around said part and is totally 
lacking on the male part. Consequently, signals that are 
transmitted via these connectors are liable to be 
subjected to disturbances, particularly in the case of 
high frequency signals. In the case of another earlier known constructions, the 
female part comprises a plurality of screening metal-plate 
profiles which are coated with insulating material. 
Electrical contact devices and contact lines are disposed 
between the plates and the profiles. This construction is 
also relatively complicated as is also the task of 
assembling the connector. This connector also lacks a 
fully encircling screen, and the male part also lacks the 
provision of a screen. Fully screened devices, in the form of coax-devices, 
however, are known to the art. These devices, however, 
have only one conductor, i.e. they are unipolar. The object of the present invention is to avoid the 
drawbacks associated with earlier constructions of 
connectors
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multipolar, screened connector having a common 
earth and comprising a male part (1) and a female part 

(2), wherein the male part comprises a body (4) which is 
made from an electrically insulating material and which 

has parts (6) which are adapted to the female part and 
surround said female part at least partially, and wherein 

said body includes rows and columns of connector pins (7) 
which extend through the base part (5) of said body 

parallel with the surrounding parts (6), and wherein the 
female part includes a body (9) which is made from an 

electrically insulating material and which is intended 
for insertion between the surrounding parts of the body 

of the male part and which is provided with hole parts 
(18) which are adapted to receive the pins of the male 

part, and channels intended for contact lines (16) which 
extend from said hole parts to contact devices (15) 

connecting said pins, 
characterized
 in that 
the body (9) of the female part (2) is constructed from 

a plurality of plates (10, 11) having a pitch which 
corresponds to the columns of pins (7); in that each of 

the mutually facing sides of the plates is provided with 
a recess (12) which forms half of the hole parts (18) 

corresponding to a column of pins and the channels for 
the contact lines (15); and in that the outer defining 

surfaces of both the body (4) of the male part (1) and 
the plates (10, 11) of the female part (2) are metallized 

with the exception of areas immediately around the pins 
(7) and in the hole parts (18) and the channels respectively. 
A connector according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 in that the male part (1) is provided with 
projections (8) which form wave traps and which encircle 

respective pins (7) projecting between the surrounding  
 

parts (6); and in that the recesses (12) in the plates 
(10, 11) of the female part (2) are provided with 

corresponding parts (17), said projections (8) and said 
parts (17) also being metallized. 
A connector according to Claim 2, 
characterized
 
in that metal plates (24) having openings 

(25) corresponding to the projections (8) of said male 
part (1) are arranged in abutment with the base part (5); 

in that the metal plates are provided with resilient 
tongues (26) which are disposed around the openings and 

which extend perpendicularly to the plates; and in that 
the projections (8) are provided with recesses (27) 

corresponding to said tongues. 
A connector according to any one of Claims 1-3, 

characterized
 in that the male part (1) is 
provided with a part (6) which fully surrounds the female 

part (2); and in that the inwardly facing surface of said 
surrounding part is provided with resilient metal tongues 

(21) which abut the plates (10, 11) of the female part in 
the assembled state of the connector. 
A connector according to any one of Claims 1-3, 

characterized
 in that the body of the male 
part (1) has a U-shape with the legs (6) of said U 

extending parallel to the pins (7). 
A connector according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, 
characterized
 in that the metallized 
surfaces are embossed. 
A connector according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, 
characterized
 in that certain of 
the pins (7) are longer than remaining pins, so as to 

form earth pins.  
 
A connector according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, 
characterized
 in that the female 
part (2) is intended to be mounted on a printed circuit 

card (3) or the like and is provided with an abutment 
(13) for abutment with one edge of the printed card. 
A connector according to any one of Claims 1-7, 

characterized
 in that the contact lines (16) 
are coaxial cables whose screen is secured and an 

electric contact established in a correspondingly 
enlarged part (22) of respective recesses (12) in the 

female part (2), by means of a surrounding sleeve (23). 
A connector according to any one of the preceding 
Claims, 
characterized
 in that the plates 
(10, 11) of the female part (2) are provided with 

mutually coincidental through-passing holes (14) and are 
held together by means of bolts or like fasteners 

inserted through said holes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
