<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626048</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEALING ASSEMBLY FOR VALVE MEMBER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K506	F16K506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K5	F16K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIKE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIKE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMP WILLARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMP, WILLARD, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPLICATION FOR PATENTTitle: Sealing Assembly For Valve MemberField Of The InventionThis invention relates to a sealing assembly for a valve member movable between open and closed positions relative to a flow passage, and more particularly to such a sealing assembly for a valve member having a frusto-conical or spherical sealing surface, such as a ball valve or swing check valve. Background Of The InventionA valve such as a ball valve has a spherical ball member rotated between open and closed positions relative to a flow passage through the body of the valve. Thus, the sealing surface of the ball member is a spherical sealing surface. The annular seat member contacting the ball member to provide sealing normally is of a generally frusto-conical shape. The balls and seats in ball valves and the swing discs and mating seats in check valves encounter similar problems. It is very difficult to make the seats or the mating areas completely flat and perfectly uniform. It is necessary that one or both of the mating seat members deflect in order to make tight sealing contact. Two methods are presently used to achieve sealing between mating surfaces for such ball valves and check valves. In one method low modulus of elasticity seat materials are used such as plastic materials. The valve bodies are usually made of steel with a modulus of 29 million pounds and the mating contacting seat members are frequently made of plastic with a modulus of less than one million pounds. The low modulus materials readily deform against the sealing surface to make sealing contact.In another method the seat members are sometimes made of materials having a high modulus of elasticity and are then lapped together to achieve a necessary line contact which provides for a perfect seal. Such lapping is achieved between mating flat surfaces or mating spherical or conical surfaces. Since it is nearly impossible to make two separate pieces which will fit in such close contact, lapping the mating sealing surfaces together is usually the only choice.There are certain disadvantages in the two methoαs set forth above. For example, if low modulus seats are used, they are generally made of plastic materials which may fail at high temperatures. Also, the plastic materials deflect enough to 

make a seal but under conditions of even higher stress may continue to deflect or distort. Often this results in greater than desired lateral movement of the seal. Plastic materials with low modulus are generally also relatively high wear materials and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. In a ball valve having a body defining a valve chamber and upstream and downstream flow passages, and a ball member having a spherical sealing surface mounted within said valve chamber for movement between open and closed positions relative to the flow passages; a downstream seat assembly for sealing against the spherical sealing surface of said ball member in the closed position of said ball member, said seat assembly comprising: an outer rigid carrier having an inner peripheral surface and an annular shoulder extending at right angles to said inner peripheral surface to define a pocket therebetween; and an inner generally rigid seat ring forming a primary seal for said ball member mounted within said pocket for seating against said annular shoulder of said carrier in a longitudinal direction and spaced radially from said inner peripheral surface of said carrier to define a radial clearance therebetween, said seat ring having an inner peripheral surface extending generally around 45 degrees relative to the axis of the flow passage for sealing against the spherical surface of the ball member; said ball member in the closed position being urged against said inner seat ring, said inner seat ring being urged longitudinally against said carrier and flexing said seat ring radially outwardly into said radial clearance to conform to the outer spherical sealing surface of said ball member for forming a primary seal therewith.
2. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein said radial clearance is at least around .001 inch per inch of diameter of said flow passages.
3. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein said rigid carrier and said rigid seat ring are formed of metal to provide metal-to-metal sealing contact with the spherical sealing surface of said ball member.
4. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein said valve body has an annular recess receiving said carrier and defining a rear abutment, and said carrier has a rear leg in opposed relation to said abutment, said rear leg being spring urged toward said ball member and bottoming against said abutment when said ball valve member is in closed position.
5. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein said valve body has an annular recess about said downstream flow passage for receiving said downstream seat assembly, said recess defining an annular abutment and an outer peripheral surface 


extending at right angles to each other, said carrier forming a metal-to-metal seal with said abutment shoulder.
6. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 5 wherein said carrier includes a transverse leg extending in a direction transversely of the longitudinal axis of said downstream flow passage to define said annular shoulder of said pocket, and a rear leg spaced rearwardly of said transverse leg and extending in a direction generally parallel to said transverse leg, said rear leg sealing against said abutment of said recess.
7. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cross sectional area A in square inches of said rigid seat ring is at least greater than PD x L where:
2S
P - is the maximum operating pressure in pounds per square inch (psi);
D - is the contact diameter in inches of the rigid seat ring against the spherical sealing surface of the ball member; L - is the length of the seat ring in inches; and
S - is the maximum working stress of the seal ring in pounds per square inch (psi).
8. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cross sectional area A in square inches is less than 1000 PPL where: E
P - is the maximum operating pressure in pounds per square inch (psi);
D - is the contact diameter of the seat ring in inches;
L - is the length of the seat ring in inches; and
E - is the modulus of elasticity in pounds. 9. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 8 wherein the cross sectional area A in square inches is greater than 100 PPL
E
10. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein said seat ring has a modulus of elasticity of at least 6 million pounds. 11. In a ball valve as set forth in claim 1 wherein said seat ring is formed of a metallic material having a modulus of elasticity between around 13 and 30 million pounds.
12. A ball valve comprising: a valve body having a valve chamber with upstream and downstream flow passages communicating with said valve chamber; 


 a ball member mounted within said valve chamber for rotative movement between open and closed positions and having an outer spherical sealing surface; an annular recess in said body about said downstream flow passage defining an annular abutment and an outer peripheral wall extending at right angles to said abutment; and a downstream seat assembly mounted within said recess and defining a rear surface for sealing against said annular abutment; said seat assembly including a seat carrier having an inner peripheral surface and an annular shoulder extending at right angles to said inner peripheral surface to define a pocket therebetween for receiving a rigid seat ring forming a primary seal for said ball member; said rigid seat ring having an outer peripheral surface spaced radially from the inner peripheral surface of said carrier to form a radial space therebetween and adapted to expand radially into said radial space upon contact with the spherical sealing surface of said ball member in the closed position thereof for conforming to said spherical sealing surface and forming a primary seal for said ball member.
13. A ball valve as set forth in claim 12 wherein said seat ring is formed of metal having a modulus of elasticity over 6 million pounds.
14. A ball valve as set forth in claim 12 wherein said seat ring is formed of a plastic material having a modulus of elasticity less than around 6 million pounds and deteriorates at a relatively high temperature over around 600 F.
15. A ball valve as set forth in claim 14 wherein said ball member contacts said carrier in metal to metal relation upon deterioration of said plastic seat ring.
16. A ball valve as set forth in claim 12 wherein said carrier comprises a pair of legs positioned at right angles to each other to define the pocket receiving said seat ring, one of said legs extending in a direction transversely of said downstream flow passage and forming said annular shoulder.
17. A ball valve as set forth in claim 16 wherein said carrier defines a third leg extending at right angles to said downstream flow passage and positioned in sealing contact with said annular abutment of said recess. 18. A check valve comprising: a valve body having a valve chamber and flow passages communicating with said valve chamber; a check valve disc mounted in said valve chamber for movement between an open position permitting normal fluid flow through said fluid passages in one 



direction and a closed position preventing reverse fluid flow through said flow passages in an opposite direction; a frusto-conical seat in said valve body extending about a flow passage; said check valve disc having a front outer face and an outer periphery defining a rim of a frusto-conical shape adjacent said face, and a groove extending about said outer periphery defining a pair of spaced opposed sides and a bottom connecting said opposed sides; and a rigid seat ring mounted within said groove and spaced radially from the bottom of said groove to define a radial clearance therebetween, said seat ring upon closing of said check valve and fluid pressure exerted against said check valve disc from a reverse direction urging said rigid seat ring into sealing engagement with said frusto-conical seat about said flow passage and flexing said seat radially toward said bottom of said groove to conform to said frusto-conical seat.
19. A check valve as set forth in claim 18 wherein said frusto-conical seat extends at an angle of around 45 degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the flow passages and the surface of said seat ring contacting said frusto-conical seat is at an angle of around 45 degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the flow passage whereby said frusto-conical seat exerts a camming action against said seat ring to flex said seat ring in a radially inward direction. 20. A check valve as set forth in claim 19 wherein said seat ring is metal having a modulus of elasticity over around 6 million pounds and said radial clearance is at least around .001 inch per inch of flow passage diameter.
21. A sealing assembly for sealing against a frusto-conical or spherical sealing surface between a fixed valve body member having a flow passage therethrough and a valve closure member movable between open and closed positions of said flow passage; one of said members having a seat assembly for sealing against said sealing surface in the closed position of said valve closure member and comprising: a rigid carrier having a pocket therein defining an annular peripheral surface extending in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of said flow passage; and a metal seat ring forming a primary seal mounted within said pocket and spaced radially from said annular peripheral surface to define a radial clearance therebetween, said metal seal ring having a sealing face extending in an angular direction of around 45 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of said flow passage, said metal seat ring in the closed position of said closure member being urged 


against said sealing surface and flexing radially into said radial clearance to conform to said sealing surface for forming a primary seal.
22. A sealing assembly as set forth in claim 21 wherein said valve closure member comprises a ball valve member and said sealing surface comprises the outer spherical surface of said ball valve member, said sealing assembly being mounted in said valve body for sealing against said spherical sealing surface of said ball valve member.
23. A sealing assembly as set forth in claim 21 wherein said valve closure member comprises a check valve member and said fixed body member has a frusto-conical surface about said flow passage forming said sealing surface, said sealing assembly being mounted on said check valve member for sealing against said sealing surface.
24. A sealing assembly as set forth in claim 21 wherein said carrier has an extending surface closely spaced from the adjacent surface of said valve closure member during normal operation of said sealing assembly, said extending surface upon deterioration of said metal seat ring under emergency conditions contacting said closure member in metal to metal sealing relation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
