<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627128</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL MODE/DUAL BAND FEED STRUCTURES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01P510	H01P5103	H01Q500	H01Q500	H01Q1300	H01Q1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01P	H01P	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01P5	H01P5	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q13	H01Q13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALIFORNIA AMPLIFIER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALIFORNIA AMPLIFIER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABRELIAN EDWARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEST LAURICE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABRELIAN, EDWARD, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEST, LAURICE, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLEDual Mode / Dual Band Feed StructuresINVENTORLaurice J. West and Edward E. GabrelianFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to antenna feeds and more particularly to feed structures for receiving orthogonal linearly polarized microwave signals.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMicrowave signals are broadcast from communication satellites in various frequency bands (e.g. C band and Ku band) to be received in television receive only (TVRO) systems. Each microwave signal is typically linearly polarized in one of two possible orientations whose electric field vectors are orthogonal to one another. Adjacent television channel signals are typically orthogonal to one another to enhance channel isolation.Orthogonal linearly polarized signals may be received by rotatable receiving systems configured for repeated alignment with the signal polarization or in fixed receiving systems designed to remain in a fixed orientation after an initial alignment. Fixed systems have become increasingly attractive as more satellites, and hence their orthogonal signals, are maintained in absolute geophysical alignment.U.S. patents of interest in reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals include 2,825,032; 3,358,287; 3,388,399; 3,389,394; 3,458,862 3,573,838; 3,668,567; 3,698,000; 3,864,687; 4,041,499; 4,117,423; 4,414,516 4,528,528; 4,544,900; 4,554,553; 4,595,890; 4,672,388; 4,679,009; 4,707,702 4,755,828; 4,758,841; 4,862,187; 4,890,118; 4,903,037; 4,951,010; 4,996,535 5,043,683; 5,066,958 and 5,107,274. Apparatus intended for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals are supplied by SPC Electronics under the designations of models DPS- 710 Series and DPS-710R Series and by Pro Brand International under the designation of Aspen Eagle LNBF 1000. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is directed to feed structures for receiving orthogonal linearly polarized microwave signals. Structures in accordance with the invention include a feed horn defining a microwave cavity with first and second probes projecting into the cavity in respective alignment with the electric field vectors of the orthogonal signals. To reduce signal coupling between the probes, an isolation member extends from the cavity back wall and is preferably centered on the cavity axis.In a preferred embodiment, the isolation member defines a plurality of radial arms, one of which is preferably arranged to lie in the cavity quadrant bounded by the probes.In a preferred embodiment, the probes project through the cavity
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A dual mode feed structure for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals, comprising: a feed horn defining a microwave cavity along a longitudinal axis, said cavity having a side wall and terminated at one end by a back wall and open at an opposed end for entrance of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals; a pair of probes projecting through said back wall into said cavity, each of said probes electrically isolated from said back wall and spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal planes through said axis for receiving a different one of said signals; and a pair of transmission members, each of said transmission members projecting into said cavity from said back wall and configured to only partially surround a different one of said probes, each of said transmission members defining an open side substantially facing said axis.
2. The dual mode feed structure of claim 1 wherein said feed horn further defines an isolation member projecting into said cavity from said back wall and substantially centered on said axis.
3. The dual mode feed structure of claim 2 wherein said isolation member defines a plurality of radial arms.
4. The dual mode feed structure of claim 3 wherein each of said probes terminates in said cavity in a receive portion extending radially towards said axis.
5. The dual mode feed structure of claim 4 wherein one of said arms extends radially past a line of sight between the ends of the probe receive portions.
6. The dual mode feed structure of claim 2 wherein the transverse cross sectional area of said isolation member decreases with increasing distance thereof from said back wall. 


7. The dual mode feed structure of claim 1 wherein each transmission member defines a U shaped transverse cross section.
— 12— 


8. A dual mode feed structure for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals, comprising: a feed horn defining a microwave cavity along a longitudinal axis, said cavity having a side wall and terminated at one end by a back wall and open at an opposed end for entrance of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals; a pair of probes projecting into said cavity, each of said probes electrically isolated from said back wall and spaced from said axis -along a different one of two orthogonal planes through said axis for receiving a different one of said signals; and an isolation member projecting into said cavity from said back wall and substantially centered on said axis, said isolation member defining a plurality of radial arms with one arm of said arms extending into the quadrant, defined by said orthogonal planes, that is located between said probes.
9. The dual mode feed structure of claim 8 wherein said probes project through said back wall.
10. The dual mode feed structure of claim 8 wherein said probes project through said side wall.
11. The dual mode feed structure of claim 8 wherein one of said arms extends radially past a line of sight between the ends of the probe receive portions.
12. The dual mode feed structure of claim 8 wherein the transverse cross sectional area of said isolation member decreases with increasing distance thereof from said back wall.
13. The dual mode feed structure of claim 9 wherein said feed horn further defines a pair of transmission members, each of said transmission members extending inward from said back wall to only partially enclose a different one of said probes and define an open side facing said axis.
14. The dual mode feed structure of claim 9 wherein each of said probes terminates in said cavity in a receive portion extending radially towards 



said axis.
15. The dual mode feed structure of claim 13 wherein each transmission member defines a U shaped transverse cross section. 

16. A dual mode feed structure for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals, comprising: a feed horn defining a microwave cavity along a longitudinal axis, said cavity having a side wall and terminated at one end by a back wall
5 and open at an opposed end for entrance of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals; a pair of probes projecting into said cavity, each of said probes electrically isolated from said back wall and spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal planes through said axis for receiving
10 a different one of said signals; and an isolation member projecting into said cavity from said back wall and substantially centered on said axis, the cross sectional area of said isolation member decreasing with increasing distance thereof from said back wall. 15
17. The dual mode feed structure of claim 16 wherein said probes project through said back wall.
18. The dual mode feed structure of claim 16 wherein said probes project 20 through said side wall.
19. The dual mode feed structure of claim 16 wherein said isolation member defines a plurality of radial arms.
25 20. The dual mode feed structure of claim 16 wherein one of said arms extends radially past a line of sight between the ends of the probe receive portions.
21. The dual mode feed structure of claim 17 wherein said feed horn 30 further defines a pair of transmission members, each of said transmission members extending inward from said back wall to only partially enclose a different one of said probes and define an open side facing said axis.
22. The dual mode feed structure of claim 17 wherein each of said probes 35 terminates in said cavity in a receive portion extending radially towards said axis. 


23. The dual mode feed structure of claim 21 wherein each transmission member defines a U shaped transverse cross section. 

24. A dual mode / dual band feed structure for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals, comprising: a feed horn defining a first microwave cavity along a longitudinal axis, said first cavity having a first side wall and terminated at one end by a first back wall and open at an opposed end for reception of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals in a first frequency band; a pair of first probes projecting into said first cavity, each of said first probes electrically isolated from said first back wall and spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal first planes through said axis for receiving a different one of said first frequency band signals; a first isolation member projecting into said first cavity and substantially centered on said axis, said isolation member defining a plurality of radial first arms with one arm of said first arms extending into the quadrant, defined by said orthogonal first planes, that is located between said first probes, said first isolation member further defining on an interior surface thereof a second microwave cavity substantially coaxial with said first cavity, said second cavity having a second side wall and terminated at one end by a second back wall and open at an opposed end for reception of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals in a second frequency band; a pair of second probes projecting into said second cavity, each of said second probes electrically isolated from said second back wall and spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal second planes through said axis for receiving a different one of said second frequency band signals; and a second isolation member projecting into said second cavity and substantially centered on said axis, said second isolation member defining a plurality of radial second arms with one arm of said second arms extending into the quadrant, defined by said orthogonal second planes, that is located between said second probes.
25. The dual mode feed structure of claim 24 wherein said first probes project through said first back wall.
26. The dual mode feed structure of claim 24 wherein said first probes project through said first side wall. 


27. The dual mode feed structure of claim 24 wherein said second probes project through said second back wall.
28. The dual mode feed structure of claim 24 wherein said second probes project through said second side wall.
29. The dual mode / dual band feed structure of claim 25 wherein said feed horn further defines a pair of first transmission members, each of said first transmission members extending inward from said first back wall to only partially enclose a different one of said first probes and define an open side facing said axis.
30. The dual mode / dual band feed structure of claim 27 wherein said feed horn further defines a pair of second transmission members, each of said second transmission members extending inward from said second back wall to only partially enclose a different one of said second probes and define an open side facing said axis. 

31. A dual mode / dual band feed structure for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals, comprising: a feed horn defining a first microwave cavity along a longitudinal axis, said first cavity having a first side wall and terminated at one end by a first back wall and open at an opposed end for reception of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals in a first frequency band; a pair of first probes projecting into said first cavity, each of said first probes electrically isolated from said first back wall and spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal first planes through said axis for receiving a different one of said first frequency band signals; a first isolation member projecting into said first cavity and substantially centered on said axis, said isolation member defining a plurality of radial first arms with one arm of said first arms extending into the quadrant, defined by said orthogonal first planes, that is located between said first probes a second microwave cavity supported within said first cavity, said second cavity having a second side wall and terminated at one end by a second back, wall and open at an opposed end for reception of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals in a second frequency band; a pair of second probes projecting into said second cavity, each of said second probes electrically isolated from said second back wall and spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal second planes through said axis for receiving a different one of said second frequency band signals; and a second isolation member projecting into said second cavity and substantially centered on said axis, said second isolation member defining a plurality of radial second arms with one arm of said second arms extending into the quadrant, defined by said orthogonal second planes, that is located between said second probes.
32. The dual mode feed structure of claim 31 wherein said first probes project through said first back wall.
33. The dual mode feed structure of claim 31 wherein said first probes project through said first side wall. 


34. The dual mode feed structure of claim 31 wherein said second probes project through said second back wall.
35. The dual mode feed structure of claim 31 wherein said second probes project through said second side wall. 

36. A method of receiving orthogonal linearly polarized microwave signals, comprising the steps of: forming a cavity about a longitudinal axis to have a side wall, to be terminated at one end by a back wall and to be open at an opposed 5 end for reception of said orthogonal linearly polarized signals; extending a pair of probes into said cavity wherein each of said probes is spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal planes through said axis; and disposing an isolation member to project into said cavity from said back 10 wall and be substantially centered on said axis.
37. The method of claim 36 further comprising the step of defining a plurality of radial arms with said isolation member.
15 38. The method of claim 36 wherein said extending step includes the step of projecting said probes through said back wall.
39. The method of claim 35 wherein said extending step includes the step of projecting said probes through said side wall.
20
40. The method of claim 38 further comprising the step of disposing a pair of transmission members to extend into said cavity from said back wall, each of said transmission members only partially surrounding a different one of said probes and defining an open side substantially facing said axis. 5
0
5 


41. A method of receiving dual band / dual mode orthogonal linearly polarized microwave signals, comprising the steps of: forming a first cavity about a longitudinal first axis to have a first side wall, to be terminated at one end by a first back wall and to be open at an opposed end for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals in a first frequency band; extending a pair of first probes into said first cavity wherein each of said first probes is spaced from said axis along a different one of two orthogonal planes through said axis; disposing a first isolation member to project into said first cavity from said first back wall and be substantially centered on said first axis; forming a second cavity about a longitudinal second axis to have a second side wall, to be terminated at one end by a second back wall and to be open at an opposed end for reception of orthogonal linearly polarized signals in a second frequency band; carrying said second cavity within said first cavity; extending a pair of second probes into said second cavity wherein each of said second probes is spaced from said second axis along a different one of two orthogonal planes through said axis; and disposing a second isolation member to project into said cavity from said first back wall and be substantially centered on said second axis.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein said first probes extending step includes the step of projecting said first probes through said first back wall.
43. The method of claim 41 wherein said first probes extending step includes the step of projecting said first probes through said first side wall.
44. The method of claim 41 wherein said second probes extending step includes the step of projecting said second probes through said second back wall.
45. The method of claim 41 wherein said second probes extending step includes the step of projecting said second probes through said second side wall.
46. The method of claim 41 further comprising the step of defining a 


plurality of radial arms with said first isolation member.
47. The method of claim 41 further comprising the step of defining a plurality of radial arms with said second isolation member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
