<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656939</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCTION OF GRAFT TISSUE FROM EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2724	A61L2738	A61L2700	C12N500	C12N506	C12N506	C12N500	A61L2700	A61F200	A61L2736	A61F200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	A61L	A61F	A61L	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	A61L27	A61F2	A61L27	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Using connective tissues as starting materials, a method is described for producing matrix particulates. The invention includes an embodiment wherein the matrix particulates are seeded with living human cells or with cells of other species. Further, the invention encompasses fusing the particulates to constitute composites of various shapes, or holding them together in a porous container made of membranous biopolymers. The particulates or composites can be used as tissues for grafting or as model systems for research and testing. The invention also encompasses the spinning of threads in which the matrix particulates are components.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEI BIOSCIENCES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEI BIOSCIENCES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELL EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELL, EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The use of synthetic materials such as polyester 
fiber (Dacron™) or polytetraflurorethylene 
(PTFE)(Teflon™) as implants designed to replace diseased 
or damaged body parts has been extensive. These materials 
have however, enjoyed limited success. This has been due 
to the poor biocompatibility of these materials which 
among other problems, frequently initiate persistent 
inflammatory reactions. Additionally, the failure of the 
body to integrate these materials, because they do not 
break down and do not lend themselves to remodeling by 
tissue cells that may come into contact with them, causes 
further problems. Efforts to use animal or human materials have also 
been unsatisfactory when these materials are cross-linked 
by formaldehyde or glutaraldehyde, for example. The 
process of generalized aldehydic cross-linking renders 
biomaterials sufficiently unrecognizable to tissue cells 
so that normal remodeling and integration are not 
promoted. Similarly, other types of chemical processing 
of animal or human biomaterials, such as extraction with 
detergents, or hypertonic buffers or hypotonic buffers can 
alter them to the degree that they are ineffective in 
promoting angiogenesis and in stimulating repair and 
remodeling processes needed for the conversion of an 
implant into a functional substitute for the tissue or 
organ being replaced. A third approach has been that of reconstituting 
tissue and organ equivalents from structural matrix  
 
components, such as collagen, for example, that have been 
extracted and purified and combined with specialized 
cells. The process depends upon interactions between the 
cells and matrix proteins that the cells condense and 
organize. While tissue-like constructs have been 
fabricated and been shown to somewhat resemble their 
natural counterparts, they do not readily develop the 
matrix complexity characteristic of the actual tissues 
they are meant to imitate. See, for example, U.S. Patent 
Nos. 4,485,096 and 4,485,097, E. Bell, 1984. US 4,645,669 discloses a 
method and culture solution which 
enable in vivo emplacement of differentiated cells derived 
from in vitro culturing of differentiated cells, with 
significant retention of their differentiated character. In 
an alternative embodiment, in vivo culturing of differentiated 
cells is contemplated. Through the use of extracellular 
matrix fibers, specifically derived from connective 
tissue, as culture substrates, the method also discloses 
the isolation of the connective tissue fibers and 
their
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connective tissue matrix including at least one 
fragment which: 


lacks living cells normally found in the tissue 
source from which it is derived; 
preserves the native complexity of the tissue 
source from which it is derived; and 
includes factors necessary for cell growth, 
morphogenesis, and differentiation. 
The connective tissue matrix of claim 1, wherein 
the tissue source is a tissue selected from the group 

consisting of skin, tissues from organs, duodenum, pancreas 
or arteries, connective tissue, fetal tissue, fetal porcine 

tissue and non-human embryonic tissue. 
A construct comprising a biopolymer having the 
connective tissue matrices of claim 1 or 2. 
The construct of claim 3, wherein the fragments 
are crosslinked. 
The construct of claim 3, wherein the biopolymer 
is collagen. 
The construct of claim 5, wherein the collagen is 
in a shape or form selected from the group consisting of a 

collagen thread, a collagen fabric, and a collagen 
membrane. 
A method for producing a connective tissue 
matrix, comprising: 


processing a tissue source having a matrix and 
living cells, whereby the living cells are disrupted to  

 
form cell remnants; 
processing the tissue source to remove the cell 
remnants from the matrix without removing factors necessary 

for cell growth, morphogenesis and differentiation to form 
a processed tissue source; and 
fragmenting the processed tissue source to 
produce matrix particulates. 
The method of claim 7, further comprising, after 
the fragmenting step, the step of applying the matrix 

particulates to a polymer. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the matrix 
particulates are crosslinked. 
The method of claim 9, wherein the polymer is 
collagen. 
The method of claim 10, wherein the collagen is 
in a shape or form selected from the group consisting of a 

collagen thread, a collagen fabric, and a collagen 
membrane. 
The method of any one of claims 7 to 11, further 
comprising, seeding the matrix particulates with cells 

under such conditions that the cells adhere to the matrix 
particulates. 
The method of any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein 
the tissue source includes fetal tissue. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the fetal tissue 
is fetal porcine tissue. 
The method of any one of claims 7-11 and 13-14, wherein  
 

the fragmenting step comprises either mechanically shearing 
a frozen or unfrozen tissue source, or mechanical crushing 

between rollers. 
The method of any one of claims 7-11 and 13-15, further 
comprising the step of enzymatically treating the matrix 

particulates to remove nucleic acids. 
The method of any one of claims 7-11 and 13-16, further 
comprising the step of treating the matrix particulates 

with a fusing agent to form a composite in which the matrix 
particulates are fused to one another. 
The method of any one of claims 7-11 and 13-17, wherein 
the cells include two or more cell types. 
The method of any one of claims 7-11 and 13-18, wherein 
the matrix particulates form graft tissue. 
The method of claim 19, further comprising the 
step of processing the matrix source further to remove 

residual cell components without removing factors necessary 
for cell growth, morphogenesis, and differentiation to form 

matrix particulates after the fragmenting step. 
The method of claims 19 to 20, wherein the step 
of processing the tissue source having a matrix and living 

cells to form cell remnants comprises processing tissue 
selected from the group consisting of bovine tissue, ovine 

tissue, porcine tissue, and tissue from a marine mammal.  
 
The method of claims 19 to 21, which further 
includes supplementing the matrix particulates with growth 

and differentiation factors. 
The method of claim 17-19 and 21-22, further comprising the 
step of seeding the matrix particulates with cells under 

such conditions that the cells adhere to the matrix particulates. 
A matrix particulate producible by any one of the 
methods of claims 7-11 and 13-22. 
A construct producible by the method of any one 
of claims 8-11 and 13-22. 
A method for producing an unfragmented, processed 
matrix tissue, comprising: 


processing a tissue source having a matrix and 
living cells, whereby the living cells are disrupted to 

form cell remnants without fragmenting the tissue source; 
and 
processing the tissue source without fragmenting 
the tissue source to remove the cell remnants from the 

matrix of the tissue source without removing factors 
necessary for cell growth, morphogenesis and 

differentiation to form an unfragmented, processed matrix 
tissue. 
A method for producing a biopolymer thread, 
fabric or membrane, comprising the steps: 


(a) processing a tissue source having a matrix and living 
cells, whereby said living cells are disrupted to form cell 

remnants; 
(b) processing the tissue source to remove the cell 
remnants from the matrix without removing factors necessary 

for cell growth, morphogenesis and differentiation to form 
a processed tissue source; 
(c) fragmenting the processed tissue source to form matrix 
particulates; 
(d) processing a biopolymer to form a biopolymer thread,  
 

a biopolymer fabric or a biopolymer membrane; and 
(e) producing a polymer thread, fabric or membrane from 
the biopolymer thread, fabric or membrane of step (d) with 

the matrix particulates of step (c). 
A fabric formed by woven or braided biopolymer 
threads and matrix particulates formed by any of the 

methods of claims 7 to 23 and 27. 
The fabric of claim 28, wherein the biopolymer is 
collagen. 
A fabric formed by woven or braided biopolymer 
threads and mat
rix tissue formed by the methods of claims 
26 and 27. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
