<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620018</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Retractable needle syringe
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M532	A61M534	A61M532	A61M534	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hub (9) to be attachably and detachably inserted into a 
hub insertion hole (7) of a syringe body (2) having a hub insertion 

hole cylindrically formed at a top thereof has a cylindrical 
hub body (4) through which the hub can be inserted into the hub 

insertion hole and can be pulled out of the hub insertion 
hole in a syringe body. At an outer peripheral portion of 

the hub body, a hub stop groove (10e) in the shape of a groove is 
annularly formed capable of engaging with the hub stop rib (7d). 

At an end face of the hub body, a needle insertion hole (12) 
capable of inserting a needle (26) therein is provided. A flow 

hole (19) is provided with the hub body such that the needle 
insertion hole communicates with inside of the syringe body. 

At an end face of the hub body, a piston engagement hole (20) is 
provided so as to engage with the piston (29). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAITO YOSHIKUNI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAITO, YOSHIKUNI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITO YOSHIKUNI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITO, YOSHIKUNI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to
a syringe assembly according
to the generic portions of claims 1 and 2 and
a method of assembling the syringe assembly, suitable for
applying to a throwaway syringe assembly.Such a syringe assembly is known from WO 92/11883. US-A-5 026 354
teaches a syringe assembly having a piston, which is provided with
permanent mechanical communication to a hub. An object of the present invention is to provide
a syringe assembly and a method of assembling the syringe
assembly, in a throwaway syringe assembly, with which
the sealing properties between hub and hub insertion space
are improved.This object is solved by the features of claim 1 or 2. The hub body and the hub insertion
hole contact each other at the seal portion,
thereby the portion between both are firmly sealed. It is
possible to provide the hub, which is easily attached to and
detached from the hub insertion hole, by which a predetermined
sealing efficiency can be exercised. In case of assembling,
the operation of disposing the hub and the operation
of pulling a needle into the syringe after its use can be
easily and smoothly executed. The sealing efficiency of the hub can be controlled
at the hub side by arranging various kinds of formations
of the projection. It is possible to provide the hub
according to the use of a syringe assembly. With the invention, when the seal portion and the hub
seal portion are engaged with each other, the contacting
portion can be made point contact state in the section in the
direction of the axis of the hub. Therefore, high sealing 
efficiency can be exercised in comparison with sealing with
face contact. The contact between the hub and the inner
peripheral face takes place only between the seal portion and the hub seal
portion, the hub can be retracted into the inside of the
syringe assembly with small retracting force when a needle
used is retracted into the inside of a syringe assembly. And
then, disposal operation of a syringe assembly used can be
smoothly and easily executed. Preferably one or more slits are
formed at a periphery of the needle guide hole of the
syringe body.The hub can be easily inserted
from the hub insertion hole side making use of elastic deformation
of the slits. In addition, insertion of the hub can
be executed in such a state that the piston is inserted into
the syringe body. It is possible to reduce the possibility
of entering dust into the syringe body at the time of insertion
of the hub, so it is hygienic. With the invention, when the seal portion and the hub
seal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A syringe assembly comprising in combination:

a piston (29),
a syringe body (2) slidably attached to the piston (29),
a hub insertion hole (4b) formed at a top of the syringe body (2),
a needle guide hole (12) formed at a top of the hub insertion hole
(4b) of the syringe body (2) communicating the hub insertion hole (4b)

and an outside of the syringe body (2) with each other,
a hub (9) capable of connecting with a needle (26), attachably and
detachably connected with the hub insertion hole (4b),
the hub (9) having a hub body (90) which can be linearly inserted
into the hub insertion hole (4b) in the direction of a center axis (P1)

of the syringe body (2) and can be linearly pulled out of the hub
insertion hole (4b) into the syringe body in the direction of the center

axis (P1),
a piston engagement hole (20) provided with the hub body (90) so
as to engage with the piston (29),
a seal portion of the hub body (90), and
a hub insertion hole seal portion cooperating with the seal portion
of the hub body (90);

characterized in that the hub insertion hole (4b) is mainly cylindric,
that the hub body (90) has the shape of a cylinder, that the seal

portion is a projection or alternatively a groove which has a first
width in the center axis (P1) direction and is annularly formed at an

outer peripheral portion of the hub body (90), that the hub insertion
hole seal portion is a groove or in the alternative a projection which

has a second width narrower, in the alternative larger than the first
width and is annularly formed at an inner peripheral face of the hub

insertion hole (4b), and that the groove and the projection are in contact
with a predetermined contact pressure; said projection being

partly received in said groove.
A syringe assembly comprising in combination:

a piston (29),
a syringe body (2) slidably attached to the piston (29),
a hub insertion hole (4b) formed at a top of the syringe body (2),
a needle guide hole (12) formed at a top of the hub insertion hole
(4b) of the syringe body (2) communicating the hub insertion hole (4b)

and an outside of the syringe body (2) with each other,
a hub (9) capable of connecting with a needle (26) attachably and
detachably connected with the hub insertion hole (4b), 
the hub (9) having a hub body (90) which can be linearly inserted
into the hub insertion hole (4b) in the direction of a center axis (P1)

of the syringe body (2) and can be linearly pulled out of the hub
insertion hole (4b) into the syringe body in the direction of the center

axis (P1),
a piston engagement hole (20) provided with the hub body (90) so
as to engage with the piston (29), and
a seal portion of the hub body (90);

characterized in that the hub insertion hole (4b) is mainly cylindric,
that the hub body (90) has the shape of a cylinder, that the seal

portion is formed by a plurality of projections (61), each projection
being comprised of an annularly provided projecting fold tapering

axially inwards formed at an outer peripheral portion of the hub (9)
and that the inner surface of the hub insertion hole (4b) and a

plurality of the projections (61) are in contact with a predetermined
contact pressure.
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein the hub
body (90) can be installed in the hub insertion hole (4b) from the

needle guide hole (12) side.
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein one or more
than one slits (50) are formed at a periphery of the needle guide hole

(12) of the syringe body (2).
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein a needle (26)
is installed in the hub body (90).
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein the piston

(29) is comprised such that a piston body (30) can be bent and taken
between an operation portion and a medical liquid press portion.
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 6, wherein a piston stopper
(3b) is formed in the syringe body (2) so as not to pull the medical

liquid press portion of the piston (29) out of the syringe body (2).
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 6 or 7, wherein a notch (31)
for folding and taking is formed on the piston body (30) of the piston

(29). 
The syringe assembly as set forth in claim 8, wherein the notch (31) is
formed so as to position at an end portion (3a) of the syringe body (2)

when the piston (29) is abutted on the piston stopper (3b).
A method of assembling of the syringe assembly as set forth in claim 1
or 2, comprising:


inserting the hub (9) into the hub insertion hole (4b) from the piston
insertion side of the syringe body (2);
disposing the hub (9) so as to elastically engage the seal portion of
the hub (9) and the member seal portion of the hub insertion hole (4b)

with each other; and
inserting the piston (29) into the syringe body (2).
A method of assembling of the syringe assembly as set forth in claim 1
or 2 comprising:


inserting the piston (29) into the syringe body (2);
inserting the hub (9) into the hub insertion hole (4b) from the needle
guide hole (12) side of the syringe body (2); and
disposing the hub (9) so as to elastically engage the seal portion of
the hub (9) and the member seal portion of the hub insertion hole (4b)

with each other.
The method of assembling of the syringe assembly as set forth in claim
11, wherein the seal portion of the hub (9) is formed by a plurality of

projections (61).
The method of assembling of the syringe assembly as set forth in claim
11 or 12 wherein a needle (26) is installed on the hub (9) before the

hub (9) is inserted into the hub insertion hole (4b).
The method of assembling of the syringe assembly as set forth in claim
11, 12 or 13, comprising: forming one or more than one slits (50) at a

periphery of the needle guide hole (12) of the syringe body (2); and
inserting the hub (9) into the hub insertion hole (4b) through the slits (50).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
