<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HOLLOW REINFORCEMENTS FOR FIRE-RESISTANT SAFES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05G100	E05G100	E05G1024	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05G	E05G	E05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05G1	E05G1	E05G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fire-resistant safe is made with internal (30, 44) and external (32, 46) shells that are filled with insulation material (34, 48). Hollow reinforcements interconnecting the two shells are formed as cone-shaped recesses (58, 62) in the internal shell (30, 44) having truncated bottom portions (60, 64) attached to the external shell (32, 46). The insulation (34, 48) is made of a water-bearing material and the recesses (58, 62) are made of a resin material that melts at a temperature in excess of the boiling point of water. Funnels (36, 38) are formed in the external shell (32, 46) for adding the insulation material (34, 48) in a liquid state. An escutcheon (24, 26) for covering the funnels (34, 38) is anchored to the insulation material (34, 38) by stakes (72, 76) that are embedded in the insulation material (34, 48) before the material hardens into place.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRUSH 
&
 CO JOHN D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHN D. BRUSH 
&
 COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIGIAMBATTISTA MARY P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVERI ANDREW L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBBINS RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIGIAMBATTISTA, MARY, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVERI, ANDREW, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBBINS, RICHARD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLEHOLLOW REINFORCEMENTS FOR FIRE-RESISTANT SAFESTECHNICAL FIELDOur invention relates to the field of insulated storage containers for protecting contents from damage by fire.BACKGROUNDFire-resistant storage containers, also referred t as fire-resistant safes, are generally constructed with internal and external shells that encapsulate spaces filled with insulation material. The internal shells form inner surfaces of the safes, and the external shells form outer surfaces of the safes. Together, the internal and external shells form a shuttering for molding the insulation material in place within the shells. The insulation material is generally made of a mixture that solidifies in the mold but retains a large amount of water within the solidified mass o material.The internal and external shells are often fabricated from steel sheets, but can also be made as integral double-walled shells that are blow molded from a resin material. Several patents commonly assigned herewith describe the double-walled shells, blow molding processes fo making the double-walled shells, and apparatus specially designed for carrying out the blow molding processes. These patents include: U.S. Patents 4,770,839 and 4,846,662 to Legge; U.S. Patent 4,948,357 to Legge et al.; U.S. Patent 4,805,290 to Brush, Jr., et al.; and U.S. Patents 4,898,707 and 4,993,582 to Arp. All of these patents are hereby incorporated by reference. 

 Separate double-walled shells of resin material a used to form a body of the safes having an opening for receiving contents and a closure (e.g., door, cover, drawer head) for closing the opening in the safe body. The respective double-walled resin shells of the safe body and the closure are both filed with insulation material. Although the resin material is combustible and the external shells of the safe body and the closure burn away in a fire, thereby exposing the insulation material, resin material between the body and the closure only partly melts away, leaving a seal around the opening between the body and the closure. The resin seal resists the conduction of heat and the passage of hot gases into the safes.Several other advantages also accrue from use of resin material to form the internal and external shells of fire-resistant safes. For example, the resin shells provide a good vapor barrier to retard evaporation of water from the insulation material in both the safe body and the closure. Also, the resin material is lightweight, but resists abrasio and can be molded to a wide variety of shapes and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WE CLAIM:
1. In a fire-resistant safe for protecting contents from fire constructed with internal and external shells tha define a space between them filled with an insulation material, the improvement in which: one of said internal and external shells is formed wit a recess having a bottom portion that is attached to the other of said internal and external shells for maintaining said internal and external shells at a predetermined spacing while said insulation material cures and solidifies within the shells and for maintaining a seal that prevents hot gase from entering the safe through a hole in the insulation material.
2. The improvement of claim 1 in which said external shell forms outer surfaces of the safe and said internal shell encloses an interior space for storing contents of the safe.
3. The improvement of claim 2 in which said recess is formed in said internal shell and said bottom portion of the recess is attached to said external shell.
4. The improvement of claim 3 in which said internal and external shells are integrally molded of a resin materia
5. The improvement of claim 4 in which said insulation material is water bearing for absorbing heat energy and said resin material melts at a temperature in excess of the boiling point of water.
6. The improvement of claim 5 in which said bottom portion of the recess is attached to said external shell by compression molding.
7. The improvement of claim 6 in which said recess is substantially truncated cone-shaped and reduces in diameter from said internal shell to said external shell. 


 8. The improvement of claim 7 in which said bottom portion of the recess is compression molded with said external shell to a combined thickness equal to two-thirds o the total thickness of said internal and external shells.
9. The improvement of claim 7 in which said bottom portion is formed as a truncated end of a cone having a diameter of at least one-half centimeter in contact with sai external shell.
10. The improvement of claim 4 in which a funnel is formed in said external shell for filling the said space between the internal and external shells with the insulation material.
11. The improvement of claim 10 in which an escutcheon covers said funnel and is anchored to said insulation material by stakes that are embedded in the insulation material before the insulation material is completely hardened into place.
12. A double-walled container filled with insulation material for protecting contents from fire comprising: exterior and interior walls defining space between them that is filled with an insulation material; said exterior walls forming outer surfaces of the double-walled container; said interior walls enclosing a space for storing contents of the double-walled container; a recess formed in one of said interior walls defining hollow space through said insulation material and having a bottom portion attached to one of said exterior walls for maintaining a predetermined spacing between said one exterior wall and said one interior wall and for maintaining a seal that prevents hot gases from entering the container through the hollow space in the insulation material; and said recess being made of a resin material that softens into a plastic state upon absorbing a predetermined amount of heat. 


 13. The double-walled container of claim 12 in which said bottom portion of the recess detaches from said one exterior wall when said one exterior wall conducts said predetermined amount of heat to said bottom portion of the recess.
14. The double-walled container of claim 13 in which said recess contracts without rupturing toward a planar for upon continued absorption of said predetermined amount of heat.
15. The double-walled container of claim 14 in which said insulation material is water bearing and said recess contracts through said insulation material at a rate that parallels vaporization of water from said insulation materia
16. The double-walled container of claim 15 in which said recess is substantially truncated cone-shaped and reduces in diameter from said one interior wall to said one exterior wall.
17. The double-walled container of claim 12 in which a funnel is formed in another of said exterior walls for filling the said space between the exterior and interior walls with insulation material.
18. The double-walled container of claim 17 in which a escutcheon covers said funnel and is anchored to said insulation material by stakes that are embedded in the insulation material before the insulation material is completely hardened into place.
19. A method of making a fire-resistant safe comprisin the steps of: joining internal and external shells with a recess formed in the internal shell having a bottom portion that is attached to the external shell for maintaining the internal and external shells at a predetermined spacing; 


 filling a space defined between the internal and external shells with a predetermined amount of insulation material through a funnel formed in the external shell; and anchoring an escutcheon for covering the funnel to the insulation material by stakes that are embedded in the insulation material before the insulation material is completely hardened into place.
20. The method of claim 19 including the further step of integrally forming the internal and external shells by blow molding.
21. The method of claim 20 in which said joining step includes attaching the bottom portion of the recess to the external shell by compression molding.
22. The method of claim 19 including the further step of trimming the funnel to a final height above the external shell before executing said filling step.
23. The method of claim 22 in which said anchoring step includes fastening the escutcheon in place about the funnel.
24. The method of claim 23 in which said anchoring step includes inserting the stakes through the funnel into the insulation material.
25. The method of claim 19 including the further step of mounting a latching mechanism within the escutcheon.
26. The method of claim 25 in which said anchoring step includes embedding a pin of the latching mechanism in the insulation material before the insulation material is completely hardened into place.
27. The method of claim 26 including the further step of forming holes in the external shell for receiving the pin of the latching mechanism before executing said filling step. 


 28. An escutcheon for covering a funnel in a double-walled fire-resistant safe filled with insulation material comprising: a plate surrounded by a rim that encloses an interior space of the escutcheon; a baffle that is interconnected with said rim for enclosing the funnel to resist evaporation of water from the insulation material through the funnel; and a stake projecting from said plate for anchoring the escutcheon in the insulation material before the insulation material has completely hardened into place.
29. The escutcheon of claim 28 further comprising mean for attaching the escutcheon to the funnel with an interference engagement.
30. The escutcheon of claim 29 in which said means for attaching includes detents formed in said rim for engaging grooves formed in the funnel with a snap-fit engagement.
31. The escutcheon of claim 30 in which said rim is sized to permit adjustment of the escutcheon along said grooves.
32. The escutcheon of claim 28 further comprising a second baffle for enclosing another funnel.
33. The escutcheon of claim 32 further comprising a second stake for anchoring the escutcheon in the insulation material before the insulation material has completely hardened into place.
34. The escutcheon of claim 33 in which said stakes ar positioned for entering the insulation material through the respective funnels. 


 35. The escutcheon of claim 28 in which said stake has an enlarged portion for anchoring the stake in the insulatio material.
36. The escutcheon of claim 28 further comprising a recess formed in said plate with openings for supporting a handle and another baffle cooperating with said recess for enclosing one of said openings. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 28 May 1993 (28.05.93); original claims 3,12 and 16-18 cancelled; original claims 1,2,4-11 and -15 amended ; remaining claims unchanged; claims renumbered as claims 1-31
(4 pages)]
1. A fire-resistant safe for protecting contents from fire constructed with internal and external resin shells that define a space between them filled with an insulation materia characterized by: a plurality of holes being formed through said insulati material; and a plurality of recesses being formed in said internal shell having bottom portions attached to said external shell for maintaining seals that prevent hot gases generated by a fire from entering the safe through said holes after said external shell has been burned away by the fire.
2. The safe of claim 1 in which said external shell forms outer surfaces of the safe and said internal shell encloses an interior space for storing contents of the safe.
3. The safe of claim 2 in which said internal and external shells are integrally molded of a resin material.
4. The safe of claim 3 in which said insulation materi is water bearing for absorbing heat energy and said resin material melts at a temperature in excess of the boiling poin of water.
5. The safe of claim 4 in which said bottom portions o the recesses are attached to said external shell by compressi molding.
6. The safe of claim 5 in which said recesses are shap substantially as truncated cones and reduce in diameter from said internal shell to said external shell.
7. The safe of claim 6 in which said bottom portions o the recesses are compression molded with said external shell respective combined thicknesses equal to two-thirds of the total thickness of said internal and external shells. 


 8. The safe of claim 7 in which said bottom portions o the recesses are formed as truncated ends of cones having respective diameters of at least one-half centimeter in conta with said external shell.
9. The safe of claim 4 in which a funnel is formed in said external shell for filling the said space between the internal and external shells with the insulation material.
10. The safe of claim 9 in which an escutcheon covers said funnel and is anchored to said insulation material by stakes that are embedded in the insulation material without penetrating said internal shell.
11. The safe of claim 1 in which said bottom portions the recesses detach from said exterior shell upon absorption a predetermined amount of heat from the fire.
12. The safe of claim 11 in which said recesses contrac without rupturing toward a planar form upon continued absorption of said heat.
13. The safe of claim 12 in which said insulation material is water bearing and said recesses contract through said insulation material at a rate that parallels vaporization of water from said insulation material.
14. A method of making a fire-resistant safe comprising the steps of: joining internal and external shells with a recess forme in the internal shell having a bottom portion that is attached to the external shell for maintaining the internal and externa shells at a predetermined spacing; filling a space defined between the internal and externa shells with a predetermined amount of insulation material through a funnel formed in the external shell; and anchoring an escutcheon for covering the funnel to the insulation material by stakes that are embedded in the 



 insulation material before the insulation material is completely hardened into place.
15. The method of claim 14 including the further step integrally forming the internal and external shells by blow molding.
16. The method of claim 15 in which said joining step includes attaching the bottom portion of the recess to the external shell by compression molding.
17. The method of claim 14 including the further step trimming the funnel to a final height above the external shel before executing said filling step.
18. The method of claim 17 in which said anchoring ste includes fastening the escutcheon in place about the funnel.
19. The method of claim 18 in which said anchoring ste includes inserting the stakes through the funnel into the insulation material.
20. The method of claim 14 including the further step mounting a latching mechanism within the escutcheon.
21. The method of claim 20 in which said anchoring ste includes embedding a pin of the latching mechanism in the insulation material before the insulation material is completely hardened into place.
22. The method of claim 21 including the further step forming holes in the external shell for receiving the pin of the latching mechanism before executing said filling step.
23. An escutcheon for covering a funnel in a double-walled fire-resistant safe filled with insulation material comprising: a plate surrounded by a rim that encloses an interior space of the escutcheon; 


 a baffle that is interconnected with said rim for enclosing the funnel to resist evaporation of water from the insulation material through the funnel; and a stake projecting from said plate for anchoring the escutcheon in the insulation material before the insulation material has completely hardened into place.
24. The escutcheon of claim 23 further comprising mean for attaching the escutcheon to the funnel with an interferen engagement.
25. The escutcheon of claim 24 in which said means for attaching includes detents formed in said rim for engaging grooves formed in the funnel with a snap-fit engagement.
26. The escutcheon of claim 25 in which said rim is sized to permit adjustment of the escutcheon along said groov
27. The escutcheon of claim 23 further comprising a second baffle for enclosing another funnel.
28. The escutcheon of claim 27 further comprising a second stake for anchoring the escutcheon in the insulation material before the insulation material has completely hardene into place.
29. The escutcheon of claim 28 in which said stakes are positioned for entering the insulation material through the respective funnels.
30. The escutcheon of claim 23 in which said stake has an enlarged portion for anchoring the stake in the insulation material.
31. The escutcheon of claim 23 further comprising a recess formed in said plate with openings for supporting a handle and another baffle cooperating with said recess for enclosing one of said openings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
