<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648268</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERAPEUTIC FRAGMENTS OF VON WILLEBRAND FACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K14755	C07K1618	C07K1636	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A polypeptide patterned on a fragment of wild type mature von Willebrand factor (vWF) subunit having one ore more binding sites of predetermined affinity for one or more of the ligands selected from the group consisting of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans, platelet glycoprotein Ib alpha , platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa, or coagulation factor VIII, said polypeptide having a modified amino acid sequence relative to that of said fragment and an increased binding affinity, relative to said predetermined affinity, for one or more of said ligands, including also such a polypeptide prepared by mutagenesis of a DNA sequence and patterned on wild type mature vWF subunit, and also a polypeptide in purified form patterned upon a parent polypeptide which comprises the wild type amino acid sequence of mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, and including also purified DNA sequences encoding such polypeptides, expression plasmids and viral expression vectors containing the DNA sequences, and therapeutic compositions comprising such polypeptides effective in the treatment of thrombosis, and methods for the use thereof, and also preparation of such polypeptides by mutagenesis of an encoding DNA sequence or covalent modification of wild type vWF.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCRIPPS RESEARCH INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SCRIPPS RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUGGERI ZAVERIO M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARE JERRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUGGERI, ZAVERIO, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARE, JERRY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THERAPEUTIC FRAGMENTS OF VON WILLEBRAND FACTORCross-Reference to Related ApplicationsThis is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/613,004, filed November 13, 1990, which is a continuation- in-part of Serial No. 07/600,183, filed October 17, 1990, which is a continuation-in-part of Serial No. 07/519,606, filed May 7, 1990, which is a continuation-in-part of Serial No. 07/270,488, filed November 4, 1988, now abandoned, which is a continuation of Serial No. 869,188, filed May 30, 1986, now abandoned. This is also a continuation-in-part of aforementioned Serial No. 07/600,183, filed October 17, 1990.Field of the InventionThis invention relates to polypeptides which are useful in the treatment of vascular disorders such as thrombosis. This invention relates also to polypeptides which are useful in the treatment of hemorrhagic diseases, such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) . This invention further relates to the production by reco binant DNA-directed methods of pharmacologically useful quantities of the polypeptides of the present invention.The term "hemostasis" refers to those processes which comprise the defense mechanisms of the body against loss of circulating blood caused by vascular injury. Processes which 

 are normal as a physiologic response to vascular injury may lead in pathologic circumstances, such as in a patient afflicted with atherosclerotic vascular disease or chronic congestive heart failure, to the formation of undesired thrombi (clots) with resultant vascular occlusion.Impairment of blood flow to organs under such circumstances may lead to severe pathologic states, including myocardial infarction, a leading cause of mortality in developed countries. The restriction or termination of the flow of blood within the circulatory system in response to a wound or as a result of a vascular disease state involves a complex series of reactions which can be divided into two processes, primary and secondary hemostasis. Primary hemostasis refers to the process of platelet plug or soft clot formation. The platelets are non-nucleated discoid structures approximately 2-5 microns in diameter derived from egakaryocytic cells. Effective primary hemostasis is accomplished by platelet adhesion, the interaction of platelets with the surface of damaged vascular endothelium on which are exposed underlying collagen fibers and/or other adhesive macromolecules such as proteoglycans and glycosaminoglycans to which platelets bind.Secondary" hemostasis involves the reinforcement or crosslinking of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A polypeptide patterned on a fragment of wild type mature von Willebrand factor (vWF) subunit having one or more binding sites of predetermined affinity for one or more of the ligands selected from the group consisting of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans, platelet glycoprotein Ibα, platelet glycoprotein Ilb/IIIa, or coagulation factor VIII, said polypeptide having a modified amino acid sequence relative to that of said fragment and an increased binding affinity, relative to said predetermined affinity, for one or more of said ligands.
2. A polypeptide prepared by mutagenesis of a DNA sequence and patterned on wild type mature vWF subunit, or a fragment thereof, having one or more binding sites of predetermined affinity for one or more of the ligands selected from the group consisting of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans, platelet glycoprotein Ibα, platelet glycoprotein Ilb/IIIa, or coagulation/ factor VIII, said polypeptide having a modified amino acid sequence relative to that of said subunit, or of the fragment thereof, and an increased binding affinity, relative to said predetermined affinity, for one or more of said ligands.
3. A polypeptide according to Claim 1 patterned on a residue 441 (arginine) to residue 733 (valine) fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit and which has an increased binding affinity for one or more of platelet membrane glycoprotein Ibα, collagen, glycosaminoglycans, or proteoglycans.
4. A polypeptide according to Claim 1 which has an increased binding affinity for platelet membrane glycoprotein Ibα. 


 5. A polypeptide according to Claim 3 which has an increased binding affinity for platelet membrane glycoprotein Ibα and a decreased binding affinity for one or more of collagen, glycosaminoglycans or proteoglycans.
6. A process for producing from DNA encoding mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, a biologically active polypeptide which process comprises the steps of: (A) providing a DNA sequence encoding a mature vWF subunit, or fragment thereof, in which one or more wild type codons thereof are replaced by codons specifying one or more amino acid mutations which confer upon the resultant expressed polypeptide enhanced binding affinity for GPIbα relative to that of the comparable wild type sequence;
(B) inserting the DNA sequence so provided into a suitable plasmid or vector to create a construct comprising an expression plasmid or viral expression vector, said construct being capable of directing the expression in cells of said subunit fragment or subfragment;
(C) transforming a host cell with said construct; and
(D) culturing said transformed host cell under conditions that cause expression within the host cell of the resultant polypeptide.
7. A process according to Claim 6 for producing from DNA encoding mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, a biologically active polypeptide which process comprises the steps of:
(A) providing a DNA sequence encoding a mature vWF subunit, or a fragment thereof, in which one or more wild type codons are replaced by codons specifying one or more amino acid mutations found in the vWF DNA sequence of one or more Type IIB von
Willebrand disease patients; 


 (B) inserting the DNA sequence so provided into a suitable vector to create a construct comprising an expression plasmid or viral expression vector, said construct being capable of directing the expression in cells of said biologically active polypeptide;
(C) transforming a host cell with said construct; and
(D) culturing said transformed host cell under conditions which cause expression within said host cell of the polypeptide.
A process according to Claim 7 for producing from DNA encoding that fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit comprising the amino acid sequence from approximately residue 441 (arginine) to approximately residue 730 (asparagine) , or a subfragment thereof, a biologically active monomer of said subunit fragment, or of a subfragment thereof, which process comprises the steps of:
(A) providing a DNA sequence encoding the subunit fragment or subfragment in which one or more of cysteine codons 459, 462 and 464 are deleted or replaced with missense codons, and one or more additional codons are replaced by corresponding codons found at equivalent sequence positions in the vWF DNA sequence of one or more Type IIB von Willebrand disease patients and which encode therein one or more amino acid mutations;
(B) inserting the DNA sequence so provided into a suitable vector to create a construct comprising an expression plasmid or viral expression vector, said construct being capable of directing the expression in cells of said monomeric subunit fragment or subfragment;
(C) transforming a host cell with said construct; and
(D) culturing said transformed host cell under conditions which cause expression within said host cell of the monomeric subunit fragment or subfragment. 


 9. A process according to Claim 7 for producing from DNA encoding that fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit comprising the amino acid sequence from approximately residue 441 (arginine) to approximately residue 730 (asparagine) , or a subfragment thereof, a biologically active dimer of said subunit fragment, or of a subfragment thereof, which process comprises the steps of:
(A) providing a DNA sequence encoding the subunit fragment or subfragment in which one or more codons are replaced by corresponding codons found at equivalent sequence positions in the vWF DNA sequence of one or more Type IIB von Willebrand disease patients and which encode therein one or more amino acid mutations;
(B) inserting the DNA sequence so provided into a suitable vector to create a construct comprising an expression plasmid or viral expression vector, said construct being capable of directing the expression in cells of said monomeric subunit fragment or subfragment;
(C) transforming a host cell with said construct; and
(D) culturing said transformed host cell under conditions that cause expression within the host cell of a dimeric form of the monomeric fragment or subfragment.
10. A process according to Claim 7 for producing from DNA encoding that fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit comprising the amino acid sequence from approximately residue 441 (arginine) to approximately residue 733 (valine) , or a subfragment thereof, a biologically active monomer of said subunit fragment, or of a subfragment thereof, which process comprises the steps of: (A) providing a DNA sequence encoding the subunit fragment or subfragment in which cysteine codons 459, 462, 464, 471 and 474 are deleted or replaced with missense codons, and one or more additional 


 codons are replaced by corresponding codons found at equivalent sequence positions in the vWF DNA sequence of one or more Type IIB von Willebrand disease patients and which encode therein one or more amino acid mutations;
(B) inserting the DNA sequence so provided into a suitable vector to create a construct comprising an expression plasmid or viral expression vector, said construct being capable of directing the expression in cells of said monomeric subunit fragment or subfragment;
(C) transforming a host cell with said construct; and
(D) culturing said transformed host cell under conditions which cause expression within said host cell of the monomeric subunit fragment or subfragment.
11. A process for producing a polypeptide useful for treating or inhibiting thrombosis, said polypeptide being patterned upon the wild type mature vWF subunit, or a fragment thereof, and being derived therefrom as follows:
(A) providing a mutant vWF DNA sequence, said mutant sequence being characterized as encoding a mature vWF subunit, or a fragment thereof, the encoded polypeptide having, relative to the corresponding wild type polypeptide sequence, an increased binding affinity for one or more of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans, platelet glycoprotein Ibα, platelet glycoprotein Ilb/IIIa or coagulation factor VIII;
(B) further mutagenizing the DNA sequence of (A) above so that the encoded polypeptide expressed therefrom has a lesser tendency to participate in disulfide- induced dimerization or multimerization than the polypeptide encoded by the DNA sequence of (A) above; and
(C) expressing the further mutagenized DNA sequence of (B) above in a host cell from which an undimerized 


 form of the encoded polypeptide may be extracted or secreted.
12. A polypeptide in purified form patterned upon a parent polypeptide which comprises the wild type amino acid sequence of mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, in which, when compared to the parent polypeptide, one or more amino acid residues thereof are replaced by the corresponding residues found at the equivalent sequence positions of mature vWF subunit as isolated from one or more humans with Type IIB von Willebrand disease.
13. A polypeptide according to Claim 12 patterned upon a parent polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of that fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit beginning approximately at residue 441 (arginine) and ending approximately at residue 730 (asparagine) , or a subfragment thereof.
14. A polypeptide according to Claim 12 which is glycosylated.
15. A polypeptide according to Claim 12 which contains one or more substitutions chosen from 550 (Cysteine) , 511 (Tryptophan) , 543 (Tryptophan) , 553 (Methionine) and 561 (Aspartic acid) .
16. A polypeptide in purified form patterned upon a parent polypeptide which comprises the wild type amino acid sequence of mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, in which, when compared to the parent polypeptide, one or more amino acid residues thereof are replaced by one or more amino acid residues conferring upon the resultant polypeptide, relative to the parent polypeptide, an enhanced binding affinity for GPIbα.
17. A polypeptide in purified form patterned upon a parent polypeptide which comprises the wild type amino acid 


 sequence of mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, in which, when compared to the parent polypeptide, one or more amino acid residues thereof are deleted or are covalently labelled so that the resultant polypeptide has, relative to the parent polypeptide, an increased binding affinity for GPIbα.
18. A process for generating a biologically active mutant amino acid sequence patterned upon wild type mature von Willebrand factor subunit or a fragment thereof, said sequence demonstrating relative to wild type subunit, or the said fragment thereof, an increased binding affinity for GPIbα, and comprising the steps of:
(A) providing a population of oligonucleotides corresponding to one or more mature vWF subunit DNA subsequences and containing random mutations within one or more of the codons within said subsequences;
(B) using the resultant population of mutant oligonucleotides in a mutagenesis procedure with a vWF or vWF fragment-encoding DNA sequence as template thereby creating a random population of mutagenized sequences;
(C) inserting the mixture of mutagenized vWF or vWF fragment-encoding DNA sequences into plasmids or vectors thereby creating a population of expression plasmids or viral expression vectors;
(D) inserting the resultant population of expression plasmids or viral expression vectors into suitable host cells;
(E) screening individual colonies or cultures of resultant host cells for expression of vWF-derived polypeptides having properties reflective of Type IIB vWF or of fragments thereof;
(F) having determined the DNA sequence of a vWF insert in a colony or culture of a host cell expressing vWF-derived polypeptide having said reflective properties; 


 (G) expressing the mutagenized DNA sequence, or an additional DNA sequence which is constructed to reflect the changes identified in the mutagenized sequence, in a host cell; (H) isolating the mutant vWF-derived polypeptide produced thereby.
19. A mutant vWF-derived polypeptide having an amino terminus at approximately residue 441 (arginine) and a carboxy terminus at approximately residue 730 (asparagine) and having functional properties reflective of Type IIB vWF, said polypeptide being produced by the process of Claim 18.
20. A therapeutic composition which is effective in treating or inhibiting thrombosis which comprises (A) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and
(B) a monomeric polypeptide according to Claim 1.
21. A purified DNA sequence encoding the fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit having an amino terminus at approximately residue 441 (arginine) and a carboxy terminus at approximately residue 733 (valine) , or a subfragment thereof, in which one or more codons thereof are replaced by mutant codons corresponding at equivalent sequence positions to codons as isolated from the DNA of one or more humans with Type IIB von Willebrand disease.
22. An expression plasmid or viral expression vector containing DNA encoding a mutant mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, said encoding DNA containing one or more codons specifying one or more amino acid sequence mutations found in mature von
Willebrand factor subunit as determined from one or more Type IIB von Willebrand disease patients, said plasmid or vector being suitable for replication in a host cell and directing expression therein of said vWF subunit, or fragment thereof. 


23. An expression plasmid or viral expression vector according to Claim 22 in which one or more of the cysteine codons normally present in the encoding DNA, within the region specifying approximately amino acid residue 441 (arginine) to approximately residue 733
(valine) thereof, are deleted or replaced by missense codons.
24. An expression plasmid or viral expression vector according to Claim 22 containing DNA encoding mature von Willebrand factor subunit, or a fragment thereof, said encoding DNA containing one or more codons specifying one or more of the following amino acid sequence mutations: 550 (Cysteine) , 511 (Tryptophan) , 543 (Tryptophan) , 553 (Methionine) and 561 (Aspartic Acid) .
25. A recombinant eucaryotic or procaryotic host cell transformed with an expression plasmid or viral expression vector according to Claim 22.
26. An antibody which is specific for von Willebrand factor subunit, or a polypeptide comprising a fragment thereof, said antibody being made by a process of immunizing animals with a polypeptide according to Claim 1 and then isolating the antibodies generated thereby.
27. A polypeptide patterned upon a parent polypeptide which comprises that fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit beginning approximately at residue 441
(arginine) and ending approximately at residue 730 (asparagine) thereof, or a subfragment thereof, in which when compared to the parent polypeptide, one or more of the arginine, lysine or histidine residues within the 509 (cysteine) to 695 (cysteine) loop region thereof have been deleted or replaced by one or more amino acid residues having, at physiological pH, neutral or negatively charged residue side chains. 


 28. A polypeptide patterned upon a parent polypeptide which comprises that fragment of mature von Willebrand factor subunit beginning approximately at residue 441 (arginine) and ending approximately at residue 730 (asparagine) , or a subfragment thereof, in which when compared to the parent polypeptide, one or more of the arginine, lysine or histidine residues within the 509 (cysteine) to 695 (cysteine) loop region thereof have been covalently labelled said residues thereafter possessing side chains which are neutral or negatively charged at physiological pH.
29. A method of treating or inhibiting thrombosis in a patient which comprises administering to such patient an effective amount of a therapeutic composition comprising (A) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and
(B) a monomeric polypeptide according to Claim 12.
30. A method of inhibiting aggregation of platelets which comprises contacting platelets with an effective amount of one or more therapeutic compositions according to Claim 1.
31. A polypeptide according to Claim 1 which has an increased binding affinity for platelet glycoprotein Ibα and which has been produced by mutagenesis of a region of a DNA sequence encoding mature subunit residues 469 (leucine) - 498 (aspartic acid) and/or 689 (glutamic acid) - 713 (valine) .
32. A polypeptide substantially in pure form and patterned on wild type mature von Willebrand factor (vWF) , or a fragment thereof, having one or more binding sites of predetermined affinity for one or more of the ligands selected from the group consisting of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans, platelet glycoprotein Ibα, platelet glycoprotein Ilb/IIIa, or coagulation factor VIII, said polypeptide having a modified amino acid sequence relative to that of the wild type mature 


 vWF, or a fragment thereof and also an increased binding affinity, relative to said predetermined affinity, for one or more of said ligands.
33. A method of treating or inhibiting thrombosis in a patient which comprises administering to such patient an effective amount of a therapeutic composition comprising
(A) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and
(B) a monomeric polypeptide according to Claim 5. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
