<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633318</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transduced fibroblasts and uses therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K4800	A61K4800	C07K14435	C07K14635	C12N1565	C12N1565	C12N15867	C12N15867	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	A61K48	A61K48	C07K14	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Fibroblasts transduced with genetic material 
encoding a polypeptide or protein of interest and, 

optionally, a selectable marker, as well as methods 
for making and using the transduced fibroblasts. 

Such fibroblasts are useful in delivering the 
encoded polypeptide or protein, such as an enzyme, a 

hormone or a drug, to an individual who has had a 
graft or implant of the transduced cells. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES HOWARD MED INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHITEHEAD BIOMEDICAL INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOWARD HUGHES MEDICAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHITEHEAD INSTITUTE FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLIGAN RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON JAMES M HOWARD HUGHES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLIGAN, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON, JAMES M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In the embryo, the mesoderm is the middle of the 
three primary third germ layers, and lies between the 
ectoderm and the entoderm. It gives rise, during 
development, to the connective tissues, all body 
musculature, blood, cardiovascular and lymphatic 
systems, most of the urogenital system and the lining 
of the pericardial, pleural and peritoneal cavities. 
That portion of the mesoderm which produces the 
connective tissue, blood vessels and blood, the 
lymphatic system and the heart is referred to as the 
mesenchyme. One type of cells produced by 
mesenchymal cells is fibroblast cells, which are 
stellate or spindle-shaped cells with cytoplasmic 
processes. They are present in connective tissue and 
are capable of forming collagen fibers. Fibroblasts, like other cells in the body, 
contain an entire complement of all genetic material. 
However, only a small percentage of the genes they 
contain are expressed at biologically functional 
levels. That is, most of the genes in fibroblasts 
are not expressed at all, or are expressed at such 
low levels that the polypeptides they encode are  
 
produced in undetectable amounts or concentrations 
which are biologically nonfunctional or 
insignificant. It is possible, using methods developed in 
recent years, to attain interspecies genetic 
recombination. Genes derived from different 
biological classes are able to replicate and be 
expressed in a selected microorganism. Therefore, it 
is possible to introduce into a microorganism genes 
specifying a metabolic or synthetic function (e.g., 
hormone synthesis, protein synthesis, nitrogen 
fixation) which is characteristic of other classes of 
organisms by linking the genes to a particular viral 
or plasmid replicon. Since the late 1970s, progress has been made 
toward the development of general methods for 
introducing cloned DNA sequences into mammalian 
cells. At the present time, however, there is a need 
for an effective method of stably introducing genetic 
material into fibroblasts and enabling them to 
express genetic material which they do not normally 
express, or normally express at biologically 
insignificant levels. The invention described herein relates to 
genetically engineered mesenchymal or connective 
tissue cells and particularly to genetically 
engineered fibroblasts which express in biologically 
significant concentrations genetic material which is 
not normally expressed in significant concentrations 
in such cells. It also relates to methods of stably  
 
introducing into fibroblasts
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Fibroblasts transduced by a helper-free amphotropic 
retrovirus which has DNA of interest incorporated 

therein, said DNA of interest comprising DNA which is 
not present in naturally-occurring fibroblasts; DNA 

which is present in naturally-occurring fibroblasts 
but is not expressed in them at levels which are 

biologically significant; DNA which is present in 
naturally-occurring fibroblasts and has been modified 

so that it is expressed in the transduced 
fibroblasts; and any DNA which can be modified to be 

expressed in the transduced fibroblasts, alone or in 
any combination thereof. 
Transduced fibroblasts of Claim 1, wherein the 
incorporated DNA of interest additionally comprises 

DNA encoding at least one selectable marker, for 
example a dominant selectable marker, e.g. a gene 

encoding antibiotic resistance. 
Human fibroblasts transduced by a helper-free 
amphotropic retrovirus which has DNA of interest 

incorporated therein, said DNA of interest comprising 
DNA which is not present in human fibroblasts; DNA 

which is present in human fibroblasts but is not 
expressed in them at levels which are biologically 

significant;
 

DNA which is present in human fibroblasts and has 
been modified so that it is expressed in the 

transduced fibroblasts; and any DNA which can be 
modified to be expressed in the human fibroblasts, 

alone or in any combination thereof. 
Transduced human fibroblasts of Claim 3, wherein the 
incorporated DNA of interest additionally comprises 

DNA of interest which encodes at least one dominant 
selectable marker. 
Transduced human fibroblasts capable of expressing 
DNA of interest which encodes a selected protein or a 

selected polypeptide which has been stably integrated 
into the genome of the transduced human fibroblasts 

by means of an amphotropic helper-free retroviral 
vector. 
Transduced human fibroblasts expressing DNA of 
interest, the DNA of interest incorporated into the 

genome of the transduced human fibroblasts by an 
amphotropic helper-free retroviral vector and 

selected from the group consisting of: a) DNA 
encoding hormone not normally made at biologically 

significant levels in fibroblasts; 
b) DNA encoding an enzyme not normally made at 

biologically significant levels in fibroblasts; c) 
DNA encoding a drug not normally made at biologically 

significant levels in fibroblast; and d) DNA encoding 
at least one dominant selectable marker. 
Transduced fibroblasts having incorporated therein 
recombinant helper-free amphotropic retrovirus having 

a recombinant genome comprised of: long terminal 
repeat sequences, the tRNA binding site and the Psi 

packing site derived from amphotropic Moloney murine 
leukemia virus; and DNA of interest, said DNA of 

interest comprising DNA which is not present in 
naturally-occurring fibroblasts; DNA which is present 

in naturally-occurring fibroblasts but is not 
expressed in them at levels which are biologically 

significant; DNA which is present in 
naturally-occurring fibroblasts and has been modified 

so that it is expressed in the transduced 
fibroblasts; and any DNA which can be modified to be 

expressed in the transduced fibroblasts, alone or in 
any combination thereof. 
Transduced fibroblasts of Claim 7 in which the 
recombinant genome additionally comprises DNA 

material encoding at least one selectable marker, 
for example a neo gene. 
Transduced fibroblasts of Claim 8 in which the DNA 
encodes human parathyroid hormone. 
A method of making transduced fibroblasts which 
express DNA of interest which is stably integrated in 

the genome of the transduced fibroblasts and encodes 

at least one polypeptide of interest not expressed at 
biologically significant levels in 

naturally-occurring fibroblasts, comprising: 
a) contacting cultured fibroblasts with media 
containing an amphotropic helper-free 

recombinant retrovirus having a recombinant 
genome comprised of DNA encoding a protein or a 

polypeptide not expressed at biologically 
significant levels in naturally-occurring 

fibroblasts; and 
b) maintaining the cultured fibroblasts and the 
media containing the infectious recombinant 

retrovirus under conditions appropriate for 
infection of the fibroblasts by the recombinant 

retrovirus. 
A method of Claim 10 in which the DNA of interest 
encodes a hormone, an enzyme or a drug not expressed 

in naturally-occurring fibroblasts at biologically 
significant levels; and for example in which the 

recombinant genome of the retrovirus additionally 
comprises DNA encoding at least one dominant 

selectable marker. 
A method of making transduced fibroblasts, capable of 
expressing DNA of interest which is stably 

incorporated into the genome of the transduced 
fibroblasts and which encodes at least one protein or 

at least one polypeptide of interest not expressed at 
biologically significant levels in 

naturally-occurring fibroblasts, comprising: 
a) transducing cultured fibroblasts with an 
amphotropic helper-free retrovirus containing 

DNA encoding at least one protein or at least 
one polypeptide of interest and 
b) culturing the transduced fibroblasts under 
conditions appropriate for their growth. 
Fibroblast cells transduced with an amphotropic 
helper-free recombinant retrovirus containing DNA of 

interest present in normal fibroblasts for providing the 
DNA of interest to the body by 


a) introducing the transduced fibroblast cells into 
the body or 
b) applying the transduced fibroblast cells to a 
surface of the body. 
Fibroblast cells infected with an amphotropic 
helper-free recombinant retrovirus, the recombinant 

retrovirus having a recombinant genome comprised of: 

a) DNA of interest present in normal fibroblasts; 
b) the long terminal repeat sequences, the tRNA 
binding site and the Psi packaging site derived 

from an amphotropic retrovirus; and 
c) at least one promoter of eukaryotic origin: 
for providing the DNA of interest to the body by 


1) introducing the infected fibroblast cells 
into the body or 
2) applying the resulting fibroblast cells to 
a surface of the body. 
Infected fibroblast cells of Claim 14 in which the 
recombinant genome is additionally comprised of a 

promoter of eukaryotic origin which can be modulated 
by an external cue; and for example in which the 

recombinant genome is additionally comprised of DNA 
encoding at least one dominant selectable marker, 

e.g. a gene encoding antibiotic resistance or a gene 
that complements a genetic defect in the host 

species. 
A fertility device, comprising a transplantable sheet 
of fibroblasts transduced with an amphotropic 

helper-free retrovirus and expressing at biologically 
significant levels at least one hormone which 

regulates fertility, said transplantable sheet being 
applied to the body. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
