<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CURABLE HALOBUTYL RUBBER/POLY-EPIHALOHYDRIN RUBBER BLENDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60C100	C08L2326	C08L7100	C08L2100	C08L2300	C08G6532	C08L2328	C08L2100	C08G6524	C08L7103	C08G6500	B60C100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60C	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08G	C08L	C08L	C08G	C08L	C08G	B60C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60C1	C08L23	C08L71	C08L21	C08L23	C08G65	C08L23	C08L21	C08G65	C08L71	C08G65	B60C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A curable halobutyl rubber/polyepihalohydrin rubber blend comprises a cure system consisting essentially of (a) sulfur, (b) sulfur accelerator, (c) zinc-containing promoter, (d) urea or urea derivative vulcanization accelerator and, optionally, (e) di- or tri-mercapto nonsulfur curative such as 2,4,6-trimercapto-1,3,5-triazine. The halobutyl rubber/polyepihalohydrin rubber blends that are cross-linked with the cure system of this invention exhibit excellent scorch safety and cure rate, as well as a high degree of cross-linking, and are useful in the manufacutre of tire inner tubes and inner liners.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEON CHEMICALS USA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEON CHEMICALS USA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KYLLINGSTAD VERNON L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHAEFER RONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KYLLINGSTAD, VERNON, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHAEFER, RONALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to curable compositions 
containing halobutyl rubber, and a cure system consisting of 
(a) sulfur, (b) a sulfur accelerator, (c) a 
zinc-containing promoter, (d) urea, a urea derivative 
or mixtures thereof and, (e) a di- or tri-functional 
mercapto compound nonsulfur curative. This 
invention also relates to crosslinked materials formed 
from the curable compositions of this invention. The 
crosslinked materials formed in accordance with this 
invention have an excellent balance of cure rate, 
degree of crosslinking, scorch safety and physical 
properties, and exhibit excellent tire carcass adhesion 
as is useful in tire inner liners, as well as excellent 
impermeability to gases which is highly useful in tire 
inner tubes and inner liners for pneumatic tires. Tire liners based on blends of halobutyl rubber, 
especially chlorobutyl rubber, with hydrocarbon 
backbone rubber, such as natural rubber or reclaimed 
butyl rubber or both, generally exhibit acceptable gas 
impermeability characteristics, but they experience 
difficulty due to sensitivity to entrapment of gases, 
particularly air. As is disclosed, for example in U.S. 
Patent 3,586,087, the impermeability of tire liners 
based on such blends can be improved by adding an 
epichlorohydrin rubber to the blend. However, while 
the addition of an epichlorohydrin rubber to halobutyl 
rubber-based blends results in tire liner compositions 
having good air impermeability, the resulting 
compositions often are not characterized by a good 
balance of cure rate, scorch safety and physical 
properties, and generally do not adhere satisfactorily 
to tire carcasses.  
 In order to improve the physical characteristics 
of tire liner compositions comprised of blends of 
halobutyl rubber and epihalohydrin rubber, it has been 
disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,591,617 to crosslink the 
tire liner compositions with a crosslinking composition 
containing both (1) a sulfur curative system, which 
cures through the unsaturation present in the halobutyl 
rubber or mixtures thereof with butyl rubber, and (2) a 
nonsulfur curative system, which cures through the 
halogen functionality of the epihalohydrin rubber in 
the blend. The sulfur curative system disclosed in 
U.S. Patent 4,591,617 comprises (a) sulfur, (b) a 
conventional sulfur accelerator, such as 
mercaptobenzothiazole and its derivatives, 
sulfenamides, thiurams, and dithiocarbamate salts, and 
(c) a zinc oxide promotor. The nonsulfur curative 
system disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,591,617
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A curable composition crosslinkable at a temperature of 
from 100°C to 200°C, comprising a blend of (A) halobutyl 

rubber or a mixture of halobutyl rubber and hydrocarbon 
backbone rubber, wherein at least 50% by weight of the mixture 

is halobutyl rubber, and (B) epihalohydrin rubber, and a cure 
system consisting of, for each 100 parts by weight of rubber 

blend: 

(a) from 0.1 parts to 3 parts sulfur; 
(b) from 0.3 parts to 4 parts sulfur accelerator; 
(c) from 0.2 parts to 10 parts zinc containing promoter; 
(d) from 0.05 parts to 5 parts of a vulcanization 
accelerator selected from the group consisting of urea or a 

urea derivative or a mixture of urea and a urea derivative; 
and 
(e) up to 5 parts di- or tri-mercapto nonsulfur curative 
material. 
The composition of Claim 1, wherein said vulcanization 
accelerator (d) is selected from the group consisting of urea, 

oil treated urea, urea salts, and mixtures thereof. 
The composition of Claim 2, wherein said vulcanization 
accelerator (d) is selected from the group consisting of urea, 

oil treated urea, urea sulfate, urea salts of organic acids 
and mixtures thereof. 
The composition of Claim 1, wherein said sulfur 
accelerator 
(b) is selected from the group consisting of 
mercaptobenzothiazole, derivatives of mercaptobenzothiazole, 

sulfenamides, alkyl dithiocarbamates and dithiocarbamate 
salts, thiurams, thiuram sulfides and mixtures thereof.  

 
The composition of Claim 4, wherein said zinc-containing 
promoter is zinc oxide. 
The composition of Claim 5, wherein said nonsulfur 
curative (e) is present in an amount of from 0.05 parts to 3 

parts. 
The composition of Claim 5, wherein said nonsulfur 
curative (e) is selected from the group consisting of 2,5-dimercapto-1,3,4-thiadiazole, 

2-mercapto-1,3,4-thiadiazole-5-benzoate, 
2,4,6-trimercapto-1,3,4-triazine, dithiohydantoins, 

dimercaptotriazoles, dithiotriazine, and their ester 
derivatives, and mixtures thereof, alone or together with an 

organic base activator. 
The composition of Claim 5, wherein said nonsulfur 
curative (e) is 2,4,6-trimercapto-1,3,5-triazine, and wherein 

said nonsulfur curatve is present in an amount of from 0.05 
parts to 3 parts. 
The composition of Claim 1, 5 or 8, wherein said 
vulcanization accelerator (d) is selected from the group 

consisting of urea, oil treated urea, urea salts, and mixtures 
thereof, and wherein said vulcanization accelerator is present 

in an amount of from 0.1 parts to 3.5 parts. 
The composition of Claim 1, 5 or 8, wherein said 
vulcanization accelerator (d) is selected from the group consisting of urea, oil treated urea, urea 

sulfate, urea salts of organic acids and mixtures thereof and 
wherein said vulcanization accelerator is present in an amount 

of from 0.1 parts to 3.5 parts. 
The composition of Claim 1, wherein (a) is present in 
an amount of from 0.2 parts to 2.5 parts; (b) is present in an 

amount of from 0.4 parts to 3 parts; (c) is present in an 
amount of from 1 part to 5 parts; (d) is present in an amount  

 
of from 0.1 parts to 3.5 parts; and (e) is present in an 

amount of from 0.05 parts to 1 part. 
The composition of Claim 11, wherein (b) is selected 
from the group consisting of mercaptobenzothiazole, 

derivatives of mercaptobenzothiazole, sulfenamides, alkyl 
dithiocarbamates and dithiocarbamate salts, thiurams, and 

thiuram sulfides, and mixtures thereof, wherein (c) is zinc 
oxide, wherein (d) is selected from the group consisting of 

urea, oil treated urea, urea salts, and mixtures thereof, and 
wherein (e) is selected from the group consisting of 2,5-dimercapto-1,3,4-thiadiazole, 

2-mercapto-1,3,4-thiadiazole-5-benzoate, 
2,4,6-trimercapto-1,3,4-triazine, dithiohydantoins, 

dimercaptotriazoles, dithiotriazine, and their ester 
derivatives, and mixtures thereof, alone or together with an 

organic base activator. 
The composition of Claim 12, wherein (e) is 2,4,6-trimercapto-1,3,5-triazine. 
A crosslinkable rubber composition comprising 

(I) a rubber blend of (a) from 50 to 98 parts by weight, 
per 100 parts of the rubber blend, of a rubber selected from 

the group consisting of (i) halobutyl rubber and (ii) a 
mixture of halobutyl rubber and hydrocarbon backbone rubber, 

wherein halobutyl rubber is present in an amount of at least 
50% by weight of the mixture; and (b) from 2 to 50 parts by 

weight, per 100 parts of the rubber blend, of an epihalohydrin 
rubber; and 
(II) a crosslinking composition consisting of 

(a) from 0.1 parts to 3 parts sulfur; 
(b) from 0.3 parts to 4 parts sulfur accelerator; 
(c) from 0.2 parts to 10 parts zinc-containing promoter; 
(d) from 0.05 parts to 5 parts of a vulcanization 
accelerator selected from the group consisting of urea or a 

urea derivative or a mixture of urea and a urea derivative; 
and  

 
(e) up to 5 parts di- or tri-mercapto nonsulfur curative 
material. 
The composition of Claim 14, wherein said halobutyl 
rubber is selected from the group consisting of chlorobutyl 

rubber, bromobutyl rubber, halogenated polyisobutylene 
copolymers and terpolymers, and mixtures thereof. 
The composition of Claim 15, wherein said halobutyl 
rubber is chlorobutyl rubber. 
The composition of Claim 14, wherein said epihalohydrin 
rubber is selected from the group consisting of 

epichlorohydrin homopolymer, epibromohydrin homopolymer, 
copolymers of epihalohydrin with less than 30% of a saturated 

epoxy monomer, copolymers of epihalohydrin with an unsaturated 
epoxy monomer, terpolymers of epihalohydrin with monomers 

selected from the group consisting of (a) less than 30% of a 
saturated epoxy monomer, (b) an unsaturated epoxy monomer, and 

(c) mixtures of (a) and (b). 
A pneumatic tire having cured rubber liner ply 
overlying all internal tire surfaces exposed in service to 

pressurized gas and having, as essential rubbery constituents, 
(I) (i) halobutyl rubber or (ii) a mixture of halobutyl rubber 

and hydrocarbon backbone rubber, wherein the halobutyl rubber 
is present in an amount of at least 50% by weight of the 

mixture; and (II) epihalohydrin rubber, wherein the rubber 
liner is cured with a cure system consisting of, for each 100 

parts by weight of the rubber components (I) and (II): 

(a) from 0.1 parts to 3 parts sulfur; 
(b) from 0.3 parts to 4 parts sulfur accelerator; 
(c) from 0.2 parts to 10 parts zinc-containing promoter; 
(d) from 0.05 parts to 5 parts of a vulcanization 
accelerator selected from the group consisting of urea or a 

urea derivative or a mixture of urea and a urea derivative; 
and  

 
(e) up to 5 parts di- or trimercapto nonsulfur curative 
material. 
The pneumatic tire of Claim 18, wherein the sulfur 
accelerator (b) is selected from the group consisting of 

mercaptobenzothiazole, mercaptobenzothiazole derivatives, 
sulfenamides, thiurams, and dithiocarbamate salts and mixtures 

thereof. 
The pneumatic tire of Claim 19, wherein the accelerator 
is mercaptobenzothiazole. 
The pneumatic tire of Claim 18, wherein the zinc 
containing promoter is zinc oxide. 
The pneumatic tire of Claim 18, wherein the 
vulcanization accelerator (d) is selected from the group 

consisting of urea, oil treated urea, urea salts, and mixtures 
thereof. 
The pneumatic tire of Claim 22, wherein the 
vulcanization accelerator (d) is selected from the group 

consisting of urea, urea sulfate, urea salts of organic acids 
and mixtures thereof. 
The pneumatic tire of Claim 23, wherein sulfur is 
present in an amount from 0.2 part to 2.5 parts; wherein said 

sulfur accelerator (b) is present in an amount from 0.4 part 
to 3 parts; wherein said zinc-containing promoter (c) is zinc 

oxide and said zinc oxide is present in an amount from 1 part 
to 5 parts; wherein said vulcanization accelerator (d) is 

present in an amount from 0.1 part to 3.5 parts; and wherein 
said nonsulfur curative (e) is 2,4,6-trimercapto-1,3,5triazine 

which is present in an amount from 0.05 parts to 1 part. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
