<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617119</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Co-extraction of azadirachtin and neem oil
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C11B110	A61K36185	C07H1900	A61K3658	C07B6300	C07H1901	A01N4390	A01N4390	C11B100	C07B6300	A01N6526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C11B	A61K	C07H	A61K	C07B	C07H	A01N	A01N	C11B	C07B	A01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C11B1	A61K36	C07H19	A61K36	C07B63	C07H19	A01N43	A01N43	C11B1	C07B63	A01N65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an improved method of extracting neem 
seeds. The method involves co-solvent extracting neem 

seeds with a solvent mixture of a nonpolar, aliphatic 
hydrocarbon solvent and a polar solvent to 

simultaneously remove the hydrophilic and hydrophobic 
extracts from the neem seeds. The method provides 

novel neem extract mixtures which contain both the 
hydrophobic and hydrophilic portion of the neem seeds. 

The extract mixtures may be further extracted to yield 
an azadirachtin-containing solid product having greater 

than 10 weight percent of azadirachtin. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO TRILOGY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO TRILOGY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOUIN JOHN JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROLAND MICHAEL TIMOTHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOUIN, JOHN JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROLAND, MICHAEL TIMOTHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a novel process for the
solvent extraction of neem seeds. More specifically,
this invention relates to a novel process for
extracting neem seeds to simultaneously co-extract the
hydrophobic and hydrophilic portions of the seeds.
This invention also relates to novel neem seed products
prepared by the process of this invention.The neem tree, a tropical evergreen, has been used
for centuries as a source of pesticides to which
insects have not developed a resistance. Various neem
seed extracts, particularly the ones containing the
tetranortriterpenoid azadirachtin, are known to
influence the feeding behavior, metamorphosis (insect
growth regulating effect), fecundity, and fitness of
numerous insect and fungal species belonging to various
orders.Neem seeds also contain various oily substances,
at least one of which has been used for its medicinal
and therapeutic properties for centuries. However,
oils have been produced from neem seeds by a number of
methods. This has lead to a great variability in the
properties of neem oils. Very little chemical
characterization has therefore been possible. Many of
the publications referring to oils isolated from neem
seeds give no information as to its preparation, which
is the key determinant of its composition.There are two principle methods of obtaining
extracts from neem seeds: expulsion, where the extract
is pressed from the seeds, and extraction, where the
extract is removed from the seeds by solubilization in 
a solvent. Inherently, materials made by these methods
have very different properties. Extracts expelled from
the seed will also contain water expelled from the seed
by the same process. This aqueous material will carry
along with it liminoids, such as azadirachtin, which
themselves have pesticidal activity.There are various methods known in the prior art
to extract azadirachtin from neem seeds, including the
use of solvents such as methanol, ethanol, water,
methylene chloride, chloroform, hexane,
methylethylketone, butanol, petroleum benzene, ether,
acetone, methyl tertbutyl ether, diethylcarbonate, etc.
In general, there have been two methods use to solvent
extract materials from neem seeds. In one method, the
neem seeds were ground and hydrophobic fatty acids and
oils were removed by extraction of the seeds with a
nonpolar solvent. The ground seeds are then extracted
with a hydrophilic polar solvent to remove the
hydrophilic, azadirachtin-containing neem fractions
from the neem seeds. In a second prior art method, the
neem seeds
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for solvent extracting
neem seeds comprising contacting neem seeds with a

co-solvent mixture of a nonpolar, aliphatic hydrocarbon
solvent and a polar solvent to simultaneously remove

the hydrophilic, azadirachtin-containing fraction and
the hydrophobic, neem oil-containing fraction of the

seeds.
The process of claim 1 wherein the co-solvent
mixture comprise from about 10 to about 90 weight

percent of the aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent and from
about 90 to about 10 weight percent of the polar

solvent.
The process of claim 2 wherein the co-solvent
mixture comprise from about 60 weight percent of the

aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent and about 40 weight

percent of the polar solvent.
The process of claim 1 wherein the nonpolar,
aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent is pentane, hexane,

heptane, octane, nonane, decane, isoctane,
chloropentane, chlorohexane, isomers thereof, petroleum

distillates, petroleum ether, or mixtures thereof.
The process of claim 1 wherein the polar
solvent is selected from the group consisting of

methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol,
2-butanol, t-butanol, benzyl alcohol and mixtures

thereof. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the polar
solvent is ethanol and the aliphatic hydrocarbon

solvent is hexane.
The process of claim 1 wherein the polar
solvent and aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent of the

co-solvent mixture are miscible and form a
substantially homogenous co-solvent mixture.
A process for preparing a neem extract
mixture from neem seeds which extract mixture contains

the hydrophilic, azadirachtin-containing portion of the
seeds and the hydrophobic, neem oil-containing portion

of the seeds, said process comprising

a. contacting neem seeds with a co-solvent
mixture of a polar solvent and a

nonpolar, aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent
for a period of time sufficient to

obtain a co-solvent neem extract;
b. removing the solvent from the co-solvent
neem extract; and
c. recovering said neem extract mixture.
The process of claim 8 wherein the aliphatic
hydrocarbon solvent is pentane, hexane, heptane,

octane, nonane, decane, isoctane, chloropentane,
chlorohexane, isomers thereof, petroleum distillates,

petroleum ether, or mixtures thereof.
The process of claim 8 wherein the polar
solvent is methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol,

butanol, 2-butanol, t-butanol, benzyl alcohol or
mixtures thereof. 
The process of claim 8 wherein the polar
solvent and aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent of the

co-solvent mixture are miscible and form a homogeneous
co-solvent mixture.
An extraction process of obtaining
neem oil and azadirachtin from neem seeds comprising


(a) contacting neem seeds with a co-solvent
mixture of a polar solvent and a

nonpolar, aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent
for a period of time sufficient to

obtain a co-solvent neem extract having
the hydrophilic, azadirachtin-containing

portion of the seeds and the
hydrophobic, neem oil portion of the

seeds; and
(b) treating the co-solvent neem extract to
separate and independently recover the

hydrophilic, azadirachtin-containing
portion and the hydrophobic, neem oil

portion of the co-solvent neem extract.
A method of claim 12 wherein the co-solvent
neem extract in step (b) is treated by


(c) removing the solvent from the co-solvent
neem extract to recover a neem extract

mixture;
(d) contacting the neem extract mixture with
a solvent having a sufficiently low

polarity to precipitate an azadirachtin-containing
neem solid and dissolve the

neem oil;
(e) separating and recovering the
azadirachtin-containing neem solid from

the solvent; and
(f) removing the solvent to recover the neem
oil.
A method of claim 12 wherein the co-solvent
neem extract in step (b) is treated by


(g) removing the solvent from the co-solvent
neem extract to recover a neem extract

mixture;
(h) contacting the neem extract mixture with
a solvent having a sufficiently high

polarity to form an oil-lean,
azadirachtin-containing upper phase and

an oil-rich, neem oil-containing lower
phase;
(i) separating the oil-lean phase and oil-rich
phase;
(j) removing the solvent from the oil-lean
phase to recover an azadirachtin-containing

neem product; and
(k) removing the solvent from the oil-rich
phase to recover the neem oil.
The method of claim 14 wherein the neem
extract mixture is contacted with the high polarity

solvent at a temperature of about 10°C or lower.
A method of claim 12 wherein the co-solvent
neem extract in step (b) is treated by


(l) chilling the co-solvent neem extract at
a temperature sufficient to form an oil-lean,

azadirachtin-containing upper
phase and an oil-rich, neem oil

containing lower phase;
(m) separating the oil-lean phase and oil-rich
phase;
(n) removing the solvent from the oil-lean
phase to recover an azadirachtin-containing

neem product; and
(o) removing the solvent from the oil-rich
phase to recover neem oil.
The method of claim 16 wherein the co-solvent
neem extract is chilled at a temperature of about 5°C

or lower.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
