<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656159</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TUNING APPARATUS AND A METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03J100	H03J100	H03J122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03J	H03J	H03J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03J1	H03J1	H03J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit of a tuning device for tuning a radio transceiver, the circuit comprising a variable impedance device (14), which consists of a pair of variable resistors having an open circuit between their tracks, the "wiper arm" (14a) of which is connected to a voltage controlled oscillator (VCO) (15). The voltage controlled oscillator may suitably comprise a CMOS 4046 integrated circuit. The voltage controlled oscillator outputs a stream of pulses, having in this case a 1:1 mark: space ratio, to the transceiver units micro-computer (not shown). At the centre point of the tracks of the variable impedance device (14) there is a null position corresponding to an open circuit. As the user turns a dial this centre position is indicated by a notch. As the wiper arm is moved from the centre position towards either extent, the value of the voltage at the VCO terminal (15a) increases. Because of this the rate of production of pulses, i.e. the frequency of the pulse stream output by the VCO (15), increases accordingly. Each pulse represents an increment or decrement of the frequency to which the radio transceiver (not shown) is tuned.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLDEN ROBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLDEN, ROBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLDEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLDEN, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TUNING APPARATUS AND A METHODThis invention relates to tuning apparatus and a method of tuning and is concerned particularly, although not exclusively, with tuning apparatus and a method of tuning for use with a receiver of electromagnetic radiation.Modern radio receivers, and combined receivers and transmitters (known as transceivers) are digitally tuned to the desired radio frequency by an in-built micro computer which, when the desired radio frequency is reached, locks the digital tuner to that particular frequency.A known radio transceiver permits a user to manually scan through the receivable range of frequencies by turning a dial, until the desired frequency is reached, whereupon the tuner will be "locked" to that frequency by the micro computer. The dial works by generating a series of electronic pulses which are detected by the micro computer. Each pulse is ascribed a particular value corresponding to a change in frequency. For example each pulse may represent 10 Hz, and as the dial is manually turned to produce a stream of pulses, each pulse fed to the micro computer will cause the micro computer to increment or decrement the tuned frequency by 10 Hz. The rate of generation of the pulses is directly proportional to the rate of turning of the dial. The user continues to turn the dial until the transceiver is tuned up or down to the desired frequency and knows when the desired frequency has been reached by observing a digital display on the apparatus which indicates the frequency to which the transceiver is tuned. 

 The value in hertz of each of the pulses generated by the tuning of the dial can be varied. For example if the user wishes to change the tuned frequency by a large amount, eg. by several hundred kilohertz, the pulses can be ascribed a value of a 100 Hz. This reduces the time taken to tune the transceiver to the desired frequency. In addition, the number of turns of the dial necessary to produce the required number of pulses is reduced. When for example the user has tuned the transceiver to within a few kilohertz he might ascribe to the pulses a lower frequency value to enable more accurate tuning to the desired frequency. This alteration of the size of the steps taken by the digital tuner is typically made by pressing an appropriate button on the front of the transceiver. The value of each pulse might be variable by factors of 10 between, say 5 Hz and 5 KHz. Despite being able to vary the steps taken by the digital tuner as it progresses through the range of tunable frequencies it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Tuning apparatus for tuning the reception of receiving apparatus, which receiving apparatus is arranged to receive electro-magnetic radiation, the tuning apparatus being arranged in use to change the frequency of electro-magnetic radiation to which the receiving apparatus is tuned by automatically incrementing or decrementing said frequency, wherein the tuning apparatus comprises means to alter the rate at which said frequency is changed.
2. Tuning apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the tuning apparatus is arranged, in use, to tune the reception of receiving apparatus which is arranged, in use, to receive radio signals.
3. Tuning apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the tuning apparatus is arranged in use to automatically increment or decrement the frequency to which the receiving apparatus is tuned by automatically supplying to a micro-computer of the receiving apparatus a number of electronic pulses, each of which pulses causes the micro-computer to change said frequency by a predetermined number of cycles per second.
4. Tuning apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the means to alter the rate at which said frequency is changed comprises means to alter the rate at which said pulses are supplied to said micro-computer.
5. Tuning apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the tuning apparatus comprises a pulse generation means which is arranged to generate the pulses. 


6. Tuning apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the pulse generation means comprises a voltage controlled oscillator.
7. Tuning apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the voltage controlled oscillator is arranged to generate pulses at a variable rate.
8. Tuning apparatus according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the rate at which the voltage controlled oscillator generates the pulses is controlled by the setting of a variable impedance device.
9. Tuning apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the variable impedance device comprises one or more variable resistors.
10. Tuning apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the rate at which the pulses are generated may be altered by movement of a contact arm of the variable impedance device.
11. Tuning apparatus according to any of claims 8 to 10 wherein the variable impedance device comprises a pair of variable resistors having a common contact arm.
12. Tuning apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the variable impedance device comprises a potentiometer, a contact track of which is split into first and second portions, which portions are electrically isolated from each other at a position corresponding to a null position, wherein a contact arm of the potentiometer is arranged in use to movably contact either the first or second track portions or to contact the electrically isolated portion therebetween at a first end, and at a second end is 


electrically connected at least indirectly to ground, the first and second track portions being electrically connected respectively to first and second switching means, such that when the contact arm is made to contact one of the track portions, a voltage is provided to the voltage controlled oscillator, the magnitude of the voltage being dependent upon the position of the contact arm on the track portion.
13. Tuning apparatus according to claim 12 wherein at least one of the first and second switching means comprises a transistor.
14. Tuning apparatus according to any of claims 10 to 13 claim 11 wherein the tuning apparatus is arranged to increment the frequency to which the receiving apparatus is tuned when the contact arm of the variable impedance device is located on a first side of a null position.
15. Tuning apparatus according to any of claims 10 to 14 wherein the tuning apparatus is arranged to decrement the frequency to which the receiving apparatus is tuned when the contact arm of the variable impedance device is located on a second side of a null position.
16. Tuning apparatus according to claim 14 or claim 15 wherein the tuning apparatus includes sensing means arranged in use to sense on which side of the null position the contact arm of the variable impedance device is located.
17. Tuning apparatus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the tuning apparatus is located remote from the receiving apparatus. 


18. Tuning apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the tuning apparatus is electrically connected to the receiving apparatus by means of a cable.
19. Tuning apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the cable is arranged to be received in a socket on a case of the receiving apparatus.
20. Tuning apparatus substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
21. A method of changing the frequency of electro¬ magnetic radiation to which receiving apparatus is tuned, the method comprising automatically incrementing or decrementing said frequency and altering the rate at which the frequency is changed.
22. A method according to claim 21 comprising automatically supplying a number of electronic pulses to a micro-computer of the receiving apparatus, wherein each pulse causes the micro-computer to increment or decrement the frequency to which the receiving apparatus is tuned.
23. A method according to claim 22 wherein the method comprises altering the rate at which the pulses are supplied to the micro-computer to alter the rate at which the micro-computer increments or decrements the frequency.
24. A method according to claim 22 or 23 including controlling the voltage applied to a voltage controlled oscillator, to vary the rate at which the pulses are supplied to the micro-computer.
25. A method according to any of claims 21 to 24 comprising varying the rate at which the pulses are 


supplied to the micro-computer by adjusting the impedance of a variable impedance device.
26. A method according to claim 25 including varying the rate at which the pulses are supplied to the micro¬ computer by moving a contact arm of the variable impedance device relative to a null position.
27. A method substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
28. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 20 when used in a method according to any of claims 21 to 27. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
