<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649078</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of and apparatus for guiding microrobot.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25J1308	B25J1308	G05D102	G05D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25J	B25J	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25J13	B25J13	G05D1	G05D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of and an apparatus capable of guiding a microrobot (100) on the surface (10) of a 
base plate (1) without a necessity of an operator's guiding operation in such a manner that the 

operation area for the microrobot can easily be enlarged, contracted or changed. Sensors 
(111R, 111L) of the microrobot are caused to react with light, magnetism or sound by virtue of 

an arbitrary passage (4) for the microrobot formed on the surface (10), by projecting light emitted 
from a light source (2) through a pattern mask (3) from a reverse side of the light transmissible 

base plate (1). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAZAWA OSAMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAZAWA, OSAMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of and an apparatus for guiding a microrobot that 
moves in response to light, magnetism, sound or the like. The document WO-93/09018 discloses a microrobot that moves in response to light, magnetism, 
sound or the like and that has a volume of about 1 cm³ or smaller. The microrobot is 
guided by a wireless method and therefore an operator must irradiate the sensor or the like of 
the microrobot with light or the like to guide the microrobot. If the movement of the microrobot 
like a living thing is enjoyed, the guiding operation performed by an operator is acceptable. In a case where a microrobot of the foregoing type is used in a certain operation, for example, 
an operation (for example, mounting or bonding elements or removing foreign matters) to be 
performed in a place into which arms of a usual robot cannot be introduced or operated satisfactorily, 
the microrobot must be automatically guided. Therefore, the conventional guiding 
method requiring the operator's guiding operation cannot be adapted satisfactorily. The conventional industrial robot or automatic machine having a usual structure cannot arbitrarily 
turn its moving direction outside a predetermined operation area thereof. Therefore, the 
operation area cannot easily be enlarged or changed. In particular, a microrobot of the foregoing 
type cannot easily possess a function of programming the passage thereof or a function 
of avoiding obstacles from the viewpoint of the technological level and of reducing the cost. 
Accordingly, a guiding apparatus for automatically guiding the microrobot must be provided 
separately from the microrobot. However, there has not been disclosed an apparatus for 
guiding a microrobot of the foregoing type that is capable of freely enlarging and changing the 
operation area for the microrobot. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a method of and an apparatus for 
guiding a microrobot capable of overcoming the foregoing problems and enabling the operation 
area for a microrobot to be easily enlarged, changed or contracted in a manner like a diorama. Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of and an apparatus for guiding 
a microrobot capable of causing the microrobot to move while supervising the position of the 
microrobot. Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of and an apparatus for guiding 
a microrobot capable of automatically guiding the microrobot to a charging area for the purpose 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of guiding a microrobot (100) on the surface (10) of a base (1), said 
microrobot (100) having detection means (111R, 111L) capable of detecting a change in one or 

more physical quantities, said method comprising the steps of: 
   forming on said base surface (10) a guide pattern of a physical quantity, said guide 

pattern defining a passage surface portion (4) within which said physical quantity has a value 
different fom a value it has in surface portions adjacent to said passage surface portion (4), 

and 
   causing said microrobot (100) to move along said passage surface portion (4) in 

response to said different values of the physical quantity. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein said physical quantity is at least any one 
of a quantity of light, magnetism, sound, and electricity. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein said guide pattern is a light pattern, the 
brightness and/or color of said passage surface portion (4) being different from that of said 

adjacent surface portions. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein said guide pattern is a magnetic pattern, 
the value of a magnetic field quantity within said passage surface portion (4) being different 

from that within said adjacent surface portions. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein said guide pattern is an acoustic pattern, 
the value of an ultrasonic field quantity within said passage surface portion (4) being different 

from that within said adjacent surface portions. 
The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said microrobot 

(100) is moved while said physical quantity near said base surface (10) is detected and the 
position of said microrobot (100) is determined based on the fact that the result of said detection 

changes depending on the position at which said microrobot (100) moves. 
An apparatus for guiding a microrobot (100) on the surface (10) of a base (1), said 
microrobot (100) having detection means (111R, 111L) capable of detecting a change in one or 

more physical quantities, comprising: 
   said base (1); and 

   passage forming means (2, 3; 8; 9; 17; 21; 27) for forming, on said base surface 
(10), a guide pattern of a physical quantity, said guide pattern being defining a passage surface 

portion (4) within which said physical quantity has a value different fom a value it has in 
surface portions adjacent to said passage surface portion (4), said passage surface portion (4) 

establishing a passage for said microrobot (100) on said base surface (10). 
The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said physical quantity is at least any 
one of a quantity of light, magnetism, sound, and electricity. 
The apparatus according to claim 7 or 8, further comprising robot position detection 
means (21; 22; 35; 37; 68) for detecting said physical quantity near said base surface 

(10) and for putting out a detection result depending on the position of said microrobot (100). 
The apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said passage forming means (2, 
3; 8; 9; 17; 21) comprises a projecting apparatus for projecting a light pattern of bright and 

dark portions onto said base surface (10). 
The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said projecting apparatus comprises 
light source means and pattern mask means disposed between said light source means and 

said base (1), said pattern mask means including a light transmissible portion defining said 
guide pattern. 
The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said base comprises a light transmissible 
base plate (1) defining said base surface (10), and said projecting apparatus is arranged 

on the reverse side of the base plate (1), opposite to said base surface (10). 
The apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said passage forming means 
comprises light source means (8) for irradiating a limited area of said base surface (10) with 

light, and a drive mechanism for moving the position of said limited area thereby to form said 
guide pattern. 
The apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said base comprises a light 
transmissible base plate (1) defining said base surface (10), and said passage forming means 

comprises, as light source means, a group of light emitting members (9; 21) disposed on the 
reverse side of said base plate (1), opposite to said base surface (10), and control means (23-26; 

60) for causing selected ones of said group of light emitting members to emit light through 
said base plate (1) thereby to form said guide pattern. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein said passage 
forming includes an optical system (6; 7; 15, 16; 18) for diverging or converging light emitted 

from said light source means such as to change the size of said light pattern. 
The apparatus according to claims 9 and 14, wherein said group of light emitting 
members is a group of LEDs (21), said robot position detection means being adapted to detect 

the position of said microrobot (100) based on the fact that the electromotive force of LEDs of 
said group which are not emitting light changes depending upon the position at which said 

microrobot (100) moves. 
The apparatus according to claims 9 and 14, wherein said robot position detection 
means includes light receiving members (22) disposed near said light emitting members 

 
and is adapted to detect the position of said microrobot (100) based on the fact that the intensity 

of light received by said light receiving members changes in response to light reflected by 
said microrobot (100). 
The apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said passage forming means 
comprises magnetic field generating means (20; 27) arranged to establish said guide pattern as 

a magnetic pattern. 
The apparatus according to claim 9 and 18, wherein said robot position detection 
means is adapted to supervise the magnetic flux density near said base surface (10). 
The apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said passage forming means 
comprises ultrasonic wave generating means arranged to eastablish said guide pattern as a 

pattern of intense and weak ultrasonic waves. 
The apparatus according to claim 9 and 20, wherein said robot position detection 
means is adapted to supervise the intensity of said ultrasonic waves near said base surface 

(10). 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 21, wherein said passage (4) 
for said microrobot (100) includes a charging area (41) in which charging means (45) for 

charging electric power into said microrobot (100) is disposed. 
A measuring apparatus comprising: 
   an apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 22, wherein said passage for said 

microrobot (100) includes measuring positions at which measurements by a sensor mounted 
on said microrobot (100) are to be performed. 
An element conveyance apparatus comprising: 
   an apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 22, wherein said passage for said 

microrobot (100) includes a first element delivering/receiving area at which said microrobot 
(100) receives an element, and a second element delivering/receiving area at which said microrobot 

(100), at a predetermined position, delivers said element. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
