<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654038</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTROLLED RELEASE PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATIONS OF 3'-AZIDO-3'-DEOXYTHYMIDINE AND METHODS OF USE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4506	A61K920	A61K952	A61K922	A61K926	A61K922	A61K954	A61K920	A61K926	A61K4500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K45	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is directed to a controlled release pharmaceutical formulations of 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, also known as AZT or zidovudine and methods of use thereof. The controlled release formulations of AZT achieve and maintain a therapeutic level of AZT, while substantially reducing the side effects of AZT caused by its catabolite 3'-amino-3-deoxythymidine (AMT) by reducing the amount of AMT produced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to a controlled release 
pharmaceutical formulations of 3'-azido-3 '-deoxythymidine, 
also known as AZT or zidovudine and methods of use thereof. 
The controlled release formulations of AT achieve and 
maintain a therapeutic level of AZT, while substantially 
reducing the side affects of AZT caused by its catabolite, 
3'-amino-3-deoxythymidine (AMT), by reducing the amount of 
AMT produced. A virus is a biologic particle containing a nucleic acid 
core of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) or RNA (ribonucleic 
acid). The nucleic acid is surrounded by a protein 
membrane, the nucleocapsid. In some viruses there is 
another coat about the nucleocapsid, the envelope. The 
envelope is composed of viral specific proteins, lipids and 
carbohydrates. A viral particle is referred to as a virion. When an infective virion enters the human body it adheres to 
a specific cell. This adherence is termed adsorption, which 
leads to a cell-virion attachment. After the virus particle 
attaches itself to a cell, it is transported into the cell  
 
where the envelope and the nucleocapsid are removed 
(uncoating). At this stage the virus is copied or 
replicated (replication). Transcription is the synthesis of 
RNA from DNA. To transcribe the viral nucleic acid into 
RNA, the enzyme transcriptase is required. In retroviruses, 
the nucleic acid is RNA. Therefore this process of 
transcription into DNA from RNA, is called reverse 
transcription and utilizes a specific enzyme, reverse 
transcriptase. This reverse enzyme transcription is the 
distinguishing feature of retroviruses. Once in the form of DNA, the genetic code of the virus is 
incorporated into the host DNA allowing it to take full 
advantage of the host cell's reproductive capabilities. The 
viral DNA incorporated into the host is virtually 
indistinguishable from the host DNA. Because of this, the 
viral code survives for the life of the cell. A species of retroviruses was identified in the 1980's 
associated with the human disease, AIDS (Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome). The agent for this disease is called 
the HIV virus, (Human Immune Deficiency Virus). The HIV 
virus preferentially infects thymus derived lymphocytes 
(T4). HIV has a proclivity for these particular cells 
because they contain a protein coat, CD4, which 
preferentially binds with the HIV virus. Once infected, the 
immune cells decrease in number and lose their capability to 
produce an immune response. There are a number of clinical manifestations of AIDS. In 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A controlled release oral dosage formulation comprising: 

an active drug, wherein said active drug consists of a therapeutically 
effective amount of one or more compounds which are AZT, 

phosphorylated AZT, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of AZT, or a 
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of phosphorylated AZT; 
1-15 weight percent of an acid resistant and/or hydrophobic polymer 
coating; 
1-20 weight percent hydrogel polymer(s); and 
1-10 weight percent lipid(s). 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in claim 1, wherein 


the active drug is in the form of granules, 
one or more polymeric coatings of an acid resistant polymer and/or 
hydrophobic polymer are serially provided on said granules to form 

coated granules; and 
said coated granules are blended with said hydrogel polymer(s) and 
with said lipid(s). 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in claim 1, wherein: 

granules comprise the active drug, said one or more hydrogel polymers 
and said one or more lipids; and 
one or more polymeric coatings of an acid resistant polymer and/or a 
hydrophobic polymer are serially provided on said granules to form 

coated granules. 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, 
wherein said active drug is present in an amount from 10 to 75 weight percent of the  

 
formulation, said acid resistant polymers and said hydrophobic polymers are present in 

an amount from 1 to 15 weight percent of the formulation, said hydrogel polymers are 
present in an amount from 1 to 20 weight percent of the formulation, and said lipids are 

present in an amount from 1 to 10 weight percent of the formulation. 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in any one of claims 1 
to 4, wherein said active drug further comprises a second therapeutic agent. 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in claim 4, wherein said 
second therapeutic agent comprises one or more agents which are a nucleoside analog, 

acyclic nucleoside, interferon, renal excretion inhibitor, nucleoside transport inhibitor, 
immunomodulator, granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor, gancyclovir, 

phosphonate, a sodium salt of a phosphonate, or a magnesium salt of a phosphonate. 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in any one of claims 1 
to 6, wherein said formulation is a tablet. 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in any one of claims 1 
to 7, wherein said one or more polymeric coatings further comprise a plasticizer and an 

anti-adherent. 
A controlled release oral dosage formulation as claimed in any one of claims 1 
to 8 for use in treating HIV infection in an HIV sero-positive patient. 
The use of an active drug, wherein said active drug consists of a therapeutically 
effective amount of one or more compounds which are AZT, phosphorylated AZT, a 

pharmaceutically acceptable salt of AZT, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of 
phosphorylated AZT, in the manufacture of a controlled release oral dosage formulation 

as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 for treating HIV infection.  
 
A method for preparing a controlled release rate solid oral dosage formulation 
as claimed in claim 2, or in any one of claims 4 to 8 when dependent on claim 2, said 

method comprising: 

(a) blending said active drug with one or more pharmaceutically 
acceptable excipients to form a mixture; 
(b) dividing the resultant mixture of step (a) into one or more fractions; 
(c) separately granulating each of said one or more fractions of step (b) to 
form one or more granulated fractions; 
(d) coating the granules of each of said one or more granulated fractions of 
step (c) with one or more acid resistant and/or hydrophobic polymers applied serially to 

form coated granules; and 
(e) blending the resultant coated granules of step (d) with one or more 
hydrogel polymers and with one or more lipids, to form a final blended mixture. 
A method for preparing a controlled release rate solid oral dosage formulation 
as claimed in claim 3, or in any one of claims 4 to 8 when dependent on claim 3, said 

method comprising: 

(a) blending said active drug with one or more hydrogel polymers, one or 
more lipids and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients to form a mixture; 
(b) granulating the resultant mixture of step (a) to form granules; and 
(c) coating the resultant granules of step (b) with one or more acid 
resistant and/or hydrophobic polymers polymeric coats applied serially to form a final 

blended mixture. 
A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said granulating step and coating of a 
first serial polymeric coat are performed simultaneously. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said step (b) comprises 
polymerisation of said hydrogels with an alkaline monophosphate buffer and wherein  

 
step (c) comprises a secondary granulation and said polymeric coat comprises one coat of 

a hydrophobic polymer, preferably ethyl cellulose. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 14, further comprising 
providing a second therapeutic agent in said mixture of step (a) or providing said second 

therapeutic agent in any one of said one or more polymeric coats. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 15, further comprising the step 
of: 


compressing the final blended mixture into a tablet. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
