<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643828</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MONITORING AND CONTROLLING METALWORKING FLUID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3116	G01N3116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N31	G01N31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The total alkalinity of an aqueous metalworking fluid is monitored and controlled by a continuous titration method that continuously supplies a stream of the metalworking fluid, at a known, controllable flow rate, to a flow through chamber having therein a static mixing element. Simultaneously and separately a stream of acid titrant, of known acid concentration is injected into the flow through chamber at a known controllable flow rate. The acid titrant and metalworking fluid mix and react in the chamber and the reacted metalworking fluid exiting the chamber passed over the tip of a pH electrode. The pH of the reacted metalworking fluid is continuously monitored and the output of the pH electrode used to adjust the flow of acid titrant to the chamber until an endpoint pH valve (typically a pH of 4) is reached. The total alkalinity is then determined from a) the known flow rates of the aqueous metalworking fluid and acid titrant and the known acid concentration of the titrant or may be determined from calibration curves for XY coordinate plots of volume of titrant vs known metalworking fluid concentration.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKET GILES J P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKET, GILES, J., P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR MONITORING AND CONTROLLING METALWORKING FLUIDField of InventionThis invention relates to the art of monitoring and controlling multicomponent aqueous metal working fluids applied to the metal workpiece/tool interface in the physical shaping of metallic articles. BackgroundIn the shaping of a solid workpiece, such as for example a piece of metal, into a useful article it is known to apply a cutting or non- cutting tool against the workpiece. This tool and/or the workpiece may be rotated with respect to each other, often at high speeds. Such high speeds are typically found in turning and grinding operations for shaping metals and other solid materials. In other cases the tool and workpiece are caused to have sliding contact with each other such as in a punching operation. Still other shaping operations cause a tool to be applied against the workpiece with great force without cutting the workpiece, such as in a metal rolling and drawing and ironing processes. High heat and friction are generated during these and other shaping methods causing such problems as tool wear, distortion of the finished article, poor surface finish and out of tolerance dimensions for the article. High Scrap rates, tool wear and increased costs result from these problems. To overcome these and other problems it is known in the art to apply a metalworking fluid to the interface between the tool and the workpiece. The metalworking fluid has a number of attributes including cooling the tool and workpiece and reducing friction between the tool and workpiece. As used in this disclosure and claims the term metalworking fluid shall mean a complex aqueous liquid applied to the interface between a tool and a metallic workpiece during the shaping of the workpiece by physical means. The physical means are principally mechanical means and are exemplified by grinding, machining, turning, rolling, punching, extruding, spinning,drawing and ironing, pressing and drilling operations.The metalworking fluids applied to the interface between the tool and the workpiece, in the metalworking art can be broadly classified 

 into two categories. These categories are oils and aqueous based liquids or fluids. The oils are non-aqueous liquids comprising an oil or mixture of oils and one or more additives such as for example extreme pressure agents, corrosion inhibitors, bactericides, fungicides and odor control agents . Aqueous based metalworking liquids are complex combinations of water, lubricant and additives such as for example surfactants,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is 1. A method for monitoring and controlling an aqueous based metalworking fluid comprising the steps of a. supplying metal particle free aqueous based metalworking fluid, at a controllable, measurable flow rate, to a flow through chamber having therein a static means for mixing, b. supplying a titrant, reactive with at least one component of the metalworking fluid to said chamber, at a controllable, measurable flow rate and known concentration, simultaneously with and separate from the metalworking fluid, c. mixing the metalworking fluid and titrant in the chamber, d. reacting at least one component of the metalworking fluid with the titrant in said chamber to produce a reacted metalworking fluid, e. flowing the reacted metalworking fluid past a detector that senses the change in the condition of the metalworking fluid resulting from the reaction of at least one component thereof with the titrant and produces an electrical signal whose strength is proportional to said change, f. passing said signal to a measuring means therefor that generates an electrical output related to the strength of said signal, g. directing said output to a means for controlling the flow rate of the titrant in relation to said signal, h. adjusting the flow rate of the titrant until said signal reaches a predetermined value, i. measuring the flow rate of the metalworking fluid, 



 j. measuring the flow rate of the titrant, and k. calculating the chemical condition of the metalworking fluid.
2. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the step of flowing the reacted product past a detector is a step of flowing the reacted product in contact with a pH electrode.
3. The method according to Claim 1 comprising the further steps of directing the measurement of the flow rate of the metalworking fluid, the measurement of the flow rate of the titrant and known concentration of the titrant to a programmed computer,
4. The method of Claim 1 comprising the step of supplying the metalworking fluid at a controllable, measurable flow rate to a flow through chamber, having therein a means of mixing, from a reservoir of metalworking fluid feeding a plurality of metalworking machines.
5. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the titrant is an aqueous acid solution.
6. The method according to Claim 1 further including the step of back flushing with a cleaning solution.
7. The method according to Claim 2 further including the steps of passing a buffer solution through the chamber, contracting the pH 


 electrode with the solution and flushing the pH electrode and the chamber with a rinsing agent.
8. The method of Claim 2 further comprising the automatic steps of terminating the flow of metalworking fluid, terminating the flow of titrant, back flushing a cleaning solution past the detector and through the chamber to a waste fluid receiver, passing a buffer solution through the chamber and flowing the buffer solution in contact with the pH electrode.
9. The method of Claim 1 wherein the metalworking fluid is an aqueous based semi-synthetic metalworking fluid.
10. The method of Claim 1 therein the metalworking fluid is an aqueous based synthetic metalworking fluid.
11. The method of Claim 1 wherein the static means of mixing is a helical ribbon mixer. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 19 October 1993 (19.10.93); original claim 1 amended; remaining claims unchanged (1 page )]
What is claimed is 1. A method for determining and monitoring the chemical condition of an aqueous based metalworking fluid comprising the steps of a. supplying metal particle free aqueous based metalworking fluid, at a controllable, measurable flow rate, to a flow through chamber having therein a static means for mixing, b. supplying a titrant, reactive with at least one component of the metalworking fluid to said chamber, at a controllable, measurable flow rate and known concentration, simultaneously with and separate from the metalworking fluid, c. mixing the metalworking fluid and titrant in the chamber, d. reacting at least one component of the metalworking fluid with the titrant in said chamber to produce a reacted metalworking fluid, e. flowing the reacted metalworking fluid past a detector that senses the change in the condition of the metalworking fluid resulting from the reaction of at least one component thereof with the titrant and produces an electrical signal whose strength is proportional to said change, f. passing said signal to a measuring means therefor that generates an electrical output related to the strength of said signal, g. directing said output to a means for controlling the flow rate of the titrant in relation to said signal, h. adjusting the flow rate of the titrant until said signal reaches a predetermined value, i. measuring the flow rate of the metalworking fluid, 


 STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
In the Search Report, documents indicated as being of particular relevance to all of the pending claims, that is that the claimed invention lacks an inventive step when one of such documents is combined with one or more other such documents and the combination being viewed as obvious to a person skilled in the art, are:
US, A, 5,139,956 (Schick et al.) 18 August 1992 US, A, 5,046,028 (Bryan et al.) 3 September 1991 US, A, 4,798,803 (Wolcott et al. ) 17 January 1989 US, A, 4,165,218 (Vanhumbeeck et al. ) 21 August 1979 Analytica Chimica Acta, Vol. 109, issued 1979, Pungor et al., "Injection Techniques in Dynamic Flow Through Analysis with Electroanalytical sensors"
Analytica Chimica Acta, Vol. 92, issued 1977, Ruzicka et al., "Flow Injection Analysis-part IX. A New Approach to Continuous Flow Titrations"
Analytica
"
 Chimica Acta, Vol. 78, issued 1975, Ruzicka et al. , "Flow Injection Analysis-Part I. A New Concept of Fast Continuous Flow Analysis"
None of these references teach, suggest or direct any method for determining and monitoring the chemical condition of an aqueous based metalworking fluid. The references of Schick et al., Wolcott et al., Vanhumbeeck et al. and Pungor et al. disclose special problems associated with analysis of the fluids or solutions they disclose, but do not address special problems of metalworking fluids. The reference of Bryan et al. discloses an improved pH electrode and techniques for testing and calibrating the electrode. The references to Ruzicka et al. disclose a continuous flow analysis technique requiring injection of a sample to be analyzed into a carrier stream.
The present invention, as recited in revised claim 1, provides determination and monitoring of a chemical condition of an aqueous based metal working fluid from flow rates of fluid and titrant which when mixed produce a predetermined value of a measured condition of the mixture. It is believed that claim 1, as amended, recites an inventive step over the references and that claims 2 through 11 are likewise inventive by virtue of their dependence from claim 1. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
