<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626108</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE AND PROCESS FOR REVERSIBLY STORING ELECTRIC POWER BY ITS REVERSIBLE TRANSFORMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J1500	H02P608	H02P600	H02J328	H02P608	H02P600	H02J1500	H02P624	H02J330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02P	H02P	H02J	H02P	H02P	H02J	H02P	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J15	H02P6	H02P6	H02J3	H02P6	H02P6	H02J15	H02P6	H02J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the device, an electric motor takes the form of a brushless, electronically commutated disc armature motor (201) with permanent magnets arranged on the rotor and air-core windings (202) on the stator. Each winding (202) is fitted with a pair of terminals (212, 222) which can be connected via a controllable switch (214, 224) to at least one phase conductor (204) of the a.c. mains (203) and interconnected via another controllable switch (215). In a device (240) with measurement detectors (241, 242, 243), the actual voltage between a phase conductor and a neutral conductor or another phase conductor of the a.c. mains, the actual voltage between the two terminals of at least one pair and the actual current in a winding are detected. The detected actual voltages or currents are compared with one another and with corresponding thresholds in order to control the switches in accordance with the actual result of the comparisons. The device permits the storage and reversible transformation of electric power from the a.c. mains into the kinetic energy of an electric motor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TWIX EQUIPMENT AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TWIX EQUIPMENT AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZELLER MATHIAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZELLER, MATHIAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Device for the reversible storage of electric 
energy by its reversible conversion into kinetic energy 

in an electric motor, the electric energy being drawn 
from an a.c. power supply (103) of predetermined frequency and 

fed back into the a.c. power supply, characterized by 

a design of the electric motor as a brushless, 
electronically commutated pancake motor (101) with permanent 

magnets arranged on the rotor and coreless windings (102) 
arranged on the stator, 


each winding being provided with a pair of 
terminals (112, 122), which can be connected in each case via 

a controllable switch (114, 124, 134) to at least one phase 
conductor (104) of the a.c. power supply, 
devices (244) for repeated sampling of an instantaneous 
voltage at one phase conductor each with respect to a 

neutral conductor (105) or another phase conductor of the a.c. 
power supply, 
devices (243) for the repeated sampling of an instantaneous 
voltage between the two terminals of at least one pair of 

terminals, 
devices (241, 242) for the repeated sampling of an instantaneous 
current in one winding each, 
and also a device (217) for comparing the sampled 
instantaneous voltages or currents with one another and 

with corresponding threshold values and for controlling 
the switches in dependence on the instantaneous result of 

the comparisons. 
Device according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the two terminals of a pair of terminals can be 

directly connected to each other in each case via an 
additional controllable switch (115). 
Device according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the device for comparing the sampled instantaneous 

voltages with one another and with corresponding 
threshold values and for controlling the switches in 

dependence on the instantaneous result of the comparisons 
comprises a microprocessor (217). 
Device according to one of Claims 1 to 3,  
 

characterized in that, in addition to the connection of 
the terminals to the phase conductors and, if 

appropriate, to the neutral conductor of the a.c. power 
supply via the respective controllable switch, the 

terminals can be connected in each case via a 
controllable switch (254) to at least one current conductor of 

an auxiliary power supply (250). 
Device according to claim 4, characterized in 
that the auxiliary power supply comprises at least two 

current conductors which are connected to each other via 
a store (253) for electric energy. 
Device according to claim 5, characterized in 
that the store for electric energy is a capacitor (255) or a 

storage battery. 
Process for operation of the device according to 
Claim 1, characterized by the following process steps: 


Sampling (244) of the instantaneous voltage at one phase 
conductor (104) each of the a.c, power supply (103) with respect to 

a neutral conductor (105) or another phase conductor of the 
a.c. power supply and determination of that phase 

conductor of which the instantaneous voltage has the 
greatest instantaneous positive or negative value in 

absolute terms; 
sampling (243) of the instantaneous voltage between the two 
terminals of each pair of terninals (112, 122) and determination of 

which terminal of the pair of terminals is positive or 
negative at that instant; 
sampling (241, 242) of the instantaneous current in each winding 
and comparison of an absolute value of this instantaneous 

current with a threshold value; 
if the absolute value of the instantaneous current 
becomes less than the threshold value, 


actuation of the switches for interrupting existing 
connections of the two terminals of the 

corresponding pair of terminals and for establishing 
a connection of the terminal which is positive at 

that instant to the phase conductor which has the 
greatest instantaneous positive voltage value in 

absolute terms, and of the terminal which is  
 

negative at that instant to the phase conductor 
which has the absolutely greatest instantaneous 

negative voltage value; 
if the absolute value of the instantaneous current 
becomes equal to or greater than the threshold value, 


actuation of the switches for interrupting existing 
connections of the two terminals of the 

corresponding pair of terminals and for establishing 
a connection of these two terminals to corresponding 

terminals of a device for the conversion of energy 
stored in the electric motor in kinetic form into 

another form of energy; 
 
the sampling taking place with a repetition frequency 

which is substantially greater than the frequency of the 
a.c. power supply. 
Process according to Claim 7, characterized in 
that the energy conversion is brought about by 

establishing a connection (115) between the two terminals of 
the corresponding pair of terminals. 
Process according to Claim 8, characterized in 
that the two terminals are connected via a switch (114, 124, 134) each to 

one and the same phase conductor of the a.c. power 
supply. 
Process according to Claim 8 for the operation of 
a device which is designed according to Claim 2, 

characterized in that the two terminals are connected to 
each other via the additional switch (115). 
Process according to Claim 8, characterized in 
that the two terminals are connected via one switch (114, 124, 134) each 

to one phase conductor each of the a.c. power supply. 
Process according to Claim 11, characterized by 
the following process steps: 


determination of an absolute value of the instantaneous 

voltage between pairs of phase conductors (104) of of the a.c. 
power supply (103), 
determination of a pair of phase conductors of the a.c. 
power supply to which a least absolute value of the 

instantaneous voltage corresponds, and 
connection of one of each of the two terminals to one  
 

phase conductor each of the pair thus determined. 
Process according to Claim 12, characterized in 
that the terminal which is positive at that instant is 

connected to the phase conductor which is positive at 
that instant and the terminal which is negative at that 

instant is connected to the phase conductor which is 
negative at that instant. 
Process according to Claim 7 for the operation of 
a device which is designed according to one of Claims 4 

to 6, characterized by the following process steps: 

sampling (264) of the instantaneous voltage between a pair of 
current conductors of the auxiliary power supply (250) and 

comparison of an absolute value of this instantaneous 
voltage with the absolute value of the instantaneous 

voltage between the two terminals of a pair of terminals (112, 122); 
if the absolute value of the instantaneous current in 
a winding (102) becomes less than the threshold value, 
and if the absolute value of the instantaneous voltage 
between the two terminals of the pair of terminals 

becomes equal to or greater than the absolute value of 
the instantaneous voltage between the two corresponding 

phase conductors of the a.c. power supply, 

actuation of the switches (114, 124, 134) for interrupting existing 
connections of the two terminals of the 

corresponding pair of terminals and for establishing 
a connection of that terminal of the corresponding 

pair of terminals which is positive at that instant 
or negative at that instant to the correspondingly 

positive or negative current conductor of the 
auxiliary power supply, 
and if, on the other hand, the absolute value of the 
instantaneous voltage between the two terminals of the 

pair of terminals becomes less than the absolute value of 
the instantaneous voltage between the two corresponding 

phase conductors of the a.c. power supply, 

actuation of the switches (114, 124, 134) for interrupting 
existing connections of the two terminals of the 

corresponding pair of terminals and for 
establishing a connection of that terminal of the  

 
corresponding pair of terminals which is positive 

at that instant to the phase conductor which has 
the greatest instantaneous positive voltage value 

in absolute terms, and a connection of that 
teerminal of the corresponding pair of terminals 

which is negative at that instant to the phase 
conductor which has the greatest instantaneous 

negative voltage value in absolute terms; 
the instantaneous voltage in a winding becomes equal to 
or greater than the threshold value, 


and if the sampled instantaneous voltage between 
the two terminals a pair of terminals (112, 122) becomes 

less than the sampled instantaneous voltage between 
the two corresponding current conductors of the 

auxiliary power supply, 

actuation of the switches for interrupting 
existing connections of the two terminals of the 

corresponding pair of terminals and for 
establishing a connection of that terminal of the 

corresponding pair of terminals which is positive 
or negative at that instant to the corresponding 

positive or negative current conductor of the 
auxiliary power supply (250), 
and if, on the other hand, the sampled 
instantaneous voltage between the two terminals of 

a pair of terminals becomes equal to or greater than 
the sampled instantaneous voltage between the two 

corresponding current conductors of the auxiliary 
power supply, 


actuation of the switches for interrupting 
existing connections of the two terminals of the 

corresponding pair of terminals and for 
establishing a connection of these two terminals 

to the corresponding terminals of the said device 
for the conversion of energy. 
process according to Claim 14, characterized in 
that the energy conversion is brought about by 

establishing a connection of the terminal which is 
positive at that instant to that current conductor of the  

 
auxiliary power supply (250) which is negative at that instant, 

and of the terminal which is negative at that instant to 
that current conductor of the auxiliary power supply 

which is positive at that instant. 
Use of a brushless, electronically commutated 
pancake motor with permanent magnets arranged on the 

rotor and coreless windings arranged on the stator as an 
energy store in the reversible storage of electric energy 

by its reversible conversion into kinetic energy in a 
pancake motor, the electric energy being drawn from an 

a.c. power supply of predetermined frequency and fed back 
into the a.c. power supply. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
