<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656338</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vapour phase hydrogenation of esters or lactones to hydroxy compounds
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07B6100	C07C3100	C07C29149	C07C3102	C07C2900	C07C3127	C07B6100	C07C3120	C07C29136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07B	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07B	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07B61	C07C31	C07C29	C07C31	C07C29	C07C31	C07B61	C07C31	C07C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydrogenation process is described for the 
production of a hydroxylic compound selected from alcohols 

and diols by hydrogenation of a corresponding unsaturated 
organic compound selected from esters, diesters and lactones 

which involves use of two hydrogenation zones (11, 36), each 
containing a charge of a hydrogenation catalyst (12, 37). 

In a first phase of operation one of the hydrogenation zones 
(36 or 11) is in standby condition and a stream of hot 

hydrogen-containing gas is passed therethrough. Meanwhile a 
vaporous feed stream comprising a hydrogen-containing gas 

and the unsaturated organic compound to be hydrogenated, 
e.g. dimethyl 1,4-cyclohexanedicarboxylate, is fed to the 

active zone (11 or 36). This feed stream can include the 
gas stream from the first mentioned hydrogenation zone (36 

or 11). In a second phase of operation the roles of the 
reactors (11, 36) are switched so that the zone (36 or 11) 

previously in reactivation condition becomes the active zone 
whilst the zone that was formerly active (11 or 36) goes 

into reactivation condition and its partially deactivated 
catalyst charge is reactivated by the hot hydrogen-containing 

gas stream. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN CHEM CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARLETT JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUCK MICHAEL WILLIAM MARSHALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD MICHAEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARLETT, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUCK, MICHAEL WILLIAM MARSHALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD, MICHAEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a vapour phase 
hydrogenation process. Various processes have been described for the 
production of alcohols and diols by hydrogenation of a 
corresponding unsaturated organic compound selected from 
esters, diesters and lactones in the presence of a 
heterogeneous ester hydrogenation catalyst. Such 
unsaturated organic compounds are unsaturated by virtue of 
their possessing a carbon-to-oxygen double bond in the 
linkage -(CO)-O-. They do not need to possess any further 
unsaturated linkages. Hydrogenation processes of this type 
are thus applicable to a wide variety of esters, diesters 
and lactones which contain no unsaturation apart from the 
aforementioned carbon-to-oxygen double bond, for example 
monoesters of C8 to C22 alkylcarboxylic acids, diesters of 
C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acids, and lactones of 
hydroxycarboxylic acids containing 4 to 16 carbon atoms. 
However, the presence of further unsaturation in the 
molecule is not excluded. Thus there can also be used in 
such processes esters, diesters and lactones which contain 
further unsaturation in the molecule, for example 
monoesters of unsaturated C8 to C22 aliphatic carboxylic 
acids, diesters of unsaturated aliphatic or alicyclic 
carboxylic acids, and unsaturated lactones. Examples of such hydrogenation processes, many of 
which are conventionally conducted in the liquid phase, 
include hydrogenation of alkyl esters of aliphatic 
monocarboxylic acids to alkanols, and of dialkyl esters of 
aliphatic dicarboxylic acids to aliphatic diols. It has 
also been proposed in some cases to effect the 
hydrogenation reaction under vapour phase reaction  
 
conditions. It is known to produce the cycloaliphatic diol 
cyclohexanedimethanol by hydrogenation of the corresponding 
cycloaliphatic diester, usually a dialkyl cyclohexanedicarboxylate, 
which may itself be produced by hydrogenation 
of the corresponding dialkyl benzenedicarboxylate, for 
example dimethyl terephthalate. A commercial hydrogenation catalyst used for 
hydrogenation of carboxylic acid esters is copper chromite 
which may optionally be promoted with barium and/or 
manganese. The use of such a catalyst in a process for the 
production of butane-1,4-diol is disclosed in EP-A-0143634. 
In WO-A-82/03854 there is disclosed a process for effecting 
the hydrogenolysis of carboxylic acid esters which involves 
the use of a catalyst comprising a reduced mixture of 
copper oxide and zinc oxide. Other catalysts useful in 
hydrogenation reactions which may be mentioned
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the production of a hydroxylic 
compound selected from alcohols and diols by hydrogenation 

of a corresponding organic compound 
possessing a carbon-to-oxygen double bond and being 

selected 
from esters, diesters and lactones which comprises: 


(a) providing at least two hydrogenation zones, each 
containing a charge of a granular hydrogenation catalyst 

effective for catalysing the hydrogenation of the 
organic compound to the hydroxylic compound; 
(b) supplying to at least one of the hydrogenation 
zones, in a first phase of operation, a vaporous feed stream 

comprising a hydrogen-containing gas and the 
organic compound; 
(c) maintaining the at least one hydrogenation zone, in 
the first phase of operation, under temperature and pressure 

conditions conducive to hydrogenation of the 
organic compound to yield the hydroxylic compound; 
(d) recovering from the at least one hydrogenation 
zone, in the first phase of operation, a reaction product 

stream comprising the hydroxylic compound; 
(e) supplying to at least one other hydrogenation zone, 
in the first phase of operation, a stream of hydrogen-containing 

gas thereby to reactivate the charge of 
hydrogenation catalyst therein; 
(f) supplying to the at least one other hydrogenation 
zone, in a second phase of operation, a vaporous feed stream 

comprising a hydrogen-containing gas and the 
organic compound; 
(g) maintaining the at least one other hydrogenation 
zone, in the second phase of operation, under temperature 

and pressure conditions conducive to hydrogenation of the 
organic compound to the hydroxylic compound; 
(h) recovering from the at least one other 
hydrogenation zone, in the second phase of operation, a  

 
reaction product stream comprising the hydroxylic compound; 

and 
(i) supplying to the at least one hydrogenation zone, 
in the second phase of operation, a stream of hydrogen-containing 

gas thereby to reactivate the charge of 
hydrogenation catalyst therein. 
A process according to claim 1, in which the stream 
of hydrogen-containing gas of at least one of steps (e) to 

(i) comprises a hot stream of recycle and make-up gas. 
A process according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which 
there is recovered from at least one of steps (e) and (i) a 

stream of hydrogen-containing gas which is admixed with a 
vaporous hydrogen-containing stream of the 

organic compound to form the vaporous feed stream of the 
corresponding one of steps (b) and (f). 
A process according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which 
there is recovered from at least one of steps (e) and (i) a 

stream of hydrogen-containing gas which is admixed with the 
reaction product stream of the corresponding one of steps 

(d) and (h). 
A process according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which 
there is recovered from at least one of steps (e) and (i) a 

stream of hydrogen-containing gas which is used to vaporise 
the organic compound and to form a vaporous 

hydrogen-containing stream of the organic 
compound. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in 
which the vaporous feed stream of at least one of steps (b) 

and (f) is formed by admixing hot recycle gas with a  
 

vaporous hydrogen-containing stream of the 
organic compound. 
A process according to claim 6, in which the 
vaporous hydrogen-containing stream of the 

organic compound of steps (b) and (f) is substantially 
saturated with the organic material. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 7, in 
which the vaporous feed stream of at least one of steps (b) 

and (f) is at a feed temperature at least about 5°C above 
its dew point. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in 
which the direction of flow of the stream of hydrogen-containing 

gas through the respective hydrogenation zone or 
zones in at least one of steps (e) and (i) is the same as 

the direction of flow of the vaporous feed stream through 
that zone in the corresponding one of steps (b) and (f). 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in 

which the direction of flow of the stream of hydrogen-containing 
gas through the respective hydrogenation zone or 

zones in at least one of steps (e) and (i) is the opposite 
to the direction of flow of the vaporous feed stream through 

that zone in the corresponding one of steps (b) and (f). 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 10, 
in which the temperature and pressure conditions conducive 

to hydrogenation of the unsaturated organic compound 
comprise a temperature of from 150°C to 350°C 

and a pressure of from 150 psia (10.34 bar) to 
2000 psia (137.90 bar).  

 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 11, 
in which the organic compound is selected from 

(C
1
 to C
4
 alkyl) esters of C
8
 to C
22
 monocarboxylic acids, 
di-(C
1
 to C
4
 alkyl) esters of dicarboxylic acids containing 
at least 4 carbon atoms, and lactones of hydroxyacids 

containing from 4 to 16 carbon atoms. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12, 
in which the organic compound comprises dimethyl 

1,4-cyclohexanedicarboxylate and in which the hydrogenated 
product comprises 1,4-cyclohexanedimethanol. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12, 
in which the organic compound comprises dimethyl 

1,2-cyclohexanedicarboxylate and in which the hydrogenated 
product comprises 1,2-cyclohexanedimethanol. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12, 
in which the organic compound comprises dimethyl 

1,3-cyclohexanedicarboxylate and in which the hydrogenated 
product comprises 1,3-cyclohexanedimethanol. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12, 
in which the organic compound comprises an ester 

selected from dimethyl and diethyl maleate and in which the 
hydrogenated product comprises-butane-1,4-diol. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 16, 
in which the period used for reactivation ranges from 

1 hour up to 24 hours. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 17, 
in which the reactivation temperature of step (e) lies in 

the range of from 150°C to 350°C and is from  
 

50°C less than to 50°C more than the feed 
temperature of the vaporous feed stream to the hydrogenation 

zone. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 18, 
in which the catalyst is selected from 

reduced copper chromite, reduced promoted copper chromite, 
and manganese promoted copper catalysts. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
