<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638189</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PATIENT-ORIENTED OPTIMIZATION OF ORDER OF CARE TREATMENTS AND PATIENT IDENTIFICATION CARD FOR USE IN SUCH A METHOD OR SUCH A SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1900	G06F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F19	G06F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and system for patient-oriented optimization of orders of care treatments offered by a care provider as well as a patient identification card for use in this method and in this system, comprising: the reading of an access code by a computer programme loaded into a computer, said access code being incorporated into a module of indelible data on a patient identification card; the generating of an output signal following the positive identification of the access code by the computer programme; the reading of modules of variable data on the patient identification card by the computer programme by means of the output signal; the processing of central data files filed in the main memory of the computer by the computer programme, said files concerning the care activities and/or the patient, and processing the data read on the patient identification card in such a manner that an order of care treatments is generated which is optimally patient-oriented, and the updating of the variable data on the patient identification card and updating the central data files after the care treatment.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PACING MANAGEMENT 
&
 CONSULTANC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PACING MANAGEMENT 
&
 CONSULTANCY B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALTHUIZEN LEONARDUS MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMERINK JOHANNA MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOUWEN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUNISSEN PETRUS ANTONIUS CLEM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALTHUIZEN, LEONARDUS, MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMERINK, JOHANNA, MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOUWEN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUNISSEN, PETRUS, ANTONIUS, CLEMENS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PATIENT-ORIENTED OPTIMIZATION OF ORDER OF CARE TREATMENTS AND PATIENT IDENTIFICATION CARD FOR USE IN SUCH A METHOD OR SUCH A SYSTEM.The invention relates to a method for patient-oriented optimization of an order of care treatments offered by care provider, wherein the degree of utilization of all means at the disposal of the care provider, which together with many afore-mentioned orders of care treatments con¬ stitute, in their mutual dependence, the care process, is maximized.The invention further relates to a system for patient- oriented optimization of an order of care treatments offered by care provider, wherein the degree of utiliza¬ tion of all means at the disposal of the care provider, which together with many afore-mentioned orders of care treatments constitute, in their mutual dependence, the care process, is maximized.The invention relates furthermore to a patient iden¬ tification card for use in such a method and in such a system.Within the scope of this application, the term 'patient' covers all of the following terms: patient, client, user, consumer, resident and insured person in as far as applied within the social service sector. The term 'care provider' includes all providers of care such as general practitio¬ ners, pharmacists, specialists, nurses, paramedics, insti¬ tutions providing care and the like.Within the social service sector there is a significant 

waste of means on the one hand, while on the other there are no or insufficient means available for urgent matters. Both waste and shortages threaten the attainable level of quality of the processes of primary care. Years of expe- rience, analyses and many experiments have made it clear that the following causal factors especially lie at the basis of the present situation:- many care providers are involved in providing care to the patient, each care provider organising severally a part of the care process concerning the patient.- the patient is not made to become actively involved in planning his own care process.- the management hardly have any relevant basic infor¬ mation at their disposal concerning the primary processes. - quality of care as a concept has not been put into practice.- as a consequence of lack of coherence, every person involved generates (being more or less forced to do so) an enormous bureaucracy. Consequently, the number of staff that could be employed in primary processes is restriced by about 20%. This bears hard on the patient (waiting lists, damage to the care provided) and on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C A I M S
1. Method for patient-oriented optimization of orders of care treatments offered by a care provider, comprising:
- the reading of an access code by a computer programme loaded into a computer, said access code being incor- porated into a module of indelible data on a patient iden¬ tification card,
- the generating of an output signal following the posi¬ tive identification of the access code of the patient identification card by the computer programme, - the reading by the computer programme of variable data which have been rendered accesible hereby on the relevant modules of the patient identification card,
- the processing of central data files filed in the main memory of the computer by the computer programme, said files concerning the care activities and/or the patient, and processing the data read on the patient identification card in such a manner that an order of care treatments is generated which is optimally patient-oriented, and
- the up-dating of the variable data on the patient iden- tification card and up-dating the central data files after the care treatment.
2. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that generating an optimal patient-oriented order of care treatment takes place in such a way, that the patient is placed on a waiting list of patients, that the computer programme sorts the waiting list in order of priority on the basis of patient data, and that, on the basis of the patient data and the central data files, it renders the care treatments mutually dependent to such a degree that 


the length of time between the first and the last care treatment of the patient is minimized and the degree of utilization of all means at the disposal of the care provider are maximized in their mutual dependance as defined by the computer programme.
3. Method according to any one of the preceding claims by which data concerning the state of health of the patient and the care treatments he is receiving are collected and managed, wherein these data are the property of the pa¬ tient and are accessible to the patient alone in a certain place by means of his patient identification card, regard¬ less of the fact that these data originate from different care providers or various social workers.
4. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the patient authorizes the carrying out of an order of care treatments for himself by means of his patient identification card.
5. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the sum total of the means and care treatments provided by the care provider is expressed in standard units of money, time, people and volume in such a way that a future order of care treatments for a patient will, after the patient has authorized it, determine the costs/price and duration of this order of care treatments.
6. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein measurable criteria are generated to ensure that injured parties can be compensated regardless of the question of guilt, and whereby the order of care treatments and the means can be geared to each other more efficiently.
7. Method according to claim 4, wherein the patient iden- tification card contains the care package for which the patient is insured, by which, through authorizing a future order of care treatments, a payment guarantee is given. 


 8. Method according to claim 1, wherein the patient iden¬ tification card contains erasable data for the benefit of a drug card, donor card, the expression of the patient's will concerning euthanasia, incompentence, etc.
9. System for patient-oriented optimization of orders of care treatments offered by a care provider to patients, wherein the degree of utilization of all means at the disposal of the care provider, which together with these order of care treatments constitute, in their mutual dependence, the care process, is maximized, comprising a patient identification card having a module with indelible
- patient data and an access code and further modules with variable data, and a computer programme loaded into a computer to which the patient identification card has access by means of the access code, the computer programma having access, after the access code has been read by means of reading equipment, to the data filed on earlier modules and to central data files determined by this access code.
10. System according to claim 9 which collects and manages data concerning the state of health of the patient and care treatments he is receiving, wherein these data are the property of the patient and to which he alone has access by means of his patient identification card, re¬ gardless of the fact that these data originate from dif¬ ferent care providers or several social workers.
11. System according to claim 4, wherein the patient authorizes the carrying out of an order of care treatments for himself by means of his patient identification card.
12. System according to claim 5, wherein the sum total of means and care treatments provided by the care provider is expressed in standard units of money, time, people and volume in such a way, that a future order of care treat- 


ments for a patient will, after the patient has authorized it, determine the costs/price and duration of this order of care treatments.
13. System according to claim 6, wherein measurable crite¬ ria are generated to ensure that injured parties can be compensated regardless of the question of guilt, and by which the order of care treatments and the means can be geared to one another more efficiently.
14. System according to claim 7 and claim 11, wherein the patient identification card contains the care package for which the patient is insured, by which, through authoriz¬ ing a future order of care treatments, a payment guarantee is given.
15. System according to claim 8, wherein the patient identification card contains erasable data for the benefit of a drug card, donor card, the expressions of the pa- tient's will concerning euthanasia, incompetence etc.
16. Patient identification card for use in a method accor¬ ding to claim 1 or 2, or for use in a system according to claim 9, characterized in that the patient identification card is provided with a carrier containing a module with indelible patient data and access code and further modules having a memory capacity for variable data.
17. Patient identification card according to claim 16, wherein the indelible data consist of: a. An identification number consisting of a main number and a serial number which are composed as follows:
- for residents with a personal national insurance number, the main number is the national insurance number and the serial number is zero.
- for residents without a personal national insurance number, the main number is the national insurance number 


of the natural person or legal body which represents them (for instance parent, guardian, curator, government insti¬ tution) and the serial number is between 1 and 999999999 (children, inhabitants of special institutions) . - for non-residents, the main number is the national insurance number of the domestic authority responsible for them or an identification number of a foreign authority and the serial number is between 1 and 999999999. This would include, for instance, centres for persons seeking asylum, foreign travel insurers or countries.
Each 
"
care provider is handed their own serial numbers for these cases. These number can also be used in those cases in which, for some reason, residents are (temporarily) not in possession of their card and in which immediate medical treatment is imperative: a so-called wild-card. b. the blood-group of the patient, possibly complemented with other unvarying data such as tissue typification, finger print, DNA-code, allergies or specific disorders. c. an access code consisting of, for instance, 10 digits.
18. Patient identification card according to claim 16, wherein the access code consists of, for instance, 10 di¬ gits.
19. Patient identification card according to claim 16, wherein the further modules contain erasable data of the patient, such as:
Donor card and information connected with this and other expressions of a person's will, such as authorized per- sons, euthanasia, etc.
Data concerning the insurance package, such as the name of the insurance company, the policy number, the standard package, the presence of general and specific personal risks, supplementary packages, etc. Data concerning facts and conclusions -of care treatments that have already been received or have yet to be carried out as well as concerning medication (drug card) . 


Data concerning care treatments in home care situations by for instance general practitioners and paramedics. Data intended for assessing quality and for the medical insurance of the patient. Data intended for other purposes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
