<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625429</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Heat transfer sheet
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M526	B41M540	B41M5382	B41M544	B41M542	B41M700	B41M700	B41M546	B41M540	B41M526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M7	B41M7	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a heat transfer sheet comprising a 
substrate sheet provided on the same surface with a first heat transfer layer 

comprising a thermally migratable dye and an untransferable binder and a second 
heat transfer layer comprising a dyed or pigmented, heat-meltable binder, the 

substrate sheet comprising a polyester film and at least the surface having the 
heat transfer layers being made easily bondable. The heat transfer sheet enables 

excellent gray scale images for photographs etc. formed together with monochromic 
high-density images, such as verbal, numerical or other images. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is a divisional application to copending European patent application no.
90910943.1 (publication no. 0 487 727).The present invention relates to a heat transfer
sheet. More particularly, the present invention
relates to a heat transfer sheet enabling
excellent
gray scale images for photographs etc. formed together with
monochromic, high-density images being
improved in terms of such
durability as rub resistance and allowing them to develop
color and luster so well. The present invention also
concerns a heat transfer process
for making cards using the heat transfer sheet of the present invention.So far, heat transfer techniques have been widely
used for simple and expeditious printing. Allowing
various images to be produced expeditiously, these heat
transfer techniques have incidentally been employed for
prints usually made in a small number, e.g. for preparing
ID or other cards.Where it is desired to obtain color images like
photographs of face, another type of heat transfer
technique is now available, making use of heat transfer
films of continuous length comprising a continuous
substrate film on which a number of heat transfer layers
colored in yellow, magenta and cyan (and black, if
necessary) are formed successively and repeatedly.Such heat transfer sheets are generally broken down
into two types, one referred to as a so-called wax type
of heat transfer film in which a heat transfer layer is
thermally softened and transferred onto an image-receiving
material in an imagewise manner and the other a
so-called sublimation type of heat transfer film in which
only a dye sublimes (migrates) thermally from within a
heat transfer layer onto an image receiving sheet after
an imagewise pattern.When ID or other cards are to be produced with such
heat transfer films as mentioned above, the wax type of
heat transfer film has the advantage of being capable of 
forming verbal, numerical or other images, but involves
the disadvantage that such images are poor in durability,
esp., rub resistance.With the sublimation type of heat transfer film, on
the other hand, it is possible to obtain gray scale
images, i.e., gradation pattern, like photographs of
face. Unlike those obtained with ordinary ink, however,
the formed images are less lustrous for lack of any
vehicle and, by the same token, are poor in durability,
e.g. rub resistance. Such items of information as characters, signs and
bar codes carried on cards, e.g. ID cards are required to
be recorded in black at high density rather than on a
gray scale Thus such
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat transfer sheet comprising a substrate
sheet provided side by side on the same surface with a first heat

transfer layer comprising a thermally migratable dye and
an untransferable binder and a second heat transfer layer

comprising a dyed or pigmented, heat-meltable binder, the
substrate sheet comprising a polyester film and at least

the surface having the heat transfer layers being
provided with an adhesive layer having

a thickness of 0.001 to 1 µm.
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein the polyester film is a polyethylene

terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate film.
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in Claims 1 or 2,
wherein the

adhesive layer is drawn simultaneously with the substrate
sheet.
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in anyone of Claims 1 to 3,
wherein a release protective layer is interleaved between

the second heat transfer layer and the substrate sheet.
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in anyone of Claims 1 to 4,
wherein the second heat transfer layer is provided with a

heat-sensitive adhesive layer on its surface.
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in anyone of Claims 1 to 5, in
which the second heat transfer layer or the heat-sensitive

adhesive layer formed thereon is well adhesive
to a vinyl chloride base resin. 
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in anyone of Claims 1 to 6,
which is provided with a heat-resistant slip layer on its

back surface.
A process for making cards, comprising:

Forming a gray scale image and/or non-gray scale
image on the surface of a card substrate made of a vinyl

chloride resin using the heat transfer sheet as claimed
in anyone of Claims 1 to 7.
A process as claimed in Claim 8, wherein a
transparent protective layer is laminated on the surface

of the resulting image in a heat transfer manner.
A process as claimed in Claim 9, wherein the
lamination of the transparent protective layer is carried

out with a heat transfer cover film comprising a substrate
film and, releasably formed thereon, either an

ionizing-radiation-cured resin layer or a wax-containing
transparent resin layer or a silicone-modified transparent resin

layer or a transparent resin layer and a heat-sensitive adhesive
layer further provided on the transparent resin

layer, said heat-sensitive adhesive layer being made
of a resin having a glass transition temperature lying in

the range of 40 to 75°C.
A heat transfer sheet as claimed in Claim 4, wherein
the release layer comprises a water soluble polymer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
