<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643319</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polarization-insensitive optical four-photon mixer with orthogonally-polarized pump signals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F135	G02F135	H01S310	H01S310	G02F139	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	H01S	H01S	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	H01S3	H01S3	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention proves an apparatus and method for performing 
polarization-insensitive four-photon mixing of optical signals. The polarization-insensitive 

optical mixer receives an input optical signal (at 41) and two 
substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals (at 42). The input optical signal 

and the two substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals are combined in a 
beam combiner (43) and then four-photon mixed in a first nonlinear mixing device 

(46) to produce a number of mixing products. The two substantially orthogonally 
polarized pump signals may be generated in an orthogonal pump signal generator 

which includes a second nonlinear mixing device for four-photon mixing the first 
pump signal and a mixing signal to produce a second pump signal which is a phase 

conjugate of the first pump signal. Certain of the mixing products represent phase 
conjugates of the input optical signal, and are therefore useful in compensating for 

chromatic distortion in optical fiber. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOPSON ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOPSON, ROBERT M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
improvements in optical communication systems. More 
particularly, the present invention relates to four-photon 
mixing techniques for frequency converting and/or 
phase conjugating optical signals. In optical communication systems, it is often 
desirable to four-photon mix an optical signal. For 
example, one important aspect of four-photon mixing is 
that it can produce the phase conjugate of an optical 
signal. Phase conjugating an optical signal at the 
midpoint of an optical fiber span can compensate for 
fiber chromatic dispersion and thus allow the span to 
support higher bit rate-distance products. Chromatic 
dispersion refers to a phenomenon in which the speed of 
an optical signal through the fiber varies as a function 
of the optical signal frequency or wavelength. Because 
the phase conjugate of a given signal exhibits a reversal 
of phase as a function of time, mid-span conjugation 
allows the effects of dispersion in the first half of a 
fiber span to be canceled as the phase conjugated signal 
propagates along the second half. See A. Yariv, D. 
Fekete and D. Pepper, "Compensation for channel 
dispersion by nonlinear optical phase conjugation", 
Optics Letters, vol.4, pp. 52-54, 1979. Midsystem optical 
phase conjugation has extended the bit rate-distance 
product achievable over the normal dispersion fiber which 
makes up much of the world's existing fiber communication  
 
channels. See A. Gnauck, R. Jopson and R. Derosier, "10 
Gb/s 360 km Transmission over Dispersive Fiber Using 
Midsystem Spectral Inversion", IEEE Photonics Technology 
Letters, vol.5, no.6, June 1993. Frequency conversion is 
used in many other applications, including compensation 
for stimulated Raman scattering in multi-channel systems 
by global inversion of the channel signal frequencies, 
routing in wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) networks 
and switching in wavelength-division switches. Frequency conversion of optical signals is typically 
performed using four-photon mixing, also commonly 
referred to as four-wave mixing. Four-photon mixing is a 
nonlinear process which produces various mixing products 
by mixing an input optical communication signal with 
either one or two higher power optical signals, or pumps, 
in a nonlinear mixing medium such as a semiconductor 
laser, a semiconductor laser amplifier or a length of 
dispersion-shifted fiber. However, the efficiency of the 
four-photon mixing process is highly dependent upon the 
relative polarizations of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of polarization-insensitive optical mixing comprising 
the steps of: 


providing an input optical signal whose polarization typically varies randomly 
with time; 
providing two substantially orthogonally-polarized pump signals; combining said 
input optical
 signal and said two substantially orthogonally - polarized pump signals 
in a beam combiner; and 
four-wave mixing said input optical signal and said two substantially 
orthogonally-polarized pump signals in a first nonlinear mixing device to produce a 

mixing product related to said input optical signal and having a power level 
substantially insensitive to variations in polarization of said input optical signal. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing two 
substantially orthogonally-polarized pump signals further includes the steps of: 


supplying the first pump signal from a first signal source; 
supplying a mixing signal from a second signal source; 
four-wave mixing said first pump signal and said mixing signal in a 
second nonlinear mixing device to produce the second pump signal. 
The method of claim 2 wherein said step of 
supplying the first pump signal includes 

supplying a phase modulated first pump signal from a phase modulated first signal source. 
The method of any of the preceding claims wherein said step of 
four-wave mixing said input optical signal and said two substantially orthogonally-polarized 

pump signals in a nonlinear mixing device to produce a mixing product 
includes producing a phase conjugate of said input optical signal. 
The method of claim 3 wherein said step of four-wave mixing 
said phase modulated first pump signal with said mixing signal produces a phase 

modulated second pump signal having phase modulation substantially opposite in sign  
 

to phase modulation of said phase modulated first pump signal, such that subsequent 
four-wave mixing steps utilizing said first and said second pump signals will allow 

effects of said phase modulation to cancel in mixing products conjugate to said input 
optical signal. 
The method of claim 3 further including the 
step of filtering said mixing product of said two substantially orthogonally polarized 

pump signals and said input optical signal to attenuate mixing products other than said 
phase conjugate of said input optical signal. 
The method of any of the preceding claims further including the 
step of amplifying said input optical signal and said two substantially orthogonally 

polarized pump signals prior to said step of four-wave mixing said input optical signal 
and said two substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals in said nonlinear mixing 

device. 
The method of any of the preceding claims wherein said step of 
providing two substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals includes providing two 

substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals substantially centered about a 
dispersion zero of said nonlinear mixing device. 
The method of any of the preceding claims wherein said step of 
providing an input optical signal includes providing a multi-channel optical signal. 
A polarization-insensitive optical mixer comprising: 

a signal input (41) for receiving an input optical signal whose polarization typically 
varies randomly with time; 
a generator for providing two substantially orthogonally polarized pump 
signals; a beam combiner (43) for combining said input optical signal and said two substantially 

orthogonally - polarized pump signals; and 
a first nonlinear mixing device (46) for four-wave mixing said input 
optical signal and said two substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals said mixing device 

being arranged to produce 
a mixing product related to said input optical signal and having a power level 

substantially insensitive to variations in polarization of said input optical signal. 
The optical mixer of claim 10 wherein said two substantially 
orthogonally polarized pump signals are generated in the orthogonal pump signal 

generator comprising: 

a first signal source (52) supplying a first pump signal, 
a second signal source (53) providing a mixing signal; 
a second nonlinear mixing device (58) for four-wave mixing said first 
pump signal and said mixing signal to produce a second pump signal. 
The optical mixer of claim 11 wherein said first signal source is 
phase modulated to produce a phase modulated first pump signal. 
The optical mixer of claim 12 wherein four-wave mixing said 
phase modulated first pump signal with said mixing signal produces a phase modulated 

second pump signal having phase modulation substantially opposite in sign to phase 
modulation of said phase modulated first pump signal, such that subsequent four-wave 

mixing utilizing said first and said second pump signals will allow effects of said phase 
modulation to cancel in mixing products conjugate to said input optical signal. 
The optical mixer of any of claims 10 to 13 wherein said mixing 
product is a phase conjugate of said input optical signal. 
The optical mixer of any of claims 10 to 14 wherein said two 
substantially orthogonally polarized pump signals are substantially centered about a 

dispersion zero of said first nonlinear mixing medium. 
The optical mixer as claimed in any of claims 10 to 15 wherein 
the generator for generating pump signals comprises: 


a first signal source (52) supplying a first pump signal; 
a second signal source (53) providing a mixing signal; 
a beam combiner (56) for combining said first pump signal and said 
mixing signal; and  

 
a nonlinear mixing device (58) for four-wave mixing said first pump 
signal and said mixing signal to produce a second pump signal which is a phase 

conjugate of said first pump signal. 
The optical mixer of claim 16 wherein said first pump signal is 
phase modulated by a modulation signal and said four-wave mixing in said nonlinear 

mixing device produces a phase modulated second pump signal. 
The optical mixer of claim 17 wherein said phase modulation on 
said first pump signal and that on said second pump signal are phase conjugate of each 

other. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
