<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658738</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Removable bulletproof apparatus for vehicles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2102	B60R2112	F41H500	F41H5013	F41H700	F41H704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	F41H	F41H	F41H	F41H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R21	B60R21	F41H5	F41H5	F41H7	F41H7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Removable bullet-resisting apparatus for a vehicle 
includes a transparent panel which is secured to or disposed 

adjacent to a vehicle window and a flexible curtain is secured 

to a bracket to which the bottom portion of the transparent 
panel is secured. Both the transparent panel and the curtain 

are bullet-resisting. Both the panel and the curtain are 
easily installed and easily removed from their common bracket 

and from the vehicle. Depending on the particular design or 
structure of a vehicle in which the apparatus is installed, 

various top bracket structures may be used. The curtain is 
made of layers of cloth, which may be woven or nonwoven 

material. In one embodiment, as for use in law enforcement 
vehicles, the curtain includes a bottom flap or portion that 

may be pivoted down when the door is opened to provide an 
officer with essentially a full length bullet-resisting 

shield. The full length shield includes both the transparent 
panel and the curtain and its flap. A similar curtain and 

transparent panel may be secured to and behind the front seat 
to protect the occupants of the front seat from bullets fired 

from the rear of the vehicle or from rearwardly of the front 
door. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MADDEN JAMES R JR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MADDEN, JAMES R., JR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADDEN JAMES R JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADDEN, JAMES R., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to vehicles and, more 
particularly, to apparatus for providing bulletproof or 
bullet-resisting protection for occupants of a vehicle and 
which apparatus is easily installed in a vehicle and is easily 
removed from the vehicle. U.S. Patent 1,443,708 (Fenton) discloses a armor system 
for a vehicle. The armor includes a plurality of holes, with 
glass elements covering some of the holes. The holes covered 
by glass elements comprise viewing apertures. Armor plate 
cover some of the holes from the interior. Some of the 
interior armor plate may be removed so that firearms may be 
used from the inside of the vehicle shooting through the 
holes. U.S. Patent 1,913,554 (Luker) discloses a bullet-resisting 
covering for portions of a vehicle, including the 
radiator and tire. The bullet-resisting covering or armor is 
designed to protect the front end of a vehicle.  U.S. Patent 2,363,573 (Costa) discloses what is referred 
to as an armor shell for a motor vehicle. Virtually the 
entire vehicle is covered with an armor shell. There are gun 
ports in the shell and viewing slits for observing outside the 
vehicle. U.S. Patent 3,855,898 (McDonald) discloses sheeting 
material applied to the interior of a vehicle. The sheeting 
includes transparent covering for the windows and panels which 
extend over the doors. The door panels are preformed in a 
particular configuration and are permanently secured in place. U.S. Patent 4,316,404 (Medlin) discloses a lightweight 
armored vehicle and a method of making the lightweight armored 
vehicle. The disclosed method comprises stripping a vehicle 
interior, and using different types of bullet proof material 
for the interior of the vehicle and also for the gasoline tank 
of the vehicle. U.S. Patent 4,352,316 (Medlin) comprises a continuation-in-part 
patent of the '404 patent. It accordingly contains 
virtually the same method and apparatus, but with different 
materials involved, namely woven polyester glass sheeting. The patents discussed in the preceding paragraphs all 
utilize a permanent installation of bullet proof material in 
a vehicle. Accordingly, substantial changes are made in the 
vehicles to bullet-resist them. The substantial changes  
 
include substantial costs involvement, as may be understood 
and expected. The apparatus of the present invention comprises a 
relatively inexpensive, yet provides substantial protection 
from bullets fired from outside the vehicle. The protection 
is afforded to the driver and other passengers in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Removable bullet-resisting apparatus for a vehicle 
having a door and a window in the door, comprising, in 

combination: 
   transparent panel means disposed adjacent to the door 

window; and 
   flexible curtain means extending downwardly from and 

removably secured to the transparent panel means and 
substantially covering the door below the door window; and 

   in which the flexible curtain means comprises a plurality 
of layers of cloth secured together. 
The apparatus of claim 1 in which the transparent 
panel means includes 

   a transparent panel having an upper portion and a lower 
portion; 

   a first bracket removably secured to the upper portion of 
the transparent panel and removably disposed between the 

window and the door above the window; and 
   a second bracket removably secured to the lower portion 

of the transparent panel and removably disposed between the 
window and the door below the window, and the first and second 

brackets removably securing the transparent panel to the 
window and door. 
The apparatus of claim 1 in which the curtain means 
includes a first portion secured to the transparent panel 

means and extends downwardly over the door, and a second 
portion pivotally secured to the first portion, and extending 

downwardly below the door when the door is open. 
Removable bullet-resisting apparatus for a vehicle 
having a door and a window in the door, comprising, in 

combination; 
   transparent panel means disposed adjacent to the door 

window; and 
   flexible curtain means extending downwardly from and 

removably secured to the transparent panel means and 
substantially covering the door below the door window; and 

   in which the transparent panel means includes 
   a transparent panel having an upper portion and a 

lower portion, and 
   upper bracket means for securing the upper portion 

of the transparent panel to the window and to an adjacent 
portion of the door; and 

   in which the upper bracket means includes a 
horizontal plate disposed on the transparent panel and a 

vertical flange secured to the horizontal plate and disposed 
against the window and the adjacent portion of the door, and 

the transparent panel is secured to the vertical flange. 
Removable bullet-resisting apparatus for a vehicle 
having a door and a window in the door, comprising, in 

combination: 
   transparent panel means disposed adjacent to the door 

window; and 
   flexible curtain means extending downwardly from and 

removably secured to the transparent panel means and 
substantially covering the door below the door window; and 

   in which the transparent panel means includes 
   a transparent panel having an upper portion and a lower 

portion, and 
   upper bracket means for securing the upper portion of the 

transparent panel to the window and to an adjacent portion of 
the door; and 

   in which the upper bracket means includes 
   a
 plate disposed against the upper portion of the 
transparent panel; 

   a pin secured to the plate and extending through the 
transparent panel; and 

   a handle secured to the pin for pivoting the plate 
between a down position and an up position to secure the 

transparent panel to the vehicle window and to the adjacent 
portion of the door. 
Bullet-resisting apparatus for a vehicle having 
front doors, and a front seat back, comprising in combination; 

   transparent panel means secured to the vehicle and 
extending upwardly behind the front seat back; 

   curtain means secured to the transparent panel means and 
extending downwardly therefrom adjacent to the seat back. 
Removable bullet-resisting apparatus for a vehicle 
having a door and a window in the door comprising in 

combination: 
   transparent panel means disposed adjacent to the door 

window and including a lower portion; 
   frame means for securing the transparent panel means to 

the door; and 
   flexible curtain means extending downwardly from and 

secured to the frame means and substantially covering the door 
below the door window and the lower portion of the transparent 

panel means, and the flexible curtain means comprises a 
plurality of layers of fibrous material. 
The apparatus of claim 7 in which the layers of 
fibrous material of the flexible curtain means includes woven 

material. 
The apparatus of claim 7 in which the layers of 
fibrous material of the flexible curtain means includes 

nonwoven material. 
The apparatus of claim 7 in which the frame means 
includes a rod disposed adjacent to the lower portion of the 

transparent panel means for supporting the flexible curtain 
means and bracket means for supporting the rod. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
