<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624018</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rotationally invariant multilevel coded systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2700	H03M1300	H03M1325	H04L2734	H03M714	H04L2718	H04L2718	H04L2700	H04L2734	H03M714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H03M	H03M	H04L	H03M	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L27	H03M13	H03M13	H04L27	H03M7	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H03M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotationally invariant, multilevel coded modulation scheme is provided by 
partitioning a constellation, such as an M-PSK or QAM constellation, into several trellis 

subsets, each of which is further partitioned into block subsets. The input bits are then 
encoded to select a signal point from the constellation. A first portion of the input bits are 

differentially encoded. A second portion of the input bits, together with at least one of the 
differentially encoded bits, are trellis encoded to select a trellis subset of the constellation. 

A third portion of the input bits - excluding any differentially encoded bits - are block 
encoded to select a block subset from the selected trellis subset. A fourth portion of the input 

bits, together with the remaining differentially encoded bits, are used to select a signal point 
from the selected block subset. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI LEE-FANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI, LEE-FANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multilevel coded modulation useful, for example, in
satellite communication and voiceband data transmission (e.g., modem) applications.As used herein, the term "multilevel coded modulation" refers to arrangements in
which input bits are divided into two or more groups which are individually encoded using
respective redundancy codes. The encoded bits are then used jointly to select channel signal
points from a predetermined signal constellation for transmission over a communication
channel, such as a voiceband telephone channel. The principal advantage of adopting a
multilevel coded modulation approach is that it provides the system designer with increased
flexibility in designing a coding scheme which provides desired levels of error-rate
performance, or "coding gain" while meeting various constraints on code complexity and
decoding delay.It also is desirable that modulation codes be invariant to rotations of the transmitted
signal points by a phase ambiguity of the constellation. A code is said to be "rotationally
invariant" when a valid sequence of signal points becomes another valid sequence of signal
points after each point is rotated by a phase angle corresponding to a phase ambiguity of the
constellation. Unless the codes are rotationally invariant, after such a rotation, the receiver
will be unable to recover the bits that are associated with the signal points. Illustrative articles describing rotationally invariant trellis coded
modulation schemes include: Steven A. Tretter, "An Eight-Dimensional 64-State Trellis
Code for Transmitting 4 Bits Per 2-D Symbol," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in
Communications, Vol. 7, No. 9, December 1989, pp. 1392-1395; and Lee-Fang Wei,
"Rotationally Invariant Trellis-Coded Modulations with Multidimensional M-PSK,"
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, Vol. 7, No. 9, December 1989, pp.
1281-1295. Both these references discuss single-level coding schemes which are
rotationally invariant. On the other hand, Wu et al., "Multilevel Trellis MPSK
Modulation Codes for the Rayleigh Fading Channel," IEEE Transactions on
Communications, Vol. 41, No. 9, September 1993, pp. 1311-1318, discloses multilevel
codes which are not rotationally invariant.According to the invention there is provided a method and apparatus as
set out in the independent claims. Preferred forms of the invention are set out in the
dependent claims. A rotationally invariant, multilevel coded modulation scheme suitable for use with
constellations having more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for selecting a sequence of signal points from an 2N-dimensional
constellation to represent a sequence of input bits, N representing a positive

integer, the constellation has at least three phase symmetries and is partitioned into a
first group of subsets, each of the subsets of the first group being partitioned into a

second group of subsets (700, 702), the method comprising the steps of:

applying, during each 2N-dimensional signaling interval, first and
second portions of the input bits to a first encoder (114) and a second encoder (116),

respectively, to generate first and second groups of encoded bits;
specifying, in response to the first group of encoded bits, a first subset
from the first group of subsets of the constellation (120);
identifying, in response to the second group of encoded bits, a second
subset from the second group of subsets (700, 702) of the specified first subset (122);
selecting, in response to a third portion of the input bits, a 2N-dimensional
signal point from the identified second subset (124); and generating an

output signal representing a sequence of successive 2N-dimensional signal points thus
selected,

CHARACTERIZED IN THAT
the constellation is partitioned such that each of respective subsets in the
first group of subsets has an intra-subset minimum square Euclidean distance less than

the minimum square Euclidean distances of each of the subsets in the corresponding
second group of subsets into which the respective first group of subsets is partitioned;
the subsets in the first and second groups of subsets being rotationally
invariant to the same amount of phase rotation of the 2N-dimensional constellation such

that a valid sequence of signal points becomes another valid sequence of signal points
after a rotation corresponding to a phase symmetry of the 2N-dimensional constellation.
The method of claim 1 wherein the specifying and identifying steps
are performed such that for two different groups of encoded bits output from the first

encoder (114) and for the same group of encoded bits output from the second encoder
(116), the two corresponding identified second subsets are obtainable from each other

through a phase rotation of the constellation. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the first (114) and second (116)
encoders are redundancy encoders.
The method of claim 1 wherein the first encoder (114) is a trellis
encoder.
The method of claim 4 wherein the trellis encoder (114) utilizes a
trellis code of a predetermined dimensionality and wherein the trellis code is converted

from a second trellis code of lower dimensionality.
The method of claim 1 wherein the second encoder (116) is a block
encoder.
The method of claim 6 wherein the block encoder (116) comprises at
least one single-parity-check encoder (806).
The method of claim 1 wherein the 2N-dimensional constellation is
constructed from a QAM constellation having four phase ambiguities.
The method of claim 1 wherein the 2N-dimensional constellation is
constructed from an M-PSK constellation having at least three phase ambiguities.
An apparatus for transmitting a sequence of signal points selected
from an 2N-dimensional constellation to represent a sequence of input bits, N

representing a positive integer, the 2N-dimensional constellation having at least three
phase symmetries and being partitioned into a first group of subsets, and each of the

subsets of the first group being partitioned into a second group of subsets (700,702), the
apparatus comprising:


first means for encoding (114), during each 2N-dimensional signaling
interval, a first portion of the input bits to generate a first group of encoded bits;
second means for encoding (116), during each 2N-dimensional signaling
interval, a second portion of the input bits to generate a second group of encoded bits;
means for specifying (120), in response to the first group of encoded bits,
a first subset from the first group of subsets of the 2N-dimensional constellation;
means for identifying (122), in response to the second group of encoded
bits, a second subset from the second group of subsets of the specified first subset; 
means for selecting (124), in response to a third portion of the input bits,
a 2N-dimensional signal point from the identified second subset; and
means for generating a multilevel output signal representing a sequence
of successive selected 2N-dimensional signal points;

CHARACTERIZED IN THAT
each of respective subsets in the first group of subsets has an intra-subset
minimum square Euclidean distance less than the minimum square Euclidean distances

of each of the subsets in the corresponding second group of subsets into which the
respective first group of subsets is partitioned, the subsets in the first and second groups

of subsets being rotationally invariant to equal amounts of phase rotation of the 2N-dimensional
constellation such that a valid sequence of signal points becomes another

valid sequence of signal points after a rotation corresponding to a phase symmetry of
the 2N-dimensional constellation.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the means for identifying (122)
operates such that for two different groups of encoded bits output from the first encoder

(114) and for the same group of encoded bits output from the second encoder (116),
each of the two corresponding identified second subsets is obtainable from the other

identified second subset through a phase rotation of the constellation.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first encoder (114) is a trellis
encoder.
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the trellis encoder (114) utilizes a
trellis code of a predetermined dimensionality and wherein the trellis code is derived

from a second trellis code of lower dimensionality.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the second encoder (116) is a
block encoder.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the block encoder (116)
comprises at least one single-parity-check encoder (806).
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the 2N-dimensional constellation
is constructed from a QAM constellation having four phase ambiguities. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the 2N-dimensional constellation
is con
structed from an M-PSK constellation having at least three phase ambiguities.
Receiver apparatus for processing a received signal that was
generated by encoding, during each 2N-dimensional signaling interval, N representing a

positive integer, first and second portions of a plurality of input bits to respectively
generate first and second groups of encoded bits,

and then selecting, in response to the first and second groups of encoded
bits and a third portion of the input bits, respectively, a first subset of a constellation, a

second subset of the first subset, and a signal point of the second subset, the receiver
apparatus comprising:


a receiver including a decoder (202) for receiving a multilevel encoded
signal and for generating a decoded signal in response to the multilevel encoded signal,

the decoded signal representing the plurality of input bits;

CHARACTERIZED IN THAT
each of respective subsets in the first group of subsets having an intra-subset
minimum square Euclidean distance less than the minimum square Euclidean

distances of each of the subsets in the corresponding second group of subsets into which
the respective first group of subsets is partitioned,
the constellation having at least three phase ambiguities and being
partitioned such that the first and second subsets are invariant to equal amounts of phase

rotation of the constellation,
wherein a valid sequence of successive channel signal points are
generated as another valid sequence of signal points in response to a phase rotation

corresponding to a phase symmetry of the constellation.
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said input bits are differentially
encoded (112) and the receiver apparatus further includes a differential decoder (214).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
