<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOFOCUS DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B2100	G03B2153	G03B2100	G03B2153	G02B728	G02B728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G02B7	G02B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An autofocus device for still projectors, e.g. slide projectors, is disclosed, said device operating according to the triangulation method in which there are provided a generator circuit (61) to control a measuring radiation source (1) designed as an infrared light emitting diode by means of variable current pulses (LI) and a signal processing circuit (62) for digital signals. The generator circuit (61) is provided with a controllable ramp generator (610) to produce sawtooth current pulses (LI), and a control circuit (611) to control their leading edge slopes in response to the signals (E1, E2) obtained from a dual photoreceiver (4). In the signal processing circuit (62) there are provided a threshold circuit (620) to produce digital input signals (ED1, ED2) from the signals (E1, E2) obtained, and a signal decoding circuit (621) to separate a digital direction signal (DIR) and a digital speed signal (SP) from the input signal (ED1, ED2), whereby the signal decoding circuit (621) is followed by signal converting circuit (624, 624') to produce a motor control voltage (MDC, MST) for a servomotor (5).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KODAK AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KODAK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEUTER BERND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEUTER, BERND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an autofocus device for still projectors, 
comprising a controlled measuring radiation source emitting 
a beam of radiation which is directed onto the surface of a slide 
to be focussed and is reflected therefrom to a dual photoreceiver 
mechanically coupled to a focussing device, the signals of said 
photoreceiver activating an electronic control means such that a 
servomotor connected thereto influences the focussing device until 
the measuring radiation reflected by the slide impinges on 
the central pdrtion of the dual photoreceiver. Autofocus devices for still projectors using controllable 
measuring radiation sources are known. EP-PS 0131 794 discloses an autofocus device for still projectors 
in which an infrared light emitting diode is used as a measuring 
radiation source which is operated by means of the half-wave voltage 
of a power rectifier and whose emission is controlled in response 
to the signal obtained from a dual photoreceiver. The device 
also includes a differential amplifier which amplifies and 
rectifies only the alternating portion of the signals received 
from the dual photoreceiver. An additional amplifier amplifies 
the rectified signal to activate a d.c. motor of a focussing 
drive.  
 It is the object of the present invention to provide an autofocus 
device of the generic type which effects fast and reliable 
focussing of a slide and which, in particular, is insensitive to 
interference signals and component tolerances and has a short 
reaction time and high positioning accuracy. Moreover, it should 
be guaranteed that slides which have different reflection factors 
are also quickly and reliably focussed. The above object is attained by a generator circuit for controlling 
the measuring radiation source by means of variable 
current pulses and a signal processing circuit for digital 
signals. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the generator circuit 
is provided with a controllable ramp generator to produce sawtooth 
current pulses, and with a control circuit to control their 
leading edge slopes in response to the signals obtained from the 
dual photoreceiver. Furthermore, the signal processing circuit is 
provided with a threshold circuit to produce digital input signals 
from the signals obtained from the dual photoreceiver, and 
with a signal decoding circuit for separating digital direction 
signals and digital speed signals from the input signal. Expediently, the autofocus device is designed such that the ramp 
generator is provided
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Autofocus device for still projectors, comprising 

a focusing drive (7) arranged to position a projection 
lens (9) at an adjustable distance from a slide (3) 

to be projected, 
a servomotor (5) arranged to drive said focusing 
drive (7) for adjusting the distance between said projection 

lens (9) and said slide (3), 
an intensity controlled radiation source (1) for 
emitting a light beam (2) directed at an oblique angle 

towards the surface of said slide (3), 
a dual photoreceiver (4) mounted on said focusing 
drive (7) and arranged to receive said light beam (2) 

reflected from said slide (3), and 
electronic control means (6) responsive to the signals 
(E1,E2) generated by said dual photoreceiver (4) 

and arranged to control said servomotor (5) such that 
said focusing drive (4) carrying said dual photoreceiver 

(4) is moved in a position wherein said light beam (2) 
reflected by said slide (3) impinges on the central portion 

of said dual photoreceiver (4), the device being 
characterised by 
a generator circuit (61) for supplying said measuring 
light source (1) with variable current pulses (LI), 

each pulse having a raising current profile portion, 
a digital signal processing circuit (62) for generating 
a speed signal (SP) corresponding to the duration of 
the time interval between the time instants (TF1,TF2) at 

which each of the signals (E1,E2) generated by said dual 
phoreceiver reaches a predetermined threshold value, 
a direction signal (DIR) indicating which of said 
photoreceiver signals (E1,E2) has reached said threshold 

value first, and 
a signal (MDC,MST) for controlling said servomotor 
(5) according to said speed (SP) and direction (DIR) 

signals. 
Autofocus device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the generator circuit (61) is provided with a controllable 

ramp generator (610) to produce sawtooth current pulses 
(LI). 
Autofocus device according to claims 1 and 2, characterized 
in that the generator circuit (61) is provided with a control 

circuit (611) by means of which the leading edge slopes 
of the current pulses (LI) are controlled in response to the 

signals (E1, E2) obtained from the dual photoreceiver (4). 
Autofocus device according to claim 2, characterized in that 
the ramp generator (610) is provided with a clock control 

circuit (612) by means of which the current pulses (LI) are 
controlled in their time-related sequences and duration.  

 
Autofocus device according to claim 2, characterized in that 
the ramp generator (610) is provided with a limiting circuit 

(613) by means of which the amplitudes and the duration of 
the current pulses (LI) are controlled. 
Autofocus device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the signal processing circuit (62) is provided with a threshold 

circuit (620) to produce digital input signals (ED1, 
ED2) from the signals (E1, E2) obtained from the dual photoreceiver 

(4). 
Autofocus device according to claims 1 and 6, characterized 
in that a signal decod
ing circuit (621) is provided by means 
of which a digital direction signal (DIR) and a digital 

speed signal (SP) are separated from the input signal (ED1, 
ED2). 
Autofocus device according to claim 7, characterized in that 
a memory circuit (623) is provided for storing the direction 

signal (DIR). 
Autofocusdevice according to claim 7, characterized in that 
a signal conversion circuit (624, 624') for the speed signal 

(SP) is provided by means of which a motor control voltage 
(MDC, MST) for the servomotor (5) is produced. 
Autofocus device according to claims 1 through 9, characterized 
in that in the signal processing circuit (62) a signal 

control circuit (625) is provided by means of which the circuits 
of the measuring radiation source (1) and the servomotor 

(5) are centrally controlled.  
 
Autofocus device according to claims 1 through 10, characterized 
in that in the signal processing circuit (62) an interface 

circuit (627) is provided by means of which the circuits 
of the measuring light source (1) and the servomotor 

(5) are controlled by digital control signals (MC, RC) of a 
microprocessor unit and/or a remote control unit. 
Autofocus device according to claim 7, characterized in that 
the signal decoding circuit (621) includes a phase comparator 

circuit (PLL) for the direction signal (DIR). 
Autofocus device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the measuring radiation source (1) is designed as a diode 

emitting I.R. radiation. 
Autofocus device according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the signal converting circuit (624) is designed as a digital-to-analog 

converter to produce a motor control voltage 
(MDC) for the servomotor (5) designed as a d.c. motor. 
Autofocus device according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the signal converting circuit (624') is designed as a digital-to-digital 

converter to produce motor control pulses 
(MST) for the servomotor (5) designed as a stepper motor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
