<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650579</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEASURING FLUID FLOW RATE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F1704	G01F1704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dilution technique for measuring the flow rate of a fluid stream includes injecting a tracer gas into a gas stream and then introducing the resulting tracer stock gas stream at a constant flow rate into the fluid stream. The concentration of tracer stock gas in a fluid stream sample is then obtained. A sample of the tracer stock gas stream is obtained at a point before this stream is introduced into the fluid stream. The resulting tracer stock gas stream sample is injected at a flow rate which can be varied, for example, by a peristaltic pump, into the gas stream. The concentration of a sample from the resulting tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream sample is measured. By varying the flow rate of the tracer stock gas stream sample the two measured concentrations can be equalised. When the concentrations are equal, a relationship exists between the flow rates of the fluid stream, the tracer stock gas stream and the tracer stock gas stream sample. Since the latter two flow rates are known, the flow rate of the fluid stream can be determined.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARSIDE ROBERT MARTIN BRITISH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARSIDE, ROBERT, MARTIN, BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
MEASURING FLUID FLOW RATEThe present invention relates to measuring the flow rate of a fluid stream using a dilution technique.In particular, the invention relates to a feedback flow meter system using a dilution technique which can be used in the calibration of a fluid stream flowmeter.Flowmeters require calibrating for use in a particular application and this requires obtaining independent measurements of the fluid stream flow rates through the flowmeter.Several methods are known for calibrating flowmeters, one example of which utilises the dilution technique. This technique involves introducing a tracer stock gas into the process fluid stream and measuring its resulting dilution or concentration. The amount of dilution is equal to the ratio of the flow rate of the tracer stock gas before introduction into the fluid stream to the flow rate of the process fluid stream. Thus, if the tracer stock gas flow rate and the dilution amount are known, then the flow rate of the process fluid stream can be determined. The tracer stock gas flow rate can be measured, for example, by a mass flow controller and one method of measuring the dilution is by means of a gas chromatograph equipped with an appropriate detector. A problem with this technique is that it is necessary to calibrate the gas chromatograph. Calibration is carried out by the provision of a set of gas bottles containing a range of known standard dilutions for passing through the gas chromatograph.The preparation of the standard dilutions involves an intricate procedure comprising evacuating a set of gas bottles, carefully introducing into the bottles known volumes of tracer stock gas, forcing varying volumes of air into each of the bottles to produce the required range of dilutions, and then weighing the bottles. This procedure is very time consuming and requires careful 

attention since one mistake can render the whole set of bottles useless.For accurate results calibration of the gas chromatograph is preferably carried out with the gas chromatograph connected to the process pipe. This has the disadvantage that it is necessary to transport the heavy gas bottles to the gas chromatograph. Furthermore, the tracer stock gas is rapidly used up and when a bottle has been emptied the set of standard dilutions prepared from it are no longer of any use.It is an object of this invention to provide a method of measuring the flow rate of a fluid stream which is suitable for in-situ calibration of a flowmeter and which overcomes the aforementioned
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of measuring the flow rate of a fluid stream, the method comprising the steps of injecting a tracer gas into a gas stream having a pre-determined substantially constant flow rate during a measurement period, introducing the resulting tracer stock gas stream into the fluid stream at said substantially constant flow rate, obtaining a sample of said fluid stream at a location downstream of the point at which the tracer stock gas stream is introduced and measuring the relative concentration of the tracer stock gas in the fluid stream sample, the method further including the steps of extracting a sample of said tracer stock gas stream at a location upstream of the point at which the tracer stock gas stream is introduced into the fluid stream, injecting said extracted tracer stock gas stream sample at a flow rate which can be varied into the gas stream to form a tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream, obtaining a sample of said tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream at a location downstream of the point at which the tracer stock gas stream sample is injected, measuring the relative concentration of the tracer stock gas stream sample in the tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream and adjusting the flow rate of the extracted tracer stock gas stream sample so as to equalise the value of the two measured concentrations, whereby the conditions necessary to equalise the concentration values correspond to the flow rate of the fluid stream.
2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein the sample of tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream is obtained at a location upstream on the point at which the tracer gas is injected into said gas stream.
3. A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the flow rate is used to calibrate a flowmeter through which the fluid stream passes. 


4. A method according to any one of the preceding Claims, wherein the gas stream comprises an airstream.
5. A method according to any one of the preceding Claims wherein the tracer gas comprises sulphur hexafluoride.
6. Apparatus for measuring the flow rate of a fluid stream, the apparatus comprising injection means for injecting a tracer gas into a gas stream having a predetermined substantially constant flow rate during a measurement period, means for introducing the resulting tracer stock gas stream into the fluid stream at said substantially constant flow rate, means for obtaining a sample of said fluid stream at a location downstream of the point at which the tracer stock gas stream is introduced and a concentration measuring instrument for measuring the relative concentration of the tracer stock gas in the fluid stream sample, the apparatus further comprising extraction means for obtaining a sample of said tracer stock gas stream at a location upstream of the point at which the tracer stock gas stream is introduced into the fluid stream, and further injection means for injecting said extracted tracer stock gas stream sample into the gas stream to form a tracer stock gas sample-in- gas stream, further extraction means for obtaining a sample of said tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream at a location downstream of the point at which the tracer stock gas stream sample is injected, the relative concentration of the tracer stock gas stream sample in the tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream being measured by said concentration measuring instrument, wherein means are provided for varying the flow rate at which said extracted tracer stock gas stream sample is injected into the gas stream whereby the values of the two measured concentration values can be equalised to a value corresponding to the flow rate of the fluid stream. 


7. Apparatus according to Claim 6 wherein the concentration measuring instrument includes a gas chromatograph.
8. Apparatus according to Claim 7 wherein the gas chromatograph includes an electron capture detector which produces a chromatogram having an area which is proportional to the amount of tracer gas in the sample being measured.
9. Apparatus according to Claim 7 or Claim 8 wherein the gas chromatograph includes a valve adapted to send samples of equal volume from either the fluid stream or the tracer stock sample-in-gas stream through the gas chromatograph.
10. Apparatus according to any one of Claims 4 to 7 wherein the means for varying the flow rate of the extracted tracer stock gas stream sample is a variable speed pump.
11. Apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein the variable speed pump comprises a peristaltic pump.
12. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding Claims wherein a blender is provided upstream of the extraction means for mixing the tracer stock gas stream.
13. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding Claims wherein a further blender is provided upstream of said further extraction means for mixing the tracer stock gas sample-in-gas stream. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
