<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653728</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for managing document layout data.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F100	G03F100	G06F1721	G06F1721	G06F1750	G06F1750	G06Q5000	G06Q5000	G06T100	G06T100	G06T1160	G06T1160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F1	G03F1	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06Q50	G06Q50	G06T1	G06T1	G06T11	G06T11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
File name of electronic data for original of component 
which attributes to each layout paper is recorded with 

the component identifier of the component under tree 
structure. In the layout paper, the component 

identifiers are laid out in the vicinity of the 
components. In component processing process such as 

scanner inputting etc, the electronic data for original 
of the component is recorded with adding the component 

identifiers. Further, the electronic data for original 
of the component is stored in the tree structure using 

the component identifier as a key. Therefore, it is 
possible t
o manage the electronic data for original of 
the component unitarily in the process. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAINIPPON SCREEN MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAINIPPON SCREEN MFG. CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATTA KOJI C O DAINIPPON SCREE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASHIHARA HIDEAKI C O DAINIPPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI KATSUYA C O DAINIPPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATTA, KOJI, C/O DAINIPPON SCREEN MFG. CO.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASHIHARA, HIDEAKI, C/O DAINIPPON SCREEN MFG. CO.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI, KATSUYA, C/O DAINIPPON SCREEN MFG. CO.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for 
managing component data in design process and prepress 
process. Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 show conceptual diagrams of 
the design process and prepress process in producing 
printed matter or printed material (hereinafter called as 
prints). Fig. 1 shows the design process and Fig. 2 
shows the prepress process. In the design process, a 
designer makes a rough sketch to determine layout of 
image (pictorial patterns), text, and line work etc. 
Next, the designer hands text component 5, image 
component 10, 12, and 14 to operators. The operator who 
received the text component 5 enters the text using a 
computer 3, the text data is stored on a flexible disk 
(hereinafter called FD) 9 as electronic data and hand in 
the FD to the designer. Also, the operator who received 
the image component 10, 12 and 14 performs reading by an 
input scanner 7, and the read image data are stored on 
the FD 11 as electronic data and hand in the FD to the 
designer. While the image components 12 and 14 are  
 
represented respectively by letters A and B for 
convenience, they are actually pictorial patterns 
(images). Also, in case of line work component, the 
operator makes electronic data of the line work component 
using computer 3 in accordance with the letters A and B. The designer reads the electronic data of the 
image component, the text component, and the line work 
component stored on the FD 9 and FD 11 which is handed in 
from the operators into the computer 2, and makes layout 
data by laying out the respective components on a base 
sheet in a display. The layout data thus made is 
outputted from a printer 4 to produce a layout paper 6. 
While, the images, texts, and lineworks on the layout 
paper 6 shown in Fig. 3A are not necessarily identical to 
those on a final print. While they may be different in 
hue and saturation, they suffice to show the layout of 
components. For example, a corresponding image component 
16 on the layout paper 6 is shown to determine the layout 
of the image component 10, a corresponding image 
component 13 to determine the layout of the image 
component 12, and a corresponding image component 15 to 
determine the layout of the image component 14. 
Corresponding text components 17 and 19 are shown to 
determine the layout of respectively corresponding text 
components. Separately from the layout paper 6, an  
 
instruction sheet 8 is prepared on a transparent sheet 
shown in Fig. 3B. The instruction sheet 8 is to be 
superposed on the layout paper 6
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for managing component data using 
component layout information laid out each component area 

corresponding to respective image component, text 
component and linework component on a base sheet, 

comprising the steps of: 
   component layout information generating step 

for determining size of base sheet and component areas of 
respective component to be laid out on the base sheet, 

for recording them as electronic data, for determining 
the file name for recording electronic data for original 

of component to be laid out to respective component areas 
in corresponding to the respective component areas, and 

for recording file name of electronic data for original 
of components contained in the base sheet under tree 

structure, 
   component generating step for original for 

generating electronic data for original of each component 
and for recording electronic data for original of each 

generated components which is attached with file name in 
according to command of the component layout information, 

and 
   tie-up step for inserting corresponding 

electronic data for original of component in according to 
file name thereof, into tree structure of files for 

recorded electronic data for original. 
The method for managing component data of 
claim 1 characterized in that, 

   in the component layout information generating 
step, identifiers capable of being read either 

electrically, magnetically or optically corresponding to 
the file name of electronic data for original of each 

components are laid out to each corresponding component 
areas, and output the component layout base sheet laid 

out the component areas and the identifiers, 
   in the component generating step for original, 

file name corresponding to the components are obtained by 
reading the identifiers of respective component areas on 

the component layout base sheet by a reader, and the 
electronics data for original of component are recorded 

corresponding to the file name. 
The method for managing component data of 
claim 1 further comprising the steps of: 

   component generating step for command sheet for 
generating electronic data for command sheet which data 

correspond to each component area, and for recording 
generated the electronic data for command sheet of each 

component with attaching file name predetermined in the 
component layout information gen
erating step, 
   prepress command sheet generating step for 

 
generating the prepress command sheet as an electronics 

data according to electronic data for command sheet of 
each component recorded with attaching file name and file 

name of electronic data for command sheet of the 
components corresponding to each component areas, size of 

base sheet and electronic data of component areas on the 
base sheet both recorded, 

   prepress command sheet output step for 
outputting the prepress command sheets according to the 

electronic data of the prepress command sheet generated 
in the previous step. 
The method for managing component data of 
claim 3 characterized in that, 

   the electronic data for command sheet is used 
as the electronic data for original in the component 

generating step for original when the electronic data for 
command sheet and the electronic data for original can be 

identical. 
The method for managing component data of 
the claim 3 or claim 4 characterized in that, 

   in the component layout information generating 
step, identifiers capable of being read either 

electrically, magnetically, or optically corresponding to 
the file name of electronic data for original of each 

 
components are laid out to each corresponding component 

areas, and output the component layout base sheet laid 
out the component areas and the identifiers, 

   in the component generating step for command 
sheet, file name corresponding to the components are 

obtained by reading the identifiers of respective 
component areas on the component layout base sheet by a 

reader, and the electronics data for command sheet of 
component are recorded corresponding to the file name, 

   in the component generating step for original, 
file name corresponding to the components are obtained by 

reading the identifiers of respective component areas on 
the component layout base sheet by a reader, and the 

electronics data for original of component are recorded 
corresponding to the file name. 
A system for managing component data include 
image components, text components and linework components 

using the component layout information laid out on the 
base sheet corresponding to respective component data, 

for design and prepress system comprising: 
   processing means for designer for determining 

size of the base sheet and component area of each 
components to be laid out on the base sheet, and having a 

memory means recording the size of the base sheet and 
component area of each components as electronic data, 

 
said memory means of the processing means for designer, 

storing file name of electronic data of the component to 
be laid out in each of the component areas under tree 

structure, 
   processing means for component operators for 

generating electronic data for command sheet of each 
components, and for recording generated electronic data 

for command sheet of each components in the memory means 
of the processing means for designer with attaching the 

file name obtained which corresponds to the generated 
electronic data for command sheet of each components by 

communicating with the processing means for designer, 
   command sheet generating means for generating 

the command sheets using and tree structure of file name 
of the components recorded in the memory means of the 

processing means for designer and electronic data for 
command sheet and for outputting the command sheets, 

   tie-up means for receiving electronic data for 
original of the each component with attaching file name 

in according to instruction of the component layout 
information of the command sheet, and for inserting the 

electronic data for original of corresponding components 
according to file name of the electronics data for 

original in the tree structure of file of the components 
recorded in the memory means of the processing means for 

designer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
