<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650138</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Touch-Screen input device using the monitor as a light source operating at an intermediate frequency
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F3041	G06F3042	G06F3033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention comprises a standard CRT that has a 
light source provided by two strips of light patterns in 

the unused area of the CRT screen, typically at the right 
and left margins. In a preferred embodiment, the light 

patterns are created by a simple electronic circuit that is 
used in conjunction with the raster scan of the screen. No 

external light sources are required. The light patterns 
are created in a novel way in that they have a unique 

pattern frequency which is determined by causing the raster 
scan to create a point of light at the margins during 

certain raster cycles but not during others. The light 
pattern frequency is selected to be easily discriminated, 

such that the environmental disturbance and the signal from 
the CRT itself can be completely rejected. The light patterns 

are reflected from the unused areas of the CRT screen 
by reflective surfaces. The reflective surfaces are positions 

in proximity to the strips of light patterns and 
reflect the light across the surface of the CRT. Four 

single photodetectors located at the four corners of the 
CRT screen are used as detectors to monitor the reflected 

light. A pointer positioned on or near the surface of the 
CRT will block the light in such a way that two or more of 

the sensors can provide enough information to determine the 
pointer position by using geometry. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG IFAY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN CHENGJUN JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, IFAY F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, CHENGJUN JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a touchscreen input device
for computers. More specifically, the invention relates to
reflecting a CRT light pattern across the CRT surface to
create signals used to determine the position of a pointer.Touchscreen device is one of the most intuitive input
devices for computers. It has been used extensively in
public applications such as banks, kiosks, restaurants,
ticket services, medical facilities, education, and places
of recreation. Its application is steadily expanding. Many
different methods have been used to realize a touchscreen
input function. One of the oldest, and still the most
widely used method, is the optical frame. It was described
in U.S. Patent 4,267,443 entitled "Photoelectric Input
Apparatus", issued May 1981 to Carroll et al., as shown in
Fig. 1, 100. It utilizes a plurality of light emitters (103
and 105) and a plurality of light sensors (104 and 106) to
detect the position of the pointer 110 (finger or pencil).
In a typical device, an array of 32 infrared light emitting
diodes 103 is placed at the bottom of the screen, and an
array of 32 light sensitive diodes 104 is placed at the top
of the screen. A pointer 110 (finger or pencil) may block
the light emitted from one emitter to one or two adjacent
light detectors. Therefore, it provides 63 touch points in
the horizontal direction. In addition, an array of 20 light
emitting diodes 105 is placed at the left-hand side of the
screen, and an array of 20 light detectors 106 is placed at
the right-hand side of the screen. This makes 39 touch
points in the vertical direction. On a 13-inch monitor 102, 
the resolution is 0.17 inch, or 4.4 millimeters. By lining
up more photodiodes, the resolution can be improved.
However, the manufacturing cost will be increased in proportion.
Besides, there is a physical limit imposed by the
size of photodiodes.A number of alternative methods using visible or invisible
light for touchscreen input have been proposed to improve
the resolution and to reduce the manufacturing cost (mainly
by reducing the number of light sources and light detectors),
as documented in the following U.S. Patents. U.S.
Patent 4,459,476, entitled "Co-ordinate Detection System",
issued July 10, 1984 to Weissmueller et al, teaches to use
the light emitted from two adjacent sides of the CRT as the
light source, whereas on the two opposite sides, two arrays
of light detectors are placed. By using radiation-emissive
material excited by a flying spot of energy (an electron
beam), the device can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A touch screen input apparatus for
determining the position of a pointer (110) on a computer

interface screen (202), comprising:

a computer interface screen (202,203) having a screen surface (203) and
one pair of borders (217,219), being a first border (217) along a first

screen side and an opposite second border (219) across the
screen surface from the first border along a second

screen side;
a raster scanner that scans the screen surface (203) and the first and second borders (217,219) at a
horizontal scanning frequency, the scanner in each horizontal scanning frequency

cycle crossing the screen in a first direction in one
of a plurality of rows that intersect the first and

second borders and the scanner indexing across the
screen in a second direction approximately perpendicular

to the first direction at a vertical scanning frequency
so as to scan all the rows of the screen surface in each vertical scanning frequency cycle;
means for producing a pattern (204) formed of a plurality of lighted edge points (210), the
edge points being at intersections of the rows and said first

and second screen borders (217,219);
a first and second light reflective surfaces (205) adjacent
the first and second sides, respectively, the first

reflective surface (205) reflecting the pattern of lighted
edge points from a first border (217) across the screen to

the second side and the second side reflective surface (205)
reflecting the pattern of lighted edge points from the

second border (219) across the screen to the first side; 
four or more light detectors (206), the light detectors
located adjacent to the borders of the screen to detect

the lighted edge points of the pattern reflected by the
light reflective surfaces (205);
a circuit means for determining the positions of
the lighted

edge points whose light is blocked by the pointer (110) from
reaching any of said light detectors (206); and
a means for determining the position (P) of the pointer (110) on
the screen by using said positions of said

lighted edge points whose light is blocked by the pointer (110);

characterised in that the pattern is produced by the
scanner selectively lighting a first set of edge points

and selectively not lighting a second set of edge
points as the scanner passes over the edge points, the

pattern flashing at a pattern frequency, different from both the horizontal and vertical scanning frequencies, determined by
the selective lighting of the edge points.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1 where instead of producing said pattern and said pattern frequency by selective lighting of the edge points, said pattern is produced by lighting the edge
points as the scanner passes over the edge points so as to form a continuous bar of light in both borders

and said pattern frequency is created by non-reflective
grooves in the reflective surface.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1 or 2, where the lighted edge points are light
dashes.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1 or 2 or 3, where there are four detectors each
of which is located in a corner of the screen.
An touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1, 3 or 4, where the scanner selectively
lights the edge points so that the pattern frequency in

time is a fraction of the horizontal scanning frequency
but much greater than the vertical scanning frequency.
An apparatus, as in Claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5,

where the photodetectors are placed on a line colinear
with the sides of the screen and further away from the

screen surface to increase the size of the accurate
center of the screen. 
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1,2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 where the reflective
surface is curved to improve reflected light intensity,

and/or where the reflective surfaces are flat, and/or
where the reflective surfaces are made from mirrors,

and/or where the reflective surfaces are made from a
metallized mirror surface, and/or where the reflective

surfaces are each attached to one side of a plate (705), the
plate being a screen cover.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 7, where the plate (705) is made of a transparent
plastic.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1 to 8, where each light reflective surface
further comprises a bar (701) of transparent plastic, the bar

having an inner side (703) and a reflective side (704), the inner
side being opposite the reflective side, the inner side

having the shape of the screen and being in proximity
with the screen surface over the light pattern, and the

reflective side being disposed at an angle to light
from the light pattern passing through the bar, so that

the light is reflected across the screen surface.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 9, where each light reflective surface
bar is connected together by a transparent plate (705), a

first edge of the plate connected to the first reflective
surface and a second edge of the plate connected

to the second reflective surface.
A touch screen input apparatus,
 
as in Claim 10, where the plate (705) acts as a mirrored

surface to increase the intensity of the reflected
light patterns.
A touch screen input apparatus,

as in Claim 1 to 11, where
the lighted edge points

are grouped together in groups of two or more lighted
edge points.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
