<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642729</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Agricultural pneumatic distributor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01C1504	A01C1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01C	A01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01C15	A01C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Agricultural pneumatic distributors for seed or fertiliser are to ensure that the distribution material is discharged uniformly in a preselected density on an area of farmland, irrespective of whether travelling lanes for a tractor are to be kept free or not or, for other reasons, some of the spreaders connectable to a distributor head (6) of the distributor are not required. For this purpose, there are provided on the distributor head (6) return conduits (6a-6A) which guide excess distribution material either into a feed conduit (5) serving to convey said material, or into a collecting container. The excess distribution material is thereby either returned to the distribution operation or can be brought out of the collecting container into the supply container (1) of the distributor, and the supply container (1), including the metering device and the conveying blower, can be mounted approximately in the front region of a tractor independently of the rest of the distributor. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RABEWERK CLAUSING HEINRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RABEWERK GMBH + CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAUSING FRITZ DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAUSING, FRITZ, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
An agricultural pneumatic distributing machine for 
distributing a preferably granular distribution material (2), 

more particularly seeds or fertilizer, consisting of a hopper 
(1) with a metering device (3) for the metered delivery of the 

distribution material (2) from the hopper (1) via a feed line 
(5) to a distributor head (6), and comprising several 

distributor lines (71, 72) connected to the distributor head 
(6) for supplying part quantities of the distribution material 

(2) to respective spreaders for the distribution material (2), 
more particularly drill coulters or fertilizer spreaders, at 

least a part of the distributor lines (71) being provided at 
their exits from the distributor head (6) with shut-off 

devices (8) which may be operated so that the delivery of the 
distribution material (2) to the respective associated 

spreader is shut off and instead takes place via a respective 
associated return line (6a, 6a'), 
characterised in that
 the 
return line (6a, 6a') opens into the feed line (5) to the 

distributor head (6) in the manner of a bypass. 
A distributing machine according to claim 1, 
characterised in that the return line (6a, 6a') opens into a 

preferably perpendicular part (5a) of the feed line (5) which 
is situated immediately upstream of the distributor head (6). 
A distributing machine according to claim 1, 
characterised in that the return line (6a, 6a') opens into a 

preferably curved part (5d) of the feed line (5) which is 
situated upstream of the distributor head (6), for instance in 

a horizontal region (5f) of this part (5d) and more 
particularly at the point of greatest curvature. 
A distributing machine according to claim 1 to 3, 
characterised in that upstream, preferably immediately 

upstream, of the connection of the return line (6a, 6a') to  
 

the feed line (5), in the delivery direction, the feed line 
(5) has a nozzle-like first constriction (5c) of its cross-section 

which is so dimensioned that the distribution material 
(2) is drawn out of the return line (6a, 6a') into the feed 

line (5) by suction. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the feed line (5) has a nozzle-like 

second constriction (5b) upstream, preferably immediately 
upstream, of its opening into the distributor head (6). 
An agricultural pneumatic distributing machine for 
distributing a preferably granular distribution material, more 

particularly seeds or fertilizer, during the application 
thereof from a hopper onto a field, comprising a metering 

device for the metered pneumatic delivery of the distribution 
material from the hopper via a feed line to a distributor 

head, and comprising distributor lines connected to the 
distributor head for the pneumatic delivery of part quantities 

of the distribution material to respective spreaders for the 
distribution material, more particularly drill coulters or 

fertilizer spreaders, a part of the distributor lines being 
provided at their exits from the distributor head with shut-off 

devices which may be operated so that the delivery of the 
distribution material to the respective associated spreader is 

stopped and instead a respective associated return line is 
opened, characterised in that the return line (6a, 6a') opens 

into a collecting container which is separate from the hopper 
(1). 
A distributing machine according to claim 6, 
characterised in that the collecting container is provided on 

or in the vicinity of the rest of the distributing machine, 
and is fixed in relation thereto. 
A distributing machine according to claim 6 and 7, 
characterised in that the collecting container is provided so  

 
that it is detachable and can be emptied into the hopper (1). 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 8, 
characterised in that the shut-off devices (8) are provided in 

pipe stubs (7a) which are separable from the distributor head 
(6) and to which the distributor lines (7) may be connected. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that provided in each of the pipe stubs (7a) 

of the distributor lines (71) which may be shut off is the 
branch line (7d) for the return line (6a, 6a') which is 

affected by the associated shut-off device (8). 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 
10, characterised in that the shut-off devices (8) are in the 

form of electromagnetically operable valves. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 10 or 
11, characterised in that the branch lines (7d) each open into 

a funnel (6b) which is connected to the pipe stub (7a) - and 
is sealed if appropriate - and to which the associated return 

line (6a, 6a') is connected. 
A distributing machine according to claim 11, 
characterised in that at least two branch lines (7d) end in a 

funnel (6b). 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 4 to 
13, characterised in that the constriction (5c) is made 

rotationally symmetrical to the axis of the feed line (5). 
A distributing machine according to claim 14, 
characterised in that the constriction (5c) has a conical 

surface. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 4 to 

13, characterised in that the constriction (5c) is formed by a  
 

preferably plane nozzle plate (5g, 5g') which is provided in 
the feed line (5) and successively reduces the flow cross-section 

in the feed line (5) in the direction of flow up to 
the junction of the return line (6a, 6a'). 
A distributing machine according to claim 16, 
characterised in that the nozzle plate (5g, 5g') is positioned 

such that a circular flow cross-section is successively 
reduced in the direction of flow up to the junction of the 

return line (6a, 6a') by means of a circular segment which 
increases successively in the direction of flow. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 
17, characterised in that immediately downstream of the 

constriction (5c) in the direction of flow, for instance in 
the feed line (5) or the return line (6a, 6a'), there is 

provided an air inlet nozzle (5e, 6e) for intake air (9) taken 
from the environment. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 
18, characterised in that the return line (6a, 6a') is 

designed so that it can be shut off. 
A distributing machine according to claim 19, 
characterised in that a slide (6d) is provided in the return 

line (6a, 6a'), preferably just upstream of its junction with 
the feed line (5). 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 1 to 
20, characterised in that a tramlining control is provided 

which may be activated automatically or manually and which, by 
means of the shut-off devices (8), shuts off the distributor 

lines (71) whose spreaders end in the track of the tractor 
wheels of a tractor moving the distributing machine. 
A distributing machine according to claim 21, 
characterised in that when the tramlining control is  

 
activated, the metering device (3) is adjusted or controlled 

such that the amount of distribution material (2) produced 
relative to the area being cultivated does not vary from that 

produced when the tramlining control is deactivated. 
A distributing machine according to one of claims 4 to 
22, characterised in that, viewed in the direction of flow, a 

conical pipe section is inserted above the constriction (5c) 
which tapers in the opposite direction to the direction of 

flow and which completely or partly overlaps the return line 
(6a). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
