<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637868</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A voltage regulator device, for example for motor cycles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J714	H02J714	H02M304	H02M3156	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J7	H02J7	H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A regulator device devised in particular for motor 
cycles, intended to be interposed between a generator (V) 

which produces an alternating input signal the amplitude 
and frequency of which are widely variable, and a load 

(B) which must be supplied with a substantially constant 
DC voltage signal. The device comprises at least one 

electronic switch such as a power FET (5) interposed 
between the input terminals (2) and the output terminal 

(3) of the circuit in such a way as to be electrically 
connected in series with the source (V). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FACIND SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FACIND S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANCHI EMILIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANCHI EMILIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to voltages regulator 
devices and, in particular, to a voltage regulator device 
according to the preamble of Claim 1. Devices of the above specified type are used in the art 
above all in the motor vehicle field in association with 
generators mounted on board a vehicle. The present invention has been developed with a 
particular view to its possible use on board motor 
vehicles, that is to say in a situation in which the 
regulator is usually associated with a generator driven 
by the internal combustion engine of the vehicle in which 
circumstances the variations in the voltage and frequency 
of the input signal are particularly significant due to 
the wide range of possible variation in the speed of 
rotation of the engine. In the motor vehicle environment 
it is entirely normal for the signal at the input of the 
voltage regulator to vary from a few volts to three 
hundred volts with a frequency variable from practically 
DC to 1000 Hz. In this specific application other 
factors are sometimes particularly critical, for example 
the low power of the internal combustion engine (above 
all in the case of mopeds) with the consequent need to 
prevent the electric generator from absorbing an 
excessive amount of mechanical power from the engine,  
 
which power is not converted into useful electrical 
energy. In this regard, voltage regulator devices of the above 
specified type are known in the art, in which an 
electronic switch is interposed between the input and the 
output of the regulator, which switch is electrically 
connected in parallel with respect to the electrical 
power source (the generator). As a result, during the 
regulation operation, when the switch is closed, the 
generator is in fact short circuited. Apart from other 
considerations, this arrangement is of little advantage 
in terms of the overall energy yield. When the generator 
is short circuited it does not produce useful electrical 
power, but nevertheless constitutes a load on the 
internal combustion engine from which it takes mechanical 
power without converting this into useful electrical 
power for the utiliser devices on board the motor 
vehicle. The electrical power generated in these 
conditions must, however, be dissipated in the form of 
heat energy, which contributes to overheating of the 
regulator device and the components associated with it, 
with the consequent necessity of providing cooling 
members etc. This, it will be remembered, is in a 
situation in which, above all, size and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A voltage regulator device (1) having at least one 
input terminal (2) intended, in use, to be connected to 

an electrical source (V) which generates an alternating 
input signal having a variable amplitude and frequency, 

and at least one output terminal (3) intended, in use, to 
be connected to a load to be supplied with a 

substantially continuous output signal (DC signal), 
including switch means (5) interposed between the said at 

least one input terminal (2) and the said at least one 
output terminal (3), characterised in that the said 

switch means (5) are connected between the said at least 
one input terminal (2) and the said at least one output 

terminal (3) in such a way as to be connected, in use, 
electrically in series with the said electrical source 

(V). 
A device according to Claim 1, characterised in that 
the said switch means (5) have associated control means 

(7) for selectively controlling the opening and closing 

of the switch means (5) with a selectively variable 
duty cycle. 
A device according to Claim 3, characterised in that 
the phase of the duty cycle corresponding to closure of 

the said switch means (5) is related by an inverse law to 
the level of the said substantially continuous voltage 

 
signal such that the duration of the closure intervals of 

the said switch means (5) increase or, respectively, 
decrease, when the level of the said output signal 

decreases or increases respectively. 
A device according to any of Claims from 1 to 3, 
characterised in that it further includes feedback means 

(9, 12) sensitive to the level of the said output signal 
and capable of applying feed back to the said switch 

means (5) to regulate the opening and closing of the said 
switch means (5) in such a way as to maintain the said 

output signal at a substantially constant voltage level. 
A device according to Claim 2 and Claim 4, 
characterised in that the said feedback means (9, 12) 

selectively control the duty cycle of opening and closing 
of the said switch means (5). 
A device according to Claim 2, characterised in that 
the said switch means (5) are controlled to open and 

close at a substantially constant frequency. 
A device according to Claim 6, characterised in that 
the said substantially constant frequency is chosen from 

the range lying between 50 KHz and 1 MHz. 
A device according to Claim 7, characterised in that 
the said frequency is chosen in the region of 400 KHz. 
A device according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that the said switch means are 

electronic switch means (5). 
A device according to Claim 8, characterised in that 
the said electronic switch means comprise at least one 

transistor such as a field effect transistor (5). 
A device according to Claim 4, characterised in that 
the said feedback means (9, 12) has associated therewith 

at least one isolator element (10) for isolating the said 
switch means (5) from the said feedback means (9, 12) in 

relation to the DC signal components. 
A device according to Claim 11, characterised in 
that the said isolator element (10) is chosen from the 

set constituted by a transformer and an opto-electronic 
isolator. 
A device according to Claim 4 or Claim 11, 
characterised in that the said feedback means comprise a 

resistive divider (12) which taps off the level of the 
said output signal. 
A device according to Claim 4 or Claim 13, 
characterised in that between the said at least one 

output terminal (3) and the said feedback means (9, 12) 
is interposed an activation switch (13) selectively 

 
switchable between at least one rest position, in which 

the said feedback means (9, 12) are electrically isolated 
from the said at least one output terminal (3), and at 

least one active position in which the said feedback 
means (9, 12) are connected to the said at least one 

output terminal. 
A device according to Claim 14, characterised in 
that the said activation switch (13) is a key switch. 
A device according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that the said switch means (5) are 

disposed downstream of a rectifier bridge (4) which 
receives the said alternating input signal. 
A device according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that the said switch means (5) are 

disposed upstream of a stabiliser network (6a ,6b) 
capable of transferring the output signal from the said 

switch means (5) to the said at least one output terminal 
(3). 
A device according to Claim 17, characterised in 
that the said stabiliser network is an LC network (6a, 

6b). 
A device according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that the said switch means (5) are 

 
connected, for the purpose of supply: 


to a first supply line (13, 14) connected, in use, 
to the said at least one output terminal (3), and 
to a second supply line (19) connected to the said 
at least one input terminal (2), 
 
the arrangement being such that supply of the said switch 

means (5) is ensured upon start up of the device (1) even 
in the absence of a signal at a sufficient level on the 

said at least output terminal (3). 
A device according to Claim 19, characterised in 
that between the said first supply line (13, 14) and the 

said second supply line (19) are interposed separator 
means (25) which, upon attainment of a determined level 

by the said signal present on the said at least one 
output terminal (13), disconnects the said switch means 

(5) from the said second supply line (19). 
A device according to Claim 3, characterised in that 
the said separator means comprise a diode (25). 
A device according to Claim 3, characterised in 
that the said feedback means comprise a pulse width 

modulation or PWM circuit (9) which receives at its input 
(15, 16) a signal indicative of the level of the said 

output signal (3) and which generates at its output a 
pulse signal in which the duty cycle of each pulse is a 

function of the level of the said output signal . 
A device according to Claim 22, characterised in 
that the said modulator circuit (9) carries associated 

respective feedback control means (17, 18) for 
controlling the current associated with the respective 

output signal. 
A device according to Claim 22 or Claim 23, 
characterised in that the said modulator circuit is an 

integrated PWM circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
