<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659948</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air pressure driven vacuum sewer system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03F100	E03F700	E03F100	E03D500	E03F700	B60R1500	B60R1504	E03D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03F	E03F	E03F	E03D	E03F	B60R	B60R	E03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03F1	E03F7	E03F1	E03D5	E03F7	B60R15	B60R15	E03D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vacuum sewer system comprising a waste receiving unit 
(1) to be emptied provided with an outlet opening (2) and 

having a normally closed sewer valve (3) and an ejector (5). 
The ejector (5) is an integrated part of a sewer pipe (4, 7) 

connected to the waste receiving unit (1). The sewer pipe 
includes an upstream portion forming a suction pipe (4) of the 

ejector (5) and a downstream portion forming a discharge pipe 
(7) of the ejector (5). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EVAC AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EVAC AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOERNQVIST HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOERNQVIST, HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a vacuum sewer system according
to the preamble of claim 1. The invention also relates to a
transport vehicle incorporating such a vacuum sewer system.In a vacuum system, the sewer pipe must be kept under
partial vacuum to enable the waste transport, typical of a
vacuum sewer system, to be accomplished. On the other hand,
it is convenient to keep the sewage collecting container at
atmospheric pressure, because this allows the container to be
made less strong and facilitates the emptying thereof. The
known solutions for achieving this are, however, relatively
complicated and expensive. See, for instance, US-A-3629099,
US-A-4184506 and US-A-4034421.The object of the invention is to simplify the equipment
required in a vacuum sewer system in which the sewage
collecting container is kept at atmospheric pressure.According to the invention this object is achieved by a
vacuum sewer system as claimed in the ensuing claim 1.The invention is based on the principle that the required
partial vacuum in the sewer pipe is generated by means of a
pressurised gaseous working medium driven ejector arranged as
an integrated part of the sewer pipe itself. The working
medium is preferably air, but the ejector could be driven by
other pressurised gases or gas mixtures. The ejector is
integrated into the sewer pipe and is preferably located
relatively close to any waste receiving unit to be emptied
into the vacuum sewer to facilitate servicing or repair of the
ejector. A typical such waste receiving unit is a toilet
bowl. The invention makes it possible to considerably reduce
the amount of energy that is required on each occasion that
a toilet bowl or the like is emptied. At the same time, the 
number of parts required in the system is reduced to a
minimum.It is previously known to use ejectors as a source of
partial vacuum in vacuum sewer systems. For example, US-A-4034421
shows a system with a liquid driven ejector at the
downstream end of the sewer, which ejector generates the
partial vacuum necessary for sewage transport. However, this
known arrangement is expensive because a separate circulation
pump must be used to drive the ejector. Besides, the
efficiency rate of the vacuum generation is low, typically
only about 5%. Furthermore, the working medium of the ejector
is unpurified sewage liquid, which sets special demands, e.g.
with regard to the cleaning, etc., on the circulation pump and
on the ejector. Also, US-A-4791688 shows a similar system
where, in addition, there is employed an extra
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vacuum sewer system comprising a waste receiving
unit (1) to be emptied from time to time through an outlet

opening (2) thereof, a normally closed sewer valve (3) for
controlling the flow of waste from the waste receiving unit

through said outlet opening (2), a sewage collecting chamber
(6), a sewer pipe having an upstream portion (4) connected to

the sewer valve (3) and a downstream portion (7) connected to
the sewage collecting chamber (6), an ejector (5) having a

suction pipe, a discharge pipe and a working medium supply
inlet (11), and means (9) for controlling the operation of the

ejector (5) to create a considerable partial vacuum in the
upstream portion (4) of the sewer pipe before the sewer valve

(3) is opened, 
characterised in that
 the ejector is a gas-driven
ejector (5) integrated into the sewer pipe (4, 7) as a through-flow

element so that the upstream portion (4) of the sewer pipe provides
said suction pipe of the ejector and the downstream portion

(7) of the sewer pipe provides said discharge pipe of the ejector,
sewage being transported, in a transport cycle, as a continuous flour, the

sewage firstly being transported in said upstream portion (4)
of the sewer pipe, due to pressure difference between the

ambient atmosphere and partial vacuum created by the ejector (5),
thereafter passing through the ejector and thereafter, in said downstream portion (7) of the

sewer pipe, being transported or being assisted by pneumatic pressure
created by the ejector (5) in said discharge pipe.
A system according to claim 1, 
characterised in that

between the waste receiving unit (1) to be emptied and the
ejector (5) there are security devices (13, 17) which are

arranged to rapidly close down the ejector (5) and/or reduce
the pressure rise in another manner if the pressure between

the ejector (5) and the waste receiving unit (1) rises higher
than the pressure in the waste receiving unit (1) when the

sewer valve (3) is open.
A system according to claim 2, 
characterised in that

the security devices include a relief valve in the form of a 
flexible hose (12) which is normally in a bent position in

which a closing fold (14) is formed in the hose.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,

characterised in that
 a driving system of the ejector is
arranged to feed the ejector (5) with pressurised air for a

few seconds at a flow rate in the order of magnitude of 1000
l/min at standard temperature and pressure.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,

characterised in that
 the upstream and downstream portions (4,
7) of the sewer pipe are connected to the ejector (5) at an

angle and form with each other an angle of at least 120°,
preferably at least 135°.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,

characterised in that
 the upstream and downstream portions (4,
7) of the sewer pipe run mainly linearly through the ejector

(5) and in that the working medium of the ejector is arranged
to be introduced into the sewer pipe at circumferentially

spaced locations (11d) of, or through a nozzle (11a) extending
from the outside through, a wall of the sewer pipe.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,

characterised in that
 the length (L) of the upstream portion
(4) of the sewer pipe between the sewer valve (3) and the

ejector (5) is from 1 to 5 m, preferably from 2 to 3 m.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,

characterised in that
 the downstream portion (7) of the sewer
pipe which forms the discharge pipe of the ejector, within a

zone (16) where the function of the ejector causes a
considerable vacuum, comprises an internal flexible sleeve

member (18), which between its external surface and the wall
of a surrounding pipe (16) forms a space sealed against the

interior of the sewer pipe, which space is in connection with
the ambient atmosphere, so that the sleeve member (18), when

the ejector (5) operates, contracts under the influence of 
flow forces and the ambient atmospheric pressure to a diameter

that is considerably smaller than the diameter of the sewer
pipe (4).
A system according to claim 8, 
characterised in that

the sleeve member (18) is mounted immediately downstream of
the section where the suction pipe of the ejector joins the

discharge pipe of the ejector and has a length in its mounted
position of about 10 cm.
A system according to claims 8 or 9
, characterised
in that
 an upstream part of the sleeve member (18) is provided
with a number of stiffeners (21, 22).
A passenger transport vehicle comprising a
compressed gas, e.g. air, system, 
characterised in that
 the
vehicle includes a vacuum sewer system according to any one

of the preceding claims and in that the compressed gas system
is connected to the said working medium supply inlet via valve

means for controlling the supply of compressed gas to the
ejector.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
