<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638139</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENGINE NOx REDUCTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B104	F01N336	F02B100	F01N336	F01N320	F01N320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F01N	F02B	F01N	F01N	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B1	F01N3	F02B1	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus are provided for reducing pollutants and especially nitrogen oxides, or NOx, in the exhaust gases of an engine. The apparatus includes a device for injecting ammonia into a conduit that extends between cylinder exhaust valves and a catalytic converter, to mix the ammonia with the exhaust gases. Ammonia injection occurs at a location a plurality of inches downstream of the exhaust valves to avoid burning of the ammonia by flames. The injection preferably occurs at a location where the exhaust gases are at a temperature of at least about 1200  DEG F to cause considerable reaction of the ammonia with NOx in the exhaust gases prior to the gases reaching the catalyst, so less NOx must be removed along the catalyst. To minimize ammonia use, it is injected only for a limited period such as a minute after a cold engine is started when the catalyst is too cold to cause significant reactions, and during operation of the engine at high power levels when the greatest amounts of NOx are produced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Engines produce a variety of pollutants, including 
nitrogen oxides (nitric oxide or NO and nitrogen dioxide or 
NO2, both of which may be referred to as NOx). The NOx and 
unburned hydrocarbons often are considered as the worst 
contributors to pollution of city air. Automobile gasoline 
engines currently include a CCD (catalytic converter device) 
containing a catalyst of the platinum group, and connected 
through an elongated conduit to the exhaust valves of the 
engine cylinders. The platinum based CCD's cause a reaction 
between NOx and carbon monoxide, to produce nitrogen and 
carbon dioxide, both being substantially benign. Such CCD's 
are effective only when heated to a temperature of at least 
177°C (350° F) to 204°C (400° F), and generally operate at a temperature of 
about 371°C (700° F) or more when the engine has been completely 
heated after several minutes of running time. Gasoline engines are run at stoichiometric 
conditions or with a few percent too little air to minimize 
the production of NOx. Although the engine could be run 
lean wherein additional air was introduced into the 
cylinder, to reduce unburned hydrocarbons, this would result 
in preferential reaction of oxygen with carbon monoxide, 
which hampers the reaction of carbon monoxide with nitrous 
oxide in the catalyst. Even with stoichiometric operation 
and the CCD's, significant amounts of NOx are released, and 
proposed legislation will require further reductions in the 
future. A practical system which further reduced NOx 
emission, and which even allowed further reductions in 
unburned hydrocarbon emissions, and which could be utilized 
with currently available platinum group-based catalytic 
converters, would be of considerable value. If such a 
system reduced oxides of nitrogen emissions, it could 
enhance the acceptability of diesel engines which, though  
 
highly efficient, have become unacceptable because of high 
emissions of oxides of nitrogen. The present invention reduces pollution by 
injecting ammonia into the conduit that couples the fuel-burning 
cylinders or other power-generating portion of an 
engine, to the catalytic converter. The use of ammonia 
injection to remove NOx has been proposed in the past. U.S. 
patent 3,449,063 by Griffing et al describes the injecting 
of ammonia into engine exhaust gases, to flow through a 
copper oxide or copper oxide-palladium catalyst. U.S. 
patent 3,599,427 by Jones describes an engine with two 
catalyst staticns, the first being a copper oxide catalyst 
which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A low pollution engine which includes walls forming a 
plurality of cylinders (14) and a plurality of pistons 

(20) each lying in one of said cylinders, a mechanism 
(18) for supplying fuel and air to said cylinders (14) to 

burn therein and produce exhaust gases, a plurality of 
exhaust valves (24) that are each connected to one of 

said cylinders (14) to release said exhaust gasses 
therefrom, a catalytic converter device (30) which 

includes a catalyst, a conduit (32) with an upstream end 
(36) connected to said exhaust valves (24) and a 

downstream end (56) connected to said catalytic converter 
device, and an ammonia injecting device (50) which is 

coupled to said conduit and which stores ammonia and 
injects it into said conduit to mix with said exhaust 

gases, wherein said exhaust gases have localized portions 
of a temperature that is sometimes over 982°C (1800°F) 

and a bulk temperature of at least 650°C (1200°F) at said 
exhaust valves (24) when said engine is operating at a 

high power level of at least 80 percent of its maximum 
power output, with the temperature generally decreasing 

along said conduit (32) at increasing distances from said 
exhaust val
ves (24) and with the temperature in said 
catalytic converter (30) being less than 593°C (1100°F),
characterized
 by:
 
said ammonia injecting device is coupled to said conduit 

(32) at a location (52) downstream from said localized 
portions that are sometimes of a temperature of at least 

982°C (1800°F), with said location being where the 
exhaust gases are at a temperature of at least 650°C 

(1200°F) at said high power level. 
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein:
 
said engine has a maximum power level, and said injecting 

device is constructed to inject ammonia at least when  
 

said engine is operating at about 80 percent of maximum 
power level, but to not inject ammonia when said engine 

is at full operating temperature and is operating a power 
level that is less than 5 percent of maximum. 
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein:
 
said ammonia injector control is constructed to inject 

ammonia during a period of at least 15 seconds after said 
engine is first started after being cold and the engine 

is idling, but to not inject ammonia when said engine is 
fully heated to a normal operating temperature and the 

engine is idling. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3 
wherein: 


said engine is a spark ignition engine that mixes fuel 
and air and thereafter compresses both and ignites the 

mixture; 
said engine being constructed to mix at least 10 percent 
more air than required for a stoichiometric mixture. 
A method of reducing pollution from an engine of the type 
that has a plurality of cylinders (14) that each burns a 

hydrocarbon fuel and air and produces hot exhaust gas, 
with the exhaust gases of said plurality of cylinders 

flowing through a conduit (32) along which the exhaust 
gas temperature generally progressively decreases, 

including a manifold (34) connected to a plurality of 
said cylinders and a downstream conduit portion (56) 

extending from said manifold to a catalytic converter 
device, where the exhaust gas temperature is sometimes 

between 650°C (1200°F) and 982°C (1800°F) at a location 
(52) in said conduit, comprising:
 
injecting ammonia into said conduit at said location (52) 

where the exhaust gas temperature is sometimes between 
650°C (1200°F) and 982°C (1800°F), and reacting said 

ammonia with said exhaust gas prior to said exhaust gas  
 

reaching said catalytic converter device as well as to 
allow additional reaction of said ammonia and said 

exhaust gas in said catalytic converter device, including 
injecting ammonia into said location when the exhaust gas 

temperature therein is closer to 982°C (1800°F) than to 
650°C (1200°F). 
The method according to claim 5 wherein:
 
said location lies in said manifold, to maximize the 

reaction of said ammonia and exhaust gas prior to them 
reaching said catalytic converter. 
The method according to claim 5 or 6 wherein:
 
said step of injecting includes injecting ammonia when 

the power output is at least 80 percent of its maximum, 
but not when the power output is less than 5 percent of 

maximum and the engine is at normal operating 
temperature. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
