<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620939</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATED MULTICOMPARTMENTAL CELL CULTURE SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M136	C12M136	C12M300	C12M300	C12N100	C12N100	G06F1900	G06F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12N	C12N	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	C12M1	C12M3	C12M3	C12N1	C12N1	G06F19	G06F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus that allows for the metabolic interaction of several cell types among separate, multiple compartments. Several chambers (21, 23, 25), each containing a different cell type, are connected to allow simultaneous exposure to added chemicals or exchange of metabolites among the various cellular compartments. The flow among the compartments is controlled by a pump or pumps (29); the rate(s) of flow may be adjusted to model physiologic flow rates. The device can therefore serve as a physiologic modeling system for the interaction of two or more cell or tissue types.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNELL RES FOUNDATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNELL RESEARCH FOUNDATION, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BABISH JOHN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHULER MICHAEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWEENEY LISA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BABISH, JOHN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHULER, MICHAEL, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWEENEY, LISA, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 5 AUTOMATED MULTTCOMPART ENTAL CELL CULTURE SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION '* The use of living cells in culture for biomedical research was first introduced by Dr. Otto Warburg in the ^ 10 1920,s. Today, this technique enables scientists to model specific biochemical or physiological properties of cells under defined and reproducible conditions. Cell culture technology has made possible the study of many diseases independent of either patient or animal models. The obvious15 advantage of this methodology is that a variety of experiments can be performed while avoiding the moral dilemma of using human beings or animals as research tools.Currently, both human and animal cell lines serve as surrogates for living organisms in the screening of efficacy20 or toxicity of pharmaceuticals, agrichemicals and nearly all chemicals entering the home through consumer products. The rapidly proliferating area of in vitro alternatives to animal testing utilizes cell culture techniques to model such toxic responses as skin and eye irritation.25 While cell culture technology has given to science the ability to perform research not possible at the beginning of this century, there are significant inherent limitations in the technique. These limitations prevent cell culture methods from superseding research on humans or animals as the ultimate30 predictor of biological response. Exposure and dosing of cell cultures results dosing of cell culture systems currently lacks a physiologically based foundation. As a result, exposure methods currently are not equivalent to the physiologic pattern of exposure encountered by cells.35 Normally in living organisms, dose regimens of pharmaceuticals and exposure to environmental chemicals result in ^ concentrations being greatest immediately following exposure and declining until the next exposure to the chemical; - metabolic processes within cells respond to the changes in theSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 test chemical. Pharmacological changes or damage induced by a chemical at peak concentrations may be reversed as the chemical concentration falls and the cell may return to pre-exposure status before a subsequent exposure to the chemical.Within intact biological systems, concentration and time interact to influence the intensity and duration of a desired pharmacologic response or toxic manifestations. An example of the interaction between concentration and time that influences toxic responses of a cell can be given for a biotransformation reaction occurring in many cell types that functions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of modeling multicellular communication by a) establishing at least two, separate cell cultures; b) linking the cell cultures by a cell communication means that permits intracellular signal transduction; and c) providing a circulatory system between the cell cultures, wherein the circulatory system includes the cell communication means.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the circulatory system is controlled by a microprocessor.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the microprocessor is programmed with at least one equation comprising at least one mammalian metabolic pathway.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the microprocessor is programmed with at least one equation comprising a clearance rate of a compound from a circulation system of an organism.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the cell cultures comprises hepatocytes.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the cell cultures comprises pulmonary Clara cells.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the cell cultures is a culture of interspecific chimeric cells.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the cell cultures comprises cells transvected with a human gene.
9. The use of the method of claim 1 to determine efficacy of a biologically active compound.
10. The use of the method of claim 1 to determine toxicity of a biologically active compound.
11. The use of the method of claim 1 to determine cell sensitivity to a biologically active compound.
12. The use of the method of claim 1 to test a pharmaceutical product for treating diseases of a mammalian central nervous system.
13. The use of the method of claim 1 to test prodrugs.
14. The use of the method of claim 1 to determine multiple dose regimen.
15. The use of the method of claim 1 to determine an effect of at least one exposure of a cell culture to a chemical compound.
16. The use of the method of claim 1 to determine at least one effect of at least two exposures of a cell culture to a compound.
17. An apparatus for modeling intracellular communication comprising: a) a cell culture; b) at least one additional cell culture;
SUBSTITUTE S 


 c) a cell communication means between the cell cultures, wherein the cell communication means permits intracellular signal transduction; and d) a circulatory system between the cell cultures, wherein the circulatory system includes the cell communication means.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a microprocessor.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein at Least one cell culture is in a culture medium comprising cellular metabolites.
20. A system for simulating multicellular communications, the system comprising: at least a first cell culturing compartment and a second cell culturing compartment, each cell compartment being constructed to hold cellular matter and to simulate an environment of a given Living body part; a reservoir for holding a test chemical; a conduit system for providing fluid communication between said reservoir and said cell compartments; fluid flow control means for regulating the flow of said test material in said conduit system; and monitoring means for monitoring biological conditions of fluid flowing through said conduit system.
21. The system of claim 20, further comprising computer means coupled to and effective for regulating and/or monitoring at least said fluid flow control means and said monitoring means.
22. The system of claim 21, further comprising program means associated with said computer means, and
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 effective for controlling test sequences which include initiating fluid flow in said conduit system, monitoring fluid flow in said conduit system, and recording test results associated with biological and chemical reactions occurring within said cell compartments.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein each cell compartment comprises electrical identifying means including identifying information, effective for identifying cellular type matter disposed in the cell compartment, said identifying information being in a form readable by said computer means.
24. The system of claim 23, further comprising coupling means for coupling the identifying means to the computer means.
25. The system of claim 22, wherein the computer means comprises means for programmably establishing different fluid flow paths for the test chemical via said conduit system.
26. The system of claim 25, further comprising means for establishing a sequence of fluid flow between and among said cell compartments.
27. The system of claim 25, the system including at least four cell compartments, and means for configuring the compartments into groups of compartments, said program means being effective for establishing an independent fluid flow path in each group of cell compartments.
28. The system of claim 22, further comprising means for dynamically outputting on a display test results representative of chemical and biological conditions prevailing in one or more of the cell compartments.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the display is further effective to indicate results reflecting on toxicity levels within the compartments.
30. The system of claim 22, further comprising means for testing whether culture cells are undergoing transformations which would render them cancerous.
31. The system of claim 22, wherein at least two cell compartments contain same cell type but different cell lines.
32. The system of claim 22, further comprising a test results storage memory and means for storing in the test results storage memory information taken from prior published data, and from prior tests conducted with the system.
33. The system of claim 32, further comprising means for searching for selected data stored in the test results storage memory based on predetermined criteria including cell line, test material, and test chemicals.
34. The system of claim 22, further comprising a look-up table memory containing a plurality of balance equations modeling in vivo conditions for different test materials and different tissue parts.
35. The system of claim 22, further comprising means for issuing an alarm whenever a test is conducted which produces intermediate results that are outside a predetermined range of acceptable results.
36. The system of claim 22, further comprising means for flushing the conduit system of any residues left from prior test runs.
SUBSTITUTE S 


 37. A cell culturing compartment, for a system designed to simulate multicellular communications wherein the system includes at least two cell culturing compartments, a reservoir for holding a test chemical, a conduit system for providing fluid communications between the reservoir and the cell compartments, fluid flow control means for regulating the flow of the test material and in the conduit system and a monitoring means for monitoring biological conditions of fluid flowing through the conduit system, the cell culturing compartment comprising: electrical identifying means including identifying information effective for identifying cellular matter disposed in the cell compartment.
38. The cell culturing compartment of claim 37, wherein said identifying information is in a form that is readable by a computer.
39. The cell culturing compartment of claim 38, wherein said cell culturing compartment has a standardized construction, enabling the compartment to be removably plugged-in into a housing associated with the multicellular communications simulating system.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
