<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641629</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fastener feeder apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25C500	B25C513	B25C516	B27F700	B27F734	B27F738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25C	B25C	B25C	B27F	B27F	B27F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25C5	B25C5	B25C5	B27F7	B27F7	B27F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides for fastener feeder apparatus 
(12) for feeding fasteners from a fastener package (45) 

into a position to be driven by a fastener driving element 
(14) during the drive stroke thereof and which includes an 

actuating mechanism (24) mounted for movement through an 
operating cycle including an operative stroke in a 

direction along a fastener feeding track (23) toward a 
drive track (20) for feeding fasteners to the drive track 

(20) and a return stroke. A fastener holding mechanism 
(26) is also provided and is operatively coupled to the 

actuating mechanism (24) for movement therewith through the 
operating cycle thereof, whereby during the operative 

stroke of the actuating mechanism (24) the fastener holding 
mechanism (26) holds the fasteners (45) in a position 

biased toward the drive track (20) during at least a 
portion of the drive stroke so that a leading fastener from 

the fastener package (45) is disposed in the drive track 
(20) in a position to be contacted by the driving element 

and wherein the fastener holding mechanism (26) is released 
from the fasteners during the return stroke of the 

actuating mechanism (24), during a portion of the operating 
cycle of the driving element when a fastener need not be 

held in the drive track (20). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOSTITCH INC STANLEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANLEY-BOSTITCH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMONELLI DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMONELLI, DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fastener feeding 
apparatus for a fastener driving device, and in particular 
for a fastening device used in continuous production lines 
having a feeding mechanism for feeding successive fasteners 
into the drive track of the device. Conventional staple feeding mechanisms must perform 
the task of feeding and holding the staples in the drive 
track. In certain devices, sticks of staples are loaded 
onto a magazine that is angled downward so that the force 
of gravity aids in pulling the staples down to the nose of 
the device and into the drive track. However, the force of 
gravity alone is insufficient to feed and hold the staples 
in the drive track. To increase the force on the staples at the nose of 
the device, a mechanism has been used including a friction 
clutch and a wheel connected to an electric motor. Thus, 
as the motor turns, the clutch maintains a certain torque 
on the wheel which in turn keeps a constant forward force 
on the staples. When a staple is driven, the remaining 
staples are fed and held forward toward the drive track. 
Other conventional feed mechanisms use a ratchet to hold 
and feed staples to the drive track. The feed is made 
under spring pressure and the cycling action for the feed 
stroke comes during the power stroke of the device. It is 
common to connect the return piston to a source of air 
under pressure which is communicated in response to the 
actuation of the device. Consequently, instead of feeding 
during the drive stroke, the conventional ratchet is 
recycling or retracting during the drive stroke and the 
fastener which has already been fed into the drive track is 
held therein by a holding pawl. Although these type of 
feed mechanisms work well for their intended purpose, they  
 
typically require an extra power source to be connected to 
the device, and are inefficient and expensive. Other conventional feed mechanisms employ a spring 
biased pusher which contacts the rearmost staple of the 
staple stick urging the staples forward along a guide to 
the drive track. The devices are effective in feeding and 
holding the staples in the drive track of the device, 
however, when a staple stick has been exhausted, the pusher 
must be retracted to allow another staple stick to be 
placed on the guide. In a continuous production line such 
interruptions can be disruptive and costly due to lost 
productivity. The present invention seeks to provide fastener feeder 
apparatus having advantages over known feeder apparatus.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Fastener feeder apparatus (12) for moving successive 
leading fasteners of a fastener package (45) in a feeding 

direction along a feed track (23) and into a drive track 
(20) of fastener driving apparatus (10) to be driven by a 

fastener driving element (14) during the drive stroke 
thereof and outwardly of said drive track (20) into a work 

piece, characterised by an actuating mechanism (24) 
arranged to be mounted to said fastener driving apparatus 

(10) for movement through an operating cycle including an 
operative stroke in the feeding direction along said 

fastener feed track (23) toward said drive track (20) for 
feeding fasteners to said drive track (20) and a return 

stroke, and a fastener holding mechanism (26) operatively 
coupled to said actuating mechanism (24) for movement 

therewith through said operating cycle thereof, whereby 
during the operative stroke of said actuating mechanism 

(24) said fastener holding mechanism (26) feeds said 
fasteners (45) along said feed track (23) and holds said 

fasteners (45) in a position biased toward said drive track 
(20) during at least a portion of the drive stroke so that 

a leading fastener from said fastener package (45) is 
disposed in the drive track (20) in position to be contacted 

by said driving element (14), and during the return stroke 
of said actuating mechanism (24) and during a portion of 

the operating cycle of said driving element (14) when a 
fastener need not be held in said drive track (20), said 

fastener holding mechanism (26) is arranged to be released 
from its fastener holding position and moved in a direction 

opposite the feeding direction for completion of the 
operating cycle of said actuating mechanism (24). 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
actuating mechanism (24) includes a spring member (40) 

which biases said holding mechanism (26) and thus said 
 

fasteners (45) toward said drive track (20) during the 
op
erative stroke and a piston (30) having an actuating rod 
(32) coupled to said holding mechanism (26), said piston 

being slidingly received in a cylinder (28) to be 
pneumatically connected to a plenum chamber of said 

fastener driving apparatus (10) so as to be supplied with 
plenum air after said drive element (14) moves downward 

within said drive track (20) and contacts the leading 
fastener, and said piston (30) being arranged to be moved 

by the plenum air so as to overcome the bias of said spring 
member (40) permitting said actuating rod (42) to cause 

said holding mechanism (26) to release from its holding 
position, and said spring member (40) being arranged to 

bias said holding mechanism (26) and thus the fasteners 
again toward said drive track (20) in response to the 

plenum air supplied to said piston (30) exhausting after 
completion of the return stroke of said driving element 

(14) so that another fastener may be disposed within said 
drive track (20) to be contacted by said driving element 

(14). 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
holding mechanism (26) includes a feed block (41) 

operatively coupled to said actuating mechanism (24), said 
feed block (41) supporting a pair of feed pawls (42) to be 

disposed on opposing sides of the fastener package (45), 
and each feed pawl (42) of said pair of feed pawls (42) 

being arranged to feed and hold the fastener package (45) 
during the operative stroke of said actuating mechanism 

(24). 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said feed 
pawls (42) have first and second ends, said first ends 

being pivotally coupled to said feed block (41) by pins 
(44), each of said second ends being coupled to spring 

means (46) disposed axially offset from said pins (44), 
 

whereby during the operative stroke of said actuating 
mechanism (24), said spring means (46) bias said feed pawls 

(42) to hold the fasteners (45) in a position toward said 
drive track (20), and wherein said feed pawls (42) can be 

biased away from the fasteners during the return stroke of 
said actuating mechanism (24). 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 3 or 4, wherein each 
said feed pawl (42) has a tapered surface (40) terminating 

at a point (48) whereby during the operative stroke of said 
actuating mechanism (24), said point (48) of each feed pawl 

(42) contacts side surfaces of the fastener package to feed 
and hold the fastener package in a position biased toward 

said drive track (20), and during the return stroke of said 
actuating mechanism (24) said feed pawls (42) are arranged 

to move from the holding position due to the fasteners 
contacting said tapered surface (40). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said holding mechanism (26) is arranged to 

move in a direction opposite the feeding direction during 
the return stroke of said actuating mechanism (24) so as to 

contact successive fasteners of the fastener package (45). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the fastener package (45) is in the form of 

a stick. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said fastener holding mechanism (26) is 

arranged to be in contact with the fastener package (45) 
during the entire operating cycle of said actuating 

mechanism (24). 
Fastener driving apparatus (10) characterised by 
fastener feeder apparatus (12) as claimed in any one of 

Claims 1 to 8. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
