<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638998</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03G100	H03G104	H03G320	H03G320	H03G330	H03G330	H03G516	H03G516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03G	H03G	H03G	H03G	H03G	H03G	H03G	H03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03G1	H03G1	H03G3	H03G3	H03G3	H03G3	H03G5	H03G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement comprises a gain-controlled 
amplifier stage (35), a detector stage (34) and a time delay means (33). The amplifier 

stage and detector stage are both fed in parallel from an input signal and the output of 
the detector stage is used to adjust the gain of the amplifier stage. The time delay 

means is included in series with and upstream of the amplifier stage. Means may be 
included in the control circuit to modify (e.g linearise) the transfer function of the gain-control 

function, and this may include provisions for inputting an external modifying 
signal. The detector is preferably a successive logarithmic amplifier to ensure that the 

automatic gain control arrangement can handle a wide input dynamic range. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLESSEY SEMICONDUCTORS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLESSEY SEMICONDUCTORS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHADWICK PETER EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHADWICK, PETER EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement, in 
particular a fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement for use in electronic and 
communications systems in which there is a requirement to amplify signals of a wide 
dynamic range. Amplifier systems used in fields such as radiocommunications, radar, 
instrumentation, electronic control systems, broadcasting, etc, often need to be able to 
handle input signals of wide dynamic range, while outputting signals at a substantially 
constant level. In computer and other communication systems where a CSMA (Carrier 
Sense Multiple Access) protocol system is used, it is important that a receiver be able 
to receive a strong or a weak signal without overloading and be able rapidly to adjust 
to level variations in order to minimise the effective deadtime of a network. 
Techniques for doing this go under the general name of Automatic Gain Control (AGC) 
and are already well established in the art. One of the most commonly used forms of 
AGC is the arrangement shown in Figure 1. In Figure 1, an AGC stage 10 is based around a gain-controlled amplifier 12. 
The gain-controlled amplifier 12 has two inputs: a signal input 13 and a gain-control 
input 14. The gain-control input 14 is arranged to modify the gain of the amplifier 12 
in accordance with the value of a signal appearing on the gain-control input 14. The 
output of the amplifier 12 is taken along a line 15 to form, firstly, the output 16 of the 
AGC stage and, secondly, a feedback loop 17 consisting of a rectifier (detector) 18 and 
a low-pass filter 19. The detected and filtered output signal is passed along a line 20 
to the gain-control input 14 of the amplifier 12.  The operation of the AGC stage is as follows. It is first assumed that the signal 
on the input 13 is initially zero, or of very low amplitude (see Figure 2). At a time t₁, 
the input signal rises sharply to a peak-to-peak value of A volts (see line (a) of Figure 
2), which would result in an output signal on line 16 having an amplitude higher than 
desired. The AGC system acts to reduce the output signal level by feeding back a 
detected version of the output signal to the amplifier 12, using this fed-back signal to 
reduce the gain of the amplifier 12. Thus the output of the amplifier 12 takes the peak-to-peak 
value B, as shown in line (b) of Figure 2. In order for the AGC system to 
work properly and to avoid signal distortion in the amplifier 12, the filter 19 is 
arranged to have a low enough cut-off point,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement comprising a gain 
controlled amplifier means (35) having a signal input, a gain-control input (37) and an 

output which constitutes an output of the automatic gain control arrangement, and a 
detector means (34) having an output which drives the gain-control input (37) of the 

gain-controlled amplifier, characterised in that the signal input of the gain-controlled 
amplifier (35) is connected to an input of the detector means (34), and in that a time 

delay means (33) is connected between the input of the detector means (34) and the 
signal input (37) of the gain-controlled amplifier means (35). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 1, 
characterised in that the time delay means (33) is constituted by a delay line. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 2, 
characterised in that the delay line is a lumped inductance/capacitance delay line. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 2, 
characterised in that the delay line is a length of transmission line. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterised by modifying means (42, 43, 44, 72) for 

modifying the control characteristic of the automatic gain control arrangement. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 5, 
characterised in that the modifying means comprises an analogue-to-digital converting 

means (42), a memory means (43) having an address input and a data output, and a 
digital-to-analogue converting means (44), an input of the analogue-to-digital converting 

 
means (42) being connected to the output of the detector means (34), an output of the 

analogue-to-digital converting means (42) being connected to the address input of the 
memory means (43), the data output of the memory means (43) being connected to an 

input of the digital-to-analogue converting means (44), and an output of the digital-to-analogue 
converting means (44) being connected to the gain-control input (37) of the 

gain-controlled amplifier means (35). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 6, 
characterised in that the memory means (43) is a read-only memory. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in any one 
of Claims 5 to 7, characterised in that the modifying means comprises means for 

receiving an external modifying signal (52, 62, 72). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 8 
and Claim 6, characterised in that the means for receiving an external modifying signal 

comprises a digital adder (52), a first input of which is arranged to receive an external 
modifying signal and a second input of which is connected to the data output of the 

memory means (43), an output of the digital adder (52) being connected to the input 
of the digital-to-analogue converting means (44). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 8 
and Claim 6, characterised in that the means for receiving an external modifying signal 

comprises a multiplying input (62) of the digital-to-analogue converting means (44), 
the multiplying input (62) being arranged to scale the data output of the memory means 

 
(43), the scaled data output being passed on to the gain-control input (37) of the gain-controlled 

amplifier means (35). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 5 
and Claim 8, characterised in that the modifying means comprises an analogue adder 

(72), a first input (74) of which is arranged to receive an external modifying signal and 
a second input (73) of which is connected to the output of the detector means (34), an 

output of the analogue adder being connected to the gain-control input (37) of the gain-controlled 
amplifier means (35). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterised in that the detector means (34) comprises a true 

logarithmic amplifier stage feeding a detector stage. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in any one 
of Claims 1 to 11, characterised in that the detector means (34) comprises a successive 

detection logarithmic amplifier, the logarithmic, detected output of the successive 
detection logarithmic amplifier serving as the output of the detector means (34). 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterised in that the gain-control input (37) of the gain-controlled 

amplifier means (35) is a differential input (83, 84) and the gain-control 
signal is applied to the gain-control input in push-pull. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterised by a filter means (36) connected in series with 

the output of the detector means. 
A fast-acting automatic gain control arrangement as claimed in Claim 15, 
characterised in that the filter means (36) is a low-pass filter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
