<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641289</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIQUID DISPENSER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8300	A61B5154	A61B1000	G01N100	A61J105	B65D8300	G01N100	B67D500	A61B515	A61B1000	B05C500	B01L1100	A61J105	B01L1100	G01N128	G01N128	B67D500	B05C500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	A61B	A61B	G01N	A61J	B65D	G01N	B67D	A61B	A61B	B05C	B01L	A61J	B01L	G01N	G01N	B67D	B05C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D83	A61B5	A61B10	G01N1	A61J1	B65D83	G01N1	B67D5	A61B5	A61B10	B05C5	B01L11	A61J1	B01L11	G01N1	G01N1	B67D5	B05C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser (20) for blood and other biological specimens (11) is disclosed which provides a means of obtaining a small predetermined quantity of specimen from a closed container (10) without the need to remove the stopper (13) from the container. The cannula (19) of the device is caused to pierce the container's rubber stopper forming an assembly. When the said assembly is forced against a target surface, such as microscope slide (30), the force compresses the stopper and thereby reduces the volume inside the container sufficiently to eject a drop of fluid which is dispensed onto a target surface. Stabilizing supports (26) are provided so that fluid emerges from a dispensing tip (22) located a predetermined distance above the target surface which determines the quantity of fluid dispensed. The supports also transmit reactive force from the target surface to compress the rubber stopper of the closed specimen tube.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEVINE MARSHALL S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEVINE, MARSHALL S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVINE MARSHALL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVINE, MARSHALL S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the dispensing of
liquid biological specimens onto a target surface and more
specifically to the dispensing of blood on microscope slides and
to the manner in which a small, controlled quantity of fluid is
obtained from a closed specimen tube and transferred to a
microscope slide for the purpose of making a smear.In clinical laboratories there is concern about the
health hazards of handling blood, i.e., the potential of 
contracting AIDS and hepatitis and other communicable diseases.
When blood smears are prepared, it has been necessary to open the
stopper of a specimen tube in order to extract only a single
drop. When the tube's rubber stopper is opened, first there is
the possibility that hazardous spray or aerosol can occur.
Thereafter it is typical to use either glass capillaries or
wooden sticks to transfer the blood from the tube to a microscope
slide. The procedure creates still more exposed specimen and
furthermore it is difficult by either of these methods to easily
control the quantity of fluid, thereby creating variation in the
uniformity of the resulting blood smears. Lastly, the procedure
is slow and inefficient.To date there are no appropriate alternatives. While a
stopper piercing dispenser has been devised, as for example
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,366,278 (Fobes) it is not
appropriate for use with blood collection tubes. That is
because the device is designed to provide means for syringe-like
squeezing action using one hand wherein the thumb or palm engages
the bottom of a standard biological container and a finger grip
is required by two other fingers of the same hand. However,
blood circulation tubes which are of standard configuration the
world over are too long to be handled in this manner and the
amount of force required is greater than with the biological
container.While it is conceivable to use the cited device in the
manner suggested by the proposed invention which forces the 
dispensing device against the target surface it would be unsuited
to having reactive force applied at its dispensing tip. This is
because it requires a tip of special design to prevent the
formation of a seal against the target surface which would either
prevent fluid from exiting or would damage cells due to the
pressure. Furthermore, after dispensing fluid, the tip would
maintain fluid continuity so that when pressure is relieved a
considerable portion of the dispensed fluid would be sucked back.
Also, because the dispensing tip of the cited device lacks means
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for dispensing a predetermined amount of fluid from a
stoppered container (10) to a target surface (30) utilising a

dispensing device (20) which comprises a dispenser body having a
passageway formed therein, one end of said dispenser body

including a surface for engaging said stoppered container and
another end of said dispenser body including stabilising supports

for engaging said target surface, said passageway including means
(19, 23) for passing through the stopper (13) of the stoppered

container to interior portions of the latter for accessing the fluid
therein and an exit tube (23) with a dispensing tip (22) which is

spaced from a plane defined by said stabilising supports by a
defined gap (33), said method comprising the steps of:


introducing said means for passing through said stopper (13)
into said stoppered container,
placing said stoppered container and said dispensing device
on said target surface so that said dispensing device is in

contact with and is positioned over said target surface,
applying, while visually controlling the dispensing process, a
force against said stoppered container, relative to said target

surface, thereby compressing the contents of the container
so as to expel a drop (32) of fluid out of said dispensing tip

(22), said drop upon contacting said target surface being
entrained in response to surface tension developed at said

target surface and separated from said dispensing tip, and 
releasing said force applied against said stoppered container
upon separation of said drop from said dispensing tip, the

amount of fluid dispensed being determined by the width of
said gap (33).
The method of Claim 1, wherein said predetermined amount of fluid
is controlled by varying said gap (33).
The method of Claim 1 or 2, wherein said visual control includes
viewing said dispensing tip in a mirrored surface (34) positioned

beneath said target surface.
The method of Claim 3, further including the step of varying an
apparent distance of said dispensing tip from said target surface by

varying a thickness of said mirrored surface.
A device (20) for carrying out the method of Claim 1, comprising the
features of a device as specified in Claim 1.
The device of Claim 5, in combination with a stoppered container
and a target surface in operative association with said dispensing

device.
The device of Claim 5 or 6, wherein said means for passing through
said stopper (13) of said stoppered container, for accessing said

fluid and for dispensing said fluid from said passageway, is a
cannula (19) associated with said passageway.
The device of Claim 7, wherein said cannula includes an entry tip
(21) for piercing said stoppered container and for accessing the

fluid in said stoppered container. 
The device of Claim 8, wherein said entry tip has a blunt end.
The device of any of Claims 5-9, wherein said dispenser body
further includes an abutment member (24) extending from the

surface for engaging said stoppered container, for engaging
portions of said stoppered container for receiving said abutment

member.
The device of Claims 6 and 10, wherein said abutment member is
receivable within a concave depression (15) formed in said

stoppered container.
The device of Claim 8, wherein said passageway is sized fully to
receive said cannula therein.
The device of Claim 12, wherein said passageway has a length,
said cannula has a length, and wherein the length of said cannula is

less than the length of said passageway so that said cannula can
collapse into and fully within said passageway.
The device of Claim 7, wherein said exit tube (23) is in
communication with said cannula (19).
The device of any one of Claims 5-14, wherein said dispensing tip
has a bevelled end.
The device of any one of Claims 5-15, wherein said defined gap is
adjustable, for regulating said predetermined amount of fluid to be

dispensed from said dispensing device.
The device of Claim 16, wherein said stabilising supports are
adjustable for varying said gap and for varying said predetermined

mount of fluid to be dispensed from said dispensing device. 
The device of any one of Claims 5-17, wherein said stabilising
supports are spaced from each other to define openings to said

dispensing tip, for viewing said dispensing tip and for passing air to
said dispensing tip.
The device of Claim 18, wherein said stabilising supports are
adjustable for varying the spacing between said stabilising

supports.
The device of any one of Claim 5-19, wherein said stabilising
supports are positioned at a sufficient distance from said dispensing

tip to prevent fluid from contacting said stabilising supports.
The device of Claim 7, wherein said cannula is made of plastic or
metal.
The device of Claim 6, wherein said target surface is a glass slide.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
