<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Exhaust gas purification system and exhaust gas purification method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N704	F01N700	F01N322	F01N330	B01D5372	F01N324	F01N330	B01D5386	F01N322	F01N702	B01D5394	B01D5394	F01N308	B01D5304	B01D5304	F01N320	F01N324	F01N308	B01D5346	B01D5386	F01N320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	B01D	F01N	F01N	B01D	F01N	F01N	B01D	B01D	F01N	B01D	B01D	F01N	F01N	F01N	B01D	B01D	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N7	F01N7	F01N3	F01N3	B01D53	F01N3	F01N3	B01D53	F01N3	F01N7	B01D53	B01D53	F01N3	B01D53	B01D53	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	B01D53	B01D53	F01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An exhaust gas purification system for an internal 
combustion engine is herein disclosed which comprises an 

exhaust system having an adsorption flow path (1) provided with an 
adsorbent capable of adsorbing harmful components such as 

hydrocarbons in an exhaust gas, and a catalyst flow (2) path 
provided with at least one catalyst (A,B) for decreasing the harmful 

components in the exhaust gas, the exhaust gas purification 
system being characterized in that an outlet (6) of the adsorption 

flow path (1) is joined to the catalyst flow path (2) at a 
predetermined position (5) upstream of the catalyst (A) to 

form a joint portion; the exhaust gas produced at least at the 
time of the operation start of the internal combustion engine 

is divided so as to flow through both the paths of the 
adsorption flow path (1) and the catalyst flow path (2) in a 

predetermined ratio, so that part of harmful components such 
as the hydrocarbons are adsorbed by the adsorbent in the 

adsorption flow path (1); and when the adsorbed harmful components 
begin to desorb from the adsorbent with the temperature rise 

of the adsorbent, the catalyst (A) on the downstream of the joint 
portion is activated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an exhaust gas 
purification system and an exhaust gas purification method for 
effectively purifying harmful substances present in an exhaust 
gas, particularly hydrocarbons (HC) and the like produced in 
large quantities at the time of a cold start of an engine. According to an FTP test (LA-4 mode) in correspondence 
with the intensification of exhaust gas regulations in the 
United States, 70 to 80% of the total HC emission amount is 
emitted within 140 seconds (within the first hill of Bag 1) at 
the time of a cold start of an engine after engine cranking. 
During this period, however, considerable time is taken until 
a conventional three-way catalyst has reached its operation 
temperature, and thus most of the HC is exhausted without being 
purified. In order to solve this problem, a technique has been 
proposed in which an electrically heated catalyst (hereinafter 
referred to as an EHC) and an adsorbent mainly comprising  
 
zeolite are disposed in an exhaust gas pipe. For example, in Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. 
31359/1993, a catalyst converter for car exhaust gas 
purification has been disclosed in which three factors of an 
EHC, an adsorbent and a main catalyst are arranged in series 
in an optional order in an exhaust gas flow path. Additionally, SAE paper No. 920847 has suggested a by-pass 
system in which a valve is provided on the upstream side of an 
adsorbent so as to desorb HC after a catalyst has been 
sufficiently activated. However, Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. 
31359/1993 does not disclose any optimum arrangement of the 
above-mentioned three factors for the sake of the decrease of 
an emission at the time of a cold start, and with regard to the 
minimization of electric power to be applied to the EHC, any 
consideration has not been given. Moreover, although the technique employing a by-pass system 
as in the SAE Paper No. 920847 suitably functions in terms of 
a purification performance, it has many problems from a 
practical viewpoint. For example, this system is intricate, 
and the reliability of the heat-resistant valve in the pipe is 
poor. In view of the above-mentioned problems of conventional 
techniques, the present invention has been intended. An object of the present invention is to provide an  
 
exhaust gas purification system and an exhaust gas purification 
method for effectively purifying harmful substances present in 
an exhaust gas, particularly HC and the like produced in large 
quantities at the time
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An exhaust gas purification system for an internal 
combustion engine which comprises an exhaust system having an 

adsorption flow path (1) provided with an adsorbent capable of 
adsorbing harmful components such as hydrocarbons in an exhaust 

gas, and a catalyst flow path (2) provided with at least one 
catalyst for decreasing the harmful components in the exhaust 

gas;
 
   characterized 

in that an outlet of the adsorption flow path (1) is joined to the 
catalyst flow path (2) on the 

upstream side of the catalyst to form a joint portion (5); the 
exhaust gas produced at least at the time of the operation 

start of the internal combustion engine is divided so as to 
flow through both the adsorption flow path and the 

catalyst flow path in a predetermined ratio, so that part of 
harmful components such as the hydrocarbons are adsorbed by the 

adsorbent in the adsorption flow path; and when the adsorbed 
harmful components begin to desorb from the adsorbent with the 

temperature rise of the adsorbent, the catalyst on the 
downstream of the joint portion is activated. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to Claim  
 

1 wherein the internal combustion engine has a plurality of 
exhaust manifold orifices, each orifice leading to one or 

other of the adsorption flow path (1) and the catalyst flow path (2). 
The exhaust gas purification system according to Claim 
1 wherein the internal combustion engine has an exhaust manifold 

adapted to combine the exhaust gas of the engine, and then 
divide the exhaust gas downstream so as to form the adsorption 

flow path (1) and the catalyst flow path (2). 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 to 3 wherein for the purpose of obtaining an 

oxygen-excess exhaust gas composition so as to activate the 
catalyst in the catalyst flow path early after the operation 

start of the internal combustion engine, at least one oxidizing 
gas feed means and/or fuel-combustion air adjustment means is 

disposed in the exhaust system. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 to 4 wherein detecting means (6) capable of 

detecting that the harmful components in the exhaust gas 
adsorbed by the absorbent have begun to desorb from the 

adsorbent is installed at least between the adsorbent and the 
joint position.  

 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 to 5 wherein in order to obtain an oxygen-excess 

exhaust gas composition capable of effectively burning 
the harmful components in the exhaust gas desorbed from the 

adsorbent by the catalyst downstream of the joint 
portion, at least one oxidizing gas feed means and/or fuel-combustion 

air adjustment means is disposed on the upstream 
side of the catalyst downstream of the joint 

portion. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to Claim 
6 wherein the oxidizing gas feed means and/or the fuel-combustion 

air adjustment means is operated in accordance with 
a signal from a detecting means (6) capable of detecting that the 

harmful components in the exhaust gas adsorbed by the adsorbent 
have begun to desorb from the adsorbent. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 to 7 wherein each of the catalyst and the 

adsorbent comprises a honeycomb structure having a large number 
of passages which are formed by partition walls and which 

extend in parallel with the flow direction of the gas.  
 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 to 8 wherein the catalyst is obtained by 

coating a honeycomb structure comprising a heat-resistant 
inorganic material with a catalyst layer comprising a heat-resistant 

oxide containing at least a noble metal. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 to 9 wherein the adsorbent is obtained by 

coating a honeycomb structure comprising a heat-resistant 
inorganic material with an adsorption layer mainly comprising 

zeolite. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 10 wherein an Si/Al molar ratio of the zeolite is 40 or 

more. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 10 wherein the adsorption layer contains a catalyst 

component. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 10 wherein the surface of the adsorption layer is coated 

with a catalyst layer.  
 
The exhaust gas purification system according to any 
one of Claims 1 
to 13 wherein at least one electrical heater (7) 
is arranged in the exhaust system. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 14 wherein the electrical heater (7) is provided with a pair 

of electrodes for passing current through a honeycomb structure comprising 
a heat-resistant metal. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 14 or 15 wherein the electrical heater (7) is coated with a 

catalyst layer. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 16 wherein the catalyst layer contains a noble metal. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 14 or 15 wherein the electrical heater (7) is coated with an 

adsorbent layer. 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 18 wherein the adsorbent layer contains a catalyst 

component.  
 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 14 wherein the joint portion (5) of the adsorption flow path 

and the catalyst flow path is formed upstream of 
the electrical heater (7). 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 14 wherein the joint portion (5) of the adsorption flow path 

and the catalyst flow path is formed downstream of 
the electrical heater (7). 
The exhaust gas purification system according to 
Claim 14 wherein the joint portion (5) of the adsorption flow path 

and the catalyst flow path is formed downstream of 
the catalyst disposed downstream of the electrical 

heater. 
An exhaust gas purification method carried out 
using an exhaust gas purification system for an 

internal combustion engine according to any one of claims 1 to 22,  
 

comprising the steps of dividing the exhaust gas produced at 
least at the time of the operation start of the internal 

combustion engine so that the exhaust gas flows through both 
the adsorption flow path and the catalyst flow 

path in a predetermined ratio, whereby part of harmful 
components such as the hydrocarbons are adsorbed by the 

adsorbent in the adsorption flow path; and then activating the 
catalyst on the downstream of the joint portion, when the 

adsorbed harmful components begin to desorb from the adsorbent 
with the temperature rise of the adsorbent. 
The exhaust gas purification method according to 
Claim 23 wherein the activation of the catalyst is accelerated 

with the aid of an oxygen-excess exhaust gas composition 
obtained by the feed of an oxidizing gas. 
The exhaust gas purification method according to 
Claim 23 wherein the activation of the catalyst is accelerated 

with the aid of an oxygen-excess exhaust gas composition 
obtained by adjusting amounts of a fuel and combustion air.  

 
The exhaust gas purification method according to 
Claim 23 wherein a desorption start point of the harmful 

components is detected by the use of detecting means (6) capable 
of detecting that the harmful components in the exhaust gas 

adsorbed by the absorbent have begun to desorb from the 
adsorbent, and the feed of an oxidizing gas and/or the 

adjustment of amounts of a fuel and combustion air is carried 
out in accordance with a signal from the detecting means (6) to 

effectively burn the desorbed harmful components by the 
catalyst on the downstream of the joint portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
