<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625279</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NONPROLIFERATIVE LIGHT WATER NUCLEAR REACTOR WITH ECONOMIC USE OF THORIUM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21C100	G21C100	G21C108	G21C3326	G21C3328	G21C342	G21C342	G21C500	G21C512	G21C518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21C1	G21C1	G21C1	G21C3	G21C3	G21C3	G21C3	G21C5	G21C5	G21C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A light water nuclear reactor, which derives most of its energy from thorium, utilizes a seed-blanket core arrangement and a nonparasitic and mechanically simple control system. Neither the initial fuel loading nor the fuel discharged from the reactor is useable for nuclear weapons purposes. The initial fissile fuel is enriched uranium, U-235/U-238 (20:80), which is known to be nonproliferative. The discharged fissile fuel consists of (1) uranium with about ten percent U-235 content, (2) less than one percent of the amount of plutonium produced in conventional light water reactors, (3) U-233 denatured by being uniformly mixed with more than twice as much U-238 and (4) the remaining thorium. About seventy-five to eighty percent of the reactor energy is derived by fissioning in place the U-233 formed in the thorium, thus avoiding the very expensive process of extracting and fabricating the highly gamma-active U-233 into fuel elements.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RADKOWSKY THORIUM POWER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RADKOWSKY THORIUM POWER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RADKOWSKY ALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RADKOWSKY ALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NONPROLIFERATIVE LIGHT WATER NUCLEAR REACTOR WITH ECONOMIC USE OF THORIUMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONAlthough thorium is known to be at least three times as plentiful as uranium in the earth's core, no economic method of producing nuclear power from thorium, with or without proliferative fuels, has been found. The term "economic" is used herein to mean that most of the nuclear reactor energy is generated from thorium without the very expensive process of extracting the highly gamma-active U-233 and fabricating it into fuel elements.The fundamental difficulty in utilizing thorium as a nuclear fuel is that it contains no natural fissionable material. Thorium can be made to produce energy only by (1) an initial addition of fissionable material, as is described in the report entitled "Thorium Utilization in PWRS", ' ■ Kernforschungsanlage Jύlich GmbH (1988) , or (2) providing a neutron current into the thorium regions of the core, using a "seed-blanket" arrangement, as described in the "CRC Handbook of Nuclear Reactor Calculations", 1986, Volume III, pp. 365-448.These two known approaches are summarized briefly below:1. In a Brazilian-German collaboration extending from 1979 to 1988 and reported in "Thorium Utilization in PWRS", supra, the entire reactor core was assumed to consist of 

thorium with the uniform addition of fissile material. The most favorable results in the study were for cases where the thorium was initially enriched with plutonium, an element which is well known to be proliferative. According to calculations, gains over a conventional uranium reactor were obtainable only by repeatedly extracting the U-233 formed in the thorium, fabricating it into fuel elements, and reinserting it into fresh thorium. Another possibility that was considered was to begin with U-235/U-238 in the volume ratio of 20:80 as the initial fissile fuel for the thorium. However, so much of this fuel would be required to provide a sufficient reactivity for the accepted time between reloads, twelve to eighteen months, that the amount of plutonium formed in the U-238 into the thorium would be appreciable. Again, extraction, fabrication, and reinsertion of the highly gamma-active U-233 into the thorium would be necessary.2. In the second approach referred to above, seed- blanket core arrangements have been used as described in the "CRC Handbook of Nuclear Reactor Calculations", supra. Such cores consist of seed regions which have multiplication (criticality) factors greater than one and blanket regions with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S What is claimed is:
1. A nuclear reactor having a core comprising:
(a) at least one seed region, each containing seed fuel elements having a critical mass of fissionable material, said seed fuel elements essentially comprising U-235 and U- 238 which are initially in the ratio range from 10:90 to the maximum ratio which is nonproliferative; and
(b) a blanket region surrounding said seed region and containing blanket fuel elements comprising predominantly Th-232.
2. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein the initial ratio of U-235 to U-238 in said seed region is approximately 20:80.
3. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein there are a plurality of seed regions substantially uniformly distributed within said blanket region and wherein each seed region can sustain a neutronic chain reaction without substantial neutronic interaction with another seed region.
4. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein the fuel elements contained in the blanket region are initially 


enriched with uranium to provide an initial volume percentage of uranium in the range of 2 to 12 percent.
5. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 4, wherein the initial volume percentage of uranium in said blanket region is from 6 to 10 percent.
6. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 5, wherein the initial volume percentage of uranium in said blanket region is approximately 8 percent.
7. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 4, wherein the uranium initially provided in said blanket region comprises U-235 and U-238 in the initial ratio range from 10:90 to the maximum ratio which is nonproliferative.
8. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 7, wherein the initial volume ratio of U-235 to U-238 in said blanket region is approximately 20:80.
9. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein the uranium initially provided in said seed region is in the form of uranium oxide. 


10. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein the uranium initially provided in said seed region is in the form of uranium zirconium alloy.
11. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein the thorium initially provided in said blanket region is in the form of thorium oxide.
12. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 4, wherein the uranium initially provided in said blanket region is in the form of uranium oxide.
13. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, further comprising means for replacing the fuel elements in said seed region without disturbing the fuel elements in said blanket region.
14. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1 , further comprising means for replacing the fuel elements in said blanket region without disturbing the fuel elements in said seed region.
15. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, further comprising means for cooling said core using water exclusively as the heat transfer medium. 


16. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 15, wherein said water is light water.
17. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 15, wherein said core cooling means includes a reactor pressure vessel containing said core and means for supplying said water to said vessel under pressure so as to inhibit the formation of steam at the operating temperature of said core.
18. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 15, wherein the volume ratio of water to fuel in said seed region is at least three times as high as in said blanket region.
19. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 15, wherein the volume ratio of water to fuel in said seed region is in the range from 3:1 to 10:1.
20. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 15, wherein the volume ratio of water to fuel in said blanket region is in the range from 0.8 to 1.5.
21. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 19, wherein the uranium in said seed region is in the form of uranium zirconium alloy. 


22. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, further comprising a neutron reflector region surrounding said core, and wherein said reflector region contains fuel elements comprising predominantly Th-232.
23. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 22, wherein said fuel elements contained in said reflector region are initially enriched with U-238.
24. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, further comprising nonparasitic means for controlling the rate of the nuclear reaction in said core.
25. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 24, wherein said control means exclusively controls the rate of nuclear reaction in said seed region.
26. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 1, wherein said seed fuel elements are elongate and vertically oriented in said core, and wherein said reactor further comprises:
(c) means for controlling the rate of nuclear reaction in said core, said control means including:
(1) a plurality of elongate, vertically oriented control elements arranged parallel to said seed fuel elements, each control element having, from one end to the other, a plurality of sections of prescribed length; and 


 (2) means for moving at least some of said control elements in the vertical direction over a distance substantially equal to said prescribed length.
27. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said control elements are nonparasitic.
28. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said control elements are arranged in a control region between said seed region and said blanket region.
29. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 28, wherein said control region surrounds said seed region.
30. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said control elements include a plurality of stationary control elements and a plurality of movable control elements connected to said moving means, said stationary control elements being arranged immediately adjacent to said movable control elements.
31. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 30, wherein at least some of said stationary control elements are disposed between said seed region and said movable control elements. 


32. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 30, wherein at least some of said stationary control elements are disposed between said blanket region and said movable control elements.
33. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 30, wherein said stationary control elements are disposed on opposite sides of said movable control elements.
34. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 33, wherein said control elements are arranged in a control region between said seed region and said blanket region, there being first stationary control elements, on one side of said movable control elements, arranged adjacent said seed region, and second stationary control elements, on the opposite side of said movable control elements, arranged adjacent said blanket region.
35. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said sections of at least some of said control elements contain, in succession from one end to the other, alternately, fissionable material and nonfissionable material.
36. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 35, wherein said nonfissionable material is substantially transparent to neutrons. 


37. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 35, wherein said nonfissionable material is neutron fertile material.
38. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said sections of at least some of said control elements contain, in succession from one end to the other, alternately, neutron fertile material and neutron transparent material.
39. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 37, wherein said fertile material is thorium.
40. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 38, wherein said fertile material is thorium.
41. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said prescribed length is substantially equal to 45 cm.
42. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein each control element has eight sections of said prescribed length.
43. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said blanket fuel elements are elongate, vertically oriented elements arranged parallel to said seed fuel elements and said control elements. 


44. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 43, wherein said seed and blanket fuel elements are substantially the same length, and wherein said control elements extend substantially the entire vertical dimension of said seed and blanket fuel elements.
45. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 26, wherein said moving means is operative to move said control elements to any desired vertical position along said distance.
46. A nuclear reactor having a core comprising:
(a) at least one seed region, each seed region containing a first plurality of elongate, vertically oriented seed fuel elements having a reactivity greater than one;
(b) at least one control region, each control region containing elongate, vertically arranged control elements oriented parallel to said seed fuel elements, each control element having, from one end to the other, a plurality of sections of prescribed length;
(c) at least one blanket region, each blanket region surrounding a seed region and containing blanket fuel elements having a reactivity less than one; and
(d) means for moving at least some of said control elements in the vertical direction over a distance substantially equal to said prescribed length. 


47. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said control elements are nonparasitic.
48. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said control region is arranged between said seed region and said blanket region.
49. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 48, wherein said control region surrounds said seed region.
50. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said control elements include a plurality of stationary control elements and a plurality of movable control elements connected to said moving means, said stationary control elements being arranged immediately adjacent said movable control elements.
51. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 50, wherein at least some of said stationary control elements are disposed between said seed region and said movable control elements.
52. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 50, wherein at least some of said stationary control elements are disposed between said blanket region and said movable control elements. 


 53. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 50, wherein said stationary control elements are disposed on opposite sides of said movable control elements.
'- 54. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 53, wherein said control elements are arranged in a control region between said seed region and said blanket region, there being first stationary control elements, on one side of said movable control elements, arranged adjacent said seed region, and second stationary control elements, on the opposite side of said movable control elements, arranged adjacent said blanket region.
55. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said sections of at least some of said control elements contain, in succession from one end to the other, alternately, fissionable material and nonfissionable material.
56. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 55, wherein said nonfissionable material is substantially transparent to neutrons.
57. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 55, wherein said 
Q
 nonfissionable material is neutron fertile material. 


58. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said sections of at least some of said control elements contain, in succession from one end to the other, alternately, neutron fertile material and neutron transparent material.
59. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 57, wherein said fertile material is thorium.
60. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 58, wherein said fertile material is thorium.
61. . The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said prescribed length is substantially equal to 45 cm.
62. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein each control element has eight sections of said prescribed length.
63. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said blanket fuel elements are elongate, vertically oriented elements arranged parallel to said seed fuel elements and said control elements.
64. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 63, wherein said seed and blanket fuel elements are substantially the same length, and wherein said control elements extend 


substantially the entire vertical dimension of said seed and blanket fuel elements.
65. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said moving means is operative to move said control elements to any desired vertical position along said distance.
66. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 46, wherein said first plurality of control elements includes a second plurality of control elements which comprise blanket fuel elements, and a third plurality of control elements which comprise seed fuel elements.
67. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 66, wherein said blanket fuel elements in said second plurality of control elements are disposed in alternate ones of said sections thereof.
68. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 67, wherein said moving means includes means for gradually moving said second plurality of control elements during the lifetime of said seed elements, over a distance substantially equal to said prescribed length.
69. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 66, wherein said seed fuel elements in said third plurality of control 


elements are disposed in alternate ones of εaid sections thereof.
70. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 69, wherein said seed fuel elements are successively loaded into alternate ones of said sections thereof, whereby in order to ensure axial depletion of said core, succeεsive loading of new seed elements has the relative positions of adjacent sections reversed.
71. The nuclear reactor defined in claim 70, wherein said moving means includes means for alternately raising and lowering said third plurality of control elements by a distance substantially equal to said prescribed length at the time of replacement of said seed elements. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
