<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648049</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Information recording and reproducing method and apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B500	G11B500	G11B502	G11B502	G11B712	G11B712	G11B7135	G11B7135	G11B714	G11B714	G11B900	G11B900	G11B1100	G11B1100	G11B11105	G11B1300	G11B1300	G11B2006	G11B2006	G11B2010	G11B2010	G11B2730	G11B2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B9	G11B9	G11B11	G11B11	G11B11	G11B13	G11B13	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A recording-reproducing apparatus can 
remarkably relax the reproduction tracking accuracy by 

use of a head (2) wider than the track width. The 
carrier signal frequency assigned to a recording track 

is designated to a synthesized signal generator (3). In 
compliance with this designation, the synthesized signal 

generator generates a signal of the designated frequency. 
This carrier signal is amplitude-modulated by the 

baseband signal to be recorded in a mixer (4). The 
unrequired frequency components are removed from this 

modulation signal by a bandpass filter (8), and the 
resulting signal is recorded in a recording medium (138) 

by a head (2). The recording medium and the head are in 
relative motion. In read mode, a track (1) is specified 

by the carrier signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSAKA SUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIKUKAWA ATSUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARUYAMA YOUJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMANO TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINTANI TOSHIMICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSAKA, SUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIKUKAWA, ATSUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARUYAMA, YOUJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMANO, TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHINTANI, TOSHIMICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an information 
recording-reproducing apparatus for recording and 
reproducing digital and analog information including 
video and audio information for video and audio equipment 
and external memory units of electronic computers. External memory units for information 
equipment including electronic computers are roughly 
divided into disk-type and tape-type apparatuses. For 
all the disk-type information recording-reproducing 
apparatuses and a part of the tape-type information 
recording-reproducing apparatuses, the surface of the 
recording media is split into tracks in which information 
is recorded. The recording and reproducing operation for 
each track requires the movement of a head providing 
recording-reproducing means on the track. This 
operation is called the tracking. The tracking is 
generally performed on the basis of the signal reproduced 
from reproducing means. In order to improve the 
recording density, the track width and the space between 
tracks have been reduced. In parallel with this, 
efforts have been made to improve the absolute mechanical 
accuracy of apparatuses for securing an accurate 
tracking.  In magnetic disks, for recording binary-coded 
digital signals, codes are converted (modulated) in such 
a way that the signal obtained at the time of reproducing 
is capable of self synchronization. These methods, 
some of which are for recording the FM (frequency 
modulation) signals, are strictly aimed at recovering 
clock signals required for deciding on the code from the 
reproduction signal. A typical information recording-reproducing 
apparatus which has the highest recording density at 
present is a magneto-optical disk. Current standard 
magneto-optical disks have a track width and space of 
1.6 µm and a recording magnetic domain of about 1 µm in 
diameter. In these apparatuses using the classic 
optical system, the size of the magnetic domain capable 
of recording and reproducing is controlled exclusively 
by the diffraction limit of light used for recording and 
reproducing and therefore is expected to remain at about 
1 µm. In contrast, a plurality of recording methods 
capable of remarkably increasing the recording density 
over the current information recording-reproducing 
apparatuses have recently been suggested. Specifically, 
there have been proposed a method for forming an uneven 
medium surface of synthetic resin with the tip of a 
minute probe heated with laser light and a recording 
method in which a vertically magnetized
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for recording and reproducing 
information on a recording medium (138) in selected one 

of physical and chemical fashions, comprising the steps 
of: 


a) dividing the recording surface of the 
recording medium into a plurality of tracks (1); 
b) assigning a modulation method and a 
modulation parameter to each track; 
c) modulating a carrier signal on the basis of 
said modulation method and modulation parameter designated 

to the track where an information signal is to be 
recorded, and recording the modulation signal on the 

track, said carrier signal being specified by said 
modulation method and modulation parameter; and 
d) designating the modulation method and 
modulation parameter assigned to a track holding the 

intended information from the reproducing signal 
produced from the recording signal reproducing means and 

demodulating the original information on the basis of 
said modulation method and modulation parameter. 
An information recording-reproducing apparatus 
for recording and reproducing information on a recording 

medium (138) in selected one of physical and chemical 
fashions, comprising: 


a) a recording medium (138) with the recording 
surface thereof divided into a plurality of tracks (1); 
b) means for assigning a modulation method and 
 

a modulation parameter to each track; 
c) means for modulating a carrier signal on 
the basis of the modulation method and modulation 

parameter designated to a track (1) where the information 
signal is to be recorded, said carrier signal being 

specified by said modulation method and modulation 
parameter; 
d) means for recording the modulation signal 
on said track; 
e) means for reproducing the modulation signal 
recorded on the recording medium; 
f) means for designating the modulation method 
and modulation parameter of the track where the desired 

information is recorded; and 
g) means for demodulating the desired information 
from the signal reproduced using the designated 

modulation method and modulation parameter. 
The method of claim 1 or apparatus of claim 2, 
wherein each track on the recording medium is assigned a 

unique modulation method and a unique modulation parameter. 
The method of claim 1 or apparatus of claim 2, 
wherein the same modulation method and modulation parameter 

are allowed to be assigned to different tracks spaced from 
each other by at least the sensitive range of the reproducing 

means along the track. 
The method of claim 1 or apparatus of claim 2, 
wherein 


a) tracks are divided into a plurality of groups; and 
b) the same set of modulation methods and modulation parameters 
is assigned to each group of tracks. 
The method or apparatus of claim 5, wherein a 
unique set of modulation methods and modulation parameters is 

assigned to each group of tracks. 
The method or apparatus of claim 5, wherein the 
same set of modulation methods and modulation parameters is 

allowed to be assigned to different groups spaced from each 
other by at least the sensitive range of the reproducing 

means. 
The method of any of claims 1 and 3 to 7 or apparatus 
of any of claims 2 to 7, wherein the carrier signal is 

amplitude-modulated or angle-modulated. 
The method of any of claims 1 and 3 to 8 or apparatus 
of any of claims 2 to 8, using or comprising recording 

signal reproducing means having a sensitive range wider than 
the track width. 
The method of any of claims 1 and 3 to 9 or apparatus 
of any of claims 2 to 9, wherein a selected digital or 

analog signal is recorded on a given track on the same medium. 
In an information recording-reproducing 
apparatus, an optical fiber probe recording-reproducing 

apparatus comprising: 
   means for introducing the laser light to the 

recording surface of a recording medium by an optical 
fiber (107) having a sharp tip; 

   means for radiating the laser light on the 
recording surface of the recording medium; and 

   means for selected one of updating and reading 
the contents of recording in the modulated signal to be 

recorded for each track; 
   wherein a semiconductor laser is used as a 

light source of the laser light, and the intensity of 
selected one of the transmission, absorption, reflection 

and polarization of the laser light is used as an 
indication of the recorded contents. 
An optical fiber probe recording-reproducing 
apparatus according to Claim 11, wherein the semiconductor 

laser is driven by selected one of a constant 
current and a switching circuit, the light intensity 

being controlled and switched by controlling the current 
 

value. 
An optical fiber probe recording-reproducing 
apparatus according to Claim 11, wherein said semiconductor 

laser is coupled with an optical detector. 
An optical fiber probe recording-reproducing 
apparatus according to Claim 13, further comprising a 

light intensity drive circuit for controlling the light 
intensity of the semiconductor laser in such a manner 

that the output signal of the optical detector is 
constant. 
A magneto-optical recording-reproducing 
apparatus comprising: 

   an optical fiber having a sharp end; 
   a semiconductor laser optically coupled to the 

other end of the optical fiber; 
   and a magnetic medium arranged in the vicinity 

of the sharp end of the optical fiber and having the 
magnetic characteristics thereof changing locally by 

absorbing the light in the wavelength band from the 
semiconductor laser. 
A magneto-optical recording-reproducing 
apparatus according to Claim 15, wherein information is 

recored by thermally switching the magnetization of the 
magnetic medium by the laser light from said semiconductor 

laser. 
An optical fiber probe recording-reproducing 
apparatus comprising: 

   an optical fiber having a sharp end; and
 

   another optical fiber optically coupled to the 
other end of the first optical fiber; 

   wherein the evanescent light from the sharp 
end of said optical fiber is used as chemical energy for 

reaction. 
An optical fiber probe recording-reproducing 
apparatus according to Claim 17, wherein the evanescent 

light is used for forming a resist pattern. 
A recording-reproducing apparatus comprising: 
   means for introducing the laser light to the 

recording surface of a recording medium by an optical 
fiber having a sharp tip; 

   means for radiating the laser light on the 
tracks on the recording surface of the recording medium; 

   means for selected one of updating and reading 
the contents of recording in the signal modulated for 

each track; and 

   an optical coupling system for applying and 
coupling the light emitted from the light source to an 

optical waveguide: 
   wherein said optical coupling system includes 

means for moving the relative positions of the light 
incident on the waveguide and said waveguide, and means 

for detecting the intensity of selected one of the 
incident light, the light that has passed through the 

optical coupling system of the waveguide and the light 
reflected without coupling thereby to control said light 

 
moving system. 
A recording-reproducing apparatus according to 
Claim 19, wherein the light and the waveguide are 

dithered relatively by said moving system, the intensity 
of the light that has passed through said optical coupling 

system is detected, and selected one of the light 
moving system and the optical waveguide moving system is 

controlled with the amplitude of the oscillation component 
contained in the detection signal as an error 

signal. 
An optical coupling system for applying and 
coupling the light emitted from a light source to an 

optical waveguide, comprising: 
   means for dithering at least selected one of a 

light source, an optical element and an optical 
waveguide existing on the light path at a predetermined 

frequency; 
   means for detecting the intensity of the light 

that has passed through said optical waveguide; 
   means for multiplying the detected light 

intensity signal by sine of the dither frequency and 
removing the frequency component double the dither 

frequency contained in the detected signal; and 
   servo means for controlling the position of 

at least selected one of the light source, the optical 
element and the optical waveguide existing on the light 

path in such a manner that the signal produced by 
 

the foregoing operation approaches to zero as an amount 
of deviation between the light beam and the optical 

waveguide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
