<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658268</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ALKALI-HYDROGEN FUSION POWER GENERATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21B300	G21B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21B	G21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21B3	G21B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrolyte (40) consisting of an aqueous solution of a soluble compound of thallium or any of the alkali type elements (hydrogen, deuterium, tritium, lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, francium), in contact with an annular porous cathode (100) of a sinter-bonded mixture of nickel powder and nickel fibers for catalysis of nuclear fusion ractions between hydrogen nuclei from ordinary water and nuclei of the alkali type elements in the soluble compound whereby thermal power generation by the Fleischmann-Pons cold fusion process is improved. In a preferred embodiment the electrolyte consists of a solution of sodium carbonate in ordinary water and the cold fusion TRINT process converts the sodium into magnesium by reducing the total number of hydrogen atoms in the water and producing a corresponding quantity of molecular oxygen.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENECO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENECO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUSH ROBERT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EAGLETON ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUSH,ROBERT T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EAGLETON,ROBERT D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD & APPARATUS FOR ALKALI-HYDROGEN FUSION POWER GENERATION Technical FieldThis invention relates to the field of excess enthalpy production by so-called Cold Fusion as disclosed by electrochemistry Professors Martin Fleischmann, F.R.S. and Stanley Pons on March 23, 1989; it particularly concerns an empirical improvement of their process published by Dr. Randell L. Mills and S. P. Kneizys in Fusion Technology, Vol. 20 (August 1991), No. 1, pp.65-81, wherein ordinary water is used instead of heavy- water. However we have found it necessary to reject the novel chemistry upon which their own explanation of their results has been based, because their theory makes predictions which we have falsified by careful experiment, a preliminary account of which is to be published in the paper "A Light Water Excess Heat Reaction Suggests That 'Cold Fusion' Is 'Alkali-Hydrogen Fusion'", by Robert T. Bush, to appear in Fusion Technology, presently scheduled for May, 1992 [Abstract already published in Fusion Facts, December, 1991] , hereinafter referred to as reference B92, which is a continuation of the already published work on the TRM (Transmission Resonance Model) and TRINT (Transmission Resonance Induced Nuclear Transmutations) of Bush which appeared in Fusion Technology, Volume 19 (March 1991) , pp. 313-356, hereinafter referred to as reference B91. Background ArtThe world was rightfully startled on March 23, 1989 when two electrochemistry professors at the University of Utah announced the discovery of (essentially aneutronic) electrochemically induced excess enthalpy in such large amounts per cubic centimeter of cathode (and/or electrolyte) that it seems to have no possible conventional chemical explanation and was therefore assumed by them to involve nuclear fusion reactions in a so-called "cold fusion" process.This explanation of their carefully-done calorimetric experiments became controversial because, 

according to the accepted theory of fusion reactions as used e.g. in conventional "hot f sion", or "controlled thermonuclear fusion" reactor research, the deuterium nuclei in the heavy water used by Fleischmann _. Pons would have to have kinetic energies of the order of keV (rather than the eV levels of chemical potential inside of their deuterium-saturated palladium cathodes) . It may be possible, however, to overcome this objection entirely within the realm of conventionally accepted icrophysical principles, based upon consideration of the periodici ty of the lattice structure in the metallic host
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS We claim:
1. In the field of electrochemically induced excess enthalpy generation apparati of the type disclosed by Fleischmann and Pons, the improved apparatus comprising the use of an electrolytic cell containing an electrolyte characterized by an isotopic aqueous solution of a soluble compound of any isotope selected from the group comprised of thallium plus any of the alkali-type elements namely, hydrogen, deuterium, tritium, lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, and francium, in contact with a metallic cathode which catalyzes nuclear fusion reactions between a first reactant, namely isqtopic hydrogen, and a second reactant, namely an isotope selected from said group, which reactions produce a nuclear daughter product whose mass is less than the combined masses of said reactants, so that the mass defect is converted principally into thermal energy of the contents of said cell according to the predictions of special relativity, said thermal energy becoming available for useful purposes such as heating and power generation.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said soluble compound is selected from the group comprised of the hydroxides, the carbonates, the sulfates, the phosphates, and the nitrates.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said metallic cathode is composed of nickel, iron, cobalt, palladium, titanium, zirconium, ruthenium, rhodium, osmium, iridium, hafnium, vanadium, uranium, platinum or an alloy thereof such as Raney nickel. 


 4. The apparatus of Claim 1 improved as to the catalytic reactivity of said cathode by increased porosity of said cathode in order to increase its ratio of surface area to volume and its local radii of curvature.
5. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said cathode is characterized by a sinter-bonded mixture of fibers and powder of a selected metal.
6. The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said selected metal is nickel.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cathode is improved as to catalytic reactivity by increased surface to volume ratio in comparison to the known compact, solid, rodlike cathodes by being geometrically non-compact, porous, and selected from the group comprised of annular, cylindrical, and plate-like cathodes.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the atomic-lattice microstructure of said cathode is optimized by an external electrical automatic control system based upon the magnetostrictive and electrostrictive properties of the metal comprising said cathode.
9. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said isotopic aqueous solvent is ordinary water.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said first isotopic reactant is principally hydrogen.
11. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said first isotopic reactant is principally heavy hydrogen, namely its isotope deuterium. 


 12. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said first isotopic reactant is principally super-heavy hydrogen, namely its isotope tritium.
13. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of hydrogen and said daughter product is principally an isotope of helium.
14. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of lithium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of helium.
15. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of sodium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of magnesium.
16. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of potassium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of calcium.
17. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of rubidium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of strontium.
18. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of cesium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of barium. 


 19. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of thallium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of lead.
5 20. In the field of electrochemically induced excess enthalpy generation methods of the type disclosed by Fleischmann and Pons, the improved method comprising the steps of:
preparing of an electrolytic cell;
10 selecting for use in said cell an electrolyte comprised of an isotopic aqueous solution of a soluble compound of any isotope selected from the group comprised of thallium plus any of the alkali-type elements, namely hydrogen, deuterium,
15 tritium, lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, and francium;
providing for contact between said electrolyte and a metallic cathode which catalyzes nuclear fusion reactions between a first reactant, namely isotopic 20 hydrogen, and a second reactant, namely an isotope selected from said group; thereby
producing a nuclear daughter product whose mass is less than the combined masses of said reactants; thereby
I' 25 converting the mass defect principally into thermal energy of the contents of said cell according to the predictions of special relativity; thereby
enabling availability of said thermal energy for useful purposes such as heating and power 30 generation. 


 21. The method of Claim 20 wherein said soluble compound is selected from the group comprised of the hydroxides, the carbonates, the sulfates, the phosphates, and the nitrates.
22. The method of Claim 20 wherein said metallic cathode is composed of nickel, iron, cobalt, palladium, titanium, zirconium, ruthenium, rhodium, osmium, iridium, hafnium, vanadium, uranium, platinum or an alloy thereof such as Raney nickel.
23. The method of Claim 20 improved as to the catalytic reactivity of said cathode by increased porosity of said cathode in order to increase its ratio of surface area to volume and its local radii of curvature.
24. The method of Claim 22 wherein said cathode consists of a sinter-bonded mixture of fibers and powder of a selected metal.
25. The method of Claim 22 wherein said selected metal is nickel.
26. The method of Claim 20 wherein said cathode is improved as to catalytic reactivity by increased surface to volume ratio in comparison to the known compact, solid, rodlike cathodes by being geometrically non-compact, porous, and selected from the group comprised of annular, cylindrical, and plate-like cathodes. 


 27. The method of Claim 20 wherein the atomic-lattice microstructure of said cathode is optimized by an external electrical automatic control system based upon the magnetostrictive and electrostrictive properties of the metal comprising said cathode.
28. The method of Claim 20 wherein said isotopic aqueous solvent is ordinary water.
29. The method of Claim 20 wherein said first isotopic reactant is principally hydrogen.
30. The method of Claim 20 wherein said first isotopic reactant is principally heavy hydrogen, namely its isotope deuterium.
31. The method of Claim 20 wherein said first isotopic reactant is principally super-heavy hydrogen, namely its isotope tritium.
32. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of hydrogen and said daughter product is principally an isotope of helium.
33. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of lithium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of helium.
34. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of sodium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of magnesium. 


 35. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of potassium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of calcium.
36. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of rubidium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of strontium.
37. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of cesium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of barium'.
38. The method of Claim 20 wherein said second isotopic reactant is principally an isotope of thallium and said daughter product is principally an isotope of lead.
39. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said group is expanded to include any isotope of any element whose nucleus has the property that when it combines with an isotopic hydrogen nucleus the resulting nucleus is predicted by conventionally accepted nuclear physics calculations to have a mass defect.
40. The method of Claim 20 wherein said group is expanded to include any isotope of any element whose nucleus has the property than when it combines with an isotopic hydrogen nucleus the resulting nucleus is predicted by conventionally accepted nuclear physics calculations to have a mass defect. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
