<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642268</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Video camera system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N592	H04N592	H04N577	H04N577	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A video camera system has a recording portion and 
a reproducing portion. The recording portion includes an 

imaging device (1) for imaging a subject and for generating 
a video signal, a parameter generator (2, 3, 4) for 

generating parameters for imaging the subject, a parameter 
collector (5) for collecting the parameters, a multiplexer 

(6) for multiplexing the video signal with the parameters 
and for generating a multiplexed signal, and a recorder (7) 

for recording the multiplexed signal to a tape (61). The 
reproducing portion includes a reproducer (17) for reproducing 

the multiplex signal from the tape (61), a separator 
(18) for separating the multiplexed signal to the video 

signal and the parameters, a condition detector (64) for 
detecting a moment when the parameters are set in a 

predetermined condition, and for producing a condition 
detected signal, a image reducer (21) for reducing a size 

of the video signal and for generating a reduced video 
signal, and a memory (65) for storing the reduced video 

signal in response to the condition detected signal. In 
the memory (65) multiple images obtained from different 

frames are stored for displaying the multiple image. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAYAMA MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAKAUE SHIGEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAYAMA, MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAKAUE, SHIGEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a video camera
system for recording the video signal of a motion image to
tape, disk, semiconductor memory, or other medium, and
extracting from the motion image recorded to said medium
the image representative of the motion image content.Fig. 16 is a block diagram of a conventional
video camera system described in
JP-A-4-220090, and comprising a video signal
input terminal 101, electronic viewfinder 102, recording
unit 103, line video output terminal 104, character
generator 105, recording start trigger terminal 106, and
timer circuit 107. As shown in Fig. 16, the character
generator 105 superimposes a character pattern over the
video signal, and outputs the composite signal to SW1. The
timer circuit 107 sets switch SW1 to pole B1 for a
predetermined time starting from the recording start
trigger timing, and then switches SW1 to pole A1. As a
result of this operation, the signal displayed, recorded,
or output by the electronic viewfinder 102, recording unit
103, and line video output terminal 104 is the video signal
to which the character pattern is superimposed for the
predetermined timing from the recording start trigger
timing, and then becomes a normal video signal with no
superimposition.In the video camera system described in
JP-A-2-214271, searching the recorded
image is made possible by writing a reduced image of the
imaged scene to video memory each time the recording start
trigger button is pressed.With a conventional magnetic recording and
reproducing apparatus as described in
JP-A-1-246973, it is possible to extract just the 
data signal for searching, editing, and other processes
without damaging the video signal by recording a time code
or other data signal multiplexed to the vertical blanking
period of the video signal.However, it is difficult to search for and find
a frame representative of the content of the motion image
from an image recorded by a video camera system thus
comprised. For example, to find a frame to which a
specific character pattern has been superimposed in an
image recorded by the video camera system described in
JP-A-4-220090, it is necessary
to first separate the character pattern from the video
signal and then compare the separated character pattern
with the character pattern to be found, a conceptually
simple but technically difficult task to accomplish.With images recorded using the video camera
system in JP-A-2-214271, it is
only possible to search for the image captured at the
moment the recording start trigger button was
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video camera system comprising:

an imaging means (1) for imaging a subject and for generating a video
signal;
parameter generation means (2, 3, 4) for generating parameters for imaging

said subject;
parameter collection means (5) for collecting said parameters;
first multiplexing means (6) for multiplexing said video signal with said
parameters and for generating a first multiplexed signal;
first recording means (7) for recording said first multiplexed signal to a
recording medium (61);
reproducing means (17) for reproducing said multiplex signal from said
recording medium (61);
separation means (18) for separating said first multiplexed signal to said
video signal and said parameters;
condition detection means (64) for detecting a moment when the condition
of the image corresponds to at least one predetermined parameter, and for producing

a corresponding condition detected signal;
image reducing means (21) for modifying said video signal such that it
represents a reduced-size image and for generating a corresponding reduced video

signal; and
memory means (65) for storing said reduced video signal in response to said
condition detected signal, whereby said memory means (65) stores one or more of

said reduced video signal.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
further comprising image forming means (63) for forming an

image stored in said memory means (65).
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 2,
wherein said image forming means (63) is a printer.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 2,
wherein said image forming means (63) is a display.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said first multiplexing means (6) multiplexes said

parameters in a vertical blanking period of said video
signal.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said image reducing
means (21) modifies said video signal such that it represents a reduced-size image

in one frame.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said image reducing
means (21) modifies said video signal such that it represents a reduced-size image

in one field.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameter generation means (2, 3, 4) comprises

signal processor means (2) for generating internal parameters,
operation switch means (3) for generating external

parameters, and sensor circuit means (4) for generating
sensor parameters.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a lens iris parameter for

expressing an F number of said video camera, said lens iris
parameter being an integer 'a' in the following equation of

the F number:

F number = 2
a/8
.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a gain level parameter for

expressing a gain G of an automatic gain control in said
video camera, said gain level parameter being an integer

'b' in the following equation of the gain G:

G = -3 + b x 3 (dB).
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a shutter speed parameter

for expressing a shutter speed Ts of said video camera,
said shutter speed parameter being an integer 'c' in the

following equation of the shutter speed Ts:

Ts = c x T
H
 (sec)

in which T
H
 is a horizontal scanning period.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a color temperature

parameter for expressing a set color temperature of a white
balance of said video camera, said color temperature

parameter being an integer 'd' expressed in decamired unit
in the following equation:


d = 10
5
/T

in which T is the color temperature in degrees Kelvin.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a focal length parameter

for expressing a focal length of said video camera, said
focal length parameter being converted to a focal length of

a 35 mm film camera having the same horizontal field of
view as that of said video camera.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include focal length parameters for

expressing a focal length of said video camera, said focal
length being converted to a focal length of a 35mm film

camera having the same horizontal field of view as that of
said video camera, and said focal length parameters being

integers 'e' and 'f' in the following equation of the focal
length:


Focal length = e x 10
f
 (mm).
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include focused subject distance

parameters for expressing a focused distance between said 
video camera and said focused subject, said focused subject

distance parameters being integers 'g' and 'h' in the
following equation of the focused subject distance:


Focused Subject Distance = g x 10
h
 (cm).
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a hand movement compensation

parameter for expressing either one of on and off
state of a hand movement compensation means.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a hand movement compensation

amount parameter for expressing an amount of hand
movement.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a hand movement compensation

amount parameters for expressing an amount of hand
movement in a vertical direction and in a horizontal

direction per unit time.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 18,
wherein said unit time is one frame period.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 18,
wherein said unit time is one field period.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 18,
wherein said unit time is one second.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said parameters include a hand movement compensation

vector parameter for expressing a direction and an
amount of hand movement per unit time.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 22,
wherein said unit time is one frame period. 
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 22,
wherein said unit time is one field period.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 22,
wherein said unit time is one second.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein said condition detection means (20) produces a

recording medium position data indicative of a position on
said recording medium at the detected moment.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 26,
further comprising a second multiplexing means (24) for

multiplexing said recording medium position data with said
reduced video signal and for producing a second multiplexed

signal.
A video camera system as claimed in Claim 27,
further comprising a second recording means (25) for

recording said second multiplexed signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
