<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614168</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electro-optical addressing structure having reduced sensitivity to cross talk
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G336	G09G336	G02F1133	G02F11333	G02F113	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G02F	G02F	G02F	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G3	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plasma addressed liquid crystal display (10) 
uses a liquid crystal material (18) having a low Δε, ε
⊥
, 
and Δn, resulting in reduced sensitivity to cross talk, 

reduced operating voltage, and improved resistance to the 
deleterious electrochemical effects of direct current 

biases. Liquid crystal layers of low Δε, ε
⊥
, and Δn 
materials exhibit lower capacitance, which increases the 

threshold voltage and reduces the saturation voltage to 
achieve reduced sensitivity to crosstalk and a lower 

operating voltage. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electro-optical
addressing structures having multiple address locations
arranged in an array and, in particular, to a method and
an apparatus for reducing the effects of incidental data
propagation or cross talk among the address locations.Electro-optical addressing structures are
employed in a variety of applications including video
cameras, data storage devices, and flat panel liquid
crystal displays. Such addressing structures typically
include very large numbers of address locations arranged
in an array. For example, a flat panel liquid crystal
display configured in accordance with a high-definition
television format would typically include at least
two million address locations. The address locations
would correspond to display elements or pixels that are
arranged in about 1,000 lines with about 2,000 pixels
each.One object in the design of liquid crystal
displays is to minimize cross talk. Adjacent pixels in
such a display are closely spaced and have incidental
capacitive couplings resulting from these small spacings.
Such coupling between adjacent pixels will be referred to
as "side-to-side" coupling. In addition, during operation
of electro-optical addressing structures, the data drive 
signals for all the pixels in a column are typically
carried on a common conductor adjacent to the
pixels. The electrical properties of the electro-optical
addressing structures result in capacitive
coupling among all the pixels in the column or row.
Such coupling among all pixels in a column or row
will be referred to as "front-to-back" coupling. A
third type of crosstalk, known as "horizontal
crosstalk," occurs in a plasma addressed display and
is caused by one of the plasma forming electrodes
being maintained at a floating potential.
Horizontal crosstalk can be eliminated by connecting
the floating electrode to a reference electrode, as
described in copending U.S. patent application for
"Electrode Shunt in Plasma Channel" of Ilcisin
(corresponding to EP-A-0 614 167). These three
types of crosstalk cause the data drive signal
directed to a particular pixel to be carried to
other pixels as incidental data signals or cross
talk. For a display system, the cross talk is image
dependent, i.e., it depends on the data drive
signals present on the conductors and changes the
voltage across a specific pixel. Cross talk effects
include an unpredictable gray scale that limits the
number of achievable gray levels below the number
necessary for acceptable video performance. A gray
level is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of driving a plasma addressed
liquid crystal electro-optical display (10) having an

addressing structure for addressing and delivering
data drive signals to each of plural display elements

(16) arranged at address locations within an array
during a row addressing period that defines an

addressing frequency, the display elements (16) having
incidental electrical couplings that carry incidental

data components having voltage values, the method
comprising delivering data drive signals to display

elements including a nematic liquid crystal material
(28) having a long molecular axis;

   characterised in that the nematic liquid crystal
material (28) has an optical anisotropy less than

about 0.085, a positive dielectric anisotropy less
than about 5, a dielectric constant perpendicular to

the long molecular axis less than about 5, and a
threshold voltage greater than 3 volts, thereby

reducing sensitivity to cross talk and to direct
current voltages and reducing operation voltage

requirements.
A method according to claim 1 in which
the liquid crystal material (28) has a threshold

voltage greater than 4.5 volts.
A method according to claim 1 or 2 in
which the liquid
 crystal material (28) has a positive
dielectric anisotropy less than 1.0.
A method according to any preceding
claim in which the liquid crystal material (28) has a

dielectric constant perpendicular to the long
molecular axis less than 3.0.
A method according to any preceding
claim in which the optical anisotropy is less than

0.08. 
A method according to any preceding
claim, further comprising:


delivering compensating signals to the
display elements (16) to offset cross talk and more

accurately maintain a nominal root mean square voltage
value across portions of the display element during a

frame addressing period.
A method according to claim 6, in which
the data drive signals are delivered on data drive

electrodes (20) to each of the display elements (16)
and in which the delivering of compensating signals

comprises:

determining a compensating signal voltage
value corresponding to the data drive signals applied

to multiple data drive electrodes during the row
address period; and
applying the compensating signal to the data
drive electrodes (20) during the row address period.
A method according to claim 7 in which
the row address period is divided into first and

second phases, the information being applied to the
data drive electrodes (20) during the first phase and

the compensating signal being applied during the
second phase.
A method according to claim 8 in which
the step of determining a compensating signal includes

determining an inverse weighted average of all of the
information applied to the data drive electrodes (20)

during the row address period to the data drive
electrodes.
A plasma addressed liquid crystal
electro-optical display (10) having an addressing

structure for addressing and delivering data drive
signals on data drive electrodes (20) to each of

plural display elements (16) arranged at address 
locations within an array and a data driver (32) for

delivering the data drive signals to plural address
locations within the array during an addressing

period, the display elements (16) including nematic
liquid crystal material (28) having a long molecular

axis and having incidental electrical couplings that
carry incidental data components among the display

elements;

   characterised in that the nematic liquid crystal
material (28) has an optical anisotropy less than

about 0.085, a positive dielectric anisotropy less
than about 5, a dielectric constant perpendicular to

the long molecular axis less than about 5, and a
threshold voltage greater than 3 volts,

thereby causing an image rendered on
the display to be relatively unaffected by the

incidental data components.
A display according to claim 10 in
which the liquid crystal material (28) has a threshold

voltage greater than 4.5 volts.
A display according to claim 10 or 11,
in which the liquid crystal material (28) has a

positive dielectric anisotropy less than 1.0.
A display according to claim 10, 11 or
12 in which the liquid crystal material (28) has a

dielectric constant perpendicular to the long
molecular axis less than 3.0.
A display according to any one of
claims 10 to 13 in which the optical anisotropy is

less than 0.08.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
