<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617988</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An object collision point detecting apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B6300	A63B6300	A63B6936	A63B6936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B63	A63B63	A63B69	A63B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for use in training or playing in various 
shooting games, such as for golf approach shot, baseball batting, 

or sportive gun shooting. A target screen (12) is provided 
opposite to a shooting point (16) from which a ball (17) or the like 

is shot out. Four microphones (101-104) are provided at the 
circumference of the target screen (12) to detect the collision 

sound, and another microphone (105) is set at the shooting point 
to detect the shooting sound of the ball (17). The duration of 

flight of the ball (17), and the collision point on the screen, and 
the trajectory of the flying ball (17), are calculated by analyzing the 

detection time points of each microphone in a control part (14). 
The results, i.e., collision point on the target screen (12), 

flying trajectory of the ball, etc., are shown on a display unit (15). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELM INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAHARA TAKAKAZU C O ELM INC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAHARA, TAKAKAZU, C/O ELM INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus which can be 
used as a shooting training and/or game apparatus for golf 
(especially suited for an approach shot) or any other sports. Techniques required for a golf game consist of a driving 
shot, an approach shot and a patting shot. The driving shot is 
to drive a ball as far as possible in a desired direction. An 
approach shot is to shoot the ball more precisely in the 
direction and in the distance. And a patting shot is to put the 
ball into the hole on a green. It is generally said that the 
number of total shots of an average golf player is almost equally 
shared among the driving shot, approach shot, and patting shot. 
Therefore, these techniques have to be evenly practiced for 
improving the golf score. Among these techniques, the driving shot can be practiced 
at any golf practicing range (or a driving-shot training field). 
The patting can be also practiced at a patting training field 
which is often attached to such driving-shot training field, or 
easily practiced with a simple patting mat on a house backyard. 
In an approach shot, the player is required to adjust his/her 
hitting power to control the flight of the ball (in distance and 
in direction) at less than the maximum drivable distance 
(typically less than 100 m) of the club used. Thus an approach 
shot can not be practiced at the same field as for the patting 
shot practice. The driving-shot practicing fields are generally 
designed mainly to practice the driving shot techniques, and are  
 
not suited for the exercise of the approach shot which is 
required to precisely check the destination of a ball shot in a 
relatively short distance. Further, there is hardly any golf 
practicing field allowing a practice in a situation where the 
altitude difference between the shooting point and a green (which 
usually exists in actual golf courses) is simulated. Though various small sized apparatuses have been proposed 
so far, most of golf practice apparatuses available for home use 
are designed mainly for learning a shooting form or a swing 
practice. Except for expensive apparatuses for commercial use, 
there are few practicing apparatuses with which an actual ball 
can be shot, which requires a broad garden to settle tall and 
long pipes and large nets. Most important thing in an approach shot for the player is 
to know exactly where the shot ball goes. Prior art shooting 
machines could not tell the player the exact course of the flight 
of the shot ball. The problem is general in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for detecting a collision point of an 
object in a detection area, the apparatus comprising: 


a) at least three sets of collision sound detecting means 
located on a circumference of the detection area and out of 

alignment on a line; and 
b) calculating means for calculating the collision point in 
the detection area based on time points at which a collision 

sound of the object is detected by said at least three sets of 
the collision sound detecting means. 
The collision point detecting apparatus according to 
claim 1 further comprising: 


d) projection time detecting means for detecting a 
projection time point when the object is projected from a 

predetermined projection point; and 
e) second calculating means for calculating a traveling time 
length from the time point when the object is projected from the 

predetermined projection point to the time point when the object 
collides against the detection area, based on the time points at 

which the collision sound is detected by said at least three sets 

of the collision sound detecting means and the projection time 
point detected by the projection time detecting means, and for 

calculating an orbit of the object until the object collides 
against the detection area and a virtual orbit after the object 

collides against the detection area using the traveling time 
length and the collision point calculated by the calculating 

means. 
The collision point detecting apparatus according to 
claim 2, wherein the calculating means calculates the collision 

point using a predetermined value of a sound speed. 
The collision point detecting apparatus according to 
claim 2, further comprising 


f) ambient temperature measuring means, and 
g) sound speed calculating means for calculating a sound 
speed based on the measured ambient temperature, 
 
and the calculating means calculates the collision point using 

the calculated sound speed and the time points at which the 
collision sound is detected by said at least three sets of the 

collision sound detecting means. 
The collision point detecting apparatus according to 
claim 2, wherein four sets of collision sound detecting means are 

provided, and the calculating means calculates the sound speed 
and the collision point based on the four time points each 

detected by one of the four sets of the collision sound detecting 
means. 
The collision point detecting apparatus according to 
claim 2, wherein: 

   four sets of collision sound detecting means, ambient 
temperature measuring means, and sound speed calculating means 

for calculating a sound speed based on the measured ambient 
temperature are provided, and 

   the calculating means calculates four values of the 
collision point based on the four sets of combinations each 

 
consisting of three sets of the collision sound detecting means, 

and determines the collision point by taking an average of the 
four values. 
The collision point detecting apparatus according to 
claim 6, wherein the calculating means judges that the calculated 

collision point is abnormal when any of differences between the 
four values is out of a preset reference value. 
A shot training apparatus comprising: 

a) a target screen sheet stretched in a frame; 
b) at least three sets of collision sound detecting means 
placed at circumferences of said target screen sheet for 

detecting a sound of collision of a flying object shot by a 
player to the target screen sheet; and 
c) calculating means for calculating a collision point of 
the flying object on the target screen based on time points of 

the detections of the collision sound by said at least three sets 
of collision sound detecting means. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 8, 
wherein the calculating means calculates the collision point 

using a predetermined value of a sound speed. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9, 
further comprising ambient temperature measuring means, and sound 

speed calculating means for calculating a sound speed based on 
the measured ambient temperature, and the calculating means 

calculates the collision point using the calculated sound speed 
 

and the time points at which the collision sound is detected by 
said at least three sets of the collision sound detecting means. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9, 
wherein four sets of collision sound detecting means are 

provided, and the calculating means calculates the sound speed 
and the collision point based on the four time points each 

detected by one of the four sets of the collision sound detecting 
means. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9 
further comprising ambient temperature measuring means, and sound 

speed calculating means for calculating a sound speed based on 
the measured ambient temperature, 

wherein four sets of collision sound detecting means are 
provided, and the calculating means calculates four values of the 

collision point, each value calculated from one of four sets of 
combinations each consisting of three collision sound detecting 

means, and determines the collision point with an average value 
of the four values. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein the calculating means judges that the detection is 

abnormal when any difference between two values among the four 
values is greater than a preset value. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9, 
further comprising 


d) shooting time detecting means for detecting a shooting 
 

time point when the flying object is shot from a predetermined 
shooting point; and 
e) second calculating means for calculating a traveling time 
length from the time point when the flying object is shot from 

the predetermined shooting point to the time point when the 
flying object collides against the target screen sheet, based on 

the time points at which the collision sound is detected by said 
at least three sets of the collision sound detecting means and 

the shooting time point detected by the shooting time detecting 
means, and for calculating an orbit of the flying object until 

the flying object collides against the target screen sheet and 
a virtual orbit after the flying object collides against the 

target screen sheet using the traveling time length and the 
collision point calculated by the calculating means. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 14 
further comprising display means for displaying results, such as 

the collision point of the flying object on the target screen 
sheet and the orbit of the flying object, calculated by the 

calculating means and the second calculating means. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9, 
wherein a target pattern with shooting scores is printed on the 

target screen sheet. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9, 
wherein the flying object is a golf ball and the shooting sound 

detecting means detects the hitting sound generated by a golf 
club and the golf ball. 
The shot training apparatus according to claim 9, 
wherein the target screen sheet is extended from the bottom of 

the frame toward the shooting point so that the flying object 
returns to the shooting point after the flying object collides 

against the target screen sheet. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
