<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643359</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for recommending selections based on preferences in a multi-user system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	G06Q3000	G06Q3000	G10K1504	G10K1504	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04N7173	H04N7173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	G10K	G10K	H04M	H04M	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06Q30	G06Q30	G10K15	G10K15	H04M11	H04M11	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for determining selections that a user is 
likely to be interested in. The determination is made based 

on the user's prior indicated preferences. The user 
designates his or her preferred selections as entries in a 

user's preference list. Entries in the user's list are 
compared with entries in the other users' lists. When a 

significant number of matches have been found between two 
lists, the unmatched entries of the other user's preference 

list are extracted. The unmatched entries are further 
processed. Those unmatched entries with a high correlation to 

the user's preference list are presented to the user as 
selections in which the user is likely to be interested. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MNI INTERACTIVE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MNI INTERACTIVE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATCHESON JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER III JAMES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATCHESON JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER III JAMES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The generation, replication and transmission of 
information by automated technology has far surpassed a 
person's ability to keep up with the information. Not only is 
this true in the business world, but our leisure activities 
also involve sorting through an overwhelming number of choices 
and making intelligent selections. For example, there is an 
abundance of entertainment in digital-audio or digital-video 
form, such as compact discs ("CD's"), mini-discs, digital 
audio tape ("DAT"), laser discs, computer graphics, high-definition 
television ("HDTV"), etc. The accelerating ability 
of communication systems to convey this information virtually 
instantaneously means that we have access to many thousands of 
selections. The trend is for computers to be integrated with 
household devices, such as telephones or televisions, giving 
rise to "smart phones" or "intelligent" or "interactive" 
televisions. A telephone with computer capability could be 
used to "download" digital information, representing, for 
example, music selections, into the memory of the telephone 
for later playback. Alternatively, the downloaded information 
could be written to a medium such as a writeable compact disc. 
Thus, the smart phone would be capable of downloading high-fidelity 
music onto a CD that could be played at the user's 
leisure on his or her sophisticated stereo system. Since the 
telephone is connected to a vast network, such a system would 
provide an efficient method of exchange of sound information. 
In effect, a user could, for example, "dial-up" a central 
processor and employ a push-button phone or other input device 
to request music by the user's favorite recording artist and 
have it downloaded into the user's home. A similar setup is 
possible for visual images downloaded to an interactive  
 
television via, e.g., a cable network that connects the 
interactive television to a central site where movies are 
stored and available for downloading. However, one problem with these systems is that it 
is often difficult for a user to keep abreast of all of the 
possible selections for sound and image data, that is, current 
releases by a favorite recording artist or current movies that 
might be of interest to the user. The speed with which new 
entertainment selections are provided, not to mention the past 
decades of audio and visual works already in existence, 
results in a huge number of selections that is ever-growing. One way for a user, or subject, to make a selection 
from a large collection of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for outputing recommended preferences 
based on predetermined preferences, the method executing on a 

computer system, the computer system including a processor, 
database, an input device and an output device, wherein the 

database includes a plurality of datafiles each containing a 
plurality of preferences, the method comprising the following 

steps: 
   accepting signals from the input device to indicate 

a plurality of user preferences; 
   using the processor to search the database and to 

determine the number of user preferences that match 
preferences in a given datafile; 

   using the processor to identify datafiles with a 
number of matching preferences above a first threshold number; 

   selecting preferences from the identified datafiles, 
wherein the selected preferences do not match the user 

preferences; and 
   outputing, by means of the output device, the 

selected preferences. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the preference 
is an artist's name. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the preference 
is the title of a movie. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the computer 
system further includes a data communications network, wherein 

the processor, database, first user input device, second user 
input device and output device are coupled to the network, 

wherein the first and second user input devices are remotely 
located from each other. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the "selecting 
preferences" step further comprises the substeps of 
(a) for each unmatching preference in the identified 
datafiles, determining the number of other preferences in the 

identified datafiles that match it and assigning the 
determined number to the preference; and 
(b) using the processor to select one or more 
unmatching preferences with the highest assigned numbers. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the number of 
preferences in a datafile is limited to 10, and wherein the 

first threshold number is 5. 
The method of claim 5, wherein the number of 
preferences in a datafile is limited to 10, and wherein only 

those unmatching preferences that also appear in 50% or more 
of the identified datafiles are selected in substep (b). 
An apparatus for identifying preferences, the 
apparatus comprising 

   a processor; 
   a database coupled to the processor; 

   means, coupled to the processor, for accepting signals to 
indicate first and second preferences; 

   means, coupled to the processor, for creating an 
association between the first and second preferences and for 

storing the first and second preferences in the database as a 
first datafile; 

   means, coupled to the processor, for accepting signals to 
indicate a user preference, wherein the user preference is the 

same as the first preference; 
   means, coupled to the processor, for determining that the 

user preference matches the first preference; 
   means, coupled to the processor, for retrieving the 

correlated second preference from the database; and 
   an output device, coupled to the processor, for outputing 

the second preference. 
A method for recommending music selections 
based on a user's preferred music selections, the method 

 
including a computer system, the computer system including a 

database, input device and output device, the method 
comprising the following steps: 

   storing a plurality of associated music selections 
in the database; 

   accepting signals from the user input device to 
indicate a plurality, m, of a user's preferred music 

selections; 
   using the processor to determine that a number, n, 

of the preferred music selections match with the associated 
music selections in the database; 

   using the processor to determine the number of 
unmatched associated music selections in the database; and 

   outputing, by means of the output device, the 
unmatched associated music selections. 
An apparatus for recommending music selections 
based on a user's preferred music selections, the apparatus 

comprising: 
   a computer system including a database; 

   means for storing a plurality of associated music 
selections in the database; 

   means for accepting signals from the user input 
device to indicate a plurality, m, of a user's preferred music 

selections; 

   means for determining that a number, n, of the 
preferred music selections match with the associated music 

selections in the database; 
   means for determining the number of unmatched 

associated music selections in the database; and 
   means for outputing the unmatched associated music 

selections. 
A method for outputing an ordered list of 
recommended objects based on an input object, the computer 

system including a processor, database, input device and an 
output device, the method comprising the following steps:

 
   using the processor to store pairs of ranked objects 

in the database; 
   using the processor to assign a ranking number to 

each of the pairs of ranked objects and storing the ranking 
number as associated with the pair; 

   accepting signals from the input device to indicate 
an object; 

   using the processor to find occurrences of the 
selected object in the pairs of ranked objects; 

   for each pair in which the selected object occurs, 
determining the object in the pair that does not match the 

selected object; 
   using the processor to order non-matching objects 

into a list according to the ranking number for the pair that 
the non-matching object belongs to; and 

   outputing the list as an ordered list of recommended 
objects. 
The method of claim 11, wherein each object is 
an artist's name. 
The method of claim 11, wherein each object is 
the title of a movie. 
An apparatus for outputing an ordered list of 
recommended objects based on an input object, the apparatus 

comprising: 
   a computer system, the computer system including a 

processor, and a database, wherein the processor is coupled to 
the database; 

   pairing means, coupled to the processor, for storing 
pairs of ranked objects in the database; 

   ranking means for assigning a ranking number to each 
of the pairs of ranked objects and storing a given ranking 

number as associated with a given stored pair; 
   input means, coupled to the processor, for accepting 

signals from a human user to indicate a selected object;
 

   finding means for finding occurrences of the 
selected object in the pairs of ranked objects; 

   determining means for determining, for each pair, 
the object in the pair that does not match the selected 

object; 
   ordering means for ordering non-matching objects 

into a list according to the ranking number for the pair that 
the non-matching object belongs to; and 

   output means, coupled to the processor, for 
outputing the list as an ordered list of recommended objects. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
