<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629469</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC ASSEMBLY APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23P2100	B62D6510	B23P2100	B62D6500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23P	B62D	B23P	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23P21	B62D65	B23P21	B62D65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to an apparatus for automatically mounting components such as an engine, suspensions, 
etc, on a work such as a chassis which is conveyed by a conveyor. The apparatus is equipped with a component 

carriage and a screwdriver carriage. The component carriage, which follows the running conveyor, includes an 
interconnection mechanism for interconnecting with the conveyor, and an approaching table for carrying components 

to the work. The screwdriver carriage, which follows the running conveyor, includes an interconnecting mechanism 
for interconnection with the conveyor, and a screwdriver mechanism that reaches the work to fasten components with 

screws. The component carriage and the screwdriver carriage are connected to the conveyor, and move in synchronism 
with the work. The components are positioned by the movement of the approach table, and screw fastening is made 

by the screwdriver mechanism. The components are mounted without stopping the work. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIBA HIDEMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INAMORI TADAKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITO TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIIMI ATSUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIRAMIZU KOSUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
URUNO KIYOKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAUCHI KEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIBA, HIDEMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INAMORI, TADAKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITO, TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIIMI, ATSUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIRAMIZU, KOSUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
URUNO, KIYOKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAUCHI, KEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an automatic assembling
apparatus
according to the preamble of claim 1
for assembling parts such as an engine or a
suspension onto a car body or like work which is being
conveyed continuously, i.e., without stop, by positioning
the parts and then thread fastening the positioned parts to
the work.An automatic assembling apparatus as defined in the preamble of
claim 1 is shown for example from DE-A-3 729 084.A conventional automatic assembling apparatus, for
instance, an automatic assembling line for assembling such
parts as an engine, a suspension, wheels, etc. onto a car
body, has an assembling zone in which the engine, the
suspension, etc. are coupled to the car body. In the
assembling zone, the car body which is supplied by a ceiling
conveyor (or work conveyor) is transferred from the ceiling
conveyor to a separate conveyor and is positioned thereon,
and the engine, the suspension, etc. are raised by a lifter
with respect to the car body which has been positioned as
above and is held stationary. Thus, the engine, the 
suspension, etc. are coupled to prescribed positions of the
car body. The car body with the engine, the suspension,
etc. coupled thereto is then conveyed by the separate
conveyor to a thread fastening zone. In the thread
fastening zone, a thread fastening operation is done by an
automatic thread fastening unit with the car body held
stationary again. In this way, the engine, the suspension,
etc. are assembled onto the car body. The car body with the
engine, the suspension, etc. assembled thereon is then
conveyed by the separate conveyor to a back-up zone in which
repair with respect to defective thread fastening, etc. is
made.The car body, to which the engine, the suspension, etc.
have been secured reliably in the above way, is then
returned to the ceiling conveyor to be conveyed to the next
step.In the above automatic assembling line for
automatically assembling the engine, the suspension, etc.,
however, an exclusive conveyor is required separately from
the ceiling conveyor (or work conveyor) for conveying the
car body or like work, and therefore correspondingly high
installation cost is required. In addition, correspondingly
broad installation space is necessary. Further, when a repair becomes necessary, the operator
enters the automatic assembling line for carrying out a
repair operation. This is disadvantageous from the
standpoints of the safety and operation efficiency.An object of the invention is to permit automatic
assembling of such parts as an engine,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An automatic assembling apparatus for positioning parts
(X; En; 8) with respect to a conveyed work (3) and

screwing the parts to the work (3), comprising

a conveyor (1, 2) for conveying the work (3);
a parts truck (5; 330; 610; 804; 904; 1004) including an
approach truck for approaching the work (3) while

carrying the parts thereon and a coupling mechanism
(5h; 350; 806t, 1006t) to be clamped to the conveyor

(1, 2); and
a screwing truck (400; 500; 615; 1100) including a
screwing mechanism (412; 550; 650; 1150) for

approaching a screwing position of a part positioned
at a mounting position of the work (3) by the

approach of the approach truck, wherein
each of the parts is positioned with respect to the work
(3) and each of the positioned parts is screwed by

the screwing mechanism (412; 550; 650; 1150),
characterized in that

the screwing truck (400; 500; 615; 1100) includes a
coupling mechanism (419h; 520; 1106) to be coupled to the

conveyor (1, 2) so that the screwing truck (400; 500;
615; 1100) is movable together with the conveyor (1, 2)

independently from the parts truck (5; 330; 610; 804;
904; 1004) wherein the conveyor (1, 2) conveys the work

(3) continuously without stop as the approach truck is
driven to approach the work (3) while the parts truck (5;

330; 610; 804; 904; 1004) is moved with the work (3) and
during positioning operation the parts truck (5; 330;

610; 804; 904; 1004) is moved by the continuously moving
conveyor (1, 2) in parallel to at least part of the

conveying path of the conveyor (1, 2) and in that the
conveyor (1, 2) conveys the work (3) continuously without

stop as the screwing mechanism (412; 550; 650; 1150) is
driven to approach the work (3) while the screwing truck 

(400; 500; 615; 1100) is moved with the work (3) and
during screwing operation the screwing truck (400; 500;

615; 1100) is moved by the continuously moving conveyor
(1, 2) in parallel to at least part of the path of the

conveyor (1, 2). 
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, further comprising a parts truck conveyor for

returning the parts truck from a position of end of the path
driven by the conveyor to a position of start of the path

driven by the conveyor, thus permitting repeated use of the
parts truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, wherein the screwing truck includes a self-running

mechanism for causing self-running from a position of end of
the path driven by the conveyor to a position of start of

the path driven by the conveyor, thus permitting repeated
use of the screwing truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, further comprising a positioning mechanism to be

coupled for positioning the work and the approach truck in a
predetermined positional relation, the positioning mechanism

being provided between the work and the approach truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, further comprising a positioning mechanism to be

coupled for positioning the approach truck and the screwing
truck in a predetermined positional relation, the

positioning mechanism being provided between the approach
truck and the screwing truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to 
claim 1, wherein a back-up zone is provided downstream the

position of end of the path of the screwing truck, thus
permitting back-up operations making use of the parts truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, wherein the parts are mounted on the approach truck

via a pallet and are positioned by the pallet such that the
parts are held in the same positional relation as that of

the mounting positions of the parts with respect to the
work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 7, further comprising a positioning mechanism to be

coupled for positioning the work and the pallet in a
predetermined positional relation, the positioning mechanism

being provided between the work and the pallet.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 7, further comprising a positioning mechanism to be

coupled for positioning the pallet and the screwing
mechanism in a predetermined positional relation, the

positioning mechanism being provided between the pallet and
the screwing mechanism.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 7, where in a socket having one end coupled to a screw

head and the other end coupled to the screwing mechanism is
provided for relative movement to the pallet, the socket

being taken out from the pallet and brought into contact 
with the work as the screwing mechanism approaches the work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 10, wherein the socket is capable of being mounted on

and dismounted from an edge of the pallet and capable of
being moved without interference with the pallet with

changes in the position of the screwing mechanism.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 10, wherein a lock mechanism is provided between the

pallet and the socket such that it is unlocked when the
screwing mechanism approaches the work and is locked when

the screwing mechanism is separated from the work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 10, wherein a lock mechanism is provided between the

screwing mechanism and the socket.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 7, wherein the pallet is capable of being removed from

the approach truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim
 1, wherein the work is a car body, and the parts
include an engine.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, wherein the work is a car body, and the parts

include a suspension mechanism.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, wherein the work is a car body with a steering 

mechanism mounted thereon, and the parts include a wheel.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, further comprising:


a guide truck including a parts guide drive mechanism
for causing a parts guide to approach the work and a

coupling mechanism for coupling the guide truck to the
conveyor, the guide truck being capable of being driven by

the conveyor in parallel to the path of movement of the
parts truck, an end position of a part approaching the work

being guided by the parts guide as the approach truck
approaches the work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, further comprising:


a position inspection truck provided downstream a
position of start of the path of the parts truck and

including a position inspection unit for checking the
position of each part on the approach truck and a coupling

mechanism for coupling the position inspection truck to the
conveyor, the position inspection truck being capable of

being moved by the conveyor in parallel to the path of
movement of the parts truck, the parts on the approach truck

being thus capable of being position checked prior to the
approaching operation of the approach truck.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 19, wherein the position inspection unit checks the 

position of the upper end of a shock absorber.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 19, wherein the position inspection unit checks the

position of the upper end of a shift lever.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 7, wherein:


the pallet can be disassembled into a plurality of
divisions and also made into a single integral structure;
the parts truck includes a pallet drive mechanism for
moving the pallet and pallet securing mechanisms provided at

a plurality of positions to secure the pallet; and
the divisions of the pallet are successively secured to
the approach truck so that the pallet is disassembled into a

plurality of divisions, parts being provided on the
disassembled pallet such that they are held in a positional

relation of mounting with respect to the work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 7, wherein the pallet is mounted on and dismounted

from the parts truck in its single integral structure state.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 23, wherein the parts are set on the pallet in the

single integral structure state thereof.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 1, wherein the work is a car body with a hub wheel

assembled thereon, and further comprising: 

a hub wheel position adjusting truck provided upstream
the parts truck and including an adjusting mechanism for

adjusting the hub wheel to a predetermined position and a
coupling mechanism for coupling the hub wheel position

adjusting truck to the conveyor, the hub wheel position
adjusting truck being capable of being moved with the

conveyor, the hub wheel being adjusted to a predetermined
position before the approach truck approaches the work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 25, further comprising:


a phase adjusting truck provided downstream the hub
wheel position adjusting truck and including a phase

adjusting mechanism adjusting the hub wheel to a
predetermined phase and a coupling mechanism for coupling

the hub wheel adjusting truck to the conveyor, the hub wheel
being adjusted to a predetermined phase before the approach

truck approaches the work.
The automatic assembling apparatus according to
claim 26, wherein the parts include a wheel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
