<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634159</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Patient support system fastening device and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G7057	A61G7057	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G7	A61G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fastening device (80) for flexible sheeting members 
(26, 30) that alternately are reliably joined and easily 

disengaged, and a method for using same is provided for a 
patient support system that includes a pressurizable 

chamber (22). A male member has two sections 
formed of relatively softer material. A female member 

includes a pair of opposed wing members configured so that 
external pressure exerted against each wing member toward 

the other wing member, leverages the wing members to 
positively lock the fastening device. A cord closure (88) 

has a manually operable release mechanism (89), which 
engages a cord member (82) anchored at opposite ends to a 

flexible sheet (26, 83, 85) secured to the fastening 
device. The operator selects where along the length of the 

cord member the cord closure is to be engaged to shorten 
the length of the flexible sheet (26) and pull the 

fastening device down below the patient support surface. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HILL ROM CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HILL-ROM COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEMER EDRIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOLTANI SOHRAB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEMER, EDRIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOLTANI, SOHRAB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fastening device, 
and more particularly to a fastening device for securing 
together flexible sheeting material of a patient support 
system and a method employing same. Specialty patient support systems, such as low air 
loss beds, air fluidized beds, and hybrid low air loss/air 
fluidized beds, have provided a significant advancement in 
patient care. One example of such a bed is disclosed in 
U.S. Patent No. 4,942,635 assigned to SSI Medical Services, 
Inc. Generally, these beds contain various pressurizable 
chambers, such as individual air sacs and/or a fluidized 
medium chamber. The air sacs, cover sheets, chambers, etc. 
defining the support surface are generally formed of 
flexible sheeting material as is commonly understood in the 
art. The sheeting material may be air permeable or contain 
apertures defined therein in a low air loss configuration 
for the support system. Various conventional means have 
been utilized to secure the sheeting materials together to 
define the patient support system. For example, one such 
fastening device is disclosed in Fig. 5 of U.S. Patent No. 
4,942,635 wherein a fastening device consisting of male and 
female locking members is disclosed. The male and female 
members are secured generally to the edges of sheeting 
material desired to be secured together. For example, the 
fastening device may be provided to join a cover sheet for 
a fluidized chamber and an attachment flap extending from 
an inflatable sac retaining wall, as disclosed in the '635 
patent. However, the conventional fastening devices 
occasionally separate under certain conditions. If this 
occurs, the bed must generally be shut down and the patient 
transferred to another support system. The microspheres 
may spill out of the bed and into the immediate 
environment. Additionally, applicants have noted that the 
conventional fastening devices tend to interfere with the 
patient's comfort due to their relative disposition on the 
patient support surface of the system. Moreover, in order  
 
to provide additional assurance against separation of 
conventional fastening devices, fastening devices are 
configured to provide such powerful locking forces that 
persons may encounter difficulty in joining and/or 
separating the fastening devices whenever such manipulation 
is warranted by the circumstances. Thus, applicants have 
recognized the desirability of a fastening device that was 
easily manipulated to join together or separate yet would 
remain joined more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for a patient support system (20), 
comprising: 


a tank; 
a diffuser board (24) carried by said tank; 
a mass of fluidizable material (e.g. 34) disposed on 
said diffuser board; 
a first flexible sheet (26) configured and disposed 
to retain said fluidizable material above said diffuser 

board in the form of a patient support surface; 
a filter sheet (30) disposed above said fluidizable 
material; 
a means (e.g., 80) for fastening together at least 
one predetermined section of said flexible sheet to at 

least one predetermined section of said filter sheet to 
form a pressurizable chamber (22); and
 
   characterized in that there is further provided a 

pull-down means (e.g., 82, 83, 85, 87) for selectively 
disposing said fastening means by an operator away from 

said patient support surface. 
An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said pull-down 
means includes: 


at least one cord member (82) secured to said 
fastening means(80); and 
a first anchoring member (e.g., 87) disposed at one 
end of said cord member and a second anchoring member 

(e.g., 88) selectively disposable at the other end of said 
cord member. 
An apparatus for a patient support system (20) 
including flexible sheets (26, 30) of material defining at 

least one pressurizable chamber (22), the apparatus 
comprising: 


a male member (60) having a substantially uniform 
cross-sectional profile along substantially the length 

thereof, said male member including a head portion (62) and 
a stem portion (63) defined below said head portion, said 

stem portion being configured to be secured to one sheet 
(26 or 30) of material; and 
a female member (70) having a substantially uniform 
cross-sectional profile along substantially the length 

thereof, said female member including a receiving pocket 
(72) configured to receive said male member head portion 

(62), said pocket (72) being configured with an entrance 
(73) into said pocket (72);
 
   characterized in that said female member includes a 

pair of opposed wing members (74), each said wing member 
(74) being configured to extend from said entrance (73) at 

an angle so as to diverge from said entrance and from said 
other wing member, whereby external pressure exerted 

against said wing members (74) leverages said wing members 
to positively narrow said entrance (73) of said pocket, 

said female member including a stem portion (75) configured 
for being secured to another sheet (26 or 30) of material. 
The apparatus as in claim 3, wherein said male member 
is partially formed of a first material of predetermined 

hardness, said male member head portion (62) further 
defining at least one section (66) formed of a second 

material, said second material being softer than said first 
material. 
The apparatus as in claim 3, further comprising a pull-down 
means (e.g., 82, 83, 85, 87) for selectively disposing 

said male and female members by an operator away from the 
patient supporting surface of th
e patient support system.  
 
A method of disposing the fastening means (80) for the 
filter sheet (30) of an air fluidized patient support 

surface wherein the filter sheet is secured to a flexible 
sheet (26) with the fastening means, the method comprising 

the steps of: 

shortening the extension of said flexible sheet (26) 
until said fastening means (80) is disposed a predetermined 

distance beneath the patient support surface; and 
securing said fastening means beneath the patient 
support surface. 
The method as in claim 6, wherein said filter sheet 
securing step includes using a fastening means that 

responds to pressure by increasing the positive locking 
force of the fastening means. 
The method as in claim 7, wherein said filter sheet 
securing step includes: 


inserting the head portion (62) of a male member 
(60) having a stem portion (62) secured to one of 

said flexible sheet (26) and said filter sheet (30), 
into the receiving pocket (72) of a female member 

(70) including a stem portion (75) secured to the 
other of said flexible sheet (26) and said filter 

sheet (30) and having a pair of opposed wing members 
(74), each said wing member being configured to 

extend from the entrance (73) of the receiving pocket 
(72) at an angle so as to diverge from said entrance 

(73) and from said other wing member (74), whereby 
external pressure exerted against said wing members 

(74) leverages said wing members to positively narrow 
said entrance of said pocket (72). 
The method as in claim 6, wherein said flexible sheet 
shortening step includes: 


pulling a length of cord (82) anchored at a first 
grommet (86), through a second grommet (84), each grommet 

being separately attached to said flexible sheet (26) at a 
predetermined distance from said other grommet, said 

pulling of the cord thereby shortening the extension of 
said flexible sheet as one grommet (84) is drawn toward the 

other grommet (86). 
The method as in claim 9, wherein said fastening means 
securing step includes: 


when said flexible sheet (26) is sufficiently 
shortened to dispose said fastening means (80) at said 

predetermined distance beneath said patient support 
surface, then clamping the unanchored end of said cord (82) 

adjacent to at least one of said grommets (84 or 86). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
