<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0881738</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Generator powered electrically heated catalyst system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N320	F01N320	F01N324	F01N324	F01N900	F01N900	F02N1108	F02N1108	H02J714	H02J714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F02N	F02N	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N9	F01N9	F02N11	F02N11	H02J7	H02J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A catalytic converter of an engine, such as might be found in an automotive
engine system, is capable of being quickly and electrically heated in order to reduce

pollution emissions during critical cold start conditions. During cold start conditions, i.e.
upon starting the engine, for a predetermined period of time the catalytic converter

directly receives electrical power 
via
 a quick heating path connecting a catalyst power
switch to the catalytic converter. Following the predetermined period of time after which

the catalytic converter has been electrically heated, the catalyst power switch is
connected to a junction block, such as a starter motor assembly, of the automotive

engine system 
via
 a normal path.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ST MICROELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STMICROELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON STEPHEN WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWANSON DAVID FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, STEPHEN WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWANSON, DAVID FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to generator powered electrically heated
catalyst systems and more specifically to generator powered electrically heated catalyst
systems for automotive applications.Modern internal combustion powered vehicles utilize a catalytic converter in the
exhaust system. This converter by means of chemical reactions converts much of what
would otherwise be undesirable exhaust gases into carbon dioxide and water. This has
been a preferred solution, and unleaded gasoline permits the use of catalytic converters
in automotive applications, since catalytic converters cannot tolerate any lead content in
the exhaust fumes.Today cars are so clean burning that most of the undesirable exhaust emissions
at the output of the catalytic converter occurs within the first few minutes of engine
operation from a cold start. This occurs because the catalytic converter does not
operate at peak efficiency when it is cold, and a warm-up time of about ten minutes
from a cold start is typically required before peak catalytic converter efficiency is
reached and maintained. Current legislation dictates that these few minutes of
relatively high emissions must be minimized. This establishes the need to artificially
heat the catalytic converter quickly upon a cold start. One method known in the prior art to accomplish this involves injecting a rich
air/fuel mixture into the combustion chamber which will exhaust a high hydrocarbon
exhaust gas. Oxygen is then injected into the exhaust pipe, causing the heated
hydrocarbon rich mixture to ignite in the exhaust pipe before reaching the catalytic
converter. This superheated gas then passes through the catalytic converter causing it
to heat quickly. This method requires the addition of an air pump, which is
cumbersome and draws power from the engine at all times, unless an electrical pump is
utilized and cycled by electrical techniques. Air pumps are not known for good
reliability, and would present challenges to meeting 100,000 mile exhaust emission
system reliability goals.Other methods are known in the prior art for causing quick initial heating of the
catalytic converter. One example is the oversized crystal controlled oscillator common
to electronics. When initially powered on from a cold start, the oversized crystal
controlled oscillator utilizes an internal feedback loop which applies maximum heating
power to its heating elements, gradually reducing this power as the desired temperature
operating point is approached. Another prior art example is the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. An electrical charging system that provides for quick electrical heating of a
catalytic converter, comprising:


a junction block having an electrical node that serves as a common tie point of
the electrical charging system;
a control module that generates a first control signal and a second control signal;
a generator that receives the first control signal generated by the control module
and that generates a direct current, wherein the generator is turned on or off in

response to the first control signal, and wherein if the generator is functional and
rotating then the first control signal is forced to an off-state and the generator enters a

reduced set point mode;
a switch having a first output terminal and a second output terminal, wherein
whether the switch is switched to the first output terminal or the second output terminal

is controlled by the second control signal generated by the control module; and
a catalyst;

   wherein until the engine of the electrical charging system is started, the switch is
not activated and the first output terminal of the relay switch contact of the switch is

connected to the electrical node of the junction block to define a normal path, and
   wherein when the engine of the electrical charging system is started, the switch

is activated and the second output terminal of the relay switch contact of the switch is
connected to the catalyst for a predetermined period of time to define a quick heating

path that electrically heats the catalyst.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the direct current is generated by a rectifier
bridge of the generator.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the generator further comprises:

a generator rotor field winding;
a generator stator, wherein the generator stator has generator stator windings
that generate three-phase electrical power;
a rectifier bridge, wherein the three-phase electrical power generated by the
generator stator is supplied to the rectifier bridge and the rectifier bridge transforms the

three-phase electrical power to direct current, and wherein the rectifier bridge has a
plurality of rectifier diodes; and
a regulator that performs the regulator function of the generator and that has a
first input terminal for receiving direct current generated by the rectifier bridge of the

generator in order to monitor and control the voltage of the rectifier bridge, a second
input terminal for receiving a phase signal from the rectifier bridge that provides

information on the rotation of the generator in order to monitor any failure internal to the
rectifier bridge and the generator stator, a third input terminal for receiving the first

control signal from the control module capable of turning the regulator on or off, a fourth
input terminal for receiving a monitor signal from the junction block in order to monitor

the voltage of the electrical charging system, and that generates an excitation current
that excites the generator rotor field winding.
4. An electrical charging system that provides for quick electrical heating of a
catalytic converter, comprising:


a junction block having an electrical node that serves as a common tie point of
the electrical charging system;
a load coupled to the junction block;
a control module that generates a first control signal and a second control signal;
a generator that produces electrical power to charge the electrical charging
system, wherein the generator comprises:


a generator rotor field winding;
a generator stator, wherein the generator stator has generator stator
windings that generate three-phase electrical power;
a rectifier bridge, wherein the three-phase electrical power generated by
the generator stator is supplied to the rectifier bridge and the rectifier bridge transforms

the three-phase electrical power to direct current, and wherein the rectifier bridge has a
plurality of rectifier diodes; and
a regulator that has a first input terminal for receiving direct current
generated by the rectifier bridge of the generator, a second input terminal for receiving

a phase signal from the rectifier bridge that provides information on the rotation of the
generator, a third input terminal for receiving the first control signal from the control

module capable of turning the regulator on or off, a fourth input terminal for receiving a
monitor signal from the junction block in order to monitor the voltage of the electrical

charging system, and that generates an excitation current that excites the generator
rotor field winding;
wherein if the generator is functional and rotating, then the first control
signal is forced to an off-state and the regulator enters a reduced set point mode;

a switch, having an electrical relay and a relay switch contact that receives the
direct current generated by the rectifier bridge and that has a first output terminal and a

second output terminal, wherein the electrical relay controls the position of the relay
switch contact in response to the second control signal generated by the control

module; and
a catalyst;

   wherein until the engine of the electrical charging system is started, the switch is
not activated and the first output terminal of the relay switch contact of the switch is

connected to the electrical node of the junction block to define a normal path, and
   wherein when the engine of the electrical charging system is started, the switch

is activated and the second output terminal of the relay switch contact of the switch is
connected to the catalyst for a predetermined period of time to define a quick heating

path that electrically heats the catalyst.
5. An electrical charging system that provides for quick electrical heating of a
catalytic converter, comprising:


a junction block having an electrical node that serves as a common tie point of
the electrical charging system;
a load coupled to the junction block;
a control module that generates a first control signal and a second control signal;
a generator that produces electrical power to charge the electrical charging
system and that is mechanically rotated by an engine of the electrical charging system,

wherein the generator comprises:

a generator rotor field winding;
a generator stator, wherein the generator stator has generator stator
windings that generate three-phase electrical power;
a rectifier bridge, wherein the three-phase electrical power generated by
the generator stator is supplied to the rectifier bridge and the rectifier bridge transforms

the three-phase electrical power to direct current, and wherein the rectifier bridge has a
plurality of rectifier diodes; and
a regulator that has a first input terminal for receiving direct current
generated by the rectifier bridge of the generator in order to control the voltage of the

rectifier bridge, a second input terminal for receiving a phase signal from the rectifier
bridge that provides information on the rotation of the generator in order to monitor any

failure internal to the rectifier bridge and the generator stator, a third input terminal for
receiving the first control signal from the control module capable of turning the regulator

on or off, a fourth input terminal for receiving a monitor signal from the junction block in
order to monitor the voltage of the electrical charging system, and that generates an

excitation current that excites the generator rotor field winding;
wherein if the generator is functional and rotating, then the first control
signal is forced to an off-state and the regulator enters a reduced set point mode;
a catalyst power switch, having an electrical relay and a relay switch contact that
receives the direct current generated by the rectifier bridge and that has a first output

terminal and a second output terminal, wherein the electrical relay controls the position
of the relay switch contact in response to the second control signal generated by the

control module; and
a catalyst;

   wherein until the engine of the electrical charging system is started, the catalyst
power switch is not activated and the first output terminal of the relay switch contact of

the catalyst power switch is connected to the electrical node of the junction block to
define a normal path, and

   wherein when the engine of the electrical charging system is started, the catalyst
power switch is activated and the second output terminal of the relay switch contact of

the catalyst power switch is connected to the catalyst for a predetermined period of time
to define a quick heating path that electrically heats the catalyst.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the electrical node is located on a starter
solenoid of the junction block.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the load is comprised of a plurality of electrical
circuits that load the electrical charging system.
9. The system of claim 5, wherein the electrical relay of the catalyst power switch is
a relay coil and wherein the second control signal generated by the control module

energizes the relay coil to change the position of the relay switch contact.
10. The system of claim 5, wherein the relay switch contact of the catalyst power
switch is a single pole double throw (SPDT).
11. The system of claim 5, wherein the catalyst is the catalytic converter of the
electrical charging system capable of being electrically heated.
13. The system of claim 5, wherein when the engine of the electrical charging
system is started, the regulator causes the generator to generate an elevated voltage in

order to heat the catalyst at an accelerated rate.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein regulator of the generator does not permit the
elevated voltage to reach an overvoltage condition.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the overvoltage condition is determined in part
by the rectifier bridge.
16. The system of claim 5, wherein when the engine of the electrical charging
system is started and the quick heating path is established, the regulator does not

generate an excitation current thereby allowing the catalyst power switch is switchable

in an unpowered state.
17. A method for providing quick electrical heating of the catalytic converter of an
engine so as to reduce pollution emissions during cold start of the engine, comprising:


upon starting the engine, switching from a normal path defined as the connection
between a power switch and a starter assembly to a quick heating path defined as the

connection between the power switch and the catalytic converter for a predetermined
period of time; and
after the predetermined period of time, switching from the quick heating path
back to the normal path.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the normal path is the connection between a
relay switch contact of the power switch and the starter assembly and the quick heating

path is the connection between the relay switch contact and the catalytic converter.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein switching to the quick heating path for the
predetermined period of time heats the catalytic converter.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein in the quick heating path, the power switch is
activated and in the normal path, the power switch is not activated.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein the normal path is the connection between a
first output of the relay switch contact and the starter assembly and the quick heating

path is the connection between a second output of the relay switch contact and the
catalytic converter.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
