<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654969</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NON-DAIRY ICE CREAM PRODUCT AND METHOD THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G904	A23G930	A23G932	A23G932	A23G942	A23L106	A23L1064	A23L1212	A23L1212	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a non-dairy dessert composition derived from fruit of the genus (Actinidia), and in particular kiwifruit. From the composition can be derived an acceptable ice cream type product which emulates many of the characteristics of dairy based ice creams. Such aerated products, according to the invention, are generally characterised by having relatively stable air-cells which in some embodiments can only be removed by heating the product to near boiling - this generally confers properties of high standability. Another characteristic of most embodiments is that none of the traditional stabilisers used in these types of product have been added, though their addition is an option. The compositions generally comprise a puree-like base material of the (Actinidia) fruit to which is generally added at least one of a plant-based carbohydrate additive or a sugar. Preferred compositions for ice cream type products incorporate an apple puree material as the carbohydrate additive. It is also preferred to use an (Actinidia) base material which exhibits thickening when subjected to a shear force, or shear force and aeration.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSSITER MICHAEL JOSEPH PAUL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSSITER, MICHAEL, JOSEPH, PAUL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSITER MICHAEL JOSEPH PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSITER, MICHAEL, JOSEPH, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
NON-DAIRY ICE CREAM PRODUCT AND METHOD THEREFORTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to the food industry and more particularly, ice cream like dessert products. The present invention includes within its scope embodiments totally absent of animal products. Most embodiments of the present invention are based on a base material derived from kiwifruit or other fruit of the genus Actinidia.BACKGROUND ARTMost ice cream products will fall into four categories, these being: i) Ice cream made exclusively from milk products (dairy ice cream); ii) Ice cream containing vegetable fats; iii) Sherbet ice creams made from fruit juice with added milk fat and milk solids; and iv) Ice cream made of water, sugar and fruit concentrate.The present invention falls within the last category as most embodiments are void of any added vegetable fats or dairy related products. Early products known in this field comprised crushed ice to which flavouring material was subsequently added. More recently other ice cream type products within this category have emerged, such as the dessert of US Patent No. 4,609,561. This describes an aerated juice dessert based on fruit juices but relying upon added stabilisers (gums, carrageenan, etc.) to trap air bubbles so that the product can attain an aerated ice-cream type structure. Ice cream products other than in category (i) above generally seek to fool the palate into believing that the product has the creaminess and texture of a traditional dairy ice cream. While taste perception is subjective, these properties in a dairy ice cream are partly due to the presence of small particles of fats and other components. These appear to exhibit some resilience when compressed against the tongue, as well as providing a lubricating effect which appears to convince the tongue that the product has creamy characteristics. However, such fat cells and globules are not present in the products of category (iv) and thus most products in this category fail to achieve the desirable creamy characteristics of dairy ice creams.Ice crystal formation can be a problem for many category (iv) products. Ice crystals and needles, once they attain a certain size, become noticeable to the mouth and tongue. Their abrasive nature will tend to counteract any creamy texture characteristics that a product may have. Even a dairy ice cream with a high fat content would not appear creamy if a significant proportion of ice crystals were present. 

The specification of US Patent 4,609,561 describes a product which avoids large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE:
1 . A non-dairy based dessert composition comprising a base material derived from the fruit of the genus Actinidia, said composition including at least one of: a) an added plant based carbohydrate additive, as herein defined; b) an added sweetener, as herein defined;
2. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 1 in which said base material is of the type exhibiting an increase in viscosity when subjected to a shear force, or shear force and aeration.
3. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 1 having a total solids content of 10-60% inclusive.
4. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 1 having a total solids content of 30-45% inclusive.
5. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 1 having a viscosity exceeding 2500 cp at 20°C.
6. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 which includes at least one of: an added flavouring agent; an added colouring agent; an added diluent; an added extender.
7. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 in which a plant based carbohydrate additive comprises a fruit puree.
8. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 7 which comprises a puree derived from apples.
9. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 in which said plant based carbohydrate additive has a sugar level exceeding 30 Brix.
10. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 in which said plant based carbohydrate additive has a total solids content exceeding 25% by weight.
1 1 . A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 in which said added sweetener includes a mono-saccharide. 


12. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 11 in which said added sweetener comprises maltodextrin.
13. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 11 in which the amount of mono-saccharides present in said composition exceeds the amount of sucrose present.
14. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 which includes an added stabiliser comprises at least one of the group of: pectins, polysaccharide gums, agars, gelatines, and acid-stable food grade stabilisers.
15. A non-dairy based ice-cream product from a composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 5 aerated to 40% over-run or greater.
16. A non-dairy based ice-cream product from a composition as claimed in claim 15 cooled to 0°C or lower during aeration.
17. A non-dairy based dessert composition whose composition comprises, to a total of 100%:
1 -40% soluble and non-soluble fruit solids from fruit of the genus Actinidia;
0-50% soluble and non-soluble fruit solids from other fruit;
2-30% sweeteners comprising monosaccharides and polysaccharides;
25-65% water;
0-0.5% added acidity regulators;
0-15% added flavouring agents;
0-15% other substances not included above.
18. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 13 which includes maltodextrin.
19. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 17 aerated to 40% over-run or greater.
20. A non-dairy based dessert composition comprising the following components, in parts by volume (pbv):
5-60 pbv a base material derived from fruit of the genus Actinidia;
0-80 pbv an added plant based carbohydrate additive, as herein defined;
0-20 pbv an added monosaccharide;
0-20 pbv an added non-monosaccharide sweetener
0-5 pbv an added stabiliser, as herein defined.
0-75 pbv diluent
T) 


21. A non-dairy dessert composition as claimed in claim 20 having a total solids content of from 30-45% inclusive.
22. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 20 in which said base material is of the type exhibiting an increase in viscosity when subjected to a shear force, or shear force and aeration.
23. A non-dairy dessert composition as claimed in claim 20 in which at least 20pbv of added sweeteners, comprising added mono-saccharides and non-monosaccharide sweeteners.
24. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in any one of claims 20 through 23 aerated to 40% over-run or greater.
25. A non-dairy based dessert composition as claimed in claim 24 wherein said non-dairy composition has been subjected to at least one of: homogenisation; high shearing forces sufficient to achieve an average particle size reduction; freezing.
26. A smooth chilled edible ice-cream product comprising 30-40 parts by weight of a kiwifruit base material having Brix level of 30 to about 45; the equivalent of 30-50 parts by weight of a puree of a fruit having a solids content of
30% to about 35%;
25-35 parts by weight of added sugars, and added fluids to adjust the total solids content, by weight, to within the range of 33-42%, the product being free of added stabilisers, and containing sufficient air incorporated therein to effect an over-run of at least 40%.
27. A product as claimed in claim 26 in which insoluble particles will pass through a screen of 0.8mm.
28. A method for the manufacture of non-dairy based dessert composition, comprising the steps of: obtaining a base material derived from the fruit of the species Actinidia; combining with said base material at least one of: a) an added plant based carbohydrate additive, as herein defined; b) an added sweetener, as herein defined. 


29. A method as claimed in claim 28 in which preparation of a base material comprises steps of: skin removal; heating of fruit to at least the equivalent of 2 minutes immersion in an 80°C water bath; allowing the fruit to stand after heating; comminution of the fruit.
30. A method as claimed in claim 28 n which preparation of a base material also comprises at least one of the steps of: decolourisation; deodourisation; alteration of the pH; filtering or straining to remove seed, hair and skin material which may be present.
31. A method as claimed in claim 28 in which the base material is of the type exhibiting an increase in viscosity when subjected to a shear force, or shear force and aeration.
32. A method as claimed in claim 28 in which the proportions of components have been selected to yield a product having a total solids content of from 10-60% inclusive.
33. A method as claimed in claim 32 in which the proportions of components have been selected to yield a product having a total solids content of from 30-45% inclusive.
34. A method as claimed in any one of claims 28 through 31 in which there are sufficient included sweetening agents for the combined monosaccharide and polysaccharide content, by weight, of the composition to exceed 20%.
35. A method as claimed in any one of claims 28 through 31 which includes a heat treatment step.
36. A method as claimed in claim 35 in which said heat treatment comprises a UHT or pasteurisation step.
37. A method for the preparation of an non-dairy based ice-cream dessert composition comprising subjecting a non-dairy based dessert composition from a method as claimed in any one of claims 28 through 32 to aeration and at least a one of the steps of: homogenisation; high shearing forces sufficient to achieve an average particle size reduction; freezing. 


38. A method for the preparation of an non-dairy based ice-cream dessert composition as claimed in claim 37, in which the composition has been aerated to an over-run of 40% or greater.
39. A non-dairy ice-cream dessert composition according to a method as claimed in claim 38.
40. A non-dairy based dessert composition, substantially as described herein with reference to the contained examples.
41. An ice-cream product, substantially as described herein with reference to the contained examples.
42. A method for the manufacture of non-dairy based dessert composition, substantially as described herein with reference to the contained examples. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
