<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638749</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in or relating to pipes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L1104	F16L1104	F16L912	F16L900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L11	F16L11	F16L9	F16L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a pipe having a pipe wall 
comprising a polyolefin layer 21, and bonded thereto with 

no intervening adhesive layer a barrier layer 22 formed of 
a barrier material, which barrier material has enhanced 

resistance to the permeation therethrough of gaseous and/or 
hydrocarbon materials relative to the polyolefin; either 

the polyolefin layer or barrier layer or both having 
adhesive polymer units incorporated therein, in at least 

the region of an interface between the layers; the adhesive 
polymer units being present in a concentration effective to 

bond the polyolefin layer 21 to the barrier layer 22. In 
a preferred embodiment, the adhesive polymer units are 

contained within the barrier layer, which is preferably 
formed of a rubber-modified polyamide. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a polyolefin pipe
having a wall structure incorporating a barrier layer for
preventing or substantially impeding the permeation
therethrough of gaseous and/or hydrocarbon materials.In recent years, there has been an increasing trend to
form pipes intended to carry mains services such as water
or gas, or to carry petroleum or oil or natural gas
products, from polyolefins, and more particularly
polyethylene. In many respects, polyethylene (PE) is an
ideal pipe-line material and many techniques have been
developed to make the best use of its handling and physical
characteristics, such as its flexibility and toughness.
However, one problem with polyethylene is that whereas it
has very low permeability to water vapour and aqueous media
in general, it is very permeable to hydrocarbons and other
organic solvents, including petroleum products and to many
gases. From economic, environmental and health and safety 
points of view, polyethylene is therefore unsuitable for
many applications. Examples of situations where it is
highly desirable if not essential that the wall of the pipe
should have low permeability to hydrocarbons and oil and
petroleum based products are pipe systems for transmission
of petroleum based fluids, for example pipes for petrol
stations connecting underground tanks to dispensing pumps,
or pipes for the transmission of natural oil and gas
products, for example in the off-shore oil industry. Other
situations in which low permeability of the pipe to
hydrocarbons would be very important are in relation to
pipes for potable water intended to be laid in contaminated
ground (e.g. contaminated with oil, coal tar, petroleum
etc). In this situation, the need is to prevent ingress of
hydrocarbon into the water supply, rather than egress out
through the walls of the pipes.Polymers are known which have a very low permeability
to hydrocarbons and to gases and examples of such polymers
include ethylene vinylalcohol polymer (EVOH), polyamides of
all kinds (PA), polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and
polyvinylidene fluoride (PVdF) and polyvinylidene chloride
(PVdC). However, such materials have very different
physical properties to polyethylene and/or are considerably
more expensive, and consequently it is not practicable to
construct pipelines from such materials, although multi-layer
pipes having inner and outer polyamide layers between
which is sandwiched a thinner layer formed from inter alia
homo-polyolefins or co-polyolefins, grafted homo-polyolefins, 
ethylene-vinylalcoh
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pipe having a pipe wall comprising a polyolefin
layer, and bonded thereto with no intervening adhesive

layer a barrier layer, the barrier layer being thinner
than the polyolefin layer and being formed of a

barrier material, which barrier material has enhanced
resistance to the permeation therethrough of gaseous

and/or hydrocarbon materials relative to the
polyolefin; either the polyolefin layer or barrier

layer, or both, having adhesive polymer units derived
from unsaturated epoxy or acyl compounds incorporated

therein, in at least the region of an interface
between the layers; the adhesive polymer units being

present in a concentration effective to bond the
polyolefin layer to the barrier layer.
A pipe according to Claim 1 wherein the barrier layer
has incorporated therein the said adhesive polymer

units.
A pipe according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 having a wall
consisting of two layers, i.e. a polyolefin layer and

a barrier layer.
A pipe according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the
wall of the pipe comprises a barrier layer sandwiched

between two polyolefin layers.
A pipe according to any one of the preceding Claims 
wherein the adhesive polymer units form part of an

adhesive polymer which is admixed with the polyolefin
and/or barrier material prior to pipe formation.
A pipe according to any one of the preceding Claims
wherein the adhesive polymer is derived in part from

olefin monomers.
A pipe according to any one of the preceding claims
wherein the adhesive polymer units are derived from an

unsaturated acyl compound selected from unsaturated
monocarboxylic acids, unsaturated dicarboxylic acids,

and derivatives thereof such as acid halides, amides,
imides, anhydrides and esters thereof.
A pipe according to Claim 7 wherein the adhesive
polymer units are derived from unsaturated

dicarboxylic acids and anhydrides thereof.
A pipe according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein
the adhesive polymer units are derived from an

unsaturated epoxy compound.
A pipe according to Claim 7 wherein the adhesive
polymer units are derived from a graft co-polymer

derived from maleic anhydride and polyethylene.
A pipe according to any one of the preceding Claims
wherein the layer or layers containing the adhesive

polymer units are of a composition, in at least the 
interface region, wherein molecular chains containing

or defining the adhesive polymer units constitute at
least 0.1% by weight of the said layer or layers, for

example wherein the said molecular chains constitute
1 to 15% by weight of the layer or layers, preferably

approximately 5 to 10% by weight of the said layer or
layers.
A pipe according to any one of the preceding Claims
wherein the barrier layer contains a barrier material

selected from ethylene vinyl alcohol, polyamides,
modified polyamides, polyethylene terephthalate,

polyvinylidene fluoride, and polyvinylidene chloride.
A pipe according to Claim 12 wherein the barrier
material is a modified material having olefinic

characteristics.
A pipe according to Claim 13 wherein the olefinic
characteristics are imparted by virtue of the barrier

material being mixed with, and preferably chemically
linked to, an olefinic component.
A pipe according to Claim 14 wherein the olefinic
component is an elastomer such as ethylene propylene

rubber.
A pipe according to Claim 14 wherein the barrier

material is modified polyamide containing an elastomer
such as ethylene propylene rubber, the ethylene 

propylene rubber being chemically linked to the
polyamide.
A pipe according to Claim 16 wherein the modified
polyamide has been formed by grafting ethylene

propylene rubber with the anhydride of an unsaturated
carboxylic acid such as maleic anhydride, and then

reacting the resulting graft polymer with polyamide so
as to effect a chemical linkage therebetween.
A process for preparing a pipe,
which method comprises coextruding

coaxial layers of the polyolefin and barrier
material in the configuration claimed in any one of the preceding claims, under

conditions effective to fuse together the said
polyolefin and barrier layers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
