<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658138</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INCREASING CREPING BLADE LOAD AND MAINTAINING BLADE ANGLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31F100	B31F114	D21G300	D21G300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31F	B31F	D21G	D21G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31F1	B31F1	D21G3	D21G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A creping system includes a Yankee dryer rotatable about its axis, a blade support mechanism which includes (a) a pair of guide rails (44, 46), (b) a fixed attitude linear bearing engaging and translatable along each of the guide rails, each fixed attitude linear bearing being mounted on a block (50) and (c) a combination linear-rotary bearing being carried by each block, the axis of each combination linear-rotary bearing being parallel to the generators of the surface of the Yankee dryer and colinear with the axis of the other combination linear-rotary bearing. A stub shaft (20A) engages each combination linear-rotary bearing, each stub shaft being translatable along, and rotatable about, the axis of its respective combination linear-rotary bearing. A blade holder (12A) is mounted between the stub shafts, and a blade mounted on the blade holder for engagement with the surface of the Yankee dryer. The blade support mechanism allows the creping angle of the blade to be adjusted and maintained within a desired range by allowing adjustment of the creping blade angle to compensate for changes in creping angle due to flexure of the blade and flank wear on the blade. This adjustment is permitted while allowing the blade holder (18) to be (a) translated in a direction parallel to the generators of the surface of the Yankee dryer, (b) rotated about the axis of the stub shafts, and (c) urged inwardly toward, or outwardly away from, the surface of the Yankee dryer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES RIVER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES RIVER CORPORATION OF VIRGINIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARINACK ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARINACK, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INCREASING CREPING BLADE LOAD AND MAINTAINING BLADE ANGLEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention is directed to an apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade against a surface while maintaining a predetermined angle of the doctor blade relative to the surface engaged by the doctor blade over a predetermined period of time.Description of Background ArtHithertofore, adjustment mechanisms have been provided for adjusting the angular relationship of a doctor blade or a creping blade relative to a surface to which the blade is disposed. Typically, a creping blade is disposed adjacent to a Yankee dryer for removing a tissue web or a paper web from the Yankee dryer. The angular relationship of the creping blade relative to the Yankee dryer may be controlled by a plurality of various levers or fluid operated bags may be utilized to adjust the angular relationship of the creping blade relative to a Yankee drum.Once adjustments are made, the blade normally remains at the predetermined preset angle, except for the change caused by wear, until the blade is replaced.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention provides a pressure adjustment member for adjusting the pressure and a 

biasing member operatively connected to a doctor blade for adjusting the angle of the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by the doctor blade. A control means is provided for controlling the adjustment member and the biasing member for controlling the pressure supplied to a bearing for maintaining the predetermined angle of the doctor blade over a predetermined period of time.The creping system of the present invention comprises a Yankee dryer rotatable about its axis, a blade engageable to the surface of said Yankee, the blade is mounted on a blade holder having a pair of co- linear stub shafts, one stub shaft being attached to each end of the blade holder, the axis of the stub shafts being parallel to the axis of rotation of the Yankee. Each stub shaft engages a combination linear- rotary bearing allowing the blade to be translated in a direction parallel to the generators of the surface of the Yankee as well as to be rotated about the axis of the stub shafts. Each combination linear-rotary bearing is carried on a block engaging a fixed- attitude-linear bearing translatable along a guide rail having a substantial component perpendicular to the surface of the Yankee, and means for oscillating the blade along a path parallel to the generators of the surface of the Yankee, means for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A creping system comprising:
i) a Yankee dryer rotatable about its axis;
ii) a blade support mechanism comprising:
a) a pair of guide rails having a substantial component perpendicular to the surface of the Yankee dryer;
b) a fixed attitude linear bearing engaging and translatable along each of said guide rails, each fixed attitude linear bearing being mounted on a block;
c) a combination linear-rotary bearing being carried by each block, the axis of each combination linear-rotary bearing being parallel to the generators of the surface of the Yankee dryer and collinear with the axis of the other combination linear-rotary bearing;
d) a stub shaft engaging each combination linear-rotary bearing, each stub shaft being translatable along, and rotatable about, the axis of its respective combination linear-rotary bearing;
e) a blade holder mounted between said stub shafts; and 


 iii) blade mounted on said blade holder for engagement with the surface of said Yankee dryer, said blade support mechanism allowing the creping angle of the blade to be adjusted and maintained within a desired range by allowing adjustment of the creping blade angle to compensate for changes in creping angle due to flexure of the blade and flank wear on the blade, while allowing the blade holder to be:
a) translated in a direction parallel to the generators of the surface of the Yankee dryer;
b) rotated about the axis of the stub shafts; and
c) urged inwardly toward, or outwardly away from, the surface of the Yankee dryer.
2. The creping system of claim 1, further comprising means for angularly adjusting the attitude of the blade holder relative to the surface of the Yankee dryer and means for translating the blocks along said guide rails.
3. An apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade against a surface while maintaining a predetermined creping angle of the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade comprising:
a doctor blade having a surface engaging member, a first end and a second end; 


 adjustment means operatively connected to said doctor blade for permitting rotation of said doctor blade for adjusting the pressure of the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade;
bearing means mounted on both said first and second ends of said doctor blade;
guide means for guiding the bearing means to travel in a direction toward and away from a surface engaged by said doctor blade;
biasing means for exerting a pressure on said bearing means for imparting movement to said bearing means to travel in a direction toward and away from a surface engaged by said doctor blade for initially establishing said predetermined creping angle of inclination of said doctor blade; and
control means for controlling said adjustment means and said biasing means for controlling and continuously increasing said pressure on said bearing means for maintaining said predetermined angle of said doctor blade over a predetermined period of time against a surface engaged by said doctor blade.
4. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 3, wherein said bearing means includes a first linear-rotary bearing mounted on said first end of said doctor blade and a second linear-rotary bearing mounted on said second end of said doctor blade for supporting said doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade. 


 5. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 3, wherein said control means includes a timer for periodically actuating said adjustment means and said biasing means for controlling said pressure on said bearing means for maintaining said predetermined angle of said doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade.
6. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 4, wherein said guide means includes at least one rod for supporting said linear-rotary bearing to travel in a direction toward and away from a surface engaged by said doctor blade.
7. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 3, and further including a blade holder for mounting said doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade.
8. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 3, wherein said biasing means is an air bag.
9. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 3, wherein said control means is a central processing unit operatively connected to supply/discharge valves for supplying/discharging pressurized air to said adjustment means and said biasing means.
10. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 3, and further including a linear variable differential transmitter operative connected to said bearing mounted on both 


said first and second ends of said doctor blade for providing a reading as to the set point of each bearing for permitting adjustment to the biasing means for aligning the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade.
11. The apparatus for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 10, and further including a read out unit for visually providing an indication of the position of the linear variable differential transmitter relative to the bearing mounted on both said first and second ends of said doctor blade.
12. A method for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade against a surface while maintaining a predetermined creping angle of the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade comprising the steps of:
mounting a doctor blade on bearings for movement in three directions, said bearings being positioned adjacent to a surface engaged by said doctor blade;
adjusting the pressure of the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade;
guiding bearings to travel in a direction toward and away from a surface engaged by said doctor blade;
exerting a pressure on said bearings for imparting movement to said bearings to travel in said direction toward and away from a surface engaged by said doctor blade for initially 


 establishing said predetermined creping angle of inclination of said doctor blade; and
controlling said adjusting pressure on said doctor blade and said exerting pressure on said bearings for controlling and continuously increasing said pressure on said bearing for maintaining said predetermined angle of said doctor blade over a predetermined period of time against said dryer.
13. The method for adjusting the pressure of a doctor blade according to claim 14, wherein said controlling step includes a timer for periodically adjusting the pressure to said doctor blade and said exerting pressure on said bearing for maintaining said predetermined angle of said doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade.
14. The method according to claim 14, wherein the pressure applied on said doctor blade is approximately 1,000 psi over the life of the blade.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the pressure applied on said doctor blade is about 3 to 5 pounds per lineal inch at initial blade/dryer contact.
16. The method according to claim 14, and further including the step of monitoring the linear position of said bearings mounted on said doctor blade for providing a reading as to the set point of each bearing for permitting adjustment to exerting pressure on the bearings for aligning the doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade. 


 17. The method according to claim 14, and further including the step of providing a visual read out for visually providing an indication of the position of the linear variable differential transmitter relative to the bearings.
18. The method according to claim 14, and further including the step of oscillating said doctor blade relative to a surface engaged by said doctor blade. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
