<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631049</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Laser ignition methods and apparatus for combustors.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02C726	F02C7264	F02P2300	F02P2304	F23D1136	F23D1136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02C	F02C	F02P	F02P	F23D	F23D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02C7	F02C7	F02P23	F02P23	F23D11	F23D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for igniting fuel in a combustor (10) is 
disclosed. The combustor has at least one fuel nozzle 

(16) which emits an atomized fuel spray into a primary 
zone (20) of the combustion chamber. A laser energy 

source (44) produces infrared laser energy and an optic 
fibre cable (46) transmits the laser energy from the laser 

source into the primary zone (20) of the combustor (10) to 
ignite the fuel spray via a laser igniter (30). In one 

embodiment, the laser igniter (30) is disposed in a main 
fuel nozzle of the combustor. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION ENGINE SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION ENGINE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREITAS DENNIS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREITAS, DENNIS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to apparatus and methods 
for igniting air/fuel mixtures in combustors. More 
particularly, the invention relates to the use of infrared 
radiation in such apparatus and methods. The combustor is a fundamental assembly used in turbine 
and other engines. The combustor typically includes a can or 
other annular casing that forms part or all of a combustion 
chamber for the fuel. Within the combustor are one or more 
fuel nozzles which deliver fuel to the combustion chamber, 
along with air vents for delivering high pressure air to the 
combustion chamber. The air/fuel mixture is ignited in or 
near the region of the combustor closest to the fuel nozzles 
(i.e. the primary zone). The combustion process continues as 
the combusting fuel/air mixture moves down to the intermediate 
zone where additional air is supplied to cool the combustor 
wall and aid the combustion process. The process continues as 
the mixture of hot combustion gases enters the dilution zone 
where dilution air is supplied to cool the exhaust gases to 
protect the annulus casing from melting and downstream to 
protect the turbine blades. As is well known, homogeneity of 
the fuel burn within the combustion chamber is an important 
design criteria for a turbine engine. Fuel delivery systems play an important part in the 
ability to initiate or restart a turbine engine. In known 
combustors, the fuel nozzles typically include a primary 
orifice and one or more secondary orifices. The purpose of 
the nozzle primary orifice is to provide initially a finely 
atomized fuel spray that can be ignited for engine start. 
After combustion starts and the engine speed increases, the 
secondary orifices are opened to increase fuel flow. The ease with which fuel can be ignited in the combustor 
depends on several key factors including fuel temperature, the 
type of igniter used, amount of ignition energy delivered, 
point of ignition energy delivery and the degree to which the  
 
fuel is atomized by the nozzle via the primary orifice. The 
atomization process is also important with respect to the 
overall efficiency of the fuel combustion. Combustors require an igniter device to initiate the 
combustion process. Known igniters are plasma type spark 
plugs and glow plugs. Typically, the spark plug is mounted in 
the combustor wall near the fuel nozzle. In a conventional 
combustor, the primary zone or optimum region for ignition is 
the high turbulence region just forward of the nozzle outlet. 
However, the igniter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for igniting fuel in a flow through 
combustor comprising the steps of: 


a. producing an atomized fuel spray in an ignition 
zone of the combustor; 
b. transmitting infrared laser energy into the 
ignition zone; and 
c. using the laser energy to initiate combustion of 
the fuel spray and an unthrottled air flow. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of 
transmitting laser energy into the ignition zone includes the 

step of optically coupling laser energy from a laser energy 
source through an infrared transparent window in the combustor 

liner in a direction that is generally transverse the 
direction of the fuel spray. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of 
transmitting laser energy into the ignition zone includes the 

step of optically coupling laser energy from a laser energy 
source to a laser igniter in a primary fuel nozzle in a 

direction generally parallel to the direction of the fuel 
spray. 
The method of claim 2 wherein the combustor operating 
cycle produces varnish, soot and like fuel residue that 

absorbs ultraviolet energy and substantially less absorbs 
infrared energy. 
The method of claim 4 wherein the step of using the 
laser energy to initiate combustion includes the step of non-absorptively 

focussing the laser energy using the atomized 
fuel droplets to initiate combustion of the fuel. 
Apparatus for igniting fuel in a flow through 
combustor having at least one fuel nozzle that emits an 

atomized fuel spray into an ignition zone of the combustion 
chamber comprising: 

   source means for producing infrared laser energy; 
   means for providing an unthrottled air supply 

through the combustor; and
 

   optic means for transmitting said laser energy from 
said source means into the ignition zone of the combustor to 

ignite the fuel spray. 
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said optic means 
comprises an infrared transparent window for said laser energy 

to pass into the primary ignition zone. 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the fuel produces 
varnish, soot and like fuel residue that absorbs ultraviolet 

laser energy and substantially less absorbs infrared laser 
energy. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said window is 
disposed at or near the combustor liner so that said laser 

energy is transmitted into the primary zone generally 
transverse the direction of fuel spray. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said window is 

disposed in the fuel nozzle so that said laser energy is 
transmitted into the primary zone generally parallel the 

direction of fuel spray. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said window is 
disposed in a laser igniter means for transmitting said laser 

energy through the combustor liner, said igniter means being 
mounted on a support casing. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said laser igniter 
means further comprises a light conduit in a hermetic housing, 

said conduit being separated from the combustion chamber by 
said window. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said light conduit 
includes a light rod made of high temperature infrared 

transparent medium such as sapphire. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said window also 
serves as a lens to focus said laser energy in the primary 

zone. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said laser igniter 
means further comprises a quartz lens disposed between an 

output end of said rod and said window. 
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said optic means 
further comprises optic fiber means for transmitting laser 

 
energy from said source means to an input end of said light 

rod. 
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said rod comprises 
two pieces of sapphire rod which approximately form a ninety 

degree bend. 
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said optic means 
comprises a laser igniter means disposed in the fuel nozzle 

for transmitting laser energy through the nozzle into the 
primary ignition zone. 
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said igniter 
includes a housing, optic fiber means in said housing for 

transmitting laser energy through said housing, and infrared 
transparent window means for sealing said igniter means from 

the combustion chamber; said optic fiber means being optically 
connectable to a second optic fiber means for transmitting 

laser energy from said source means to said igniter means. 
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said window means 
also functions as a lens to focus laser energy in the primary 

zone with at least one focal point. 
The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said window means 
comprises a high temperature infrared transparent material 

such as sapphire. 
The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said 
laser igniter means is disposed in the fuel nozzle in place of 

a primary orifice. 
The apparatus according to claim 6 in combination 
with an aircraft gas turbine engine. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
