<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656998</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SHOCK ABSORBING ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B1702	E21B1707	F16D350	F16D374	F16D376	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	F16D	F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B17	E21B17	F16D3	F16D3	F16D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shock absorbing assembly (11) for a drilling machine (13) utilizing a down drill hole hammer (16) having a driver member (23) for receiving input forces, a driven member (41) for transmitting  forces from the driver member (23) to an attached drill string (15), and a resilient member (53) which is placed under tension and elongated when downward forces are applied. The resilient member (53) under tension receives and dissipates shocks and vibrations.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DURAMAX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DURAMAX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE RICHARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WORK JOHN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE, RICHARD, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WORK, JOHN, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SHOCK ABSORBING ASSEMBLYBackground of the Invention Field of the Invention:The present invention relates generally to a shock absorber and vibration dampening device for a blast hole drilling machine, and more specifically to a shock absorbing assembly for absorbing axial and torsional forces during the operation of drilling machines employing down-hole hammers. Description of the Prior Art;In various types of drilling operations, the drill bit is forced downward under pressure while being rotated in order to penetrate earthen formations. These drilling operations can require the application of relatively high downward force to the drill bit as well as relatively high torque.One example is the typical rotary blasthole drill which comprises a large drilling rig to which is attached a rotary drive mechanism. Typically, the drill's rotary drive is capable of being raised and lowered along a substantially vertical axis directly above the formation to be drilled. Additionally, a length of drill pipe or drill string is connected to the rotary drive so as to extend downwardly therefrom in a substantially vertical direction. A drill bit is secured to the downward end of the drill pipe. The drill machine's rotary drive head is activated to rotate both the drill pipe and the drill bit at the desired speed. Then, the rotary drive, together with the drill pipe and bit, is lowered so that the drill bit contacts the surface of the formation to be drilled. Downward pressure is then continuously applied to the rotating drill pipe and bit to force the drill bit to cut downwardly into the formation. As the drilling operation occurs, air is forced through the interior of the drive head, drill pipe, and through the drill bit, thereby forcing cuttings out of the hole and maintaining a clear surface upon which the drill bit may operate.As soon as the drilled hole is deep enough to accommodate the first length of drill pipe, the drill's rotary drive is disconnected from the drill pipe and raised to its original position. A second length of drill pipe is then connected between the rotary drive and the first length of drill pipe. The rotary drive is then again activated and drilling operations are continued. This procedure is repeated until a desired hole depth is achieved. 

 In order to eliminate the problems associated with vibration and shock to the drilling apparatus, various devices have been employed to dampen vibrations and absorb shocks during the operation of the rotary drill. These devices typically comprise a shock
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We claim:
1. A shock absorbing assembly for absorbing shocks and vibrations of a drilling machine utilizing an air-operated hammer, the machine having a drive head for applying downward and torsional forces for transmission to a hammer and drill bit connected to a drill string, said shock absorbing assembly comprising: driver member means for receiving and transmitting downward and torsional forces from the drilling machine to the drill string, hammer and the drill bit for drilling in a workplace, said driver member means including: connection means operatively engageable with the drilling machine drive head to receive forces from the drilling machine drive head; tubular driver means having internal bore means with an upwardly and downwardly extending tubular axis, said bore means carrying compressed air downwardly to the drill string; upper driver flange means extending radially outwardly from an upper part of said tubular driver means; and lower driver flange means extending radially inwardly towards the longitudinal axis from a lower part of said driver member means, said lower driver flange means having a free inner periphery portion; driven member means for transmitting force to the drill string and the hammer and bit, said driven member means including: tubular driven means located downwardly from said tubular driver means and having an interior bore coaxial with said longitudinal axis for transmitting compressed air from said tubular driver means to the drill string; and driven flange means extending radially outwardly from said tubular driven means and located between said lower driver flange means and said upper driver flange means, said tubular driven means and said driven flange means being movable relative to said driver member means in response to vertical and/or torsional forces placed on one of said driver member means and said driven member means; resilient means operatively secured to said lower driver flange means and to said driven flange means; 



 wherein downward force applied to said driver member means urges said lower driver flange means downwardly relative to said driven flange means, to tension and elongate said resilient means, and the tensioned resilient member absorbing shocks from the rebound forces exerted by hammer reaction and the drill bit up the drill string, and the tensioned resilient member urging said tubular driven member downwardly to urge the hammer and drill bit to the workplace.
2. A shock absorbing assembly according to claim 1 and further including spike pad means disposed on said driven flange means between said driven flange means and said upper driver flange means, said driven flange means urging said spike pad means against said upper driver flange means in response to extreme down pressure on said driver member means, to compress said spike pad means.
3. Shock absorbing means according to claim 1 and further comprising: key means attached to and movable with one of said driver member means and said driven member means, and disposed radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis; and key receiving means attached to the other of said driver member means and said driven member means, and located in the possible path of movement of said key means; wherein when said driven member means is substantially immovable when the drill bit is in a stuck condition in the workplace, said driver member means is rotatable about the longitudinal axis to place said key means and said key receiving means in direct operative contact to impose rotational force on said driven member means to urge the drill bit out of the stuck condition. 4. Shock absorbing means according to claim 3 wherein said key means are attached to said driver member means, and said key receiving means are slot means having radial and end portions in said driven flange means, said key means engaging the end portions of said slot means when the drill bit is in a stuck condition in the workplace and rotational forces are applied to said driver member means.
5. Shock absorbing means according to claim 4 wherein said driver member means further includes side wall means interconnecting the outer 


peripheries of said upper drive flange means and said lower drive flange means, said key means are attached to said side wall means, and said slot means are in said driven flange means opposite said key means, said slot means being long enough to enable the twisting of said driven flange means about the longitudinal axis but short enough to prevent the breaking of said resilient member means as said driven flange means twists relative to said side wall means.
6. A shock absorber according to claim 3 wherein spacing means are provided for enabling said key means to move longitudinally within a predetermined limit in response to longitudinal axial forces placed on said driver member means.
7. A shock absorbing assembly according to claim 6 wherein said key means is at least one ear means extending radially outwardly from said driven flange means, and said slot means is located in said side wall means and dimensioned to allow the relative rotation of said driven member means relative to said driver member means when torsional forces are applied to said driver member means, and to allow the relative longitudinal movement of said driver member means to said driven member means in response to the application of longitudinal forces to said driver member means.
8. A shock absorbing assembly according to claim 6 wherein said key means are two keys disposed approximately 180" apart around the longitudinal axis.
9. A shock absorbing assembly according to claim 1 wherein said resilient means is bonded to said lower flange means and to said driven flange means. 10. A shock absorbing assembly according to claim 1 wherein said driver member means includes side wall means interconnecting said upper driver flange means and said lower driver flange means, said side wall means extending around said resilient means and not contacting said resilient means when said resilient means is under tension. 11. A shock absorbing member according to claim 10 wherein said side wall means has walls defining slot means opposing said driven flange means, and further comprising key means having notches for engaging said walls defining said 


slot means; and wherein said driven member means has arcuate slot means defined by end walls; said arcuate slot means receiving said key means; said key means engaging said end walls when the drill bit is stock and torsional forces are applied to said driver means for freeing the stuck drill bit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
