<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635259</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composition and process for decreasing hair fiber swelling
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for relaxing hair in which the hair fibers 
undergo minimal swelling is provided, using a composition that 

decreases the swelling of hair fibers. Use of the composition or 
process decreases hair fiber swelling during the relaxing process, 

thereby decreasing structural damage to the hair while increasing 
hair fiber strength. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the chemical
processing of hair fibers, and more particularly to a
process for decreasing hair fiber swelling during the process
of lanthionizing hair fibers.Human hair has a variety of textures, from fine to
coarse, and from straight to curly. In today's society, the
ability to alter or change the texture of one's hair through
chemical processes is important to both men and women. Hair care
products and chemical processes that can alter the texture of hair
are in great demand. Among individuals with excessively curly
hair, products and processes that straighten or "relax" hair are
especially popular, for such products and processes increase hair
manageability and ease of styling.The relaxing process operates by changing the chemical
structure of the hair fibers. Hair fibers are comprised of
keratin, which is in turn comprised of polypeptide chains bonded
together by three types of bonds: cystine (or disulfide) bonds,
hydrogen bonds, and salt linkages. The relaxing process operates
primarily on the cystine bonds. When the cystine bonds are exposed
to an alkaline relaxing solution, they are transformed to
lanthionine bonds. The chemical term for the hair relaxing process
is lanthionization. In the conventional relaxing process, an alkaline
relaxing solution is first applied to the hair for eighteen to
twenty minutes. During this step, hair gradually becomes
physically straighter. After the alkaline relaxing solution has
been left on the hair for eighteen to twenty minutes, it is rinsed
from the hair with water for one to three minutes. Directions for
use of conventional relaxing systems stress the importance of
ensuring that the alkaline relaxing solution is left on the hair
for no longer than twenty minutes. It is taught that if the
relaxing solution is left on the hair for longer than twenty
minutes, the hair will be overprocessed, and excessively damaged.
Examples of such relaxing processes with an intermediate rinse are disclosed in US
Patent 4,373,540 and US Patent 4,602,648. US Patent 3,840,401 discloses a process for
setting textile material formed of animal hair which involves treating the material
with an alkaline solution and then an aqueous solution of a metal salt in order to
form a chelate compound with the keratin in the animal hair. Although the conventional relaxing process decreases the
amount of curl in hair, it also damages hair. The conventional
process causes hair fibers longitudinally to split and break,
leaving hair coarse, brittle, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for relaxing hair fibers comprising the steps
of:


(a) lanthionizing hair fibers with a non-reducing base;
and then, without providing an intermediate rinse,
(b) deswelling the hair fibers by applying to the hair a deswelling
composition comprising a component selected from the

group consisting of a starch, a sugar and a salt.
A process as claimed in Claim 1 , wherein the
deswelling composition comprises a pH-decreasing

agent.
A process as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the
component of the deswelling composition is selected

from the group consisting of hydrogenated starch
hydrolysates, sodium lactate, glycerol, sorbitol,

sucrose, glucose, fructose, magnesium sulfate, and sodium
acetate.
A process as claimed in any preceding Claim, wherein the
deswelling composition has a pH between .5 and

2.5. 
A process as claimed in Claim 2, wherein the pH-decreasing
agent is an acid.
A process as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the pH-decreasing
agent is a non-caustic acid.
A process as claimed in claim 5, wherein the pH-decreasing
agent is an acid selected from the group

consisting of phosphoric acid, lactic acid, any organic
acid, and any mineral acid.
A process as claimed in any preceding Claim,
comprising the additional step of:


(c) rinsing the deswelling composition from the hair
with water.
A process as claimed in Claim 8, comprising the additional
steps of:


(d) reapplying the deswelling composition to the hair;
and
(e) rinsing the composition from the hair.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
