<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REINFORCED CATHETER AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2501	A61M2501	B29C4702	B29C4702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	B29C47	B29C47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high torque, thin walled guiding catheter (1) has resilient reinforcement material (8, 23, 29, 70, 73) integrally spiraled or braided into monolithic walls (21) of flexible material. A solid lubricant, also referred to as dry lubricant, comprised of either special fluorine containing materials or polymeric organic silicon compounds is embedded into interior and exterior wall surfaces of the catheters. Smooth interior walls (11) are channeled (10) to decrease friction resistance, to trap resistance particles and to dissipate friction heat in the high ratio of surface area to cross-sectional area of small catheters. Number of spirals or braids of reinforcement strands per unit of length, number of layers of strands of the catheters, catheter diameter and progressiveness thereof are designedly different for separate portions of particular catheters. Catheter tips (6) are weldable immediately adjacent to select density of strands of reinforcement material. Perfusion ports are weldable where desired. Directional bends (7) are positioned selectively at distal ends (5) of the catheters (1). Methods for manufacture and modification with co-extrusion, miniature milling and welding while maintaining structural integrity with monolithic wall structure are described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN INTERVENTIONAL TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN INTERVENTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN JOE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK D JOE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PURSLEY MATT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN, JOE, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, D., JOE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PURSLEY, MATT, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Reinforced Catheter and Method of ManufacturingTechnical Field of the Invention.The present invention relates generally to the field of catheters. More particularly it relates to guiding catheters having torque transmittal guidance walls that are flexible linearly but not circumferentially and that are neither collapsible nor kinkable. It is particularly suited as a vascular catheter.Background Art.Vascular catheters and some other types of catheters requiring remote guidance of insertion from outside of a patient have fine spiralled or braided metallic or non-metallic strands of reinforcement material in thin cylindrical walls of flexible catheter tubing. The catheter body must (a) contain fluid pressures up to 1,000 psi, (b) transmit rotational torque accurately from a proximal end outside of a patient to a distal end inside of the patient, (c) prevent collapse, kinking or alteration of conveyance area of the catheter, (d) convey electrical current or sound wave energy from end-to-end of the catheter and yet, (e) flex sufficiently not to injure bodily tissues. Diagnostic instrumentation, traceable fluids, medicine and body fluids must be conveyed through the catheter lumen effectively. Total diameter of the catheter tubing, however, is often less than one-tenth of an inch.Guidance of such catheters within vascular and other body channels is achieved usually by selectively slight rotation of the catheter with a small handle at the proximal end. At the distal end near a non-injurious tip of the catheter inside of the patient, there is generally a curved directional bend. The slight rotation of the catheter points this directional bend precisely in a desired circumferential direction at a particular position of confluence or other physical condition of the 

body lumens or channels. This directs or guides insertional advancement of the catheter into desired body channels or lumens. Other guidance means employ unbent catheters in combination with various steerable tips.A variety of problems have occurred with these small guiding catheters and related components previously. One problem has been a tendency of reinforcement strands to separate from polymer or various flexible materials from which the body of the catheter tubing is constructed. This destroys rotational torque transmittal capacity and leaves the catheter subject to kinking, collapse and general failure of its design requirements.Another problem has been insufficient lubricity of inside catheter walls for conveyance of instrumentation, liquids
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A catheter having:
strands of reinforcement material embedded in monolithic catheter walls of flexible material;
solid lubricant material on inside and outside peripheral surfaces of the catheter walls; and
friction reduction channels in the inside peripheral surfaces of the catheter walls.
2. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is resilient with a structural memory.
3. A catheter according to claim 2 wherein the reinforcement material is a single strand positioned in the monolithic catheter walls in select helical relationship to linear axis of the catheter.
4. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of layers of single resilient strands positioned concentrically with alternately oppositely spiralled strands stacked circumferentially within the monolithic catheter walls.
5. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of single resilient strands braided in oppositely spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls. 



6. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a multiple strand resilient line positioned in the monolithic catheter walls in select helical relationship to linear axis of the catheter.
7. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of layers of multiple strand resilient lines positioned concentrically with the layers of oppositely spiralled multiple strand resilient lines stacked circumferentially within the monolithic catheter walls.
8. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of multiple strand resilient lines spiral braided in oppositely spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls.
9. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a single strand of resilient material positioned in the monolithic catheter walls in select density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
10. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of layers of single resilient strands positioned concentrically with alternately oppositely spiralled strands stacked circumferentially within the monolithic catheter walls and having select density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
11. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of single resilient strands spiral braided in oppositely spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and having select density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter. 


12. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a multiple strand resilient line positioned in the monolithic catheter walls in select helical relationship to linear axis of the catheter and having select density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
13. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of layers of multiple strand resilient lines positioned concentrically with alternately oppositely spiralled multiple strand resilient lines stacked circumferentially within the monolithic catheter walls and having select density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
14. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of multiple strand resilient lines braided in oppositely spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and having select density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
15. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a single strand of resilient material positioned in the monolithic catheter walls in select variation of density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
16. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of layers of single resilient strands positioned concentrically with alternately oppositely spiralled strands stacked circumferentially within the monolithic catheter walls and having select variation of density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter. 


17. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of single resilient strands spiral braided in oppositely spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and having select variation of density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
18. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a multiple strand resilient line positioned in the monolithic catheter walls in select helical relationship to linear axis of the catheter and having select variation of density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
19. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of layers of multiple strand resilient lines positioned concentrically with alternately oppositely spiralled multiple strand resilient lines stacked circumferentially within the monolithic catheter walls and having select variation of density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
20. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is a plurality of multiple strand resilient lines braided in oppositely spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and having select variation of density of helical spirals per linear distance within the catheter.
21. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is select strands of resilient material positioned in select spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and further comprising:
linear reinforcement members positioned in the monolithic walls. 


22. A catheter according to claim 21 wherein the linear reinforcement members are resilient.
23. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is select strands of resilient material positioned in select spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and further comprising:
linear diagnostic communication members positioned in the monolithic walls.
24. A catheter according to claim 23 and further comprising:
linear reinforcement members positioned in the monolithic walls.
25. A catheter according to claim 24 wherein the linear reinforcement members are resilient.
26. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is select strands of resilient material positioned in select spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and further comprising:
at least one perfusion port positioned selectively in a wall of the catheter. 


27. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the reinforcement material is select strands of resilient material positioned in select spiralled relationship within the monolithic walls and further comprising:
at least one stress relief cut in a distal end of the catheter; and
a tip welded to the distal end of the catheter.
28. A catheter according to claim 27 wherein density of spirals of the reinforcement material is decreased selectively in proximity of the distal end of the catheter.
29. A catheter according to claim 28 and further comprising:
at least one linear member in the monolithic wall proximate the distal end of the catheter.
30. A catheter according to claim 29 wherein the at least one linear member is selectively bendable to provide a bendable tip section of the catheter.
31. A catheter according to claim 29 wherein the at least one linear member is selectively resilient and bendable in a desired resilient curve to provide a curved resilient tip of the catheter.
32. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the solid lubricant is a fluorine containing material. 


33. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the solid lubricant is a polymeric organic silicon material.
34. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the friction reduction channels are helical voids between catheter material containing solid lubricant on helical reinforcement members at inside peripheral surfaces of the catheter.
35. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the friction reduction channels are opposite directional helical voids between braided solid lubricant covered opposite directional helical reinforcement members at inside peripheral surfaces of the catheter.
36. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the friction reduction channels are helical voids in solid lubricant covered catheter material at inside peripheral surfaces of the catheter.
37. A catheter according to claim 1 wherein the friction reduction channels are opposite directional helical voids in solid lubricant covered catheter material at inside peripheral surfaces of the catheter.
38. A method for producing a catheter having strands of reinforcement material embedded in monolithic catheter walls of flexible material; solid lubricant material on inside and outside peripheral surfaces of the catheter wails; and friction reduction channels in the inside peripheral surfaces of the catheter walls; such method comprising a co-extrusion process having the following steps: 


 sequentially positioning a mandrel, a first extrusion die, a wrapper and a second extrusion die fluidly downstream from a feed hopper and related extrusion machinery;
forming a first stage catheter tube on the mandrel at the first extrusion die;
wrapping reinforcement material onto outside peripheral walls of the first stage catheter tube;
forming friction reduction channels in inside walls of the catheter;
maintaining select molten state heat of the first stage catheter tube proximate the second extrusion die;
co-extruding a second stage catheter tube with the first stage catheter tube by fusing the first stage catheter tube and the second stage catheter tube at select fusion heat level with the reinforcement material embedded in molten catheter material from both the first stage catheter tube and the second stage catheter tube in a monolithic catheter wall formed thereby.
39. A method according to claim 38 and further comprising:
positioning at least one channel forming appendage on a first rotatable mandrel member fluidly downstream from a lead portion of the mandrel and rotating the first rotatable mandrel member selectively in one direction of rotation to form a helical friction reduction channel in the inside wall of the catheter as the catheter is being extruded. 


40. A method according to claim 39 and further comprising:
positioning at least one channel forming appendage on a second rotatable mandrel member fluidly downstream from the first rotatable mandrel member and rotating the second rotatable mandrel member selectively in an opposite direction of rotation from the first rotatable mandrel member to form opposite directional helical friction reduction channels in the inside wall of the catheter as the catheter is being co-extruded.
41. A method according to claim 38 wherein wrapping reinforcement material is select helical wrapping of select resilient strands onto outside peripheral walls of the first stage catheter tube.
42. A method according to claim 38 wherein wrapping reinforcement material onto outside peripheral walls of the first stage catheter tube is braid wrapping of reinforcement strands in opposite directional helical coils.
43. A method according to claim 38 wherein the friction reduction channels are formed by stressing the reinforcement strands inward radially while maintaining select heat in the catheter wall and enlarging effective diameter of the mandrel such that friction reduction channels are formed between reinforcement material that is thinly coated with catheter material and solid lubricant as the catheter is being co-extruded. 


44. A method according to claim 38 and further comprising:
sequentially positioning a second wrapper and a third extrusion die fluidly downstream from the second extrusion die;
wrapping a select second reinforcement member selectively onto outside peripheral walls of the second stage catheter with the second wrapper;
maintaining select molten state heat of the second stage catheter tube proximate the third extrusion die;
co-extruding a third stage catheter tube and the second stage catheter tube by fusing the second stage catheter tube and the third stage catheter tube at a select fusion heat level with the second reinforcement material embedded in molten catheter material of both the second stage catheter tube and the third stage catheter tube in a monolithic catheter wall formed thereby.
45. A method according to claim 38 wherein the reinforcement material is a reinforcing fiber and further comprising:
passing the fiber through a select fluidized powder bed in which the fiber is coated with the fluidized power by means of an electrostatic charge;
applying the coated fiber onto the mandrel; and
fusing the coating of the fiber into a catheter wall by means of an external heat source to form a monolithic catheter while the fiber is being applied. 


46. A method according to claim 38 and further comprising:
positioning a linear material insertion member fluidly downstream from a last extrusion die following a last wrapper;
positioning a linear material cover extrusion die downstream from the linear material insertion member;
positioning select linear material on the outside periphery of a last stage catheter and
co-extruding a linear material cover of catheter material onto the last stage catheter while maintaining a select molten state heat of the last stage catheter.
47. A method according to claim 38 and further comprising:
axially stress relief cutting a distal end of a catheter selectively linearly; and
welding a catheter tip to the distal end of the catheter.
48. A method according to claim 38 and further comprising:
axially cutting a distal end of a catheter with selective linear stress relief cuts;
butting a pre-cut end of the catheter tip concentrically against a stress relief cut distal end of the catheter on a supporting mandrel; 


 applying welding heat to a select end portion of the stress relief cut distal end of the catheter and to a select end portion of the end of the catheter tip that is butted against the distal end of the catheter;
applying abutment pressure to the catheter tip against the distal end of the catheter wile the welding heat is being applied to cause molten material of the catheter tip to flow into stress relief cuts in the distal end of the catheter;
preventing melt level heat from penetrating beyond the stress relief cuts in the catheter and beyond a select welding distance in the catheter tip; and
smooth welding interior and exterior surfaces of a weld section of the distal end of the catheter and catheter tip.
49. A method according to claim 48 wherein inside peripheral welding of the catheter tip to the distal end of the catheter is accomplished by applying welding heat through a mandrel at the inside periphery of the distal end of the catheter and the pre-cut end of the catheter tip while heat is being dissipated through a cooling medium at the outside periphery of the distal end of the catheter and the pre-cut end of the catheter tip.
50. A method according to claim 48 wherein outside peripheral welding of the catheter tip to the distal end of the catheter is accomplished by applying welding heat to a sheath at the outside periphery of the distal end of the catheter and of the pre-cut end of the catheter tip while heat is being dissipated through a cooling medium being passed through the inside of the catheter and through the inside of the catheter tip. 



51. A method according to claim 48 wherein a series of axial welds are performed to prevent destruction of a matrix of the catheter and catheter tip from heat when being welded together, such series of axial welds being accomplished by applying welding heat to select outside peripheral portions of the catheter and catheter tip while passing a cooling medium through an inside lumen of the catheter and catheter tip and then applying heat to different outside peripheral portions of the catheter and catheter tip while passing a cooling medium through the inside lumen of the catheter and catheter tip repeatedly until the entire circumferential surface of the catheter and the catheter tip have been welded together without at any time melting an entire circumferential portion of the catheter and catheter tip being welded.
52. A method according to claim 48 and further comprising:
affixing an iron receptor disk to a distal end of a hollow mandrel made of stainless steel;
positioning the iron receptor disk proximate an inside peripheral portion of the distal end of the catheter and catheter tip to be welded;
applying select radio frequency current to the iron receptor disk; and
dissipating heat from the outside periphery of the catheter and catheter tip. 


53. A method according to claim 3B and further comprising:
milling at least one perfusion port in a wall of the catheter while passing a cryogenic fluid about exterior peripheral surfaces of a select portion of the catheter being milled and about a cutter tool with which the at least one perfusion port is being milled.
54. A method according to claim 53 wherein the cryogenic fluid is passed through an aperture in a clamp block in which the catheter is being held, through an adjoining aperture at an outside peripheral surface of a portion of the catheter being milled and through a further adjoining aperture through which the cutter tool is being inserted for milling the at least one perfusion port. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
