<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630548</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CALL CONTROL IN A DIGITAL TDMA RADIO SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W7606	H04W8402	H04W7600	H04W8408	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W76	H04W84	H04W76	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a call control method in a digital TDMA radio system a mobile station (MS) is commanded to a traffic channel for a call by signalling performed on the control channel. In accordance with the invention, a call identifier is assigned for the call to be established and sent intermittently on the traffic channel during the call. The mobile station (MS) is commanded to terminate the call and to leave the traffic channel by changing the call identifier sent on the traffic channel. The invention also relates to a digital TDMA radio system, a method for call release in terminal equipment in a digital TDMA radio system, and semiduplex terminal equipment.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAAVONEN TAPIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAAVONEN, TAPIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a call control
method in a digital TDMA radio system comprising mobile
radio stations and a fixed radio network.Radio networks usually operate in such a way that
the signalling required for establishing calls (as well
as for the registration of MSs with the system) is performed
on a control channel and the speech or data communication
during the calls is conducted on traffic
channels. This requires each base station to have more
than one channel, since at least one channel is needed
as a control channel and at least one channel as a traffic
channel. Typically one control channel and several
traffic channels are provided. In some radio networks,
a less complicated operation is obtained by utilizing
a single channel for both the control signalling and the
speech communication. Furthermore, radio networks with
very low traffic levels may be single-channel systems.Radio traffic can be of three different types:
1) simplex, 2) semiduplex or 3) duplex.In simplex operation, mobile stations MS employ
the same frequency for traffic in both directions. Thus,
when one party is speaking (and presses the transmission
switch or pressel), the other is listening. During listening,
the receiver and the loudspeaker of the listening
party are muted. The simplest radio systems operate
in this way. If two or more mobile stations communicate
with one another without any base station or any other
radio system, the mobile stations operate in the simplex 
mode.The semiduplex mode utilizes for the traffic two
frequencies, i.e. one frequency pair. The transmitters
of both mobile stations (or in a group call, all mobile
stations) are tuned to one frequency and the receivers
to the other frequency. Naturally, these frequencies
are reversed at the base station (i.e. the transmitting
frequency of the mobile station is the receiving frequency
of the base station, and vice versa). Yet also
in this case it is impossible for the transmitting and
receiving subscriber to speak simultaneously. The receiver
and the loudspeaker of the transmitting mobile
station are muted during the transmission. The semiduplex
mode enables the use of fixed stations, such as
telephone or exchange interfaces or special control
points. A control point (CP) is a more or less conventional
telephone set connected to an exchange and may
be used for performing various standby tasks. The semiduplex
mode allows effective utilization of the radio
frequencies, since within the area of one base station
two or more mobile stations may use
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A call control method in a digital TDMA radio
system comprising mobile radio stations (MS) and a fixed

radio network with base stations (BS), a mobile exchange
(MX) to which said base stations are connected, and call

control means (CCC), each of said base stations having
at least one carrier for conveying control channels and

traffic channels in TDMA time slots, said method
comprising the steps of


commanding a mobile station to a traffic channel
for a call by signalling performed on the control

channel at the beginning of the call,
commanding the mobile station through the traffic
channel to terminate the call and to leave the traffic

channel at the end of the call,

   characterized by the steps of

assigning a call identifier for the call to be
established,
sending the call identifier intermittently on the
traffic channel during the call,
commanding the mobile station to terminate the call
and to leave the traffic channel by changing said call

identifier sent by said fixed radio network on the
traffic channel at the end of the call
A method as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized

by a step of replacing the call identifier
of the ongoing call on the traffic channel by

the call identifier of the next call.
A method according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized

by a step of allocating different
call identifiers for at least two successive calls.
A method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3,

characterized
 by step of sending the
call identifier in the broadcast field of every burst

transmitted in the traffic channel time slot.
A digital TDMA radio system, comprising 

mobile radio stations (MS),
a fixed radio network comprising base stations
(BS) each having at least one carrier for conveying

control channels arid traffic channels in TDMA time
slots,
a mobile exchange (MX) and call control means (CCC)
for controlling call establishment of the mobile radio

stations by signalling sent on control channels and for
controlling call release by control information sent on

a traffic channel,

   characterized in that

the control information sent by said fixed radio
network on a traffic channel includes a call-specific

call identifier, and that
the mobile station (MS) comprises means (25) for
activating clearing of the mobile station from the call

in response to change of the call identifier during the
call.
A system as claimed in claim 5, 
characterized

in that at least two successive calls
have different identifiers.
A system as claimed in claim 5 or 6, 
characterized

in that the call identifier is incorporated
in the broadcast field (B1, B2) of the burst

sent in the traffic channel time slot.
A method for call release in mobile radio
stations (MS) in a digital TDMA radio system, comprising

mobile radio stations (MS) and a fixed radio network
with base stations (BS), a mobile exchange (MX) to which

the base stations are connected and call control means
(CCC), characterized by the steps of


receiving a call-specific call identifier sent by
said fixed radio network in each burst on the traffic

channel during the call, 
storing the call identifier received at the beginning
of the call,
comparing call identifiers subsequently received
with the stored call identifier,
clearing the call when change of the call identifier
is detected.
A method as claimed in claim 8, 
characterized

in that the call identifier is interpreted
as having changed when the changed call identifier

is received in a predetermined number of consecutive
bursts.
A semiduplex mobile radio station (MS) for a
digital TDMA radio system, comprising mobile radio

stations (MS) and a fixed radio network with base
stations (BS), a mobile exchange (MX) to which the base

stations are connected and call control means (CCC),
wherein several control channels and traffic channels

are conveyed in TDMA time slots on each radio channel,
comprising


an antenna (ANT),
a transmitter (23),
a receiver (22),
a transmission switch (S1) for alternately connecting
the transmitter and the receiver to the antenna,
a frequency synthesizer (24) for tuning the transmitter

and the receiver to a desired radio channel,
control means (25) for controlling the operation
of the terminal equipment and for processing control

messages received on the control and traffic channels,
characterized
 in that

the control means (25) is responsive to a call-specific
call identifier sent by said fixed radio

network on the traffic channel during the call for
initiating clearing from the call upon detection of

change of the call identifier during the call.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
