<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645869</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Battery recharger.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J700	H02J700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J7	H02J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A battery charging device is provided which uses a 
charging circuit monitored and controlled by a current 

detector (14) and a logic circuit. The charging circuit has a 
voltage source (18) capable of providing a maximum charging 

voltage and a maintenance voltage to a battery. The 
current in the charging circuit is monitored by the current 

detector (14). As the battery is charging the current in the 
charging circuit eventually drops below a predetermined 

threshold current at which time the current detector 
signals a timer (28). Upon receiving this signal from the 

current detector (14), the timer provides an output which 
maintains the voltage source at the maximum charging 

voltage until a predetermined time interval has expired. 
When the time interval expires, the timer output changes 

which lowers the voltage provided to the battery to a level 
which maintains the charge in the battery without drying 

out the battery. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMED CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMED CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECKERT CLINT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON LARRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECKERT, CLINT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON, LARRY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to devices for 
recharging batteries. More specifically, the present 
invention pertains to devices for recharging and 
maintaining the charge of the batteries. The present 
invention is particularly, but not exclusively, useful for 
recharging batteries in medical devices such as IV pumps. It is well known that batteries lose their charge, and 
therefore their effectiveness as the result of use or 
passage of time. Accordingly, batteries periodically need 
to be either replaced or recharged. Because batteries are 
often expensive or difficult to replace, it is desirable to 
be able to recharge them. Moreover, it is preferable to 
perform the recharging while the batteries remain in the 
device in which they are used. Typically, to recharge a battery a voltage source is 
attached to the terminals of the battery. Using the 
voltage source, the voltage across the terminals of the 
battery is increased until a current flows through the 
battery which is sufficient to relocate electrons within 
the chemical components of the battery. This relocations 
of electrons recharges the battery. The time required to recharge a particular battery is 
difficult to determine precisely and is dependant on a 
number of factors. These factors include the level of the 
current passing through the battery, the level of charge in 
the battery at the time of recharging, as well as the 
physical condition of the battery itself. For these 
reasons, basic recharging systems assume average values for 
the above-mentioned factors and use an average recharge 
time. Because average values are used, some batteries are 
over-charged while others are under-charged. Both of these 
conditions are undesirable. On the one hand, undercharging 
a battery results in a shorter battery useful  
 
life. On the other hand, over-charging also decreases the 
useful life of a battery by drying out the electrolyte in 
the cells. It is known that to charge a battery to a level where 
it has the same useful life as it originally had, the 
battery charge must be increased to approximately 105% of 
the original charge. As those skilled in the art will 
appreciate, the additional charge requirement is the result 
of increasing inefficiencies in the battery as it becomes 
older. Moreover, it is known that the time to recharge a 
battery is directly dependent on the voltage applied across 
the battery. More, specifically, a higher voltage applied 
to the battery results in a higher current flowing through 
the battery. This
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for recharging a battery comprising: 
   a charging circuit electrically connectable to terminals of said 

battery, said charging circuit including a variable voltage source for 
applying a charging voltage across said battery, said charging voltage 

producing a charging current in said charging circuit, said voltage source 
including a current limiting means; 

   a current detector electrically connected to said charging circuit for 
measuring said charging current said current detector having a digital 

output; 
   a means connected to said voltage source for varying said voltage 

across said battery, said means being dependant on said output of said 
current detector. 
The device according to claim 1 wherein said varying means 
includes a timer having a timer input connected to the output of said 

current detector, said timer providing a timer output which maintains said 
voltage across said battery at a first predetermined voltage for a 

predetermined time interval, said time interval beginning when said 
charging current goes below said threshold level. 
The device according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said output of said 
current detector maintains said voltage across said battery at said first 

predetermined voltage when said charging current is above said 
predetermined threshold level. 
A device for recharging a battery comprising: 
   a charging circuit electrically connectable to said battery, said 

charging circuit including a voltage source for providing an output voltage 
 

to generate a charging current in said charging circuit; 
   a current detector electrically connected to said charging circuit for 

measuring said charging current, said current detector having a digital 
output dependant on said current, and 

   a logic circuit electrically connected to said current detector and 

said voltage source, said logic circuit selecting said output voltage of said 
voltage source depending on the output of said current detector. 
The device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said current detector output indicates whether said charging current is 

below a predetermined threshold level. 
The device according to claim 4 wherein said output of said current 
detector maintains said output voltage of said voltage source at a first 

predetermined voltage when said current is above said predetermined 
threshold level. 
The device according to any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein said logic 
circuit includes a timer monitoring the output of said current detector, said 

timer providing a timer output which maintains said output voltage of said 
voltage source at said first predetermined voltage for a predetermined time 

interval, said time interval beginning when said current detector output 
indicates said charging current is below said threshold level. 
The device according to claim 7 wherein said current detector 
calculates said charging current after determining a voltage drop over a 

known resistance in said charging circuit. 
The device according to claim 2 or 7 wherein said current detector 
output is a first logic state when said charging current is above said 

 
threshold and a second logic state when said charging current is below 

said threshold. 
The device according to claim 9 wherein said timer output is a first 
timer logic state when said current detector output is said first logic state 

and during said time interval, said timer output changing to a second timer 
logic state when said time interval expires. 
The device according to claim 10 wherein said logic circuit further 
comprises a logic state invertor and a logic gate, said logic state invertor 

inverting said timer output and providing a first input to said logic gate, 
said output of said current detector providing a second input to said logic 

gate, said logic gate having an output providing an input to said voltage 
source, said input controlling said output voltage of said voltage source. 
The device according to claim 11 wherein said logic gate output 
maintains said output voltage at said first predetermined voltage unless 

said current detector output is said second logic state and said timer output 
is said second timer logic state. 
The device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said battery has a maximum charging voltage and said first predetermined 

voltage is at least ninety percent (90%) of said maximum charging 
voltage. 
The device according to claim 12 wherein said output voltage 
of said voltage source decreases from said first predetermined voltage to 

a second predetermined voltage when said current detector output is said 
second logic state and said timer output is said second timer logic state, 

said second predetermined voltage being a maintenance voltage sufficient 
 

to maintain a charge in said battery, but insufficient to increase said 
charge in said battery. 
The device according to any one of claims 2, 3 or 7 to 14 wherein 
said time interval is sufficient to recharge said battery to at least one 

hundred percent (100%) of an original charge in said battery. 
The device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said voltage source includes a current limiting means. 
A method of recharging a battery comprising the steps of: 
   connecting said battery to a charging circuit including a voltage 

source providing an output voltage across said battery; 
   increasing said output voltage to a first predetermined voltage; 

   monitoring a current in said charging circuit resulting from said 
output voltage with a current detector, said current detector having a 

digital current detector output indicating whether said current is below a 
threshold current; 

   receiving said current detector output at a logic circuit, said logic 
circuit having a logic circuit output; 

   controlling said output voltage with said logic circuit output, said 
logic circuit output maintaining said output voltage at said first 

predetermined voltage until said current detector output indicates said 
current is below said threshold current and a predetermined time interval 

has expired; and then 
   reducing said output voltage automatically to a second 

predetermined voltage, said second voltage being a maintenance voltage 
sufficient to maintain a charge in said battery, but insufficient to increase 

said charge in said battery. 
The method as recited in claim 17 wherein said controlling step 
comprises the sub-steps of: 

   monitoring said current detector output with a timer, said timer 
beginning said time interval when said current goes below said threshold 

current; and 
   providing a timer output indicating said time interval has expired 

when said time interval has expired. 
The method as recited in claim 18 wherein said reducing step 
comprises the sub-steps of monitoring said timer output and said current 

detector output at a logic gate, said logic gate providing a logic gate 
output to said voltage source when said current detector output indicates 

said current is below said threshold current and said timer output indicates 
said time interval has expired, said logic gate output reducing said output 

voltage. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
