<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612658</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Water jet propulsion unit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63H1100	B63B1700	B63H11117	B63H1110	B63B1700	B63H1101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63H	B63B	B63H	B63H	B63B	B63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63H11	B63B17	B63H11	B63H11	B63B17	B63H11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A number of embodiments of watercraft having jet propulsion 
units contained within a tunnel in the hull and wherein the jet 

propulsion unit is pivotal about a first transversely extending 
horizontal pivot axis for bringing the jet propulsion unit 

through trim adjusted positions to an upward out of the water 
position. In addition, the jet propulsion unit is rotatable 

about a horizontal longitudinally extending axis so that its 
downwardly facing water inlet portion may be rotated upwardly for 

access through an access opening in the hull for servicing. In 
one embodiment, the jet propulsion unit is only rotatable about 

the horizontal longitudinally extending axis. A number of 
embodiments of rudder assemblies are also depicted supported by 

the steering nozzle for generating steering effects when the 
steering nozzle is not generating a significant steering effect 

and which may be pivoted to an out of the water position for 
protection when underwater obstacles are struck. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMAHA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMAHA HATSUDOKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI NOBORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI, NOBORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a jet propulsion unit for 
association with a main hull portion of a watercraft for 
propelling said watercraft through a body of water, said jet 
propulsion unit comprising a housing assembly having a generally 
downwardly facing water inlet portion defining a water inlet 
opening for drawing water in which the watercraft is operating, 
an impeller portion containing an impeller for drawing water 
through said inlet portion and a discharge portion for the 
discharge of water moved by said impeller for propelling the 
watercraft and raising means for raising the water inlet opening 
of the jet propulsion unit above the water level. The advantages of jet propulsion units for watercraft are well 
known. Generally, these units permit the operation of the 
watercraft in shallower water than more conventional propeller 
driven craft. In addition, the use of jet propulsion units has 
a number of other advantages in that they provide a neat 
configuration for the watercraft and storage of the watercraft 
both in the water and out of the water can be facilitated, as 
indicated in US-A-3 207 116, DE-A-2 732 671 and FR-A-1 559 
977. However, as with conventional watercraft, there are some 
disadvantages that are existent with jet propelled watercraft.  
 For example, when the watercraft is left in the water for a 
long period of time and not utilized, encrustation of elements 
such as barnacles in the running components of the propulsion 
unit can be a problem. In one form of jet propulsion unit, an 
outboard motor type of jet propulsion unit is employed that 
employs rather than a propeller a jet propulsion unit for 
achieving watercraft propulsion. Of course, this type of 
propulsion unit can easily be tilted up out of the water as 
can the associated stern drive jet propulsion units in which 
the jet propulsion unit is mounted on the stern of a 
watercraft as with 
conventional propeller driven inboard/outboard drives. However, 
the use of such outboard motor type jet propulsion units has the 
disadvantages common with outboard motors. That is, they provide 
an unsightly appearance for the watercraft, they raise the center 
of gravity and tend to concentrate a large portion of the weight 
at the hull of the watercraft and have other disadvantages. Therefore, it in more desirable if the jet propulsion unit 
can be mounted in a tunnel formed at the rear of the watercraft 
hull. This provides not only a neat assembly, but also gives 
rise to improved construction of the watercraft
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A jet propulsion unit (31) for association with a 
main hull portion (22) of a watercraft (21) for 

propelling said watercraft (21) through a body of 
water, said jet propulsion unit (31) comprising a 

housing assembly (44) having a generally downwardly 
facing water inlet portion (45) defining a water 

inlet opening (46) for drawing water in which the 
watercraft (21) is operating, an impeller portion 

(48) containing an impeller (49) for drawing water 
through said inlet portion (45) and a discharge 

portion for the discharge of water moved by said 
impeller (49) for propelling the watercraft (21) and 

raising means for raising the water inlet opening 
(46) of the jet propulsion unit (31) above the water 

level 
characterized in that
 a bottom plate 
arrangement (59, 72) of the hull forms an inlet 

portion defining an opening which is adapted to mate 
with the water inlet opening (46) of the jet 

propulsion unit (31) when same is in its normal 
drive position. 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claim 1, 

characterized in that
, a seal means (73) is 
interposed between said inlet portion of the bottom 

plate arrangement (59, 72) of the hull (22) and the 
water inlet portion (45) of the jet propulsion unit 

(31).  
 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 

characterized in that
 said raising means comprises a 
pivoting means for pivoting said jet propulsion unit 

(31) about a generally horizontally extending 
transverse axis. 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 3, 
characterized in that,
 
the pivoting means for pivoting the jet propulsion 

unit (31) about a transverse axis permits the water 
inlet portion (45) to be raised clear of the water 

so as to permit all water to drain out of the jet 
propulsion unit (31). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that
 
the pivoting means includes a universal joint (63) 

disposed at a pivot axis of the jet propulsion unit 
(31). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claim 5, 

characterized in that
 a pivot axis of the jet 
propulsion unit (31) is disposed forwardly of the 

water inlet portion (45). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that
 
the pivoting means for pivoting the jet propulsion 

unit (31) about the transverse axis includes a pair 
of spaced apart guide rails (74) affixed to the main 

hull portion (22) and having slots (77) receiving 
pins (81) affixed to the jet propulsion unit (31) 

and for taking side thrusts on the jet propulsion 
unit (31).  

 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that,
 
hydraulic means (82) are provided for effecting the 

pivotal movement of the jet propulsion unit (31). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 8 
characterized in that
 a 
discharge nozzle (55) is pivotally supported 

relative to the impeller portion (48) for steering 
of the watercraft and a rudder (155,203) is 

supported through the discharge nozzle (55) for 
generating a steering effect when the jet propulsion 

unit (31) does not create sufficient steering 
performance. 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claim 9 

characterized in that
 the rudder (155,203) is 
moveably carried by the steering nozzle (55) for 

movement away from an under-water obstacle. 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claims 9 or 10 

characterized in that
 a biasing spring means 
(109,204) is provided for urging the rudder 

(155,203) to its normal operating position. 
Jet propulsion unit (31) as claimed in at least 
one of the preceding claims 1 to 11. 
characterized 
by
 means (85,86,78) for rotating said jet propulsion 
unit (31) about a generally horizontally extending 

longitudinal axis to rotate said water inlet portion 
(45) from a downwardly facing position to an 

upwardly facing position in which the water inlet 
opening (46) of said water inlet portion (45) is 

disposed above the water level.  

 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claim 12, 

characterized in that
, the axis of rotation of the 
jet propulsion unit (31) is coincident with the 

axis of rotation of the impeller (49). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in claims 12 or 13, 

characterized by
 supporting means (78) for 
supporting said jet propulsion unit (31) for pivotal 

movement about a horizontally extending axis 
transverse to the longitudinal axis. 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 12 to 14, 
characterized in 
that
, the jet propulsion unit (31) is positioned 
within a tunnel (29) formed in the main hull portion 

(22) of the watercraft (21). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 15, 
characterized in that,
 
the inlet opening (46) is surrounded by an outwardly 

extending flange (47) with the seal means (73) being 
interposed betweeen said flange (47) and a member of 

the main hull portion (22). 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
the preceding claims 1 to 16, 
characterized by
 an 
access opening (91) formed in the main hull portion 

(22) through which the jet propulsion unit inlet 
portion (45) is accessible when the jet propulsion 

unit inlet portion (45) is rotated towards its 
upwardly facing position. 
Jet propulsion unit as claimed in at least one of 
claims 1 to 17, 
characterised in that
, a reverse 
thrust bucket (151) is pivotally supported for 

movement by the discharge nozzle (55) and moveable 
into a position for generating a reverse driving 

thrust. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
