<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633568</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cartridge manipulation and reference system for magnetic tape recorder
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1526	G11B1526	G11B1510	G11B15675	G11B1510	G11B15675	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention pertains to developments for manipulating and referencing a 
magnetic tape cassette in a magnetic tape device involving loading, 

read/write and tape drive operation, and unloading. To load and unload the 
tape cassette, a tape drive bridge on which the magnetic head is mounted is 

disposed in a standby position out of the way of the path of movement of the 
tape cassette into and out of the recorder housing. A gripper disposed for 

longitudinal movement on a gear rack in the recorder housing, is arranged 
to bite the cassette to automatically carry the cassette inwardly to its 

fully loaded position and then again move the cassette outwardly to its 
unloaded position. A lever arm arrangement is provided to appropriately open 

the dust cover door on the tape cassette, to expose the cassette tape for 
operational engagement by the magnetic head, as the tape cassette approaches 

its fully loaded position within the recorder housing. The gear rack serves 
to activate this lever arm for opening the dust cover. The tape cassette is 

preferably loaded endwise into the recorder housing, and when the cassette 
has been fully loaded in the recorder housing, the tape drive bridge carrying 

the magnetic head is rotated in all three axes from its standby position to 
its running position. In its running position, the tape drive bridge locks 

the tape cassette to it, by gripping the cassette at three reference areas 

on the bridge. A manual eject mechanism utilizes an exposed button on the 
recorder housing which is manipulated by the operator to causing unloading 

of a stranded tape cassette, should the electrical system not work. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDBERG DATA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDBERG DATA ASA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUSENGDAL PETTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILLING JAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUSENGDAL, PETTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILLING, JAN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a magnetic tape recorder wherein a cassette for the
storage of data signals is endwise loaded into a rectangular housing and placed into
operative association with a magnetic head which is capable of data recording and/or
playback operation. The magnetic tape contained in the cassette is moved past the
magnetic head with the use of a capstan drive energized by a tape drive motor. This
invention serves to create a stable and stiff connection between the tape cartridge and
the magnetic head which is supported on a bridge. The cartridge is moved in and out
of the tape drive operative position when the bridge and the magnetic head have been
moved out of the way of the cartridge.Magnetic tape recorders are generally known wherein data are recorded on a
magnetic tape contained in a cassette and are read therefrom. The standard cassette
carries one-quarter inch tape wound about a pair of reels and a capstan idler wheel in
belt-drive connection with the tape reels and which is driven by a tape drive motor.
The cassette contains a pivotally disposed dust cover which must be opened in the
recorder system so that the magnetic head has access to the tape. An example of
such a magnetic tape cassette is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,976,262.It is desirable to provide a magnetic tape drive for a recorder which can receive
and operate the cassette endwise loaded into the recorder housing. Previous
arrangements for handling a cassette loaded endwise into the tape drive of a recorder
are described in U.S. Patent 4,622,606 and U.S. Patent 4,573,091. A critical concern
in such arrangements, however, since these arrangements must allow for relative 
movement between the cassette tape and the magnetic head so that the magnetic
head can operatively engage and disengage with the tape in the cassette, is that the
cassette is reliably locked in place during operation of the magnetic head. What is
disadvantageous and ultimately undesirable is a system for referencing the tape
cassette relative to the magnetic head which does not hold the cassette stiff.The document DE-A 37 21 798 discloses a system in which a
tape cassette is longitudinally loaded. Once the cassette has
been inserted through the opening of the tape drive housing it
engages a spring which provides a force that presses the tape
cassette against a shoulder beneath the opening of the tape
drive housing. The tape cassette is now engaged and locked by
the spring, the shoulder beneath the tape drive housing, and a
frame inside the housing. When the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetic tape recorder for receiving an endwise loaded
rectangular tape cassette (3) having a pair of opposed sides

and a pair of opposed ends which are shorter than said sides,
said tape cassette (3) enclosing a length of magnetic tape and

having an opening in one of said sides proximate one of said
ends for providing access to said length of tape, and which

has a magnetic head (11) for reading/writing data on said magnetic
tape when said magnetic head (11) is in operative engagement

with said magnetic tape and a capstan drive train
(13) for activating a tape drive in said tape cassette (3) to

conduct said length of magnetic tape across said magnetic head
(11),

   characterized in that

   said magnetic head (11) and said capstan drive train (13)
are carried by a bridge (4), said bridge being rotatable in all

three axes from a lowered standby position, where said bridge
(4) is spaced from said tape cassette (3), and a raised running

position, where said bridge (4) engages said tape cassette
(3), connects said capstan drive train (13) between an

electric motor (14) and said tape drive, and operatively engages
said magnetic head (11) with said magnetic tape.
The magnetic tape recorder of claim 1, wherein said
bridge (4) clamps onto said cassette (3) at three discrete

reference areas (15, 20, 21) formed on said bridge (4), when
said bridge is in its running position. 
The magnetic recorder of claims 1 or 2, wherein an electric
motor-driven crank (31) is connected to said bridge (4)

to move said bridge (4) between its standby position and its
running position, and the path of said movement of said bridge

(4) is controlled by at least one pin-and-groove connection
(28, 29).
The magnetic recorder of claim 2, wherein said bridge (4)
is generally of a U-shape, said reference areas (15, 20, 21)

being disposed on the legs (7, 8) of said U and said magnetic
head (11) and said capstan drive train (13) being disposed on

the base of said U.
The magnetic recorder of claims 2 or 4, wherein only one
reference area (15) clamps onto said cassette (3) at one end

of said cassette and only two reference areas (20, 21) clamp
onto said cassette (3) at the other end of said cassette.
The magnetic recorder of claim 2, wherein springs (16,
22) underlie said reference areas (15, 20, 21) of said bridge

(4), and said cassette (3) is clamped between said reference
areas (15, 20, 21) and said springs (16, 22) when said bridge

(4) is in its running position.
The magnetic recorder of claim 5, wherein springs (16,
22) underlie said reference areas (15, 20, 21) of said bridge

(4), and said cassette (3) is clamped between said reference
areas (15, 20, 21) and said springs (16, 22) when said bridge

(4) is in its running position.
The magnetic recorder of claim 1, further including a
drive wheel (35) mounted on said bridge (4) for operatively

connecting said electric motor (14) with a means for automatically
loading and unloading said tape cassette in said magnetic

recorder when said bridge (4) is in its standby position,
said drive wheel (35) being disconnected from said electric

motor (14) when said bridge (4) moves from its standby position 
to its running position.
A magnetic tape recorder according to one of the preceding
claims, wherein said tape cassette (3) is locked by said

bridge (4), when said bridge (4) engages said tape cassette
(3).
A magnetic tape recorder according to claim 9, wherein
said three reference areas (15, 20, 21) clamp onto the longitudinal

ends of said tape cassette (3).
A magnetic tape recorder according to one of the preceding
claims, wherein said bridge (4) is movable in all three

axes about a ball joint (5) from a standby position, away from
said tape cassette (3), to a running position, wherein said

reference areas (15, 20, 21) clamp onto said tape cassette
(3).
A magnetic tape recorder according to claim 11, wherein
one said spring (16) is connected on said bridge (4) and disposed

beneath one said reference area (15), said one spring
(16) pulling said cassette (3) into engagement with said one

reference area (15) when said bridge (4) moves from its standby
position to its running position.
A magnetic tape recorder according to claim 11, wherein
one said spring (16, 22) is pushed into engagement with said

cassette (3) across from one said reference area (15, 20, 21)
when said bridge (4) moves to its running position, by a member

mounted on said bridge (4).
A method for locking a magnetic tape cassette, of rectangular
configuration, loaded in a magnetic tape recorder, into

operational engagement with a tape capstan drive train (13)
and a magnetic head (11),

   characterized by
 
   engaging said tape cassette by a bridge (4), said bridge

carrying said magnetic head (11) and said capstan drive train
(13), and being rotatable in all three axes from a lowered

standby position, where said bridge (4) is spaced from said
tape cassette (3), and a raised running position, where said

bridge (4) engages said tape cassette (3), connects said capstan
drive train (13) between an electric motor (14) and a

tape drive, and operatively engages said magnetic head (11)
with said magnetic tape.
The method of claim 14, wherein said engaging is performed
at three discrete location areas on the surface of said

tape cassette (3); and

said method further comprising
clamping said tape cassette (3) against a spring tension
at each of said discrete location areas.
The method of claim 15, wherein said three location areas
are on the opposed longitudinal ends of said tape cassette

(3).
The method of claims 15 or 16, further comprising:

   skewing said tape cassette (3) off its longitudinal axis
as loaded in said magnetic tape recorder, when said clamping

step is performed.
The method of claim 15, wherein said spring tension is
provided by three discrete spring members (16, 22) acting on

said tape cassette (3) proximate said three discrete location
areas.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
