<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657989</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for controlling the speed of a collectorless DC motor and collectorless DC motor for performing the method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P608	H02P606	H02P612	H02P608	H02P614	H02P614	H02P612	H02P600	H02P600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the case of a DC motor without a commutator, a storage element is provided which is charged whenever a specific rotor position is reached. At the same time, a variable on this storage element is changed. This variable is compared with another variable which is dependent on a desired parameter. On reaching a specific comparison criterion, a comparison signal is produced. The interval between the start of this comparison signal and a second predetermined rotor position, which follows the first predetermined rotor position in time, is measured, and the electrical current through the DC motor without a commutator is influenced on the basis of this measured value. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAPST MOTOREN GMBH 
&
 CO KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAPST-MOTOREN GMBH 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JESKE FRANK DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARWATH ARNO DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAPPENECKER HERMANN DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JESKE, FRANK, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARWATH, ARNO, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAPPENECKER, HERMANN, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Method for influencing the speed of an
electronically commutated direct-current motor, with the

following steps:

a) beginning from a first predetermined rotor position
(fig. 12: 0° or 360° el.) a magnitude variable depending

on time is altered depending on time;
b) this magnitude is compared with a comparison magnitude
in order to produce a comparison signal (Udif) with a

predetermined comparison criterion;
c) a position time point (fig. 6: t12; fig. 8: t18; fig.
21: t30; fig. 24: t276) is determined at which the rotor,

starting from the first predetermined rotor position, has
run through a predetermined rotary angle (fig. 12: KOMM =

L);
d) the time difference (Td) between the beginning of the
comparison signal (Udif) and the position time point, or

an approximate value (Td') for this time difference, is
established;
e) it is established whether the beginning of the
comparison signal (Udif) lies before or after this

position time point, and a corresponding speed
information (REG) is produced;
f) starting from the value of this time difference (Td)
or its approximate value (Td'), and the value of the

speed information (REG), the time at which a current (i1,
i2) in the stator of the electronically commutated motor

is switched on and/or switched off is controlled
according to at least one predetermined rule;
g) in the period of time between the production of the
comparison signal (Udif) and the following renewed

beginning of the alteration of the magnitude variable
depending on time, the latter is set to an initial value.
Method according to claim 1, in which the first

rotor position corresponds to a commutation position of
the motor.
Method according to claim 1 or 2, in which the
comparison magnitude is dependent on a magnitude to be

influenced, in particular on a temperature.
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, in which the predetermined rotary angle at least

almost corresponds to the gap between two successive
commutation positions of the motor.
Method according to one or more of claims 1 to 4, in
which the voltage (Uc) at a capacitor (C) whose state of

charge is altered depending on time, is used as the
magnitude variable depending on time.
Method according to one or more of claims 1 to 5, in
which the magnitude depending on time is set to an

initial value either directly after the beginning of the
comparison signal (Udif) or when a predetermined rotor

position (fig. 12: 0° or 180° el.) coincides in time with
the presence of the comparison signal (Udif).
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, in which the beginning of the time-dependent

alteration of the magnitude (Uc) variable depending on
time is started by reaching a predetermined rotor

position (fig. 12: approximately 10° el.) or one of a
plurality of predetermined rotor positions.
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, in which during the detection of the time

difference (Td, Td') a control parameter, in particular 
the P-factor of a proportional control and/or the I-factor

of an integral control, is altered continuously
for the purpose of adapting to the speed information

(REG) and the measured time difference (Td, Td') so that
a changed control parameter is present after this time

difference (Td, Td') has elapsed.
Method according to claim 8, in which the at least
one parameter (P, I) is altered in a first rotary angle

range of the rotor (fig. 13: from 180° el.) when the
speed of the motor is too high, and the at least one

parameter is altered in a second rotary angle range (fig.
12: before 180° el.) differing from the first rotary

angle range when the speed is too low.
Method according to claim 8 or 9, in which the at
least one parameter is altered at the end of a

commutation cycle (KOMM = L) when the speed is too low
(fig. 12) and at the beginning of a commutation cycle

(KOMM = H) when the speed is too high (fig. 13).
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, in which, in particular with a commutatorless

motor with one or two phase windings, calculating steps
are carried out, e.g. for calculating a setting magnitude

(PI) for the control operation or for calculating an
alarm signal when the speed is too low, within at least

one predetermined rotary position range (fig. 12:
approximately 0 to 10° el. and approximately 180 to 190°

el.) of the rotor, during which at least one phase
winding of the motor and preferably all the phase

windings (31, 32) of the motor is or are currentless.
Method according to claim 11, in which in the
predetermined rotary position range different calculating 

steps are performed at intervals of time, e.g. now the
calculation of a setting magnitude (fig. 19) and now the

check for the presence of too low a speed at which an
alarm must be triggered (fig. 20).
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, with the following steps:


a) in a period of time preceding the energisation of a
predetermined phase winding the interval of time between

two successive commutation points (fig. 3: ta, tb), or a
value roughly corresponding to this interval of time

(fig. 21: KZalt) - called the commutation time value in
the following - is detected and stored;
b) when a predetermined phase winding is energised, the
energisation time roughly from the time of commutation is

detected continuously (counter KZ);
c) on attaining an energisation time (KZ'alt) which is
less than the commutation time value (KZalt) by a

predetermined period of time (D), the energisation of
this phase winding is switched off.
Method according to claim 13, in which the
predetermined period of time (D) is constant.
Method according to claim 13, in which the
predetermined period of time (D) is varied by the output

signal of a speed controller.
Method according to one or more of claims 13 to 15,
in which the operation of switching off the energisation

is slowed down by delaying means (fig. 14: 35, 36, 37,
38, 123, 124) in the area of final stage transistors (33,

34). 
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, with the following steps:


a) steps (fig. 12; fig. 17) which are associated with a
state with too low a speed, are performed at least partly

in at least one first predetermined rotary position range
(fig. 12: from approximately 10 to 180° el.) of the

rotor;
b) steps (fig. 13; fig. 16) which are associated with a
state with too high a speed, are performed at least

partly in at least one second predetermined rotary
position range (fig. 13: from approximately 190 to 360°

el.) of the rotor, which second rotary position range is
different to the first rotary position range.
Method according to claim 17, in which steps (fig.
19, fig. 20) which are common to a state with too high a

speed and to a state with too low a speed, are performed
during at least one third predetermined rotary position

range (figs. 12 and 13: 0 to approximately 10° el., and
180 to approximately 190° el.), which is different to the

first and second rotary position ranges.
Method according to one or more of claims 3 to 18,
in which when with a motor (25) whose speed is controlled

by a temperature, the speed (n) is low due to low
temperature, the size of the integral factor (I) of an

integral control or a proportional-integral control is
reset to a lower value (fig. 19: R1) when a limit value

(fig. 19: S1) is exceeded.
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, in which when during detection of the period of

time (Td) between the position time point (fig. 8: t18)
and a following beginning of the comparison signal (Udif)

the detected period of time (Td) roughly corresponds to 
the time difference between two commutation points, the

speed of the motor is switched to a high value (fig. 19:
steps S164, S165).
Method according to claim 20, in which in this case
the motor is switched to operation as an uncontrolled

motor with full power.
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, with the following features:


a) when a predetermined phase winding is energised, the
length of time (KZ) of the commutation phase roughly from

the commutation at the beginning of this commutation
phase to the commutation at the end of this commutation

phase is continuously detected digitally;
b) this length of time (KZ) is compared with a
predetermined threshold value (figs. 16, 17, 22, 23: S3);
c) when this length of time (KZ) exceeds the threshold
value (S3), the motor is made currentless during a

predetermined interval of time (fig. 16: S214, S216; fig.
17: S228, S230);
d) an attempt is made to switch on the motor anew after
the predetermined interval of time has elapsed.
Method according to claim 22, in which an alarm
signal (ALARM) is set (fig. 20: S176) after the

predetermined interval of time has elapsed.
Method according to claim 22 or 23, in which the
length of time (KZ) of the commutation phases for more

than one phase winding (31, 32) is detected continuously
and in each case compared with the threshold value (S3).
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, in which during a commutation phase a programme 

loop (figs. 16, 17) of predetermined duration is run
through a plurality of times and each passage is counted

in a loop counter (KZ).
Method according to claim 25, in which the loops
(figs. 16, 17, 22, 23) of different commutation phases

exhibit different programme structures.
Method according to claim 25 or 26, in which the
loop counter (KZ) controls at least one operation in the

course of a commutation phase, e.g. switching on a
current (S133), switching off a current (S134) and/or

monitoring a minimum speed (S212).
Method according to one or more of claims 25 to 27,
in which the programme loop exhibits a measuring

algorithm (S137, 138, 139) for detecting a time
difference (Td, Td') corresponding to a control

deviation.
Method according to claim 28, in which the measuring
algorithm exhibits steps (S139; S153) for adapting a

control parameter (I, P) to the detected time difference
(Td, Td') corresponding to a control deviation.
Method according to claim 28 or 29, in which the
measuring algorithm (S139; S153) is contained in the form

of a branch in the associated programme loop (figs. 16,
17, 22, 23), which branch is only run through during the

period of the time difference (Td, Td').
Method according to claim 30, in which the period of
time for running through a programme loop is at least

almost independent of whether the branch is run through
or not. 
Method according to one or more of the preceding
claims, with the following features:


a) when a predetermined phase winding is energised, the
length of time (KZ) of the commutation phase roughly from

the commutation at the beginning of this commutation
phase to the commutation at the end of this commutation

phase is detected continuously;
b) this length of time (KZ) is compared with a
predetermined threshold value (figs. 16, 17, 22, 23: S3);
c) when this length of time (KZ) exceeds the threshold
value (S3), an alarm signal (ALARM) is set (fig. 20:

S176), when applicable allowing for additional
parameters.
Method according to claim 32, in which roughly
during the length of time of a commutation phase a

programme loop (figs. 22, 23) of predetermined duration
is run through a plurality of times in succession and

each passage through the loop is detected in a counter
(KZ) in order to detect the length of time of this

commutation phase continuously.
Commutatorless direct-current motor (25) with an
arrangement for influencing its speed (n), with the

following features:

a) a storage element, in particular a capacitor (C), is
provided, and the signal (Uc) at this storage element (C)

is in each case altered depending on time on reaching a
first predetermined rotary position (fig. 21: KZ = 0) of

the rotor (27) (fig. 21b);
b) a comparison element (57) is provided at which this
first signal (Uc) is compared with a second signal in

order to produce a comparison signal (Udif) with a
predetermined comparison criterion; 
c) a measuring element (20, KZ) is provided in order to
detect the time difference (Td, Td') between the

beginning (fig. 6: t11; fig. 8: t19) of this comparison
signal (Udif) and a second rotary position (fig. 6: t12;

fig. 8: t18) of the rotor reached after running through a
predetermined rotary angle, or vice versa;
d) a speed detecting element is provided in order to
detect whether the second predetermined rotary position

is reached before or after the production of the
comparison signal (Udif);
e) a calculating element (20) is provided which
influences the switch-on point (fig. 21: KZ = PI) and/or

the switch-off point (fig. 21: KZ = KZ'alt) of a stator
current (i1, i2) serving to drive the motor according to

at least one predetermined rule depending on the
magnitude of the time difference (Td, Td') and the value

detected by the speed detecting element;
f) an arrangement is provided in order to set the signal
at the storage element (C) before the beginning of the

time dependent alteration to an initial value.
Motor according to claim 34, in which the storage
element (C) is reset to the initial value (fig. 21b,

left) either directly after the beginning of the
comparison signal (Udif) or when a predetermined rotor

position coincides in time with the presence of the
comparison signal (Udif).
Motor according to claim 34 or 35, in which the
predetermined rotor position - referred to as the

commutation position in the following - is one at which a
digital signal (KOMM) dependent on the rotary position

and serving for control of the motor changes its value. 
Motor according to claims 34 and 36, in which the
first predetermined rotary position of the rotor (27) is

a first commutation position and the second rotary
position of the rotor reached after running through the

predetermined rotary angle is the next commutation
position following the first commutation position.
Motor according to claim 36 or 37, in which the
first predetermined rotary position of the rotor is a

commutation position in which the signal (KOMM) serving
for control of the motor changes in a predetermined

manner, e.g. from high (H) to low (L).
Motor according to one or more of claims 34 to 38,
with the following features:


a) a device is provided which continuously detects the
length of time (KZ) of a commutation phase roughly from

the commutation at the beginning of this commutation
phase to the commutation at the end of this commutation

phase;
b) a device is provided for comparing this length of time
(KZ) with a predetermined threshold value (figs. 16, 17,

22, 23: S3);
c) a device is provided which produces an alarm signal
(fig. 20: S176) when this length of time (KZ) exceeds the

threshold value (S3).
Motor according to claim 39 in which during the
length of time of a commutation phase a programme loop

(figs. 22, 23) of predetermined duration is run through a
plurality of times in succession and each passage is

detected in a counter (KZ) in order to detect the length
of time of a commutation phase.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
