<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0909099</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Communications system for transmission of multimedia digital data and a method therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N724	H04N752	H04N762	H04N760	H04N724	H04N726	H04N708	H04N7081	H04N726	H04N7081	H04N708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coding device (101) encodes image data with the
coding self-contained within specific image data units, and

supplies the encoded data stream to a packetizer (103) to
generate packets from the encoded image data stream, and a

packet header adding device (104) adds to each packet a
packet header containing time information whereby the

temporal position of the packet is determined. Thus,
temporal information associated with data received after

recovery of an error can be known immediately by the
receiver even when an error occurs on the communications

network over which a data stream containing image data,
audio data, and other information is transmitted.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIGASHIDA MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIGASHIDA, MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a communications 
system and method for communicating compression coded image 
data, audio data, and additional information via a 
transmission path such that a temporal sequence of the data 
can be correctly reconstructed even after a transmission 
path error occurs. The development of communication systems using 
optical fibers and other high speed transmission paths has 
greatly increased communication capacity. This has spurred 
the development of digital communication systems, which are 
now used not only for digital computer data, but also for 
transmitting digitized image signals, audio signals, and 
related additional information. Asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) systems, for 
example, can operate at speeds in excess of 155 
megabits/second, and practical ATM systems for 
communicating digital data are now available. Formal standards for ATM systems have been 
adopted by the International Telecommunication Union -  
 
Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) and the 
ATM Forum, for example, and numerous related publications 
have been issued. Japanese Patent Laid-Open Publication JP-A-8-307859 
(referred to below as prior art example 1), for example, 
teaches a means for transmitting image, audio, and related 
data coded for commercial digital VCR use over an ATM 
network. A method for allocating the moving picture data 
of this digital VCR data stream to ATM cells is disclosed 
in this prior art example 1. More specifically, as shown in Fig. 10, an 80-byte 
DIF (digital interface) block is split into two 40-byte 
parts, and the remaining 8-byte part of the 48-byte 
ATM cell payload is used for e.g. error correction parity. 
Alternatively, a 4-byte portion of the remaining 8 bytes is 
used for error detection code. In another method of the 
above-noted prior art example 1, three 80-byte DIF blocks 
are joined to form a single 240-byte data block, which is 
then split into five 48-byte ATM cells. A further method for writing moving picture data 
to ATM cells is a so-called "MPEG over ATM" method taught 
in "Video On Demand Specification 1.0, af-saa-0049.000", 
issued by The ATM Forum Technical Committee on Audiovisual 
Multimedia Services in December 1995 (referred to below as 
prior art example 2). Numerous descriptions of this  
 
specification have also been published. Basically, MPEG 
over ATM is a method for joining two continuous MPEG2 
Single Program Transport Streams (STPS), each 188 octets 
long, into one 376 octet stream to which an 8-byte AAL 5

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A communications system for transmitting a stream of 
multimedia digital data over a distribution communications network via a 

transmission path by way of a transmitter, said system comprising: 

a data stream generator (101) for coding frames of image data in a unit of an 
image data group and generating a continuous data stream thereof together 

with temporal information indicative of a temporal location of the image 
data group; 
a packetizer (103) for segmenting said continuous data 
stream into a plurality of data packets; and 
a packet header adding device (104) for adding the 
temporal information as a packet header to each data packet to thereby 

produce a transmission packet (802) corresponding to each data packet, 
respectively, 
  
 

   wherein said temporal information is regularly updated based on a 
update cycle of the image data group; and
 
   wherein every transmission packet within a frame has the same 

temporal information. 
The communications system as claimed in claim 1, wherein 
the temporal information is indicative of the chronological sequence of the 

transmission packet. 
The communications system as claimed in claim 2, wherein 
the continuous data stream generated by said data stream generator (101) 

comprises a first frame of image data, which comprises a predetermined number 
of subsequences. 
The communications system as claimed in claim 3, 
wherein the continuous data stream generated by said data stream 

generator further comprises a second frame of image data, and
 
   wherein the temporal information of the second frame is incremented by one, in 

order to indicate that the second frame should be processed after the first frame. 
The communications system as claimed in claim 1, 
further comprising a cell generator (105) for dividing each transmission 

packet into a plurality of cells (804, 805) to be transmitted to the 
transmission path.  

 
The communications system as claimed in claim 5, 
wherein said cell generator (105) converts the transmission packets (802) to 

AAL 5-PDU (803), converts the AAL 5-PDU to the ATM cell payload blocks, 
and converts the ATM cell payload blocks (804) to ATM cells (805). 
The communications system as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein said data stream generator (101) additionally codes audio data and 

additional information in the unit of the image data group. 
A method for transmitting a stream of multimedia 
digital data over a distribution communica
tions network via a transmission 
path by way of a transmitter, comprising the steps of 


coding frames of image data in a unit of an image data group and 
generating a continuous data stream thereof, together with temporal 

information indicative of a temporal location of the image data group; 
segmenting said data stream into a plurality of data 
packets; and 
adding the temporal information as a packet header to 
each data packet to thereby produce a transmission packet corresponding to 

each data packet, respectively, 
 
   wherein said temporal information is regularly updated based on 

an update cycle of the image data group; and
 
   wherein every transmission packet within a frame has the same 

temporal information.  
 
The method as defined in claim 8, further 
comprising the steps of determining in one frame, temporal information for a 

temporal location to which an associated digital interface format (DIF) block belongs in a frame. 
The method as defined in claim 9, further 
comprising the steps of: 


splitting a subsequence (701) into a plurality of AAL blocks 
(702) for application to an ATM adaptation layer for data transmission; 
obtaining the temporal information (TC) by copying original 
temporal information contained in a DIF subsequence; 
adding the temporal information as a header to the beginning 
portion of every AAL block to thereby produce a plurality of transmission 

packets (702); and 
determining the temporal information associated with the DIF 
blocks in each AAL block. 
The method as defined in claim 8, wherein the 
step of producing a transmission packet (802) further comprising the steps 

of: 

sequentially numbering a predetermined number of DIF 
blocks (801) for one transmission packet; 
producing a DIF packet (802) by assembling the plurality 
of DIF blocks; and  

 
adding a time code as a packet header to the beginning of 
the DIF packet, wherein the time code as the packet header provides the 

temporal information required to determine the temporal location of the DIF 
packet (DIFP). 
The method as defined in claim 8, further 
comprising the steps of dividing the transmission packet into a plurality of 

cells (804, 805) to be transmitted to the transmission path. 
The method as defined in claim 8, 
wherein said step of coding comprises coding audio data and additional 

information in the unit of the image data group. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
