<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640489</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Folding keyboard.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J500	B41J510	G06F302	G06F302	H01H1370	H01H1370	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	G06F	G06F	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J5	B41J5	G06F3	G06F3	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A folding keyboard for a miniature computer or other 
data processing device which permits a standard key spacing 

to be retained while enabling folding of the keyboard to 
reduce its overall size
 for storage or carrying purposes. In 
another aspect, the thickness of the keyboard when in folded 

position is reduced in some embodiments by maintaining its 
keys in depressed positions. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHIU WILSON L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAM HAU CHUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHIU WILSON L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAM HAU CHUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIU WILSON L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAM HAU CHUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIU WILSON L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAM HAU CHUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to keyboards and has particular 
reference to keyboards associated with data processing 
equipment such as computers, typewriters, etc. The miniaturization of electronic computers, etc., 
has brought about the desire for corresponding miniaturization 
of keyboards associated with such equipment. However, the 
limiting factor in the reduction in size of keyboards is the 
spacing and size of the keys since the minimum key spacing is 
dictated by the size of an average operator's fingers. Therefore, the present invention may provide a 
keyboard which is collapsible into a small space, yet will 
retain a normal key spacing. The folding of the keyboard may 
be permitted regardless of the type or pattern of its keys. 
Further, the thickness of a folding keyboard when in folded 
condition may be minimized. The invention may further protect and hide adjacent 
ends of adjacent units of a folding keyboard when it is in 
folded condition and provide a keyboard of simple and 
inexpensive construction. According to an aspect of the invention, the 
keyboard may be divided into two units arranged side by side. 
The adjoining boundaries of the units may be formed to present 
an unbroken pattern of adjacent keys when the keyboard is 
unfolded. Thus, in a keyboard in which the key rows are 
located in the "QWERTY" format found on most computers and 
typewriters, wherein keys in one row are staggered relative 
to the keys in an adjoining row, the boundaries of the units 
follow complementary jagged lines extending between adjacent 
keys near the center of the keyboard. However, the boundaries 
of keyboard units of keyboards arranged in different patterns 
would follow different complementary lines.  One of the keyboard units is pivotally supported to 
swing about an axis located above the plane of the key tops 
and in substantial vertical alignment with the boundary lines 
of the adjoining unit to enable one unit to be swung 180° into 
a folded position relative to the other without interference. The keyboard units are of substantially equal width 
and preferably of a width substantially equal to the width of 
a computing device to which one of the units is preferably 
integrally attached. In certain modified forms of the invention, links 
are provided to pivotally connect the separate keyboard units, 
enabling one to be swung 180° into overlapping position 
relative to the other. In a further modification, a flexible cover is 
provided. When the moveable keyboard unit is swung into 
folded
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Keyboard means comprising: 
   a first keyboard unit carrying a first 

plurality of touch responsive keys, 
   a second keyboard unit carrying a second 

plurality of touch responsive keys, and 
   pivotal supporting means supporting said second 

keyboard unit for movement from an operating position to a 
folded storing position. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 1 wherein the 
pivotal supporting means comprises: 

   first pivot means positioned at one side of the 
pluralities of keys pivotally connecting the keyboard units, 

and 
   second pivot means positioned at the opposite 

side of said pluralities of keys pivotally connecting said 
keyboard units, 

   the pivot axes of the first and second pivot 
means being coaxial. 
Keyboard means as defined in claims 1 or 2 
including a data processing unit integral with said first 

keyboard unit, said first keyboard unit having a width 
substantially equal to the width of said data processing unit, 

and said second keyboard unit having a width substantially 
equal to the width of said first keyboard unit. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 2 wherein 
said supporting means comprises a link pivotally connected at 

one end to said first keyboard unit and pivotally connected 
at the opposite end to said second keyboard unit whereby said 

second keyboard unit can be folded over said first keyboard 
unit. 
Keyboard means as defined in claims 1 to 4 
wherein said supporting means comprises: 

   a pair of levers, 
   pivotal means pivotally connecting said levers 

together,
 

   each of said levers being pivotally connected 
at one end to a respective one of said keyboard units and 

connected by a pin and slot arrangement to the other of said 
keyboard units, 

   whereby one of the keyboard units can be moved from 
said operating position to said folded storing position. 
Keyboard means comprising: 
   a first keyboard unit carrying a first 

plurality of touch responsive keys, 
   a second keyboard unit carrying a second 

plurality of touch responsive keys, 
   means supporting said second keyboard unit to 

permit its movement from a first position wherein one end 
thereof lies in abutting relationship with one end of said 

first keyboard unit to a second position wherein said second 
plurality of touch responsive keys is folded over said first 

plurality of touch responsive keys, 
   a flexible cover member, 

   first connecting means connecting one end of 
said flexible cover member to an end of one of the keyboard 

units, and 
   second connecting means connecting the opposite 

end of said flexible cover member to the other of the keyboard 
uni
ts, whereby when said second keyboard unit is moved to said 
second position said flexible cover member is drawn over the 

otherwise exposed abutting ends of said keyboard units. 
Keyboard means as defined in claims 6 or 7 
wherein the supporting means comprises pivot means. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 7 wherein 
the second connecting means comprises spring tensioning means 

for maintaining said flexible cover member taut at all times. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 8 including 
guide means for guiding said flexible cover member in a 

predetermined path upon movement of said second keyboard unit 
between its first and second positions. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 9 wherein 
said guide means is effective to guide said flexible cover 

member in an arc concentric with the pivot axis of said pivot 
means. 
Keyboard means comprising: 
   a first keyboard unit carrying a first 

plurality of depressible keys, 
   a second keyboard unit carrying a second 

plurality of depressible keys, 
   means supporting said second keyboard unit for 

movement from a first position wherein the tops of all of its 
depressible keys lie in a common plane, to a second position 

wherein said second plurality of depressible keys are folded 
over said first plurality of depressible keys, 

   spring means for normally maintaining said 
depressible keys in raised position, and 

   means for selectively moving said depressible 
keys into depressed positions. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 11 wherein 
said means supporting said second keyboard unit comprises 

pivot means whose pivot axis lies below the plane of the 
depressible key tops when the depressible keys are in raised 

positions and lies above the plane of said depressible key 
tops when said depressible keys are in depressed positions. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 12 wherein 
said means for selectively moving said depressible keys into 

depressed positions comprises camming means moveable from a 
first position to a second position for camming said keys into 

said depressed positions. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 13 wherein 
said camming means comprises camming members moveable in a 

direction at right angles to the direction of movement of said 
depressible keys, and 

   connecting means between said camming members and 
each of said depressible keys whereby movement of said camming 

members in the direction of movement thereof cams all of said 
depressible keys into depressed positions. 
Keyboard means as defined in claims 11 to 14 
including a computing device integral with said first keyboard 

unit, 
   said first keyboard unit having a width 

substantially equal to the width of said computing device, and 
   said second keyboard unit having a width 

 
substantially equal to the width of said first keyboard unit. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 1 wherein 
said pivotal supporting means pivotally connects said second 

keyboard unit to said first keyboard unit for movement from 
an operating position, wherein one end of said second keyboard 

unit lies adjacent one end of said first keyboard unit, to 
said folded storing position wherein said second keyboard unit 

is folded over said first keyboard unit, and which includes 
a cover member, 

   said pivotal supporting means serving to 
support said cover member to extend across the previously 

adjacent ends of the keyboard units when said second keyboard 
unit is moved to its folded storing position. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 1 wherein 
said pivotal supporting means pivotally connects said second 

keyboard unit to said first keyboard unit for movement from 
said operating position, wherein one end of said second unit 

lies adjacent one end of said first keyboard unit, to said 
folded storing position wherein said second keyboard unit is 

folded over said first keyboard unit, and which includes: 
   a cover member, 

   supporting means supporting said cover member 
to extend across the adjacent ends of the keyboard units when 

they are in said storing position, and 
   side cover elements connected to said cover 

member, said side cover elements being pivotally moveable with 
respect to said keyboard units when said second keyboard unit 

is moved between said folded storing position and said 
operating position. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 17 including 
means for guiding said cover member in sliding engagement with 

the first and second keyboard units. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 1 wherein 
said pivotal supporting means includes: 

   a first cover member pivotally connected to 
said first keyboard unit, 

   a second cover member pivotally connected to 
said first cover member, and 

   means pivotally connecting said second cover 
 

member to said second keyboard unit whereby when said second 
keyboard unit is in said folded storing position the first and 

second cover members will enclose adjacent ends of the 
keyboard units. 
Keyboard means as defined in claim 1 wherein 
said keys extend in parallel rows and said pivotal supporting 

means supports said second keyboard unit for movement around 
an axis parallel to the lengths of said parallel rows. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
