<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654669</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid separation apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3349	A61J300	G01N110	A61M102	B01D1702	B04B700	B04B102	B04B500	G01N3348	B01D17038	G01N3349	B01L314	B01L314	G01N3348	B04B106	G01N110	B04B100	A61M102	B04B100	B04B700	A61J300	B04B504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	A61J	G01N	A61M	B01D	B04B	B04B	B04B	G01N	B01D	G01N	B01L	B01L	G01N	B04B	G01N	B04B	A61M	B04B	B04B	A61J	B04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	A61J3	G01N1	A61M1	B01D17	B04B7	B04B1	B04B5	G01N33	B01D17	G01N33	B01L3	B01L3	G01N33	B04B1	G01N1	B04B1	A61M1	B04B1	B04B7	A61J3	B04B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a process of separating a liquid sample 
having phase portions of different densities by 

centrifugal separation, a phase separator container 
is employed. The phase separator container comprises 

a housing having concentric inner and outer 
cylindrical walls defining a longitudinal axis and a 

top wall and further a piston body constituting a 
bottom wall of the housing. The piston body defines 

together with the outer cylindrical wall, the inner 
cylindrical wall and the top wall, an annular chamber 

for receiving the liquid sample. The piston body is 
displaceable within the annular chamber for draining 

a phase portion separated from the liquid sample 
through a drain conduit means communicating with the 

annular chamber. The phase separation chamber 
further comprises a reaction chamber to which the 

phase portions exposed from the annular chamber is 
processed. The apparatus further includes a liquid 

supply means for supplying the liquid sample to the 

annular chamber, a motor means for rotating the phase 
separation container round its longitudinal axis at a 

rotational speed causing a separation of the liquid 
sample into the phase portions, and an actuator means 

for displacing the piston body within the annular 
chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SQUIBB BRISTOL MYERS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLM NIELS-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLM, NIELS-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to novel methods,
devices and apparati for the centrifugal separation
of a liquid into its components of varying specific
gravities, and is more particularly concerned with a
blood separation device useful, for example, in the
preparation of components for a fibrin sealant.The separation of a liquid into its fractions,
or components of varying specific gravity, has been
carried out, inter alia, by centrifugation in many
hospital, laboratory and industrial settings. For
example, centrifugation is widely used in blood
separation techniques to separate blood into
fractions containing plasma, platelets, red blood
cells white blood cells and/or formed components,
e.g. fibrinogen, fibronectin, factor VIII, factor
XIII and the like. Quite simply, devices for use in
such techniques rely on the more dense components,
e.g. the cell-containing fraction(s) in blood, being
forced to a distal portion of the apparatus by the
centrifugal force.Many of the numerous device designs which
utilize centrifugation can be placed into two
categories: a first group in which the sample
container is swung about a central axis of the
centrifuge system itself; and, a second group in 
which the chamber is rotated about its own
longitudinal axis. In the first category the
container is typically a plastic bag or tube closed
on one end. Such containers are orbited about the
central axis of the centrifuge system such that the
more dense components are forced to the bottom of the
tube or to one side of the bag. Means are thereafter
provided to selectively remove the less dense
component, such as plasma from the more dense
component, such as blood cells and platelets, or vice
versa. Typically such means is a separator assembly
which is insertable into an elongated blood-containing
tube. Alternatively, when using a plastic
bag, the bag is carefully squeezed so as to force out
the plasma. U. S. 3,932,277 to McDermott et al
discloses a device comprising a sample tube and a
collection tube. The collection tube has a filter
and check valve at one end which is inserted into an
already centrifuged sample tube to collect the
plasma. Similarly U. S. 3,799,342 to Greenspan
utilizes a separator having a check valve which opens
upon pressurization of the sample container to allow
separated plasma to pass through into a collection
chamber. U. S. 4,818,386 to Burns employs a semi-buoyant
separator designed to have a specific gravity
intermediate the specific gravities of two components
into which the liquid is to be separated.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for separating a liquid
sample having phase portions of different densities

into said phase portions by centrifugal separation,
comprising:


a phase separation container, comprising:

a housing having concentric inner and outer
cylindrical walls defining a longitudinal axis, a

bottom wall, and a top wall, said outer cylindrical
wall, said inner cylindrical wall, said bottom wall

and said top wall defining together an annular
chamber for receiving said liquid sample,
a piston body constituting said bottom wall or
top wall of said housing and being displaceable

within said annular chamber from a first position in
which a maximum interior volume is defined within

said annular chamber to a second position in which a
minimum interior volume is defined within said

annular chamber, and
a drain conduit means communicating with said
annular chamber,
a liquid supply means for supplying said
liquid sample to said annular chamber of said phase

separation chamber as said piston body is in said
first position,
a motor means for rotating said phase
separation container round said longitudinal axis at

a rotational speed causing a separation of said
liquid sample into said phase portions, and
an actuator means for displacing said piston
body within said annular chamber from said first

position towards said second position while said
phase separation container is rotated at said

rotational speed so as to expel one of said phase 
portions from said annular chamber through said drain

conduit means.
The apparatus according to Claim 1,
wherein said drain conduit means is provided at or

near said inner cylindrical wall such that said phase
portion to be expelled from said annular chamber is

the phase portion of lowest density.
The apparatus according to Claim 2,
wherein said drain conduit means being constituted by

a conduit extending through said bottom wall and
being provided with a controllable valve which is

controllable from a closed position to an open
position for causing said one of said phase portions

to be expelled from said annular chamber.
The apparatus according to Claim 2,
wherein said conduit is provided at said outer

cylindrical wall and said one of said phase portions
to be expelled from said annular chamber is the phase

portion of highest density.
The apparatus according to Claim 2, said
controllable valve being a check valve which is

switchable from said closed position to said open
position when exposed to a centrifugal force when

said phase separation container is rotated at said
rotational speed.
The apparatus according to Claim 1, said
drain conduit means being constituted by a conduit

extending through said top wall.
The apparatus according to Claim 6, said
conduit being provided at said inner cylindrical wall

and said one of said phase portions to be expelled
from said annular chamber being the phase portion of

lowest density. 
The apparatus according to Claim 6, said
conduit being provided at said outer cylindrical wall

and said one of said phase portions to be expelled
from said annular chamber being the phase portion of

highest density.
The apparatus of any of claims 1-8,
wherein said motor means provides rotation of said

phase separation container around said longitudinal
at a rotational speed sufficient to generate a

gravitational field within said annular chamber so as
to separate said liquid sample into said phase

portions at any location within said annular chamber.
The apparatus of claim 1 including a
receiver chamber for receiving said phase portion

expelled from said annular chamber.
The apparatus according to Claim 10, said
drain conduit means including a reaction chamber in

which a reagent is enclosed for reacting with said
one of said phase portions expelled from said annular

chamber for the formation of a reaction product.
The apparatus according to Claim 10, said
receiver chamber constituting a reaction chamber in

which a reagent is enclosed for reacting with said
one of said phase portions expelled from said annular

chamber for the formation of a reaction product.
The apparatus of Claim 10, wherein said
inner cylindrical wall defining a further receiver

chamber extends around the same longitudinal axis as
said annular chamber and wherein said chambers are

separated by said piston body.
The apparatus of any of claims 1-13,
wherein said inner cylindrical wall defining said

annular chamber comprises a cylindrical wall
component of said piston body. 
The apparatus according to Claim 14, said inner cylindrical wall defining
a further receiver chamber communicating with said reaction chamber through a further

conduit means for receiving said reaction product from said reaction chamber.
The apparatus according to Claim 15, said further receiver chamber being
constituted by a separate syringe component received within said inner cylindrical wall.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 for separating a liquid sample having
phase portions of different densities into said phase portions by centrifugal separation,

wherein said inner and outer cylindrical walls of the housing define inner and outer radii,
r
i
 and r
o
, resspectively, relative to said longitudinal axis, and said inner and outer radii
define a ratio r
i
/r
o
 of the order of 0.3:1 to about 0.8:1.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said ratio is about 0.5:1.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said inner radius and speed are chosen
such that a gravitational force needed for the concentric separation of said phase portions

of different densities is provided at all areas within said annular chamber.
The apparatus of any of claims 1-19, wherein said apparatus includes
connector means to connect said housing to said motor means.
The apparatus according to Claim 20, said connector means being
constituted by snap fitting connector means provided at said outer cylindrical wall of said

housing.
A method of separating a liquid sample having phase portions of different
densities into said phase portions by centrifugal separation, said method comprising:


providing a phase separation container, comprising:

a housing having concentric inner and outer cylindrical walls defining a
longitudinal axis, a bottom wall, and a top wall, said outer cylindrical wall, said
 inner
cylindrical wall, said bottom wall and said top wall defining together an annular chamber

for receiving said liquid sample
a piston body constituting said bottom wall or top wall of said housing
and being displaceable within said annular chamber from a first position in which a

maximum interior volume is defined within said annular chamber to a second position in 
which a minimum interior volume is defined within said annular chamber; and
a drain conduit means provided at said inner cylindrical wall and
communicating with said annular chamber;
supplying said liquid sample to said annular chamber of said phase
separation chamber as said piston body is in said first position;
rotating said phase separation container round said longitudinal axis at a
rotational speed causing a separation os said liquid sample into said phase portions;
displacing said piston body within said annular chamber from said first
position towards said second position while said phase separation container is rotated at

said rotational speed so as to expel one of said phase portions from said annular chamber
through said drain conduit means.
A method as claimed in claim 22 of separating a liquid sample having
phase portions of different densities into said phase portions by centrifugal separation,

wherein the rotation causes the generation of a gravitational field within said annular
chamber so as to separate said liquid sample into said phase portions at any location

within said annular chamber.
A method of separating a liquid sample having phase portions of different
densities into said phase portions by centrifugal separation, as claimed in claim 22

wherein said phase separation container is continuously rotated round said longitudinal
axis and one of said phase portions is continuously expelled from said annular chamber

through said drain conduit as said one of said phase portions is separated from said liquid
sample.
An apparatus for separating a liquid sample having phase portions of
different densities into said phase portions by centrifugal separation, as claimed in claim

1 wherein the chamber comprises inner and outer cylindrical walls defining inner and
outer radii, r
i
 and r
o
, respectively, relative to said longitudinal axis, said inner and outer
radii defining a ratio r
i
/r
o
 of the order of 0.3:1 to about 0.8:1, preferably approximately
0.5; and wherein rotation of the container causes the generation of a gravitational field

within said annular chamber so as to separate said liquid sample into said phase portions
at any location within said annular chamber; and said apparatus further comprises


means for detecting the characteristics of one or both of the components 
within said phase separation container during said separation process.
The apparatus according to claim 25, said liquid sample being a blood
sample, and said one of the said phase portions being plasma.
A process for separating a blood component from a blood sample
comprising;


introducing a fixed volume of blood into a first annular chamber of a
centrifuge apparatus where the annular chamber is defined by a cylindrical outer wall

and a cylindrical inner wall, both walls extending coaxially about a common axis, as
well as by a top wall and a bottom wall where the top wall or the bottom wall is formed

by a piston body displaceable within said first chamber;
rotating said centrifuge apparatus about said common axis to
substantially centrifugally separate said blood into two or more fractions of different

densities;
transferring one of said fractions into a second chamber by action of said
piston while continuing said centrifugation so as to maintain said separation in said first

chamber, said second chamber defined by a cylindrical wall extending coaxially about
said common axis;
subjecting said transferred fraction to an agent capable of separating the
desired blood component from said transferred fraction, wherein said apparatus is in

accordance with claims 1-21.
A process as claimed in claim 27 wherein the blood component is fibrin
and rotation of the centrifuge separates said blood into a cell fraction and a plasma

fraction; and

said plasma fraction is transferred into the second chamber by action of
the piston and the plasma fraction in said second chamber is subjected to a thrombin-like

enzyme wherein the plasma fraction is separated into a fluid fraction and a fraction
containing non-crosslinked fibrin polymer; the process further comprising
removing said fluid from said second chamber;
solubilizing said non-crosslinked fibrin polymer to provide a fibrin
monomer-containing solution; and,
removing said thrombin-like enzyme from the so-formed fibrin 
monomer-containing solution.
The process of claim 28 wherein a third chamber is included within said
inner cylindrical wall of said annular chamber, which third chamber contains a

redissolving solution which is dispensed into said second chamber to provide for said
solubilizing of said non-crosslinked fibrin polymer and wherein said third chamber is

adapted to collect said fibrin monomer-containing solution following said solubilization
and, optionally, said enzyme removal.
The process of claims 28 or 29 wherein said third chamber is a syringe.
The process of claim 28 wherein said non-crosslinked fibrin polymer
and said fibrin monomer and selected from fibrin I, fibrin II and des BB fibrin.
The process of claim 28 wherein said thrombin-like enzyme is selected
from Acutin, Venzyme, Asperase, Botropase, Crotalase, Flavoxobin, Gabonase,

Batroxobin and thrombin.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
