<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650078</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reflective device and process for its manufacture
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B518	G02B518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Light from a light source (2) diffracted by a Fresnel zone 
plate (1) onto a target region, that is, into a particular 

section of the cone of 1
st
 order diffracted light comes 
from only two specific areas (7a, 7b) of the zone plate 

(1). 
This effect is exploited for creating reflective devices 
which direct diffracted light almost exclusively onto the 

target region in that the device is made up from identical 
elemental areas with grooves following the line pattern of 

one of the specific areas (7a, 7b) of the Fresnel zone 
plate. 
The reflective device comprises a reflective metallic or 
dielectric layer on a carrier, e. g. a plastic foil and is 

particularly suited for roadside marking or signalling 
devices such as roadside marker posts, road markings laid 

flat on the road surface, signposts, and billboards. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
3D LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
3D LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENAWAY DAVID LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENAWAY, DAVID LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a reflective device according to the
preamble of claim 1 as well as a process for the
manufacture of such device and a marking or signalling
device comprising a reflective device. Such devices must be
clearly visible at night under a variety of illumination
and observation conditions, and require an external and in
general remotely located source of illumination.A well-known device of the type in question is the "cats-eye"
corner cube light retroflector system. A cats-eye
element has the property of directing light incident from a
remote source back in the direction of the source from
which the light is emitted. This device therefore finds
wide application as a road marking device (either at the
centre of the road or at the edge) to provide night
visibility when illuminated by the head lamps of vehicles.
Retroreflecting properties can also be obtained by
utilising the passage of light through glass spheres and a
series of retroreflecting products have been realized by
embedding arrays of small glass spheres in a suitable
binder. These micro-sphere arrays are available as paints,
lacquers and semi-rigid foils and allow the realization of
road signs having enhanced visibility at nights. In these
applications for retroreflecting devices, the light source
and the observer must be located at effectively the same
point in space, and remote from the retroreflecting device,
although of course in a motor vehicle the observer (the
driver) will actually be placed somewhat above and behind
the lights of this vehicle (the light source).These retroreflecting systems, while performing excellently
under specific conditions, suffer from a number of
drawbacks: 
if the light source and the observer are located at
significantly different points in space (when the angle
between source and observer is more than a few degrees of
arc), then the retroreflecting element (part of for
example a sign or marker) is no longer visible, or is
only visible with a significantly reduced visibility.the presence of water either as droplets or as a
continuous film can significantly deteriorate the
performance of retroreflecting systems, particularly
those made from arrays of microspheres in the form of
paints and lacquers.cats-eyes in their traditional form of a retroreflective
prism should ideally be mounted proud of the road surface
in order to work as a road surface marking device. These
elements cannot in general be used in environments where
snowfall is likely because severe damage can occur during
snow clearing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reflective device (8) comprising a multiplicity of
areas (9) arranged on a support, each area having an

essentially plane reflective surface comprising a set
of grooves which form a reflective diffraction

pattern, the pattern formed by the grooves at least
approximating a segment of concentric circles, the

multiplicity of areas (9) pertaining to a limited
number of diffraction patterns, 
characterized in that

the set of grooves of each area follows or
approximates a specific section from a Fresnel zone

plate pattern.
A reflective device according to claim 1,

characterized in that
 any area (9) is subdivided into
a multiplicity of patches where the grooves are

straight and equally spaced so that on the scale of
the area (8) they approximate a diffractive pattern.
A reflective device according to claim 1 or 2

characterized in that
 the areas (9) at least
essentially form a tiling covering the whole of the

surface section.
A reflective device according to one of claims 1 to 3

characterized in that
 the optically active region is
formed by a thin metallic or dielectric layer on a

polymeric carrier.
A reflective device according to claim 4 
characterized
in that
 the support is a foil.
A method for the manufacture of a reflective device
(8) according to claim 1 with an optically active

region comprising a multiplicity of areas (9) having
an essentially plane reflective surface comprising a 

set of grooves which form a reflective diffraction
pattern, comprising steps for:


determining a position and orientation in which
the reflective device (8) is to be used,
determining probable positions of a source (2) of
visible light,
determining the position of a target region (5)
onto which light is to be directed by the reflective

device (8),
deriving a reflective diffraction pattern of an
area or areas experimentally or mathematically from

the above-enumerated parameters, and
based on this derivation, forming a reflective
device (8) wherein the reflective diffraction pattern

of each area (9) is having a set of grooves which
diffract at least a part of the incident light from

the source (2) into the target region (5) and
essentially avoid diffraction into regions different

from the target region, the pattern formed by the
grooves at least approximating a segment of concentric

circles, the multiplicity of areas (9) pertaining to a
limited number of diffraction patterns, wherein the

set grooves of each area follows or approximates a
specific section from a Fresnel zone plate pattern.
The method according to claim 6, 
characterized in that

the diffraction pattern is produced by recording the
interference between two beams of coherent radiation

in an appropriate photosensitive material,
subsequently metallic printing or casting plates

(shims) with at least one set of elevations conforming
to the at least one diffractive pattern are produced

using electroforming and galvanic deposition
technology, at least one set of grooves conforming to 

the set of elevations recorded on the shims is
produced on the surface of a polymer carrier by

embossing or casting, and at least one additional
layer for at least one of reflectivity enhancement,

surface protection, and adhesion to a surface in order
to realize a finished reflective product is applied.
Marking or signalling device located at the road side
comprising at least one optically active surface

section formed by a reflective device according to one
of claims 1 to 5.
Marking or signalling device according to claim 8,

characterized in that
 the optically active surface
section is essentially vertically oriented.
Marking or signalling device according to claim 8 or
9, 
characterized in that
 it is shaped as a post.
Marking or signalling device according to claim 8 or
9, 
characterized in that
 it is shaped as a sign post
board or billboard.
Marking or signalling device according to claim 8

characterized in that
 the reflective device is a
reflective foil laid flat on the road surface.
Marking or signalling device according to one of
claims 8 to 12 
characterized in that
 the optically
active surface section is partially covered by opaque

or coloured transparent paint or masqued.
Marking or signalling device according to one of
claims 8 to 13 
characterized in that
 optically active
surface sections or eventually parts of an optically

active surface section covered by paint or masqued out
are shaped as letters, numerals or symbols.
Use of a reflective device according to one of claims
1 to 5 as a marking or signalling device affixed to 

part of the exterior surface of a vehicle or to a
surface that is visible from the exterior of the

vehicle.
Use of a reflective device according to one of claims
1 to 5 as a marking or signalling device affixed to

the external surface of clothing.
Use of a device according to claim 4 to provide
visibility enhancement and/or a decorative function

over a wide range of source object and observer
positions applied to an object either in part or over

the whole surface.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
