<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611659</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tractor 
&
 continuous paper feed mechanism using the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H2020	B41J1132	B65H23032	B65H23032	B41J1126	B41J1126	B65H2020	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B41J	B65H	B65H	B41J	B41J	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H20	B41J11	B65H23	B65H23	B41J11	B41J11	B65H20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an improved tractor (10) and a continuous paper 
feed mechanism using the same which can more accurately convey continuous paper in a 

forward or reverse paper conveying direction by compensating for any increase or 
decrease in the width of the continuous paper due to change in temperature, humidity or 

the like. The change in paper width is compensated for by either employing a tractor 
having a pin belt (11) that can incline relative to the paper conveying direction or by 

employing a tractor that pivots in accordance with the change in paper width to incline 
the pin belt. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI NAOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI, NAOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a tractor
for use in delivering continuous paper in a printing device,
such as a printer or the like, and also to a continuous paper
feed mechanism using such a tractor. In particular, the present
invention relates to a tractor capable of conveying, both in the
forward and in the reverse direction, continuous paper when the
width thereof varies due to a change in temperature, humidity
or the like. The present invention also relates to a continuous
paper feed mechanism using such a tractor.Generally, a tractor which includes an endless pin
belt with arrays of pins thereon is constructed and arranged so
that holes formed on the two sides of the continuous paper
engage the pins of the pin belt to feed the continuous paper.
If the width of the continuous paper increases or decreases due
to a change in temperature, humidity or the like when the
position of the tractor (that is, the pin belt) is fixed, the
holes of the continuous paper cannot properly engage the pins
of the tractor, resulting in an inability to properly feed the
continuous paper.Japanese Patent Laid-Open Publication No. 1-271344
(Heisei) describes a proposed tractor that attempts to solve the
heretofore mentioned problem. FIG. 9 depicts a plan view of the
tractor described in Japanese Patent Laid-Open Publication No.
1-271344 (Heisei).Shown in FIG. 9 is a drive shaft 1, a guide shaft 2
and a frame member 3 which is slidably mounted onto drive shaft
1 and guide shaft 2. A tractor 4 is positioned within frame
member 3 and is slidably mounted onto drive shaft 1 and guide
shaft 2. Tractor 4 is forced in the direction of arrow X1, as
shown in FIG. 9, by a spring 5 interposed between frame member
3 and tractor 4. Holes 6a are respectively formed on the two
side portions of continuous paper 6. Tractor 4 also includes
a pin belt, with a plurality of pins 4a disposed thereon. Pins 
4a are aligned and meshed with holes 6a to convey continuous
paper 6 in a sheet feeding direction. A cover plate 4b is
provided for guiding continuous paper 6 and loosely holding the
side portion 6b of continuous paper 6 between the pin belt and
cover plate 4b. Cover plate 4b has an elongated hole 4c formed
therein that allows pins 4a to extend therethrough. A lock
mechanism 7 selectively secures frame member 3 to guide shaft
2, so that frame member 3 can be prevented from sliding.Although FIG. 9 depicts only the left tractor, the
right tractor is identical to the tractor of FIG. 9 except to
the extent that the right tractor does
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tractor (10) for feeding continuous paper with holes in the sides thereof in a
paper conveying direction, comprising:


at least one frame means (13, 14);
a drive pulley (15) supported by said frame means;
a pin belt (11) coupled to said drive pulley for advancement thereby and formed
with pins (12) for engaging in the holes of the continuous paper; and characterised by
means (13g, 14g; 13h, 14h) for permitting said pin belt to be driven by the
continuous paper to incline with respect to a paper conveying direction of said

continuous sheets of paper.
The tractor as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pin belt is formed with a
continuous paper delivery surface, said tractor including a cover plate having an opening

formed to face said continuous paper delivery surface so that a plurality of pins, formed
on the pin belt, can extend therethrough, said opening in said cover plate is formed with

a pair of spaced side edges defining a tapered opening.
The tractor as claimed in claim 2, wherein said opening in said cover plate
decrease in width in the paper side conveying direction.
The tractor as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said pin belt is formed with
side surfaces, said means for permitting said pin belt to incline including at least one

inclined guide surface supported by said frame means for slidable engagement by a side
surface of said pin belt for guiding and defining a limit of inclination of said pin belt,

said at least one inclined guide surface defining an angle to the paper conveying
direction.
The tractor as claimed in claim 4, wherein said means for permitting said pin belt
to incline includes a spaced pair of said inclined guide surfaces supported by said frame 

means and defining a space between them tapered in the paper conveying direction to
limit inclination of the pin belt.
The tractor as claimed in claim 5, wherein each of said inclined guide surfaces is
discontinuous and includes first portions in the region of one end of the tractor as viewed

in the paper conveying direction and second portions in the region of the other end of the
tractor, said second portions being spaced farther from each other than said first portions

are spaced from each other.
The tractor as claimed in claim 1 for mounting on at least a drive shaft, said
means for permitting said pin belt to incline including means for coupling said drive

pulley to said drive shaft so that said pin belt is advanced by said drive shaft and drive
pulley, said coupling means further permitting said tractor to pivot relative to said drive

shaft so as to permit said pin belt to incline relative to said paper conveying direction.
A tractor (10) for mounting on a drive shaft (16) extending laterally of a paper
conveying direction for feeding continuous paper with holes in the sides thereof in the

paper conveying direction, comprising:

at least one frame means (13, 14);
a drive pulley (15) rotatably mounted in said frame means;
a pin belt (11) coupled to said drive pulley for being driven thereby; and
characterised by
means (13g, 14g; 13h, 14h) for coupling said drive pulley to said drive shaft for
rotation of said drive pulley by said drive shaft to drive said pin belt and for permitting

the pivoting of said drive pulley and frame relative to said drive shaft so that said pin
belt can be driven by the continuous paper to incline relative to said paper conveying

direction.
The tractor as claimed in claim 8, wherein said pin belt has a continuous paper
delivery surface supporting a plurality of pins and said tractor includes a cover plate 

having an opening formed to face said continuous paper delivery surface so that said
plurality of pins formed on said pin belt can extend therethrough.
The tractor as claimed in claim 8 or 9, wherein said drive shaft is formed with at
least one longitudinally extending recessed groove having a bottom surface, said drive

pulley being formed with a wall defining an aperture therethrough through which said drive
shaft extends, said coupling means including a hold portion formed on said wall of said

drive pulley defining said aperture and projecting onto each of said recessed grooves for
operationally coupling said drive shaft and drive pulley for rotation of said drive pulley, each

of said hold portions being formed to engage the bottom surface of the associated groove
and to permit pivoting of the tractor at the point of contact between the hold portion and

the bottom surface of the groove.
The tractor as claimed in claim 10, wherein the hold portion includes a radially
extending connecting portion and a laterally extending pressure portion coupled to the outer

end of the connecting portion for engagement in the associated groove.
The tractor as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein the surface of the pressure portion
engaging the bottom surface of the groove is arcuate.
The tractor as claimed in claim 12, wherein said tractor includes a resilient annular
member intermediate said pressure portion and said wall of the drive pulley defining said

aperture for biasing said pressure portion apart from said drive shaft.
The tractor as claimed in claim 10 for being additionally supported by a guide shaft,
said frame means including an elongated slot through which said guide shaft extends.
A continuous paper feed mechanism for feeding continuous sheets of paper with
holes in the sides thereof in a paper conveying direction, comprising:


a drive shaft (16) and a guide shaft (17), each extending laterally of the paper
conveying direction in parallel spaced relation; and
a first tractor (10) and a second tractor each including a pin belt (11), characterised
by 
at least one of said first and second tractors including means (13g, 14g; 13h, 14h)
for supporting the associated pin belt relative to the drive shaft so that said associated pin

belt can be driven by the continuous paper to incline with respect to the paper conveying
direction.
The continuous paper feed mechanism as claimed in claim 15, wherein the other of
said first and second tractors includes means for supporting its pin belt relative to the drive

shaft so that the pin belt of said other tractor is displaceable in the longitudinal direction of
the drive shaft.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
