<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636188</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CASTINGS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22D2900	B22D2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22D	B22D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22D29	B22D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPPER PEEL JONES PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PEEL JONES COPPER PRODUCTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGLEY TIMOTHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGLEY, TIMOTHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
CASTINGSDESCRIPTIONThis invention relates generally to castings having formed therein at least one chamber, bore or other generally enclosed space or cavity. Especially, but not exclusively, the invention relates to consumable furnace components and their manufacture, wherein one or more internal bores and/or chambers are provided for the circulation of a coolant, such as, water, a typical example of such a component being a tuyere which is cast from copper and which has at least one copper tube in the nose thereof for the passage of water coolant therethrough... This type of tubular coolant passage is also used in other forms of copper- cast, consumable furnace component, such as, a tuyere cooler.In existing copper-cast tuyeres, problems have arisen in providing a consistent and continuous metallurgical bond between the copper coolant tube(s) and the copper casting in which the tube is embedded, to provide good overall heat transfer characteristics. Where there is bad bonding between the copper tube(s) and the casting, "hot spots" build up, giving rise to poor cooling, and hence thermal erosion of, the working surface of the nose of the tuyere in the region of the badly bonded areas. Also, voids in these areas tend to form, thereby reducing • the heat transfer characteristics even further.Various methods have been used to try and provide consistent and continuous metallurgical bonding between the copper tubes and surrounding cast copper but 

without complete success. For instance, the explosive bonding between respective confronting surfaces of the copper tubes(ε) and casting has been attempted but this technique has resulted in rupturing of the tube(s) by the explosive, as well as uneven bonding characteristics.In British Patent Specification No. 1564738, there is described a tuyere having a smboth coolant flow path through the nose thereof, which has been formed by a removable, generally solid, frangible core around which the tuyere nose has been cast, the preferred material for the solid core being specified as furane sand. This type of core can be maintained in the required position with respect to the tuyere mould by means of a suitably shaped copper rod and associated tie bars, resulting in the presence of the rod and portions of the tie bars in the coolant flow path formed by the subsequently removed core, during service of the tuyere. Such presence provides an obstruction in the so-formed coolant flow path, thereby reducing the cooling efficiency of the tuyere. Moreover, it has been found that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A casting including an interior cavity defined by a generally hollow frangible core around which the casting has been cast and which has been subsequently broken, preferably shattered, for removal from the casting.
2. A casting according to claim 1, wherein the core has been shattered using an explosively-generated shock wave.
3. A casting according to claim 2, wherein an explosive has been located at least partially within a cavity-defining, hollow core and has been detonated to generate the shock wave.
4. A casting according to claim 3, wherein the explosive is in elongate form and has been threaded through at least part, preferably at lest a major part of the hollow core prior to detonation.
5. A casting according to any preceding claim, wherein the shattered core has been flushed from the casting, preferably using a high pressure fluid.
6. A casting according to any of claims 2 to 5, wherein the core has been filled with a fluid, preferably water, prior to its being explosively shattered.
7. A casting according to any preceding claim, wherein the core has been coated with a dressing, preferably aluminium-based, prior to casting therearound. 


8. A casting according to any preceding claim which is a cast copper consumable furnace component, preferably a tuyere, wherein the interior cavity defined therein is a coolant passage.
9. A method of manuf cturing a casting including an interior cavity, comprising casting a castable material around a generally hollow frangible core defining the cavity and, subsequent to such casting, breaking, preferably shattering, the core for removal from the casting.
10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the core is shattered using an explosively-generated shock wave.
11. A method according to claim 10, wherein an explosive is located at least partially within a cavity-defining hollow core and is then detonated to generate the shock wave.
12; A method according to claim 9, wherein the explosive is threaded through at least part, preferably at lest a major part, of the hollow core prior to detonation.
13. A method according to. any of claims 7 to 10, wherein the broken core is flushed from the casting, preferably with a high pressure fluid.
14. A method according to any of claims 10 to 13, wherein the core is filled with a fluid, preferably water, prior to its being explosively shattered. 


15. A method according to any of claims 9 to 14, wherein the core is coated with a dressing, preferably aluminium-based, prior to the casting step.
16. A cast, consumable furnace component including a coolant passage or other cavity therein, which is defined by a generally hollow frangible core around which the component has been cast and which has been broken, preferably shattered, subsequent to such casting for removal from the component.
17. A component according to claim 16, wherein the core has been shattered using an explosively-generated shock wave.
18. A component according to claim 16, wherein an explosive has been located at least partially within a cavity-defining,
,
 hollow core and has been detonated to generate the shock wave.
19. A component according to claim 18, wherein the explosive is in elongate form and has been threaded through at least part, preferably at least a major part, of the hollow core prior to detonation.
20. A component according to any of claims 16 to 19, wherein the shattered core has been flushed from the component, preferably using a high pressure fluid.
21. A component according to any of claims 17 to 20, wherein the core has been filled with a fluid, preferably water, prior to its being explosively shattered. 


22. A component according to any of claims 16 to 21, wherein the core has been coated with a dressing, preferably aluminium-based, prior to the casting step.
23. A component according to any of claims 16 to 22, which is a tuyere.
24. A method of manufacturing a cast, consumable furnace component including a coolant passage or other cavity therein, comprising casting a metallic material, preferably copper, around a generally hollow frangible core defining the coolant passage or other cavity and, subsequent to such casting step, breaking, preferably shattering, the core for removal from the casting.
25. A method according to claim 24, wherein the core is shattered using an explosively-generated shock wave.
26. A method according to claim 25, wherein an explosive is located at least partially within a cavity-defining hollow core and is detonated to generate the shock wave.
27. A method according to claim 26, wherein the explosive is threaded through at least part, preferably at least a major part, of the hollow core prior to detonation.
28. A method according to any of claims 25 to 27, wherein the core is filled with a fluid, preferably water, prior to its being explosively shattered.
29. A method according to any of claims 24 to 28, wherein the core is dressing, preferably aluminium- based, prior to the casting step. 


30. A method according to any of claims 24 to 29, wherein the shattered core is flushed from the casting, preferably using a high pressure fluid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
