<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656108</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LASER GYRO MICROPROCESSOR START UP CONTROL METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1964	G01C1966	H01S3081	H01S3083	H01S500	H01S500	H01S530	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	G01C19	H01S3	H01S3	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser gyro start up apparatus and method that safely and quickly starts up a laser gyro. A microprocessor sequences the mechanical and electrical systems of the laser gyro such that the gyro is started up quickly in the proper sequence. The microprocessor also executes tests on the gyro and provides a health signal in the timing sequence. The start up apparatus starts the laser block dither, laser discharge and acquires the path length controllers. Optical start up operations may be performed including the calibration of volts per mode.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNDT DALE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRITZE KEITH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILLPATRICK JOSEPH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNDT, DALE, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRITZE, KEITH, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILLPATRICK, JOSEPH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LASERGYROMICROPROCESSORSTARTUP CONTROLMETHODANDAPPARATUSThis invention relates to a method of starting a ring laser gyro and more particularly to a method of starting a ring laser gyro controlled by a microcontroller.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONRing laser angular rate sensors, also called laser gyros, are well known in the art. One example of a ring laser angular rate sensor is U.S. Patent No. 4,751,718 issued to Hanse, et al., which is incorporated herein by reference thereto. Referring to Figure IA, ring laser angular rate sensors include a thermally and mechanically stable laser block 5 having a plurality of formed cavities for enclosing a gap. Mirrors 13, 15- are placed at the extremities of the cavities for reflecting laser beams 11, 16 and providing an optical closed-loop path. The activation of the laser gyro's various subsystems at start up may have ramifications for the life of the laser mirrors and other system components. A method is needed to orchestrate the various subsystems at start up given each subsystem's start up constraints.Therefore it is the motive of this invention to provide a laser gyro start up method that provides a synchronized and effective start up procedure that results in minimum delay and minimum adverse effects.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe invention provides a method of starting up a ring laser gyro. In the ring laser gyro a dither drive, laser discharge, active current control circuit, path length control circuit, BDI drive circuit, dither stripper circuit, and gyro built-in test all have to be initialized. The various functions of the laser gyro are started under the control of a microcontroller. The microcontroller assures a proper starting sequence with correct timing which assures a quick start of the gyro. It is an object of the invention to provide a quick laser gyro start up.It is a further object of the invention to provide a microcontrolled-based start up sequencer.Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will becomeSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

apparent to those skilled in the art through the description of the preferred embodiment, claims and drawings herein where like numerals refer to like elements.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 A shows a laser gyro of the method of the invention.Figure IB shows a microprocessor controlled laser gyro of the method of the invention.Figure 2 shows a start up procedure process flow diagram. Figures 3A and 3B show a laser gyro start up timing diagram showing start up timing sequences.Figure 4A shows an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAEMS
1. A laser gyro start up apparatus comprising:
(a) a laser gyro;
(b) a laser gyro start up means connected to the laser gyro to start up the laser gyro in a predetermined manner; and
(c) a laser gyro monitoring means connected to the laser gyro start up means to momtor the laser gyro.
2. The laser gyro start up apparatus of claim 1 wherein the laser gyro start up means further comprises a microprocessor.
3. The laser gyro start up apparatus of claim 1 wherein the laser gyro has a health status and the laser gyro startup apparatus further comprises a means for evaluating and reporting the health status.
4. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 3 further comprising a command and control means connected to the laser gyro start up means to send and receive startup commands from the laser gyro start up means.
5. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 4 wherein the command and control means further comprises a portable computer.
6. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 4 wherein the laser gyro has a health status and the laser gyro startup apparams further comprises a means for evaluating and reporting the health status.
7. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 6 wherein the laser gyro start up means send the health status to the command and control means.
8. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 7 wherein the command and control means further comprises a portable computer.
9. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 1 further including a nonvolatile
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 memory means for storing laser gyro start up parameters.
10. A laser gyro start up apparatus including a microcontroller comprising: (a) a laser gyro;
5 (b) a control means connected to control the laser gyro;
(c) an active current control means connected to the laser gyro and control means;
(d) a dither pickoff means connected to the laser gyro and control means;
(e) a dither drive means connected to the laser gyro and control means; o (f) a path length control means connected to the laser gyro and control means; and (g) wherein the control means starts up the active current control means, dither pickoff means, dither drive means and path length control means in a proper sequence. 5
11. The apparams of claim 10 wherein the control means further comprises a microprocessor.
12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the control means further comprises a o microcontroller .
13. The apparams of claim 12 wherein the microcontroller further comprises:
(a) an A D converter connected to the microcontroller;
(b) a nonvolatile memory means for storing operating parameters of the 5 laser gyro connected to the microcontroller; and
(c) high speed input and output logic connected to send and receive information from the A/D converter.
14. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 10 wherein the laser gyro has a 0 health status and the laser gyro startup apparams further comprises a means for evaluating and reporting the health status.
15. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 14 further comprising a command
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 and control means connected to the laser gyro start up means to send and receive startup commands from the laser gyro start up means.
16. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 15 wherein the command and control means further comprises a portable computer.
17. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 15 wherein the laser gyro has a health stams and the laser gyro startup apparams further comprises a means for evaluating and reporting the health stams.
18. The laser gyro start up apparatus of claim 17 wherein the laser gyro start up means send the health status to the command and control means.
19. The laser gyro start up apparams of claim 7 wherein the command and control means further comprises a portable computer.
20. A laser gyro start up method for a laser gyro wherein the laser gyro comprises a dither drive means, a laser discharge means, and a path length control means, wherein the laser gyro start up method comprises the steps of: (a) starting the dither drive means;
(b) starting the laser discharge means; and
(c) acquiring path length control means.
21. The laser gyro start up method of claim 20 wherein the laser gyro further comprises a health stams and wherein the laser gyro start up method further comprises the step of reporting the health stams of the laser gyro.
22. A laser gyro start up apparams comprising:
(a) a microcontroller means with a microprocessor means and a gate array registers;
(b) an A/D converter means connected to the microcontroller means wherein the A/D converter further comprises a nonvolatile memory means and digital control logic and high speed input and output logic;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 (c) an active current control means for controlling a laser current wherein the active current control means is connected to the microprocessor means having an active current control register on an IO Port 1;
(d) a dither pickoff means connected to the microprocessor means; (e) a dither drive means connected to the microprocessor means;
(f) a path length control means connected to the microprocessor means;
(g) a pulse width modulator means connected to the path length control means;
(h) a content addressable memory means connected to the microcontroller means;
(i) a real time clock means connected to the microprocessor means; (j) a UART IO system controller means connected to the microprocessor; (k) a peripheral transaction server means connected to the microprocessor; (1) a random generator means; and (m) wherein the microprocessor starts up the active current control means, dither pickoff means, dither drive means and path length control means in a predetermined sequence.
23. The laser gyro start up apparams of Claim 22 wherein the laser gyro startup apparams includes a laser gyro further including a laser gyro health stams, a priority queue, a conversion complete queue, a function controller, a control stams built in test equipment means, a timer, a high speed input, an external real time clock, a software timer, a time capmre interrupt means, and a UART, the predetermined sequence comprising at least one of the steps of: (a) clearing the gate array registers;
(b) initializing the active current control register on the IO Port 1;
(c) clearing the content addressable memory means;
(d) initializing a high speed input logic means;
(e) initializing the nonvolatile memory means; (f) setting the pulse width modulator means to 50% duty cycle;
(g) setting the active current control means;
(h) energizing the laser gyro;
(i) initializing the dither drive random number generator means; 


 (j) initializing the real time clock means;
(k) initializing the dither pickoff means;
(1) initializing the dither drive means;
(m) initializing the UART IO system controller means;
(n) initializing the laser gyro health stams to unhealthy;
(o) setting the path length control means to maximum sweep;
(p) initializing the peripheral transaction server means;
(q) reading the nonvolatile memory means to a scratch pad RAM means in the microprocessor;
(r) initializing the priority queue means;
(s) initializing the conversion complete queue means;
(t) initializing the function control word means;
(u) initializing the control stams built in test equipment means;
(v) synchronizing the timer 1 means and the timer 2 means;
(w) flushing the high speed input means;
(x) setting up interrupts for the external real time clock, the peripheral transaction server, the high speed input and high speed output and the software timer;
(y) waiting 200 milliseconds for the dither drive means to initialize;
(z) reading a reference voltage with the A/D converter means;
(aa) starting the dither drive means;
(ab) enabling a time capmre interrupt means;
(ac) flushing the UART means;
(ad) checking the path length control means to see if they are functioning;
(ae) checking to see if the laser current is within limits;
(af) starting the path length control means locking sequence; and
(ag) enabling the peripheral transaction server means.
24. The method of Claim 23 wherein the microcontroller further executes a built in test function.
25. The method of Claim 23 wherein the microcontroller further reports a health stams to a system controller.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


26. A method for start up control of a laser gyro including a control processor comprising the steps of:
(a) operating the control processor to start up the laser gyro; and
(b) operating the control processor to control the laser gyro by stepping through a predetermined sequence of control commands sent to the laser gyro.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
