<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617008</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Iron chelate solutions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C05D900	C05D902	C07C22900	C07C22916	C07C22976	C07F900	C07F938	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C05D	C05D	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07F	C07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C05D9	C05D9	C07C229	C07C229	C07C229	C07F9	C07F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the preparation of an aqueous solution of iron 
polyprotic acid chelate complexes, comprising reacting a 

solution of a mixture of a first polyprotic acid or a salt 
thereof, said first acid being capable of chelating iron, and 

a second polyprotic acid or a salt thereof, said second acid 
being capable of chelating iron and being different from the 

first acid, with iron in the presence of an oxidizing agent, 
with the proviso that at least part of the carboxylic acid 

groups in the first and second acids is present in salt form 
and at least part of the carboxylic acid groups in the first 

and second acids is present in acid form. Preferably, the 
first and second polyprotic acids may be selected from ethylenediaminetetraacetic 

acid (EDTA), N-hydroxyethyl-ethylenediaminetriacetic 
acid (HEDTA), and diethylenetriaminepentaacetic 

acid (DTPA), and the iron is selected from Fe-powder, 
Fe(OH)₂ and FeCO₃. Part of the polyprotic acid groups in the 

first and second acids is present in the salt form, the salt 
being selected from ammonium and alkali metal ions, in particular 

K⁺, Na⁺ and mixtures thereof. The method makes it 
possible to obtain aqueous solutions containing high contents 

of iron, such as up to approximately 7% by weight of iron, 
for use as a plant nutrient, mainly in soil-free plant culturing. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMINKEMI AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMINKEMI AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HJELTE NILS SIXTEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HJELTE, NILS SIXTEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for preparing 
solutions of iron chelates for use as a plant nutrient, 
mainly in soil-free culturing of plants, as well as such iron 
chelate solutions perse. During the last decades, greenhouse gardening has become an 
industry of great importance in the supply of vegetables, 
fruits and flowers outside the normal season of these crops. 
In order to ensure a stable supply of vegetables, fruits, 
flowers, etc. whenever the demands are present, extensive 
greenhouse gardening has been developed using very sophisticated 
methods. In the so-called soil-free culture, i.e. 
growing plants on fibrous supports saturated with aqueous 
nutrient solutions instead of soil, all the nutrients (including 
micronutrients such as various metal ions) which are 
normally absorbed by the plant from the soil must be supplied 
artificially through the aqueous nutrient medium in order to 
ensure the growth of the plants. One of the very important nutrient components is iron, without 
which crop plants are not able to grow properly. For many 
years iron has been supplied in the form of iron chelates 
which have the advantage of keeping the iron in solution in 
the presence of iron precipitating ions in the nutrient 
solution. However, it has previously not been possible to 
obtain iron chelate stock solutions with concentrations 
higher than about 3% by weight of iron. A typical process for producing aqueous iron chelate solutions 
has been by reacting carboxylated and hydroxyalkylated 
amines, typically EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid as 
the tetrasodium salt), with iron(II) or iron(III) compounds,  
 
typically FeCl₃ (ferric chloride) or FeSO₄ (ferrous sulfate). Consequently, the products of such processes have the further 
disadvantage that they also contain substantial amounts of 
undesired ionic salts, in particular salts containing chloride 
and sulphate ions, e.g. NaCl or Na₂SO₄, which cannot be 
absorbed by the plants but will instead accumulate in the 
nutrient solution. Due to environmental considerations, the 
authorities of many countries do not allow direct discharge 
of nutrient solutions into sewage systems and natural bodies 
of water which necessitates the recirculation of the nutrient 
solutions. In the end, however, following prolonged addition 
of iron chelate solution and recirculation of the nutrient 
solution, the concentration of salts in the nutrient medium 
will be so high that the plants will begin to be negatively 
affected due to the phytotoxic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the preparation of an aqueous solution of 
iron polyprotic acid chelate complexes, comprising reacting a 

solution of a mixture of a first polyprotic acid or a salt 
thereof, said first acid being capable of chelating iron, and 

a second polyprotic acid or a salt thereof, said second acid 
being capable of chelating iron and being different from the 

first acid, with iron in the presence of an oxidizing agent, 
with the proviso that at least part of the acid groups in the 

first and second acids is present in salt form and at least 
part of the acid groups in the first and second acids is 

present in acid form. 
A method according to claim 1, in which the first and 
second polyprotic acids contain carboxylic acid groups, 

phosphonic acid groups or a combination of carboxylic and 
phosphonic acid groups. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, in which the first 
and the second polyprotic acids are selected from compounds 

of the general formula I 
 

and the general formula II 
 

in which A is CH₂COOH, CH₂PO₃H₂, CH₂CH₂OH or CH₂CH₂CH₂OH; B₁, 
B₂, B₃ and B₄ independently are CH₂COOH or CH₂PO₃H₂; m and n 

each independently designate an integer of 0 or 1; p designates 
an integer of 0 or 1; the groups R₁, R₁', R₂ and R₂' 

 
each independently designate H or CH₃, or, when m designates 

0, the groups R₁ and R₂ together may also designate -(CH₂)₄-, 
or, when n designates 0, the groups R₁' and R₂' together may 

also designate -(CH₂)₄-. 
A method according to any of claims 1-3 in which at least 
20 mole percent and not more than 70 mole percent of the 

polyprotic acid groups in the solution of the first and 
second acids are present in the salt form. 
A method according to claim 4 in which at least 30 mole 
percent and not more than 60 mole percent of the polyprotic 

acid groups in the solution of the first and second acids are 
present in the salt form. 
A method according to claim 5 in which at least 40 mole 
percent and not more than 50 mole percent of the polyprotic 

acid groups in the solution of the first and second acids are 
present in the salt form. 
A method according to any of claims 3-6 in which A is 
CH₂COOH, CH₂CH₂OH or CH₂CH₂CH₂OH, and B₁, B₂, B₃ and B₄ are 

CH₂COOH. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in 
which the first and second polyprotic acids are selected from 

ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), N-hydroxyethyl-ethylenediaminetriacetic 
acid (HEDTA), and diethylenetriaminepentaacetic 

acid (DTPA). 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in which 
the cation of the salt form of the first and second polyprotic 

acids is selected from ammonium and alkali metal ions, in 
particular K⁺, Na⁺ and mixtures thereof. 
A method according to claim 8 in which the ethylenediaminetetraacetic 
acid or salts thereof have the general formula 

 
EDTAX₄, each X being independently selected from H, Na, K and 

NH₄. 
A method according to claim 8 in which the hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic 
acid or salts thereof have the 

general formula HEDTAX₃, each X being independently selected 
from H, Na, K and NH₄. 
A method according to claim 8 in which the diethylenetriaminepentaacetic 
acid or salts thereof have the general 

formula DTPAX₅, each X being independently selected from H, 
Na, K and NH₄. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in 
which the iron is added to the aqueous solution in the form 

of Fe-powder, Fe(OH)₂ or FeCO₃. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in 
which the oxidizing agent is selected from O₂, hydrogen 

peroxide and nitric acid. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in 
which the solution of the mixture of the first polyprotic 

acid and the second polyprotic acid is prepared from EDTAH₄ 
and HEDTANa₃. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in 
which the solution o
btained contains at least 4% by weight of 
iron, preferably at least 5% by weight of iron, in particular 

at least 6% by weight of iron. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims in 
which the pH of the final aqueous solution is adjusted to at 

least 5 and not more than 7.5, preferably to at least 5.5 and 
not more than 7. 
An aqueous solution comprising iron polyprotic acid 
chelate complexes, said complexes being formed between on the 

 
one hand Fe(III) cations or mixtures of Fe(II) and Fe(III) 

cations and on the other hand a mixture of anions of a first 
polyprotic acid, said first acid being capable of chelating 

iron, and anions of a second polyprotic acid, said second 
acid being capable of chelating iron and being different from 

the first acid. 
A solution according to claim 18, in which the first and 
second polyprotic acids contain carboxylic acid groups, 

phosphonic acid groups or a combination of carboxylic and 
phosphonic acid groups. 
An aqueous solution according to claim 18 or 19 in which 
the first and the second polyprotic acids are selected from 

compounds of the general formula I 
 

and the general formula II 
 

in which A is CH₂COOH, CH₂PO₃H₂, CH₂CH₂OH or CH₂CH₂CH₂OH; B₁, 
B₂, B₃ and B₄ independently are CH₂COOH or CH₂PO₃H₂; m and n 

each independently designate an integer of 0 or 1; p designates 
an integer of 0 or 1; the groups R₁, R₁', R₂ and R₂' 

each independently designate H or CH₃, or, when m designates 
0, the groups R₁ and R₂ together may also designate -(CH₂)₄-, 

or, when n designates 0, the groups R₁' and R₂' together may 
also designate -(CH₂)₄-. 
A solution according to claim 20 in which A is CH₂COOH, 
CH₂CH₂OH or CH₂CH₂CH₂OH, and B₁, B₂, B₃ and B₄ are CH₂COOH. 
A solution according to any of claims 18-21 in which the 
first and second polyprotic acids are selected from ethylenediaminetetraacetic 

acid (EDTA), N-hydroxyethyl-ethylenediaminetriacetic 
acid (HEDTA), and diethylenetriaminepentaacetic 

acid (DTPA). 
An aqueous solution according to any of claims 18-22 in 
which the total concentration of iron polyprotic acid chelate 

complexes is such that the solution contains at least 3% by 
weight of iron, preferably 3-6% by weight, more preferably 

4-6% by weight, in particular 5-6% by weight, such as approximately 
6% by weight of iron. 
An aqueous solution according to any of claims 18-23 in 
which the pH is in the range of 5-7.5, preferably in the 

range of 5.5-7. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
