<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640188</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A MECHANICAL PUSH-PULL CABLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09J12700	C09J12712	B29K2712	F16C120	C08L2700	C08L2718	C08L2712	F16C110	B29D9900	B29D9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09J	C09J	B29K	F16C	C08L	C08L	C08L	F16C	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09J127	C09J127	B29K27	F16C1	C08L27	C08L27	C08L27	F16C1	B29D99	B29D99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mechanical push-pull (10) cable comprising a steel wire core (11), a layer of fluoropolymer adhesive (13) covering the steel wire core, and an outer layer (17) of porous PTFE covering the layer of fluoropolymer adhesive. The mechanical push-pull cable may be a component of a mechanical cable system wherein the mechanical push-pull cable slides axially within a surrounding support tube (19). The support tube preferably has an inner surface comprised of non-porous PTFE. The support tube may optionally incorporate a contamination seal at the ends of the support tube to reduce the entrance of contaminating dirt and water into the system. The porous PTFE layer (17) may optionally be applied in direct contact with the steel wire core (11) if the porous PTFE is in the form of a helically wrapped porous expanded PTFE tape with fibrils oriented substantially parallel to the length of the tape. The layer of porous PTFE may optionally be filled with a lubricating and abrasion resistant filler such as graphite.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of mechanical cables of the 
push-pull type. For most applications involving mechanical push-pull cables it is 
desirable to have a minimum of friction between the cable and the 
inner surface of the support tube within which it operates. 
Attributes of long life and minimal maintenance are desirable for all 
applications. Various coverings have been applied to the cable surface and used 
for the support tube inner surface to improve the performance of push-pull 
cables. For example, DE 1,906,635 to Bowden Controls, Ltd. 
describes a push-pull cable having a cable covering of solid, non-porous 
polytetrafluoroethylene that operates within a support tube of 
a thermoplastic having greater compressive strength than the 
polytetrafluoroethylene cable covering. Various thermoplastic 
materials for the support tube are described, including polyamides, 
polyacetyls, polyolefins, polyethylenes and synthetic polyesters. 
Support tubes of polytetrafluoroethylene (hereinafter PTFE) were found 
to be unacceptable because of relatively short life spans. The PTFE 
support tubes failed by embedding the cable into the surface of the 
support tube and finally wearing through the wall of the support tube. U.S. Patent 4,099,425 teaches the construction of a cable conduit 
or support tube for use with a push-pull cable. The inner surface of 
the support tube is made by die-forming a tape of microporous PTFE 
into the shape of a tube and subsequently providing the resulting tube 
with surrounding outer layers of supporting thermoplastic material 
such as nylon. The microporous PTFE tape is described as being 0.09 
mm thick and 65 percent porous as a function of bulk volume; the tape 
has a microstructure of nodes interconnected by fibrils. The die-forming  
 
process results in a tubular form produced by rolling the tape 
lengthwise in the fashion of a cigarette wrap. The fibrils of the tape are 
oriented parallel to the length of the tape and consequently are also 
parallel to the length of the formed tube. It is further stated that a 
lubricant may be applied to the microporous inner surface of the support 
tube. Support tubes of this type having an inner surface of microporous 
PTFE have been found, however, to have a short life span due to poor 
abrasion resistance. FR 2323054 relates to a mechanical push-pull cable in which a 
steel core is surrounded by an inner layer of FEP tape and an outer layer 
of PTFE tape. The FEP tape acts to bond the PTFE tape to the core. According to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mechanical push-pull cable comprising a steel wire 
core (1), a layer of fluoropolymer adhesive (13) covering 

the steel wire core (11), and an outer layer of 
polytetrafluoroethylene (17) covering the layer of 

fluoropolymer adhesive (13), characterised in that said 
polytetrafluoroethylene is porous, containing void spaces 

which are substantially filled with fluoropolymer adhesive. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to claim 1, 
wherein the combined thickness of the layer of 

fluoropolymer adhesive (13) and the outer layer of porous 
polytetrafluoroethylene (17) is less than 0.25mm. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to claim 1 or 
2, wherein the steel wire core (11) is a multiply standard 

steel wire. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the fluoropolymer adhesive is 

fluorinated ethylene propylene. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
claims 1 to 3, wherein the fluoroploymer adhesive is 

perfluoro (alkoxy ethylene)/tetrafluoroethylene copolymer. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the outer surface of the 

fluoropolymer adhesive has a uniform circular cross 
section. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the outer layer of porous  

 
polytetrafluoroethylene (17) is a helically wrapped tape of 

porous expanded polytetrafluoroethylene. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to claim 7, 
wherein the porous expanded polytetrafluoroethylene has a 

microstructure of nodes interconnected by fibrils with the 
fibrils oriented in a direction substantially parallel to 

the length of the tape. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the outer layer of porous 

polytetrafluoroethylene (17) is impregnated with a graphite 
filler. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
claims 7 to 9, wherein the thickness of the outer layer of 

tape (17) is less than 0.25mm. 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to any one of 
the preceding claims and comprising a support tube (19) 

surrounding the outer layer of polytetrafluoroethylene (17) 
with clearance therebetween to allow the coated core 

(11,13,17) to slide axially within the bore of the support 
tube (19). 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to claim 11, 
having contamination seals attached to the ends of the 

support tube (19). 
A mechanical push-pull cable according to claim 11 or 
12 wherein the support tube (19) has an inner surface of 

non-porous polytetrafluoroethylene. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
