<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616958</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and equipment for the control of the production and for the handling of daily-fresh food products
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G1137	B65G4710	B65G1137	B65G4704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G1	B65G47	B65G1	B65G47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the production control and handling of 
fresh daily food products, such as loaves of bread, wherein, 

to form customer groups which, according to the order of a 
customer, contain a number of units of different types of 

food, a number of units of one type of food in one production 
group are produced in a production step, of which production 

group the number of units corresponds to the sum of the 
numbers of units of that type of food ordered by different 

customers, each production group of a particular type of food 
being supplied in a supplying step to a conveyor, the units of 

a production group being distributed in a distribution step by 
the conveyor over different customer groups, and the 

production step, the supplying step and the distribution step 
being repeated for each different type of food until all types 

of food have been distributed over the different customer 
groups. 
The invention also relates to a handling equipment for 
use in the method. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUIJBERS ERNESTUS J A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUIJBERS, ERNESTUS JOHANNES ANTONIUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUIJBERS ERNESTUS JOHANNES ANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUIJBERS, ERNESTUS JOHANNES ANTONIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method for the production 
control and handling of fresh daily food 
products, such as loaves of bread. In WO 87/01102 a method for storing and afterwards 
collecting orders, consisting of products packed in crates and 
the like is described. According to the known method the 
crates and the like are stored as partial stacks, after which 
two or more partial stacks are stacked to form a full stack, 
which is delivered as such. The idea behind the known method 
is that the handling of full stacks with a height of the truck 
in which the stacks have to transported is difficult. Moreover 
the orders to be delivered are mostly smaller than the number 
of crates which is present in one stack. As a consequence when 
loading the truck, the full stacks often have to be destacked, 
which is laborious and time consuming. According to the known 
method the crates are now stored in partial stacks which have 
a height which is smaller than the height of a full stack. In 
the known method the crates are stored firstly and after 
storing the orders from the clients are formed during the 
loading of the truck. In DE-A-25 02 316 an apparatus is described for 
unloading first pallets and loading second pallets with 
products from the unloaded first pallets. The pallets to be 
loaded each receive a certain number of a certain product  
 
which is meant for a certain client. A pallet to be loaded 
will mostly contain various types of products in varying 
numbers. The pallets which are unloaded always contain one 
type of product. With the known apparatus products of one type 
on a first pallet are distributed over several second pallets 
whereby the order of the client dictates the number of 
products which is delivered on each second pallet. EP-A-0 254 261 relates to a method and an apparatus 
for merging goods which are stored on a plurality of storage 
lines. The manner in which the products are merged is 
controlled by a host computer and a distribution control 
computer. The host computer prepares a schedule for delivery 
based on the data of received-orders, etc. and outputs the 
schedule to the distribution control computer. The 
distribution control computer determines groups of goods based 
on the delivery schedule, prepares diverting data and batch 
picking data which are sent to a sorting system. The sorting 
systems carries out the filling of the container whereby the 
larger products are delivered at the bottom of the container 
and the smaller products at the top of the container.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the production control and automatic 
handling of fresh daily food products, such as loaves of 

bread, whereby, to form customer groups which, according to 
the order of a customer, contain a number of units (9) 

such as crates, boxes or standard containers of 
different types of food, a number of units (9) of one type of 

food in one production group is produced in a production 
step, of which production group the number of units (9) 

corresponds to the sum of the number of units (9) of that 
type of food ordered by different customers, each production 

group of a particular type of food being supplied in a 
supplying step to a conveyor (4,5,6,7,12,13), the units (9) of 

a production group being distributed in a distribution step by 
the conveyor (4,5,6,7,12,13) over different customer groups 

located at corresponding customer positions (8), and 
the production step, the supplying step and the distribution 

step being repeated for each different type of food until all 
types of food have been distributed over the different 

customer groups. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that 
when all the customer groups, according to the orders of the 

customers, substantially contain the required numbers of all 
types of food, the conveyor (4,5,6,7,12,13) picks up the 

formed customer groups in the order in which they must be 
delivered to the customers and places them on dollies or 

similar trolleys which are brought into a means of transport.  
 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that when the number of units (9) of a production group of a 

particular type of food is too small to provide all the 
customer groups with the number of units of food product of 

that type ordered by the relevant customers, the shortage of 
units (9) is spread over the different customer groups. 
A method according to claim 3, characterized in that 
the shortage of units (9) is spread in particular over those 

customer groups which must contain the largest number of the 
type of food which is in short supply. 
A handling equipment for automatic handling units of 
fresh daily food products, such as loaves of bread packed in 

units such as 
crates, boxes or standard containers (9), comprising a 

conveyor track system (4,5,6,7), such as a belt conveyor or 
roller conveyor system, provided on a supply side (10) at least one lane 

(1,2,3) comprising customer positions (8), each customer 
position (8) comprising a number of square meters of floor 

area reserved for a 
customer group of a 

customer, at least one pick-up device 
(12,13) extending in a lane (1;2,3) and a control device, 

arranged to control the conveyor track and the pick-up device 
in order to perform the method according to one of claims 1-4, 

the conveyor track system (5,6,7) at least partly extending in 
the or each lane (1,2,3), provided with the customer positions 

(8) for storing stacks of crates assorted to customer's order, 
the or each pick-up device (12, 13) being arranged to pick up 

a crate or a stack of crates (9) from the conveyor track  
 

system (5,6,7) and to form stacks of crates (9) at the 
customer positions (8) and vice versa, the control device 

being arranged to distribute the crates (9) to be supplied at 
the supply side (10) over the different customer positions 

(8). 
A handling equipment according to claim 5, 
characterized in that the pick-up device (12) comprises a 

portal construction (14) with a crab (15), the crab (15) being 
controllable so as to be brought above any place in the whole 

lane area (1,2,3) belonging to the relevant pick-up device 
(12), and the crab (15) being provided with gripping arms (16) 

movable up and down, arranged to pick up one crate or a stack 
of crates (9). 
A handling equipment according to claim 5, 
characterized in that the pick-up device (13) comprises a 

hinged arm mechanism with a gripper (17), movably arranged 
along the conveyor track portion (5) located in the lane (1), 

the hinged arm (13) being controllable so as to be brought 
above any place in the whole lane area (1) belonging to the 

relevant pick-up device (13), and the gripper (17) being 
arranged to pick up one crate or a stack of crates (9). 
A handling equipment according to any of claims 5-7, 
characterized in that the conveyor track system (4,5,6,7) is 

provided with a main conveyor track (4) with a supply side 
(10) and a number of side conveyor tracks (5,6,7), extending  

 
in the lanes (1,2,3), connected with the main conveyor track 

(4) via conveyor track branches. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
