<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610829</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for, and method of, displaying information from a graphics memory and a video memory on a display monitor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G500	G09G514	G09G502	G06F314	H04N5272	G06F314	G06F3153	G09G5395	G06F3048	G09G514	G09G502	G09G536	H04N5272	G06F3153	G06F3048	G09G500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G06F	H04N	G06F	G06F	G09G	G06F	G09G	G09G	G09G	H04N	G06F	G06F	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G06F3	H04N5	G06F3	G06F3	G09G5	G06F3	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	H04N5	G06F3	G06F3	G09G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display memory respectively stores, in first and 
second portions, digital graphics data for display in a video 

monitor and digital video data for display in a window in the 
monitor. The digital video data is transferred from the 

display memory to a shift register at a rate different from 
the pixel clock and from the shift register at a clock rate 

that may be lower than the pixel clock rate. The video data 
may be stored in a luminance and chrominance format and may be 

converted by a color space converter to 3 bytes representing 
the primary colors red, green and blue. The video pixels may 

then be interpolated to expand the number of video pixels. 
The shift register operation may be synchr
onized with such 
expansion so that data is not passed from the shift register 

until the expansion of previous data from the shift register 
has been completed. Video window logic provides for the 

passage of the graphics pixels through a digital multiplexer 
at the graphics clock rate at the monitor positions outside 

the window and the video pixels from the shift register 
through the colorspace converter and the interpolator at the 

monitor positions within the window. The graphics data may be 
delayed by a delay corresponding to that of the color space 

converter and the interpolator. The digital data passing 
through the multiplexer are latched at the graphics clock rate 

and are then converted to analog signals for display as a 
color image on the video monitor. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROOKTREE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROOKTREE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COFFEY CONRAD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASLEY JEFFREY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIANN JONATHAN I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COFFEY, CONRAD M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASLEY, JEFFREY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIANN, JONATHAN I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for, and methods
of, displaying color images on a video monitor. More
particularly, the invention relates to apparatus for, and
methods of, displaying a graphics color image and digital
video color image on a video monitor, the video color image
being displayed in a window on the video monitor.Personal computers and work stations provide color
image displays on a video monitor. In recent years, the
designs of the personal computers and work stations have been
advanced such that more than one image has been simultaneously
displayed on the video monitor. For example, a first image
has been displayed at a primary portion of the video monitor
and a second image has been displayed in a small portion of
the video monitor known as a window.The first image has been a digital graphics image
stored in a first display memory, generally consisting of
eight (8) planes of data. The second image has been a digital
video image stored in a second display memory generally
consisting of sixteen (16) planes of color data. The cost of
the one (1) megabyte display memory for the graphics
information has been approximately forty dollars ($40) and the
cost of the two (2) megabyte display memory for the video
information has been approximately eighty dollars ($80) since
the video memory has had twice as many planes as the graphics
memory. In EP-A2-0 384 419, it is described how to process television
data to be displayed on a graphics screen. The television
data is mapped into a window on said graphics screen, wherein
the size of said window is predetermined by a multi-window
environment. The television signal is first decoded and
processed. Finally, before displaying the television data on
said graphics screen, it is loaded into a high resolution
frame buffer.The digital video data stored in the video memory
has been processed at the same frequency as the digital
graphics pixels stored in the graphics memory. Generally this
processing has been at the graphics clock rate. This has
required the video data to be at the graphics clock rate. This
is so even though the frequency components of the video image
data are generally lower than the graphics image frequency.
In EP-A2-0 384 257, it is described to synchronise a standard
television video on a high resolution graphics monitor.
Therefore, a video memory is used to store television video
data, graphics data and audio data. Said video memory
comprises a dual port VRAM, receiving at its primary port
television video data which is read out at the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Display apparatus including

a display memory (52) for storing video pixels in a binary form and in a
video format;
a display monitor (12) for displaying information represented by the video
pixels at the pixel positions in a window in the display monitor; and
a FIFO (58);
characterised by
first means (60,62) for transferring the stored video pixels in the video
format to the FIFO at a first rate at a time before the occurrence of the

pixel positions in the window in the display monitor;
second means (82, 68, 80) for transferring the stored video pixels in the
video format from the FIFO at a second rate different from the first rate

and at the pixel positions corresponding to the positions of the window in
the display monitor; and
third means (72) for converting the pixels transferred from the FIFO in
the video format at the second rate to a graphics format at the second

rate for display in the window in the display monitor.
Display apparatus according to claim 1
characterised in that
said third means comprising:
means (72) for interpolating said video pixels transferred
from said FIFO (58) by said second means at said second rate

to increase the number of pixels; and
means (80) responsive to the completion of each interpolation
for providing for the introduction of additional video pixels

from said FIFO to said means for interpolating at said second
rate.
Display apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2
characterised in that
said display memory (52) stores the video pixels in a format
representing luminance and chrominance; and
means (70) for converting at the second rate the video pixels
in the format representing luminance and chrominance to a form

representing the primary colours red, green and blue at said
second rate after the transfer of said video pixels from said

FIFO (58) by said second means at the second rate.
Display apparatus according to any of claims 1-3
characterised by

further comprising means (78) responsive to the video pixels
from said means (72) for converting such video pixels to

corresponding analogue pixels for display on said display
monitor. 
Display apparatus according to any of claims 1-4
characterised by

further comprising:

a display memory (52) for storing graphic pixels in a binary
form;
means (84,86) for providing for the transfer of the graphic
pixels in said display memory at said second rate;
multiplexer means (74) for providing for the passage of said
video pixels from said means (72) for the display of the image

represented by such video pixels on a first portion of the
face of the display monitor and for the passage of the graphic

pixels from said means (84,86) for the display of the image
represented by such graphic pixels on a second portion of the

face of the video monitor different from the first portion of
such face; and
said means (78) converts said video and graphic pixels passing
through said multiplexer means (74) to corresponding analog

pixels for display on said display monitor.
Display apparatus according to any of claims 1-5
characterised by
means (72) for interpolating the video pixel transferred from
the FIFO (58) at the second rate to increase the number of

pixels; and
the second means (82, 68, 80) including means (80) responsive
to the completion of each interpolation for providing for the 

transfer of additional video pixels from the FIFO (58) by the
second means (82, 68, 80) at the second rate.
Display apparatus according to claim 6
characterised by

the second means (82,68,80) being operative to provide an
interpolations by a factor constituting a power of 2, and by

any desired factor other than a power of 2, in the video
pixels transferred from the FIFO (58) at the second rate.
A method of displaying video information on the face of a
display monitor wherein


graphics information is provided in a graphics format at a
first rate and video information is provided in a video format

different from the graphics format and at a second rate
different from the first rate;
said video information in the video format at said second rate
is converted into video information in the graphic format at

said first rate;
said graphics information in the graphics format at the first
rate is displayed in a first portion of the display monitor

and said video information in the graphics format at the first
rate is displayed in a window in the display monitor.
characterized in that
said video information is transferred to a FIFO (58) in the
video format at the second rate;
the video information is transferred from said FIFO in the 
video format at the first rate at a time corresponding to the

position of the window in the display monitor; and
the video information transferred from the FIFO in the video
format at the first rate is converted to video information in

the graphics format at the first rate.
A method according to claim 8
characterised in that
said video and graphic information is provided in binary form;
said video and said graphic information is converted to an
analogue form at said first rate before the transfer of such

information at the first rate to said display monitor; and
visual information represented by said video and said graphic
information in analogue form is displayed on the face of said

display monitor.
A method according to claim 8 or 9
characterised in that
said video information is interpolated at the first rate to
increase the number of video pixels; and
the transfer of video information from the FIFO at the first
rate is delayed until the interpolation of the video

information previously transferred from the FIFO has been
completed.
A method according to any of claims 8-10
characterised in that

the interpolation of the video information transferred from
the FIFO at the first rate is provided at any desired factor

including a power of 2 and any desired power other than a
power of 2.
A method according to any of claims 8-11
characterised in that
said provided video information is in a form indicating at the
second rate the luminance and chrominance of the video

information,
the video information transferred from said FIFO at the first
rate is converted to a form indicating the primary colours

red, green and blue at the same rate, and
video information in the form representing red, green and blue
is transferred at the first rate to the face of the video

monitor at positions corresponding to the first portion of
such face.
A method according to claim 12
characterised in that
said video information in the form representing red, green and
blue is interpolated to increase the number of video

information pixels,
said video and graphic information transferred at the first
rate is converted to an analogue form at the first rate; and 
visual information represented by the video and graphic
information in the analogue form is displayed on the face of

the video monitor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
