<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WHEELCHAIR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G504	A61G500	A61G510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G5	A61G5	A61G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wheelchair comprises a base frame section (1) with a longitudinal rod (3, 4) carrying at its ends a front wheel (5) and a back wheel (6), respectively, and a seat frame section (2) for supporting a seat and a back rest. Each back wheel (6) is mounted in a wheel carrier (9) pivotably connected with the corresponding longitudinal rod (3, 4), wherein a spring means (15) is provided between the wheel carrier (9) and the longitudinal rod (3, 4), said spring means (15) extending substantially parallel with the longitudinal rod (3, 4). Each spring means (15) is preferably located below the corresponding longitudinal rod (3, 4). In this manner the wheelchair described is provided with an elastic back wheel suspension, wherein a compact construction is obtained by the location of the spring means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a wheelchair, comprising a 
base frame section with a longitudinal rod carrying at its 
ends a front wheel and a back wheel, respectively, and a seat 
frame section for supporting a seat and a back rest. Such a wheelchair is described in Dutch patent 
application 9100789. The invention aims to provide a wheelchair of this 
type providing the user more comfort and which is also 
suitable for mounting an electrical drive. To this end the wheelchair according to the invention 
is characterized in that each back wheel is mounted in a wheel 
carrier pivotably connected with the corresponding 
longitudinal rod, wherein a spring means is provided between 
the wheel carrier and the longitudinal rod, said spring means 
extending substantially parallel with the longitudinal rod. In this manner a wheelchair is obtained which is 
provided with an elastic back wheel suspension, wherein a 
compact construction is obtained by the location of the spring 
means. An electrical drive is simply possible if an electric 
motor is mounted in each wheel carrier, the shaft of said 
motor carrying the back wheel. The invention will be further explained by reference 
to the drawings in which an embodiment is very schematically 
shown. Fig. 1 is a section of a part of an embodiment of the 
wheelchair according to the invention. Fig. 2 shows a detail of Fig. 1 at a larger scale. Fig. 3 is a section according to the plane III-III of 
Fig. 1. Referring to the drawings there is schematically 
shown a wheelchair mainly made in the same manner as the 
wheelchair according to NL-A-9100789 and reference is made to 
this document for a detailed description of the construction 
of this wheelchair. The wheelchair comprises a base frame section 1 and a 
seat frame section 2 for supporting a seat not shown and a  
 
back rest neither shown. The base frame section 1 is provided 
at both sides with a longitudinal rod 3 and 4, respectively, 
consisting of an oval tube. Each longitudinal rod carries at 
its front end a castor wheel 5 and at its rear end a back 
wheel 6. The back wheel 6 is mounted on the shaft 7 of an 
electric motor 8 not further shown and known per se. The electric motor 8 is mounted in a wheel carrier 9 
pivotably connected with the corresponding longitudinal rod 3, 
4 by means of a U-shaped brace 10. To this end the legs of the 
U-shaped brace 10 are mounted on a shaft 11 rotatably received 
in a bush 12 mounted on the longitudinal rod 3, 4 and in the 
longitudinal rod 3, 4 itself. The U-shaped brace
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Wheelchair, comprising a base frame section with a 
longitudinal rod carrying at its ends a front wheel and a back 

wheel, respectively, and a seat frame section for supporting a 
seat and a back rest, 
characterized in that
 each back wheel is 
mounted in a wheel carrier pivotably connected with the 

corresponding longitudinal rod, wherein a spring means is 
provided between the wheel carrier and the longitudinal rod, 

said spring means extending substantially parallel with the 
longitudinal rod. 
Wheelchair according to claim 1, 
characterized in 
that
 each spring means is located below the corresponding 
longitudinal rod. 
Wheelchair according to claim 1 or 2, 

characterized in that
 each spring means has an adjustable 
spring bias. 
Wheelchair according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized in that
 each spring means comprises a 
bush and a pulling rod with a head slidable in the bush, 

wherein a plurality of diaphragm springs are provided between 

an end wall and the head. 
Wheelchair according to claim 4, 
characterized in 
that
 the pulling rod has a screw thread part wherein the 
length projecting out of the bush is adjustable by means of a 

nut rotatably mounted on the screw thread part. 
Wheelchair according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized in that
 each wheel carrier comprises a 
U-shaped brace, the legs of which are mounted on a shaft, said 

shaft being rotatably mounted in the corresponding 
longitudinal rod. 
Wheelchair according to claim 6, 
characterized in 
that
 each longitudinal rod comprises a bush for receiving the 
corresponding shaft. 
Wheelchair according to claim 6 or 7, 

characterized in that
 both shafts are coupled with each other 
by a cylindrical bush. 
Wheelchair according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized in that
 each wheel carrier comprises an 
arm pivotably connected with the same and directed away from  

 
the base frame section and carrying a safety wheel at its free 

end, said safety wheel being located at an adjustable distance 
from the surface supporting the wheelchair, wherein the arm is 

connected with the base frame section by a coupling rod. 
Wheelchair according to claim 9, 
characterized in 
that
 the coupling rod has an adjustable length. 
Wheelchair according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized in that
 an electric motor is mounted in 
each wheel carrier, the shaft of said motor carrying the back 

wheel. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
