<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657698</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Current self-control type glow plug
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23Q700	H05B314	F23Q700	H05B314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23Q	H05B	F23Q	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23Q7	H05B3	F23Q7	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A current self-control type glow plug includes a 
ceramic pipe 2 attached to a hollow body 1 having a 

connector 12, and a front end portion 15 and a body-side 
end portion 17 of the pipe 2 are filled with ceramic 

fillers 6,7. The coil 3 comprises the heating coil part 4 
and the control coil part 5. The heating coil part 4 

constituting a heating part is arranged in contact with 
the inner wall surface 20 of the pipe 2. The control coil 

part 5 constituting a current control part is arranged out 
of contact with the inner wall surface 20 of the pipe 2. 

The current control means 10 having a positive resistance-temperature 
coefficient is connected to the coil 3 and the 

connector 12. The resistance of the current control means 
10 sharply increases above a specified temperature to cut 

off the current supply to the coil 3. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISUZU CERAMICS RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISUZU CERAMICS RESEARCH INSTITUTE CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMURA HIDEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMURA, HIDEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a current self-control
type glow plug used in a diesel engine.A glow plug has conventionally been used as a diesel
engine start aiding device. As shown in Figure 6, a glow
plug 40 has a heater part 37, which is installed in a
sub-chamber 39 formed in a cylinder head 38 of a diesel
engine. The glow plug 40 operates as follows. When an
engine key 36 is turned on to connect a switch 41, a
battery 40 supplies electric current to the heater part
37 of the glow plug 40, quickly heating it to a
sufficiently high temperature so that fuel, when it
contacts the heater part 37, gets ignited.Because a conventional plug is heated rapidly, it is
fabricated by embedding a tungsten wire in silicon
nitride ceramic and sintering it. The tungsten wire has
a resistance of 0.1 Ω at room temperature for a 12-V
power supply and carries a current of 120 A. 
When with elapse of time the glow plug is heated from
the room temperature to 900°C, the tungsten wire has a
resistance of 0.4 Ω at this temperature, and the
current is 30 A. To control the current a separate
resistor is necessary. Normally, if a metal wire with
a large resistance-temperature coefficient is
connected in series with the above tungsten wire
resistor, as the glow plug is heated, the resistance
of the tungsten wire increases and the resistance of
the current control resistor also increases until the
tungsten wire resistance stabilizes at 1 Ω, and at
this time the current is 12 A. That is, for a
conventional glow plug used in a diesel engine, when
the 12-V battery supplies current according to a
controller command, the initial current is 120 A.
But, as the heater coil temperature rises, the
resistance increases until it stabilizes at 1 Ω.
Therefore, the current is controlled by the controller
so that the resistance of the heater coil of the glow
plug is stabilized and held at 1 Ω.Another type of conventional glow plug has been
developed which self-controls its resistance at 1 Ω
without the use of a controller. Tungsten and nickel
have a characteristic that the resistance increases
with temperature. Therefore, as the temperature 
rises, the resistance increases, and the current
decreases and is limited. A self-control type glow
plug is made up of a tungsten coil and a nickel coil
connected in series, with the tungsten coil embedded
in a ceramic such as Si3N4. That is, in the self-control
type glow plug, a conductor with a small
resistance is arranged in a heating body of the heater
coil and is connected to a nickel coil with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A current self-control type glow plug
including a hollow body (1) having a connector (12)

through insulating members (19), a ceramic pipe (2)
fitted to the hollow body (1), and a coil (3) having a

heating coil part (4) and a control coil part (5)
connected in series with each other, the heating coil

part (4) being provided inside the pipe (2) protruding
from the hollow body (1), and the control coil part (5)

being provided in the pipe (2); wherein the glow plug
further includes current control means (10) having a

positive resistance-temperature coefficient installed
in the hollow body (1), the current control means (10)

having one end thereof connected to the connector (12)
and the other end connected in series with the coil

(3) , whereby as the electrical resistance of the
current control means (10) increases sharply above a

specified temperature, current flowing through the
coil (3) is automatically stopped in response to an

elevated temperature higher than the specified
temperature.
A current self-control type glow plug
according to claim 1, wherein the resistance of the

current control means (10) having a positive
resistance-temperature coefficient increases sharply

above a temperature close to a predetermined cooling 
water temperature to interrupt the current

supply to the coil (3).
A current self-control type glow plug according
to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the current control means

(10) comprises current control disks (27) constituting a
terminal and made of a material which has a positive

resistance-temperature coefficient and whose resistance
sharply increases above a specified temperature, and the

current control disks (27) are connected in parallel at
one end to the connector part (13) of the connector (12)

and at the other end to the coil terminal (28) of the coil
(3).
A current self-control type glow plug according to
claim 3, wherein the faces of the current control disks

(27) spaced from each other and arranged on the coil
terminal (28) are in close contact with the faces of metal

disks (14) spaced from each other and arranged on the
connector part (13), and the current control disks (27)

and the metal disks (14) are alternately stacked.
A current self-control type glow plug according to
claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the current control means (10)

comprises an annular ring (31) arranged between the
connector (13) and the coil terminal (28).
A current self-control type glow plug according 
to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the current control means

(10) comprises a spiral member (32) wound between the
connector (13) and the coil terminal (28).
A current self-control type glow plug according
to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the current control

means (10) is made of a BaTiO
3
 sintered material or a
PbTiO
3
 sintered material.
A current self-control type glow plug according
to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the coil (3) is

formed of a tungsten wire or a nickel wire having a
positive resistance-temperature coefficient.
A current self-control type glow plug according
to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the pipe (2) is made

of Si
3
N
4
 having an excellent heat resistance.
A current self-control type glow plug according
to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein a first ceramic

filler (6) with which is filled the area where the heating
coil part (4) is provided and a second ceramic filler (7)

with which is filled an end portion of the pipe (2) on the
body side to seal an intermediate portion of the pipe (2)

are made of Si
3
N
4
 ceramic containing TiO
2
.
A current self-control type glow plug according
to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the heating coil 

part (4) is provided in contact with the inner wall of a
front end portion (15) of the pipe (2), and the control

coil portion (5) is provided out of contact with the inner
wall of an intermediate portion (16) of the pipe (2).
A current self-control type glow plug according
to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the front end

portion (15) of the pipe (2) where the heating coil part
(4) is provided constitutes a heating portion, and the

control coil part (5) provided in the intermediate portion
(16) of the pipe (2) constitutes a current control part.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
