<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616208</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Luminometer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N2176	G01N2176	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for determining a plurality of 
substances or constituents of a specimen sample includes the 

steps of placing a single specimen sample in a reaction vessel 
or test tube and adding at least two reagents to the reaction 

vessel to form a detectable product and then initiating a 
reaction within the vessel and provide an emission of light 

energy in a predetermined spectral range. The reaction vessel 
is disposed in a chamber of a housing and a plurality of 

detector assemblies are disposed about the housing with 
portions of the detector assemblies disposed through the 

housing and exposed to the reaction vessel. Each of the 
detector assemblies receives a portion of the light emission 

and feeds such portion to a detector. Each of the detectors 
detect the existence of light emissions in one of a plurality 

of spectral ranges and feeds that information to processing 
circuitry to provide data for determining the presence of a 

specific specimen substance(s) or constituent(s) based upon 
the detected luminescence. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIBA CORNING DIAGNOSTICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIBA CORNING DIAGNOSTICS CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS SCOTT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PABST STEFAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS, SCOTT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PABST, STEFAN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to specimen testing apparatus and 
more particularly to luminometers. As is known in the art, systems which may be used to test 
specimen samples such as blood samples, for example, add a 
single reagent to the sample in a chamber. The reagent reacts 
with the sample and cause the sample to emit light or to form 
a detectable product which, on further treatment, will emit 
light. Depending upon the presence of the constituent(s) of 
the sample a corresponding spectral distribution of the 
emitted light is provided. Furthermore, depending upon the 
specimen sample and the reagent added thereto the resultant 
luminescence occurs in a predetermined spectral range. The 
light emissions may be fed through a spectral filter and 
subsequently coupled to a photomultiplier tube and detector. 
Thus, with knowledge of the type of specimen sample, the type 
of reagent and the resultant spectral representation it is 
possible to determine the presence of certain substances in 
the specimen sample. Separate tests may be run with different 
reagents in the separate chambers to test for other 
constituents in the specimen. It may in some applications, however, be desirable to 
provide a system in which a plurality of reagents may be added 
to a single chamber and a detection system simultaneously 
detects light emission in a plurality of different spectral 
ranges. Thus according to the present invention, specimen 
analysis is enhanced by applying at least two reagents to the 
same specimen sample in a specially adapted chamber and using  
 
a plurality of detectors to simultaneously detect the 
chemiluminescence in separate spectral ranges caused by the 
reaction with one or more substances of the specimen. The 
reagents react with the sample substances and are further 
treated to provide substantially non-overlapping luminescence 
signals which may be sensed by the detectors and separately 
processed to determine the constituents or substances of the 
specimen sample. Thus in accordance with the present invention, a testing 
apparatus includes a housing having a chamber. A reaction 
vessel is disposed through a bore in a top wall region of the 
housing and retained in a predetermined location in the 
chamber. A plurality of detector assemblies are disposed 
about the housing with each one of such detector assemblies 
disposed through a corresponding bore provided in 
corresponding side wall regions of the housing such that the 
reaction vessel is exposed to the detector assemblies. In 
accordanc
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for detecting luminescence characterised 
in that it comprises: 

   a housing having a chamber therein; 
   a reaction vessel, disposed in the chamber housing, for 

holding a specimen sample; 
   a dispense assembly, disposed in the reaction vessel, for 

adding a plurality of reagents to the reaction vessel, wherein 
the addition of the reagents to the specimen sample initiates 

a chemiluminescent reaction within the reaction vessel and 
results in emission of light energy in a corresponding plurality 

of predetermined spectral ranges at intensities independently 
related to plural specimen constituents or substances of the 

sample; and 
   a plurality of detectors, coupled to the housing, wherein 

portions of the detectors are disposed through the housing and 
are exposed to the reaction vessel such that each of the 

detectors detects a portion of the light emission in one of a 
plurality of predetermined spectral ranges. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein it 
comprises processing circuitry coupled to each of the said 

plurality of detectors, each of the detectors feeding a detector 
signal to the processing circuitry and the said processing 

circuitry evaluating each of the detector signals fed thereto 
to provide data for the presence of a specific specimen 

constituent based upon the detected luminescence in each of the 
plurality of predetermined spectral ranges. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein 
the said dispense assembly includes a plurality of dispense 

probes, each of the said plurality of dispense probes being 
adapted for dispensing a fluid into the said reaction vessel, 

at least one of the said plurality of reagents being dispensed 
into the reaction vessel through one of the plurality of 

dispense probes. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the said 
plurality of reagents and the said plurality of detectors are 

provided as like pluralities. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 
wherein it comprises a fluid injections system comprising: 

   a plurality of fluid containers; 
   a like plurality of feed lines, each of the said feed lines 

being coupled between one of the fluid containers and a 
corresponding one of the said plurality of dispense probes; 

   a like plurality of pumps, each of the said pumps being 
coupled between one of the said fluid containers and the 

corresponding feed line, each of the said pumps aspirating fluid 
from respective ones of the said containers and dispensing the 

fluid through the corresponding feed lines and dispense probes 
into the reaction vessel. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 
wherein it comprises a like plurality of filters, each of the 

said filters being disposed between the said reaction vessel and 
a corresponding one of the said detectors, each of the said 

filters having predetermined filter characteristics to provide 
a filtered signal to the corresponding detector. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 
wherein it comprises a first sensor, disposed in the said 

housing, for indicating that the said reaction vessel is 
disposed in a predetermined position within the said housing 

chamber. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 
wherein each of the said detectors is disposed in a 

diametrically opposing pair about the said reaction vessel. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 
wherein it comprises:

 
   a housing having top, bottom and side wall regions coupled 

to form a chamber therein; 
   a reaction vessel disposed through a bore in the top wall 

of the said housing such that the said reaction vessel is 
disposed in the chamber; and 

   a plurality of detectors for detecting light emissions, 
each one of the said detectors being disposed through a 

corresponding bore provided in the side wall regions of the said 
housing and exposed to the said reaction vessel. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein it 
comprises a top cover assembly, disposed over the bore in the 

top wall of the said housing and coupled to the said probe 
assembly, the said top cover assembly holding the said probe 

assembly in a predetermined location in the said reaction 
vessel. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 10 
wherein each of the said detectors comprises a photomultiplier 

tube. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 11 
wherein it comprises: 

   a dispensing probe having a first end and a second end, the 
first end being disposed in the said reaction vessel; and 

   a pump having an output port coupled to the second end of 
the said dispensing probe for aspirating fluid from a container 

and dispensing the aspirated fluid through the probe and into 
the reaction vessel. 
An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12 
wherein it comprises: 

   a first sensor, disposed on the said housing and coupled 
to the said reaction vessel for sensing the presence of the said 

reaction vessel in a predetermined location in the said chamber; 
and

 
   a second sensor, disposed on the said housing and coupled 

to the said top cover assembly for sensing whether the said top 
cover assembly has been placed in a first one of an open or 

closed position. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein it 
comprises a detection circuit for detecting and indicating, 

after a first test has been performed and completed, a first one 
of the following conditions; 


(a) the cover has been opened and the reaction vessel has 
been removed; 
(b) the cover has been opened and the reaction vessel has 
not been removed; and 
(c) the cover has not been opened; 
 
in response to conditions (b) and (c) the said detection circuit 

preventing operation of the apparatus. 
A method for determining the composition of a specimen 
sample using an apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 14 

wherein it comprises: 
   placing a single specimen sample in the reaction vessel; 

   adding a plurality of reagents to the reaction vessel, each 
of the said plurality of reagents being selected to provide a 

chemiluminescent reaction with the said sample, but not to react 
with each other; and 

   simultaneously detecting the light emissions from the 
reaction vessel by a plurality of separate detectors disposed 

about the said reaction vessel. 
A method for simultaneously detecting the existence 
of a plurality of constituents or substances in a sample using 

an apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 14 wherein it 
comprises: 

   simultaneously adding a plurality of reagents into the 
reaction vessel having a specimen sample disposed therein, the 

addition of the reagents to the specimen sample initiating a 
chemiluminescent reaction within the reaction vessel and 

 
resulting in emission of light energy in a corresponding 

plurality of predetermined spectral ranges at intensities 
independently related to a plural specimen constituents of the 

sample; and 
   detecting the chemiluminescence by a plurality of 

detectors, each of the detectors detecting the chemiluminescence 
in one of a plurality of predetermined spectral ranges. 
A method as claimed in claim 16 wherein the detecting 
comprises independently detecting, by e
ach of the detectors, the 
chemiluminescence in one of a plurality of predetermined 

spectral ranges. 
A method as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 wherein 
it comprises: 

   feeding a signal from each of the detectors to processing 
circuitry; and 

   evaluating in the said processing circuitry each of the 
detector signals fed thereto and determining the presence of a 

specific specimen constituent based upon the detected 
luminescence in each of the plurality of predetermined spectral 

ranges. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
