<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATED HIGH DEFINITION/RESOLUTION IMAGE STORAGE RETRIEVAL AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N121	H04N121	H04N141	H04N141	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automated high resolution/definition image storage retrieval, and transmission system provides fast, efficient access to medical diagnostic images, e.g. X-ray images, simultaneously to a pluraity of requesting subscribers. This overcomes significant limitations of the prior art system that allowed only one user at a time to view a diagnostic image film that had to be physically transported to a different location for each viewing. The system digitizes images and stores the resultant data in a hierarchically compressed format on CD-ROMs (48). The data are subsequently downloaded, via the telephone lines, to a requesting subscriber in an optimal fashion. The data that are sent initially are used to create an initial, coarse, display of the image. Subsequent data are used to refine the resolution of the displayed image, up to a resolution limit set by the display terminal (20). This progressive enhancement process can be guided by the remote subscriber, who can select the most interesting areas of the image, to receive priority in the enhancement process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOMATED MEDICAL ACCESS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOMATED MEDICAL ACCESS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INGA JORGE JAIME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALIGA THOMAS V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INGA, JORGE, JAIME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALIGA, THOMAS, V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title: Automated High Definition/Resolution Image Storage Retrieval and Transmission SystemTechnical FieldThe invention provides an automated high definition/resolution diagnostic quality image storage, retrieval transmission, and display system for use with medical X-ray films and the like.Background ArtStorage and retrieval systems for medical image data such as X-ray films, CAT scans, angiograms, tomograms and MRI are commonly antiquated. For example, when image films are used in the operating room, the physician must display these photo films on a light box.Moreover, due to the diffuse responsibilities of multiple attending physicians and treatment sites, image data for patients with complex conditions is often lost, or at best, difficult to find when needed. Hospitals maintain large "file rooms" to store bulky patient image data films. In a complex situation in which several folders are needed, a file's weight can build up to 7 kg. It has proven time consuming to obtain image data from file rooms due to administrative backlogs, to lack of specialized filing personnel and to misfiling.Typically, the physician examines the patient in his office after radiographical studies have been made in a hospital or diagnostic facility. The relevant films and the information contained therein are often unavailable at the time of the examination. Thus, there is a need for remote access to image data for rapid patient assessment and therapy recommendation.US 4,603,254 teaches a stimulable phosphor sheet that stores a radiation image and that is read out by scanning with stimulating rays. The light emitted from the sheet is detected 

and converted into a digitizable electric signal used to reproduce the radiation image in diagnosis and storage.US 4,764,870 describes a system for transferring medical diagnostic information from a diagnostic site to remote stations.An internal analog video signal from imaging diagnostic equipment is converted to a standard format for storage and transmisison to a CRT display for reproduction of diagnostic images.US 5,005,126 shows a system for transferring medical diagnostic information from a diagnostic site to remote stations similar to that found in US 4,764,870.US 5,019,975 teaches a medical image database that tags records with the time at which each medical image was recorded and with a rank of importance for each medical image and that logs the number of times a given record was retrieved. When the database is full, the oldest and least important records are deleted to allow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An automated high definition/resolution image storage, retrieval and transmission system for use with medical images to provide simultaneous automated access to a remote image data base by a plurality of remote subscribers upon request over a communications network, said image storage, retrieval and transmission system comprising
image digitizing means adapted to form a first digitized representation of said image,
first data compression means to generate from said first digitized representation a low-loss second digitized representation of said image,
image data storage and retrieval means including
means to receive and store said second digitized representation and to selectively provide said second digitized representation to
data channel compression means adapted to compress said second digitized representation to form a third digitized representation and
means to selectively provide said third digitized representation upon request from a remote site, to
telecommunication means including means to selectively transmit said requested third digitized representation to a requesting remote visual display terminal, said remote terminal including means to convert said third representation to a visual image for display.
2. A system of Claim 1 wherein said image digitizing means comprises a film loading and scanning section having means to read and scan a said image from a film. 


 3. A system of Claim 2 wherein said film loading and scanning section further comprises means to form a said first digitized representation capable of yielding a said visually displayable image with a resolution of at least 200 dots per centimeter.
4. A system of Claim 2 wherein said first data compression means further comprises a data buffer memory to receive said first digitized representation from said film loading and scanning section and a data modem to transmit said second digitized representation to said image data storage and retrieval means.
5. A system of Claim 2 wherein said image digitizing means further comprises an optical character reader.
6. A system of Claim 5 wherein individual patient information corresponding to said film is fed to said film loading and scanning section to be read by said optical character reader for compression and transmission with a corresponding second digital representation to said image data storage and retrieval means.
7. A system of Claim 1 wherein said remote visual display terminal further includes image enhancement means to enhance a displayed image.
8. A system of Claim 7 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means to enhance an edge contrast of a displayed image.
9. A system of Claim 7 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means to enhance gray level contrast by means of gray level region expansion.
10. A system of Claim 7 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means for differential gray level tracking and gray level enhancement. 


 11. A system of Claim 1 wherein said first data compression means includes logic means to generate a run-length compressed digitized image data signal as said second representation.
12. A system of Claim 1 wherein said first data compression means is operatively coupled to an external data storage drive to store said second representation.
13. A system of Claim 1 wherein said image data storage and retrieval means comprises a data modem coupled to said image scanning and digitizing means, a write drive operatively coupled to said data modem to receive and to store said second digitized representation , and a plurality of data retrieval and transmission channels, each said and transmission] channel comprising an image data reader means operatively coupled to said telecommunication means to selectively receive said second digitized representation of said image for transmission to a said requesting remote visual display terminal.
14. A system of Claim 13 wherein a said image data reader means is operatively coupled to an external data write drive configured to receive a storage medium and to store compressed digital image data thereon.
15. A system of Claim 13 wherein said telecommunication means comprises a control computer operatively coupled to said image data storage and retrieval means to selectively control data flow between said image data storage and retrieval means and said remote visual display terminal and a plurality of data compression channels coupled to said control computer, wherein each said data compression channel comprises a data memory including means to decompress said low-loss second representation of said image data received from said data retrieval and transmission channel and a compression means including logic means to compress said decompressed second representation of said image data to form said third diσitized representation of said image for transmission over said communication network to a said requesting remote visual 


display terminal .
16. An automated high definition/resolution image storage, retrieval and transmission] system of Claim 15 wherein said data compression channel comprises display compatible resolution logic means including means to generate super pixels, said data compression channel acting to form a said third compressed digital representation, corresponding to said initially digitized image data whereby said telecommunication means acts to transmit data with a resolution compatible with a resolution limit of said requesting remote terminal .
17. A system of Claim 1 wherein said image digitizing means comprises means to digitize a said image from a video signal .
18. A system of Claim 1 wherein said image data storage and retrieval means includes at least one optical compact disk to store said second digitized representation received from said image scanning and digitizing means.
19. An automated high definition/resolution medical diagnostic image storage, retrieval and transmission system comprising
means to form an initial digitized image having a first resolution,
computer means to store said digitized image,
telecommunication means linking said computer means to
a remote visual display terminal capable of displaying a visual image with a second resolution no greater than a predetermined resolution limit, said terminal adapted to send a message via said telecommunication means to said computer means, said message comprising
an identification portion wherein said predetermined resolution limit is communicated to said computer 


 means and
a request for transmission of a said digitized image, and
compression means associated with said telecommunication means and comprising display compatible resolution logic means acting to form a compressed digital representation corresponding to said initially digitized image data whereby said telecommunication means acts to transmit data with a resolution compatible with said requesting remote display terminal.
20. A system of Claim 19 wherein said compression means further includes logic means to generate a plurality of regions collectively representative of said image, each said region comprising a plurality of two dimensional, non-overlapping, symmetrically disposed super pixels and to compare each said region with a plurality of fictitious patterns, each said pattern having a dark region, a light region and a predetermined point of origin, to determine which of said plurality of fictitious patterns most closely correlates with said region and to generate a compressed digitized representation corresponding to said selected fictitious pattern, and wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an initial image corresponding to said fictitious pattern and having a third resolution less than said predetermined resolution limit.
21. A system of Claim 20 wherein said fictitious patterns are selected to be essentially uncorrelated with each other when rotated relative to each other.
22. A system of Claim 20 further including logic means to select a predetermined representative gray level most closely correlating with a gray level of a said super pixel.
23. A system of Claim 20 wherein said compression means further 


 includes progressive image enhancement means adapted to transmit, subsequent to said display of said initial image, data representative of exact gray levels of those super pixels located on a periphery of each said region and thereafter to transmit similar data for those super pixels interior to each said region whereby the resolution of said displayed image attains a value intermediate between said third resolution and said predetermined resolution limit.
24. A system of Claim 20 wherein said compression means further includes means to select a specific region of an image and to transmit digitized image data specific to said selected region to provide an expanded visual display of said selected region.
25. A system of Claim 20 wherein said compression means further includes run length compression of said fictitious patterns and wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an image corresponding to said fictitious pattern.
26. A system of Claim 19 wherein said compression means further includes logic means to generate a plurality of regions collectively representative of said image, each said region comprising a plurality of two dimensional, non-overlapping, symmetrically disposed super pixels and to compare each said region with a plurality of fictitious patterns, to determine which of said plurality of fictitious patterns most closely correlates with said region and to generate a compressed digitized representation corresponding to said selected fictitious pattern, and wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an image corresponding to said fictitious pattern and means to rotate said selected pattern to that one of a plurality of predetermined rotational orientations that most closely approximates said super pixel .
27. A system of Claim 19 wherein said compression means further includes logic means to generate a plurality of regions 


collectively representative of said image, each said region comprising a plurality of two dimensional non-overlapping symmetrically disposed super pixels and to compare each said region with a plurality of fictitious patterns to determine which of said plurality of fictitious patterns most closely correlates with said region and to form a said compressed digital representation of said image corresponding to said selected fictitious pattern, and wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an image closely correlating to said actual super pixels in response to receiving said compressed digital representation corresponding to said selected fictitious patterns and logic means to generate a set of predetermined representative gray levels wherein each said gray level is that one most closely correlating with the gray levels of said actual super pixels.
28. A system of Claim 27 wherein said terminal means further comprises logic means to rotate a said selected pattern to that one of a plurality of predetermined rotational orientations that most closely approximates said actual super pixels.
29. A system of Claim 19 wherein said remote visual display terminal further includes image enhancement means to enhance a displayed image.
30. A system of Claim 29 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means to enhance an edge contrast of a displayed image.
31. A system of Claim 29 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means to enhance gray level contrast by means of gray level region expansion.
32. A system of Claim 29 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means for differential gray level tracking and gray level enhancement.
33. A system of Claim 19 wherein said means to form an initial 


digitized image includes an optical character reader.
34. An automated system adapted to store a plurality of high definition/resolution medical diagnostic images and to recon- struct and display ones of said images with progressive resolu- tion, said system comprising
first computer means adapted to store a digital represen- tation of a said image,
first telecommunication means operatively connected to said first computer means, said first telecommunication means comprising second computer means adapted to compress said digital representation of a said image and to store said compressed representation in a buffer memory means in a predetermined format chosen so that a first block of data from said buffer memory is usable to form a first reconstructed image having a first resolution and so that an incremental block of data from said buffer memory is usable, in combination with said data of said first block, to form a second reconstructed image having a second resolution greater than said first resolution,
remote terminal means comprising
second telecommunication means adapted for bi-direc- tional communication of messages to and from said first telecommunication means, said messages includ- ing said first and said incremental data blocks,
third computer means adapted to execute
a first algorithm capable of forming, from said data of said first block, said first recon- structed image,
a second algorithm capable of forming, from said data of said first block and said data of said 


 incremental block, a said second reconstructed image
display means adapted to display ones of said recon- structed images at a resolution less than a predeter- mined resolution limit.
35. A system of Claim 34 wherein said first telecommunication means is adapted to sequentially send ones of a plurality of said incremental blocks of data whereby said resolution of said displayed image increases with time.
36. A system of Claim 35 wherein- said first telecommunication means is adapted to send no additional data when said resolution of said reconstructed image attains said resolution limit of said terminal.
37. A system of Claim 34 wherein said first telecommunication means further comprises means to enhance the gray scale of a said image and means
to transmit to said terminal means a said first data block usable to reconstruct a said image without said enhancement, and
to transmit to said terminal means a said incremental block usable to reconstruct said image with a said enhanced gray scale.
38. A system of Claim 37 wherein said means to enhance the gray scale of an image includes logic means to enhance an edge contrast of a displayed image.
39. A system of Claim 37 wherein said means to enhance the gray scale of an image includes logic means to enhance gray level contrast by means of gray level region expansion.
40. A system of Claim 37 wherein said means to enhance the gray 


scale of an image includes logic means for differential gray level tracking and gray level enhancement.
41. A system of Claim 34 further comprising
user-operated interactive means operatively connected to said terminal means and acting to communicate to said third computer means coordinates of a bounded region of a said displayed image,
a third algorithm operative to transmit, via said second and said first telecommunication means to said second computer means, a said message including said co-ordinates of said bounded region,
a fourth algorithm operative to form, as a displayed image, a reconstructed image of said bounded region,
and wherein said predetermined format for said representation of said image stored in said second computer means is chosen so that a said incremental block of data is usable to increase the resolution of said reconstructed image of said bounded region.
42. A system of Claim 41 wherein said second computer means is adapted to sequentially send ones of a plurality of said incremental blocks of data whereby said resolution of said reconstructed bounded region of said image progressively increases.
43. A system of Claim 42 wherein said second computer means is adapted to send no additional data when said resolution of said reconstructed bounded region of said image attains said predetermined resolution limit of said terminal.
44. A system of Claim 34 wherein said first computer means further comprises means to store retrieval data adapted to uniquely associate a said image with a patient. 


45. A method of acquiring, storing, retrieving and displaying a high definition/resolution medical diagnostic image comprising the steps of
a) acquiring a said image having a first resolution, and translating said image to a predetermined digital format,
b) storing said digitized image in a computer memory at a first location,
c) requesting, from a user-operated terminal having a first resolution limit and located at a second location, a said diagnostic image,
d) creating from said digitized image, at said first location, by means of a first algorithm, a patterned and compressed representation thereof,
e) transmitting from said first location to said terminal a first portion of said stored patterned representation,
f) reconstructing, at said terminal, by means of a second algorithm, from said first portion of said patterned representation, a first displayable representation of said diagnostic image, said first displayable representation having a second resolution less than said first resolution,
g) displaying said displayable representation at said terminal,
h) transmitting from said first location to said terminal an additional portion of said patterned representation.
i) reconstructing, at said terminal, by means of a third algorithm, from said additional portion of said patterned representation, an improved displayable representation of said image, said improved displayable representation 


 having a third resolution greater than said second resolution,
j) repeating steps g) . h) and i), thereby progressively increasing the resolution of said displayed representation until said displayed resolution attains the lesser of
said first resolution of said image or
said predetermined resolution limit of said terminal.
46. A method of Claim 45 including an additional step of
k) enhancing, by means of a fourth algorithm, a displayed representation.
47. A method of Claim 46 wherein said fourth algorithm comprises enhancing an edge contrast of a displayed representation.
48. A method of Claim 46 wherein said fourth algorithm comprises enhancing a gray level contrast by means of gray level region expansion.
49. A method of Claim 46 wherein said fourth algorithm comprises differential gray level tracking and gray level enhancement.
50. A method of Claim 45 wherein said step of acquiring a said image comprises scanning a diagnostic film to form a digital representation thereof.
51. A method of Claim 45 further comprising additional steps of
acquiring, with said diagnostic image, retrieval data adapted to uniquely associate said image with a patient, and storing said retrieval data in said computer memory. 


52. A method of Claim 45 further comprising an additional step after step g) of defining, by means of a user-operated computer-interactive device, a sub-image of said visual representation, and wherein said subsequent reconstructions in step j ) are directed at reconstruction only of said sub-image.
53. A method of Claim 45 wherein said step of acquiring said image and forming a digitized representation thereof further includes a step of compressing said image by means of a run length compression algorithm.
54. A method of Claim 45 wherein said first algorithm comprises a hexagonal pattern classification.
55. A method of Claim 45 wherein said predetermined digital format formed in step a) comprises a compressed digital image. and wherein said first algorithm re-expands said compressed digital image before forming said patterned and compressed representation therefrom.
56. A method of Claim 45 wherein said step of acquiring an image comprises digitizing a video signal .
57. An automated high definition/resolution medical diagnostic image storage, retrieval and transmission system comprising
means to form an initial digitized image,
computer means to store said digitized image,
telecommunication means linking said computer means to a remote visual display terminal capable of displaying a visual image, said telecommunication means comprising compression means including logic means to
generate a plurality of regions collectively representative of said image, each said region 


 comprising a plurality of two dimensional, non- overlapping, symmetrically disposed super pixels and to
compare each said region with a plurality of fictitious patterns, each said pattern having a dark region, a light region and a predetermined point of origin, and thereby to determine which of said plurality of fictitious patterns most closely correlates with said region and to generate a compressed digitized representation corresponding to said selected fictitious pattern, and
wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an image corresponding to said fictitious pattern.
58. A system of Claim 57 wherein said fictitious patterns are selected to be essentially uncorrelated with each other when rotated relative to each other.
59. A system of Claim 58 further including logic means to select a fictitious pattern having a gray level most closely correlating with a gray level of a said super pixel .
60. A system of Claim 57 wherein said compression means further includes logic means to determine which of said plurality of fictitious patterns most closely correlates with said region and to generate a compressed digitized representation corresponding to said selected fictitious pattern, and wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an image corresponding to said fictitious pattern and means to rotate said selected pattern to that one of a plurality of predetermined rotational orientations that most closely approximates said super pixel .
61. A system of Claim 57 wherein said remote visual display terminal includes means to generate and display an image 


closely correlating to said actual super pixel in response to receiving said compressed digitized image data corresponding to said selected fictitious patterns and logic means to generate a set of predetermined representative gray levels wherein each said gray level is that one most closely correlating with the gray levels of said actual super pixels.
62. A system of Claim 61 wherein said terminal means further comprises logic means to rotate a said selected pattern to that one of a plurality of predetermined rotational orientations that most closely approximates said actual super pixels.
63. A system of Claim 57 wherein said telecommunication means further includes means to compress and transmit to said remote terminal digitized image data specific to a selected sub-image and wherein said remote terminal further comprises means to provide visual display of said selected sub-image.
64. A system of Claim 63 wherein said compression means further includes progressive image enhancement means adapted to transmit, subsequent to a display of a said selected sub-image, data representative of exact gray levels of those super pixels located on a periphery of each region within said selected sub- image and thereafter to transmit similar data for those super pixels interior to each said region, whereby the resolution of said displayed sub-image increases with time.
65. A system of Claim 64 wherein said terminal has a resolution limit and wherein said terminal comprises means to communicate said resolution limit to said telecommunication means, and wherein said telecommunication means is adapted to send no additional data when the resolution of said displayed sub-image attains said resolution limit.
66. A system of Claim 57 wherein said compression means further includes run length compression of said fictitious patterns.
67. A system of Claim 57 wherein said remote visual display 


terminal further includes image enhancement means to enhance a displayed image.
68. A system of Claim 67 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means to enhance an edge contrast of a displayed image.
69. A system of Claim 67 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means to enhance gray level contrast by means of gray level region expansion.
70. A system of Claim 67 wherein said image enhancement means includes logic means for differential gray level tracking and gray level enhancement. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
