<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616338</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sensitivity enhancement for airborne radioactivity monitoring system to detect reactor coolant leaks.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01T100	G01T1167	G21C1700	G21C1700	G21C1702	G21C1702	G21C17028	G21C1704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01T	G01T	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01T1	G01T1	G21C17	G21C17	G21C17	G21C17	G21C17	G21C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for measuring radioactivity 
associated with nuclear reactor (18) coolant leaks (16). 

The method includes providing a delay tank (10) in a gas 
sampling line (12) upstream of a radiation particulate 

monitor (14), the delay tank (10) allowing radioactive 
noble gases from the leak (16) to decay to radioactive 

daughter particulates that are monitored by the radiation 
particulate monitor (14). The apparatus includes the delay 

tank (10) as well as a background delay tank (20) and a 
valve sequencer (26) for comparing radiation associated 

with the delay tank (10) to radiation associated with the 
background delay tank (20). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHAM KINGSLEY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHAM, KINGSLEY F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to systems used to 
detect nuclear reactor coolant leaks. In particular, the 
invention relates to the use of sensitivity enhancement 
devices for allowing airborne particulate monitors to more 
readily sense reactor coolant leaks. An airborne particulate radioactivity monitor can 
be used to detect nuclear reactor coolant leaks by measuring 
the airborne particulate activity produced by the leak. 
A problem with these prior art detectors, however, is the 
hard-to-quantify losses of radioactive particulates, 
occurring both at the leak location and as a result of 
plate-out losses in the sample line between the leak 
location and the monitoring location. Gaseous radionuclides have nearly a 100% release 
to the air from nuclear reactor coolant leaks and have 
minimal plate-out losses in the sample line. Gas airborne 
radioactivity monitors have much lower sensitivity than 
particulate airborne radioactivity monitors, however, 
because the gas monitor only responds to the quantity of 
gas in the sample chamber viewed by the detector. The 
particulate monitor, on the other hand, responds to the 
radioactive particulates that have been collected over an 
extended period of time on a filter. The ratio of sensitivities 
for particulate to gaseous monitors is on the 
order of 10,000. In summary, both the particulate monitor and the 
gas monitor have serious drawbacks when used for nuclear  
 
reactor coolant leak detection. The particulate monitor 
has hard-to-quantify loss of particulate activity, both at 
the leak location and losses resulting from plate-out on 
the sample line walls. The gas monitor has extremely low 
sensitivity compared to the particulate monitor. U.S. Patent No. 4,820,925, discloses a room air 
monitor for radioactive aerosols that uses a filter system 
to collect suspended particles that are carried through the 
system through the airflow into the monitor, and these 
particles are detected and examined for radioactivity by 
the detector-preamplifier combination of the device. This 
device could not, by itself, be used to examine the radioactivity 
due to gaseous radionuclides escaping from a 
nuclear power plant. Despite the above-described device, there remains 
a need in the art for a reliable method of measuring 
airborne radioactivity resulting from nuclear reactor 
coolant leaks. It is an object of the invention to provide a 
method of measuring radiation associated with the decay of 
radioactive noble gases to radionuclide particulate daughters. It is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of detecting nuclear reactor radioactive 
gas leaks, including the steps of: 


a. providing a sample line (12) for sampling 1 
radioactive gases leaking (16) from a nuclear reactor (18); 
b. providing a first delay tank (10) in said 
sample line (12) downstream from said nuclear reactor (18), 

said first delay tank (10) sized to retain said radioactive 
gases for a sufficient residence time to enable said 

radioactive gases to decay to radionuclide particulates; 
c. providing an airborne radioactive particulate 
monitoring means (14) in said sample line downstream from 

said first delay tank; 
d. measuring the activity associated with said 
radionuclide particulates with said airborne radioactive 

particulate monitoring means (14). 
The method of Claim 1, further including the step 
of: 

   e. comparing the activity measured in step (d) 
with an acceptable activity, and if the measured activity 

substantially exceeds the acceptable activity, triggering 
an alarm means. 
The method of Claim 2, wherein said comparing 
is achieved by using a background radiation sampling line 

(24) having a background radiation delay tank (20) therein, 
upstream from a said particulate monitor (14), said background 

radiation delay tank (24) being of substantially the 
same size as said first delay tank (10), and wherein said 

acceptable activity comprises the activity associated with 
 

said background delay tank (24) as monitored by said 
particulate monitoring means (14). 
The method of Claim 1, wherein said radioactive 
gases include at least one of ⁸⁸Kr, ⁸⁹Kr, and ¹³⁸Xe. 
The method of Claim 4, wherein said 
radionuclide particulates include at least one of ⁸⁸Rb, ⁸⁹Rb, 

and ¹³⁸Cs. 
The method of Claim 1, wherein said first 
delay tank is sized to maintain laminar flow through said 

first delay tank (10) at gas flow rates of about 1-5 cfm. 
The method of Claim 1, wherein said residence 
time is selected to coincide with peak total radionuclide 

particulate concentration being measured by said airborne 

radioactive particulate monitoring means (14). 
In a nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system having a sampling line (12) for sampling and transporting 

radioactive gases leaking (16) from a reactor (18), 
the improvement comprising a first delay tank (10) in said 

sampling line (12) downstream from said reactor (18) for 
holding said radioactive gases for a residence time sufficient 

to enable said radioactive gases to decay to airborne 
radionuclide particulates susceptible to activity measurement, 

and further including an in-line airborne radioactive 
particulate monitor (14) downstream from said first delay 

tank (10). 
The nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system of Claim 8, wherein said sampling line (12) samples 

gases near at least one of control rod drive penetrations 
(17) and incore instrumentation penetrations (19) of a 

nuclear reactor. 
The nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system of Claim 9, wherein said first delay tank (10) is 

sized to provide a radioactive gas residence time coinciding 
with a peak total radionuclide particulate concentration 

as measured by said airborne radioactive particulate 
monitor (14). 
The nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system of Claim 9, wherein said first delay tank (10) has 

a vertical orientation. 
The nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system of Claim 8, further including a background sampling 

line (24) receiving air from a background source (22) 
external to the nuclear reactor containment vessel (18), 

said sampling line (24) having a background delay tank (20) 
downstream from said background source (22), said background 

delay tank (20) being of substantially the same size 
as said first delay tank (10), said background delay tank 

(20) being upstream of and connected to said particulate 
monitoring means (14), and said particulate monitoring 

means (14) being adapted to compare radiation associated 
with said background delay tank (20) to radiation associated 

with said first delay tank (10). 
The nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system of Claim 12, wherein said first delay tank (10) and 

said second delay tank (20) are connected at their outlets 
by a valve sequencer means (26) for allowing said particulate 

monitoring means (14) to sample and compare radiation 
associated with said first delay tank (10) and said background 

delay tank (20). 
The nuclear reactor radioactivity monitoring 
system of Claim 13, further including an alarm means (28) 

for alerting of an upset condition wherein the radioactivity 
associated with said first delay tank (10) substantially 

exceeds the radioactivity associated with said background 
delay tank (20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
