<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631499</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOFT TISSUE AUGMENTATION MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2700	C04B3501	A61F200	A61L2752	A61L2744	C04B35447	A61L2700	C04B3563	A61L2710	C04B35636	A61F200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	C04B	A61F	A61L	A61L	C04B	A61L	C04B	A61L	C04B	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L27	C04B35	A61F2	A61L27	A61L27	C04B35	A61L27	C04B35	A61L27	C04B35	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A permanent, biocompatible material for soft tissue augmentation. The biocompatible material comprises a matrix of smooth, round, finely divided, substantially spherical particles of a biocompatible ceramic material, close to or in contact with each other, which provide a scaffold or lattice for autogenous, three dimensional, randomly oriented, non-scar soft tissue growth at the augmentation site. The augmentation material can be homogeneously suspended in a biocompatible, resorbable lubricious gel carrier comprising a polysaccharide. This serves to improve the delivery of the augmentation material by injection to the tissue site where augmentation is desired. The augmentation material is especially suitable for urethral sphincter augmentation, for treatment of incontinence, for filling soft tissue voids, for creating soft tissue blebs, for the treatment of unilateral vocal cord paralysis, and for mammary implants. It can be injected intradermally, subcutaneously or can be implanted.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOFORM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOFORM INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBBARD WILLIAM G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBBARD, WILLIAM G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to biocompatible
compositions for soft tissue augmentation more
specifically urethral sphincter augmentation for
treatment of incontinence, for filling soft tissue
voids or creating soft tissue blebs, for mammary
implants, and for the treatment of unilateral vocal
cord paralysis.Examples of biocompatible materials that have
been proposed for use in augmenting soft tissue in
the practice of plastic and reconstructive surgery,
include collagen. gelatin beads, beads of natural or
synthetic polymers such as polytetrafluoroethylene,
silicone rubber and various hydrogel polymers, such
as polyacrylonitrile-polyacrylamide hydrogels.Most often, the biomaterials are delivered to
the tissue site where augmentation is desired by
means of an injectable composition which comprises
the biomaterial and a biocompatible fluid that acts
as a lubricant to improve the injectability of the
biomaterial suspension. The injectable biomaterial
compositions can be introduced into the tissue site
by injection from a syringe intradermally or
subcutaneously into humans or other mammals to
augment soft tissue, to correct congenital anomalies,
acquired defects or cosmetic defects. They may also
be injected into internal tissues such as tissue
defining sphincters to augment such tissue in the 
treatment of incontinence, and for the treatment of
unilateral vocal cord paralysis.U.K Patent Application No. 2,227,176 to Ersek
et al, relates to a microimplantation method for
filling depressed scars, unsymmetrical orbital floors
and superficial bone defects in reconstructive
surgery procedures using microparticles of about 20
to 3,000 µm which may be injected with an
appropriate physiologic vehicle and hypodermic needle
and syringe in a predetermined locus such as the base
of depressed scars, beneath skin areas of depression
and beneath perichondrium or periosteum in surface
irregularities of bone and cartilage. Textured
microparticles can be used, including silicone,
polytetrafluoroethylene, ceramics or other inert
substances. In those instances wherein the
requirement is for hard substances, biocompatible
material such as calcium salts including
hydroxyapatite or crystalline materials,
biocompatible ceramics, biocompatible metals such as
stainless steel particles or glass may be utilized.
Appropriate physiological vehicles have been
suggested, including saline, various starches,
polysaccharides, and organic oils or fluids.
U. S. Patent No. 4,803,075 to Wallace et al,
relates to an injectable implant composition for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An injectable soft tissue
augmentation material comprising a matrix of rounded,

substantially spherical, biocompatible, substantially
non-resorbable, finely divided ceramic particles

close to or in contact with each other, said
particles being greater than 15 µm in diameter homogeneously

suspended in a biocompatible, resorbable fluid lubricant,
wherein the amount of ceramic particles varies from about

15% to 50% by volume of the total augmentation material.
The material of claim 1 having a surface
porosity of less than about 30 volume percent.
The material of claim 1 having a density
from about 75 to 100 % of its theoretical density.
The material of claim 1 wherein said
particle size distribution is between about 35 and

150 µm.
The material of claim 1 wherein said
particle size range is less than or equal to about 35

µm.
The material of claim 5 wherein said
particle size range is less than or equal to about 20

µm.
The material of claim 6 wherein said
particle sizes are substantially equivalent.
The material of claim 1 wherein
interstitial space between said particles is

maximized by employing a particle size range, said
range being defined by a lower limit and an upper

limit such that the lower limit is greater than 0.4
times the mean value of said range. 
The augmentation material of claim 1
wherein the ceramic material comprises a calcium

phosphate, calcium silicate, calcium carbonate or
alumina.
The augmentation material of claim 9
wherein the calcium phosphate is selected from the

group consisting of calcium hydroxyapatite,
tetracalcium phosphate, calcium pyrophosphate,

tricalcium phosphase, octacalcium phosphate, calcium
fluoroapatite, calcium carbonate apatite, and

combinations thereof.
The augmentation material of claim 10
wherein the calcium phosphate comprises calcium

hydroxyapatite.
The augmentation material of claim 1
wherein the lubricant is a gel comprising aqueous

glycerin and sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
The augmentation material of claim 12
wherein the ratio of water to glycerin in the gel

varies from about 10 to 100:90 to 0, respectively.
The augmentation material of claim 12
wherein the ratio of water to glycerin in the gel

varies from about 25 to 100:75 to 25, respectively.
The augmentation material of claim 12
wherein said sodium carboxymethylcellulose has a

viscosity from about 1000 to 2800 centipoise.
The augmentation material of claim 12
wherein said sodium carboxymethylcellulose is present

within said gel in an amount of from about 0.25 to 5
percent by weight.
The augmentation material of claim 16
wherein said sodium carboxymethylcellulose is present

within said gel in an amount of from about 1.25 to
3.25 percent by weight. 
A soft tissue augmentation material comprising
a matrix of rounded, substantially spherical, biocompatible,

substantially non-resorbable, finely divided ceramic particles
close to or in contact with each other, said particles being

greater than 15 µm in diameter homogeneously suspended in a
biocompatible, resorbable fluid lubricant, wherein the amount

of ceramic particles varies from about 15% to 50% by volume
of the total augmentation material, for use in soft tissue

augmentation in a mammalian species.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
material has a surface porosity of less than about 30

volume percent.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
material has a density from about 75 to 100 % of its

theoretical density.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
particle size distribution is between about 35 and

150 µm.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
particle size range is less than or equal to about 35

µm.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
particle size range is less than or equal to about 20

µm.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
particle sizes are substantially equivalent.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
interstitial space between said particles is

maximized by employing a particle size range, said
range being defined by a lower limit and an upper

limit such that the lower limit is greater than 0.4
times the mean value of said range. 
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
ceramic material comprises a calcium phosphate.

calcium silicate, calcium carbonate or alumina.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
calcium phosphate is selected from the group

consisting of calcium hydroxyapatite, tetracalcium
phosphate, calcium pyrophosphate, tricalcium

phosphate, octacalcium phosphate, calcium
fluoroapatite, calcium carbonate apatite, and

combinations thereof.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
calciu
m phosphate comprises calcium hydroxyapatite.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
lubricant is a gel comprising aqueous glycerin and

sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said ratio
of water to glycerin in the gel varies from about 15

to 100:85 to 0, respectively.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said ratio
of water to glycerin in the gel varies from about 25

to 100:75 to 25, respectively.
Material according to claim 29 wherein said sodium
carboxymethylcellulose has a viscosity from about

1000 to 2800 centipoise.
Material according to claim 29 wherein said sodium
carboxymethylcellulose is present. within said gel in

an amount of from about 0.25 to 5 percent by weight.
Material according to claim 29 wherein said sodium
carboxymethylcellulose is present within said gel in

an amount of from about 1.25 to 3.25 percent by
weight.
Material according to claim 18, wherein the soft
tissue augmentation material is introduced by

injection into the site of augmentation. 
Material according to claim 35 wherein the soft
tissue augmentation material is injected

intradermally.
Material according to claim 35 wherein the soft
tissue augmentation material is injected

subcutaneously.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said
material is introduced by implantation.
Material according to claim 18 wherein said soft
tissue augmentation is in the urethral sphincter for

treatment of urinary incontinence.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
