<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUOROPHORE-ASSISTED THERAPEUTIC DRUG MONITORING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3122	G01N3122	G01N3366	G01N3366	G01N3394	G01N3394	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N31	G01N31	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods for quantitating the biological levels of various pharmaceuticals, particularly carbohydrate pharmaceuticals, are provided for. The methods include the step of fluorescently labeling the pharmaceutical present in a sample for analysis. The fluorescently labeled pharmaceutical may then be quantitated based on measurements of fluorescence. Additionally the fluorescently labeled pharmaceuticals may be separated from other compounds in the sample by electrophoresis. Quantitation of biological levels of pharmaceuticals is used to determine optimum dosage of pharmaceuticals.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLYKO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLYKO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOCK JOHN C JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOCK, JOHN, C., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLUOROPHORE - ASSISTED THERAPEUTIC DRUG MONITORINGField of the InventionThe subject invention is in the field of biological and chemical assays, in particular the measurement of levels therapeutic agents in the body.Background of the Invention Chemicals have been used in the treatment of disease for thousand of years. With the advent of the modern pharmaceutical era, therapeutic chemicals have been administered in measured doses.The biologically available levels of a pharmaceutical may vary unpredictably in accordance with a number of factors including, clearance by the kidneys, binding to various serum components, rate of absorption into the body, breakdown rate, biological activity of the breakdown products, and the like. In the last decade, it has become apparent that in order to minimize toxic effects, and maximize therapeutic effects, one must accurately measure levels of pharmacologically active chemicals. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is currently performed for more than two dozen pharmaceutical treatments. Assays on a number of pharmaceutical chemicals are available; the total number of pharmaceutical chemical assays currently available is nearly 100.Carbohydrates are increasingly recognized as important pharmaceutical agents. Convenient assays to measure the levels of carbohydrates and similar biologicals are not readily available. In most instances the analysis of such compounds is possible only with techniques employing advanced instrumentation, such as mass spectroscopy and NMR 

 spectrometry. Furthermore, for some drugs, such as the anticoagulant carbohydrate drug "heparin", assays are difficult to develop because the drug is a mixture of biochemical components.Heparin is a mixture of acidic polysaccharides derived from the proteolytic or autolytic digestion of animal connective tissue or mucosa (skin, gut, lung, or heart) ; for a review of heparin and its uses see Ofosu, et al. , Annals of the N.Y. Acad. Sci.. Vol. 556 (June 7, 1989) . Heparin is assayed only on the basis of its ability to inhibit blood coagulation protein reactions. Heparin assays are typically performed by either measuring whole blood clotting times or activated clotting assays (see for example, Williams, et al.. Hematoloσy. pgs. 1256-1263, McGraw- Hill publishers (1972)) or in a research setting by measuring the activity of a specific clotting protease called anti-thrombin - III (Ofosu, et al., article by Shore, et al., ibid, pgs. 75-80).Even when standard clotting tests are used as measurements of anticoagulant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims :
1. A method of measuring the quantity of a fluorophore-modifiable pharmaceutical in a patient sample, said method comprising the steps of, labeling said pharmaceutical with a fluorophore, and measuring the quantity of the labeled pharmaceutical.
2. A method according to claim 1, said method further comprising the step of, separating said pharmaceutical from other compounds in said patient sample.
3. A method according to claim 2, said method further comprising the step of, comparing the quantity of said pharmaceutical with at least one standard.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said fluorophore-modifiable pharmaceutical is a carbohydrate.
5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said carbohydrate is heparin.
6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said fluorophore is selected from the group consisting of 8-aminonapthalene-l,3,6-trisulphonic acid, 1-amino- 6,8-disulphonic acid, l-amino-4-naphthalene sulfonic acid, lucifer yellow, and 2-amino acridone.
7. A method according to Claim 3, wherein said standard is a breakdown product of said pharmaceutical. 


 8. A method according to Claim 1, said method further comprising the step of measuring the quantity of labeled pharmaceutical carbohydrates by a CCD.
9. A method of treating a patient with a fluorophore-modifiable pharmaceutical, said method comprising the steps, administering said pharmaceutical at a first level, removing a tissue sample from said patient, measuring the concentration of said pharmaceutical by a method according to claim 1, administering said pharmaceutical at a second level, wherein said second level is in part determined by said concentration measuremen .
10. A method according to claim 9, wherein said fluorophore assisted electrophoresis uses a fluorophore selected from the group consisting of 8- aminonapthalene-l,3,6-trisulphonic acid, 1-amino-
6,8-disulphonic acid, l-amino-4-naphthalene sulfonic acid, lucifer yellow, and 2-amino acridone.
11. A method according to claim 9, wherein said pharmaceutical is a carbohydrate.
12. A method according to Claim 9, wherein said standard pharmaceutical is the breakdown product of said pharmaceutical.
13. A method according to Claim 9, wherein said pharmaceutical carbohydrate is selected from the group consisting of heparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, hyaluronic acid, dextran, dextran sulfate, lactulose, sucralose, 


 sucralfate, sialic acids, glucose, galactose, mannose, aminoglycosides, and beta-lactam antibiotics.
14. A method according to Claim 9, said method further comprising the step of measuring the quantity of labeled pharmaceutical carbohydrates by a CCD.
15. A method for measuring the function of an organ in a patient, said method comprising the steps, administering a dose of a fluorophore- modifiable pharmaceutical to said patient, removing a tissue sample from said patient at a point in time after the administering of said carbohydrate, measuring the concentration of said pharmaceutical in said sample by then method according to claim 1, comparing the measured concentration of said pharmaceutical with the concentration of said pharmaceutical that would be expected to be present if said tissue sample was removed from a healthy subject having been administered said pharmaceutical at said point in time prior to the removal of said tissue sample.
16. A method according to claim 15, wherein said pharmaceutical is a carbohydrate.
17. A kit for performing fluorescence assisted therapeutic pharmaceutical carbohydrate drug monitoring, said kit comprising a fluorophore- modifiable standard.
18. A kit according to Claim 11, wherein said kit further comprises, a fluorophore label. 


 19. A method of treating a patient for a disease by administering a fluorophore-modifiable pharmaceutical said method comprising the steps: administering said pharmaceutical at first dosage, removing a tissue sample from said patient, measuring the quantity of said pharmaceutical in said sample by the method according to claim 1, determining if said quantity is effective for the treatment of said disease, adjusting said dosage to as to provide for the effective treatment of said disease.
20. A method according to claim 19, wherein said pharmaceutical is a fluorophore-modifiable carbohydrate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
