<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653869</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method to identify the terminating directory number at the customer premises.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M172	H04M1723	H04M300	H04M300	H04M302	H04M302	H04M328	H04M330	H04M342	H04M342	H04M3428	H04M346	H04M346	H04M350	H04M351	H04M354	H04M354	H04M360	H04M360	H04M900	H04M900	H04M902	H04M902	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04Q3545	H04Q3545	H04Q500	H04Q502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M9	H04M9	H04M9	H04M9	H04M11	H04M11	H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q5	H04Q5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A telecommunication network having a switching system (1) connected to a 
called station by a line that provides notification to a called party of information 

relating to an incoming call. This information generally consists of the called 
number, but may also include an extension or other code. The called party 

identification is delivered to the called telephone station set during the silent period 
after ringing, or, advantageously, before ringing starts. A signal (e.g., FSK) is sent 

to the called telephone station set shortly before the ringing signal is sent to the 
called station. A converter (210) at the customer premises receives the FSK signal and 

demodulates it. A control unit connected to the converter then causes the called DN 
to be displayed, may cause a distinctive ring to be made, or take other action 

depending upon its program. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARDON MENACHEM TSUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARDON, MENACHEM TSUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of telephone communications, and, 
more specifically, to the area of providing terminating-party, called line 
identification (TCLID) to one or more called telephones in response to an incoming 
call. In current telecommunications switching systems, multiple directory 
numbers (DNs) can be assigned to one line. When a call comes into a terminating 
switching system, a database is searched at that terminating switch to determine the 
relationship between the incoming call's DN and the equipment number (EN) of the 
physical line connected to a telephone. The call is then assigned to that line. 
Conceptually, any number of DNs can be associated with one line. The usefulness of 
having multiple DNs associated with one line, however, is limited by the currently 
available facilities at the customer's premises to identify the called DN prior to 
answering the call, or, preferably, even prior to applying ringing the customer's 
equipment. One example in the prior art of informing customers as to the called DN 
is distinctive ringing or coded ringing (sometimes called "teen ringing"). In this 
feature, when multiple DNs are associated with a single line, up to four distinctive 
ringing cadences can be associated with the different DNs. The customer can, prior 
to answering the phone, but after at least one ringing cycle, determine which DN was 
dialed by the cadence of the ring. Implementation of this feature, however, requires 
special high-level service circuits at the switching system to produce the different 
cadences or tones and the associated operational software, which are costly as 
compared to the number of lines using this service. A further example of the problem of DN identification at the customer 
premises is in the area of party lines. A great deal of effort and expense goes into 
constructing line units and designing software to operate line units so that they can 
accommodate party lines. Some party lines use distinctive ringing, as described 
above, so that each party on the party line has a distinctive ring. Other line units 
have special circuitry to provide each telephone on the party line with a private 
ringing, or "selective ringing" as it is called in the art, by reversing tip-ring for one 
phone on the party line, etc., as is known in the art. Additionally, there are schemes  
 
that encode the ringing signal with various DC signals to provide private ringing for 
each party on a party line. Special telephones are required to decode this type of 
rin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a telecommunications network having a switching system 
connected to a called station by one line, a method for identifying the terminating 

directory number at the customer premises of said station when multiple directory 
numbers are assigned to said one line comprising the steps of: 

   receiving, in said switching system, signals from a calling station 
identifying one of the directory number of said called station; 

   responsive to receipt of said signals, transmitting data relating to said 
called directory number to said called station; and 

   indicating at said called station which of said numbers was called. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said data comprises a directory 
number on an extension number of the called party. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said line is analog, further including 
the step of generating a frequency shift key encoding of said terminating directory 

number, and said step of transmitting data comprises transmitting said frequency 
shift key encoded terminating directory number. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said called station includes a display, 
or an audible signalling device, said method further comprising the step of either 

displaying the terminating directory number on said display at said customer 
premises, or the step of audibly signalling differently for each of said called stations 

responsive to said terminating directory number. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said transmitting comprises either 
transmitting to an incoming line identification device connected to said called 

station, or transmitting said terminating directory number and an incoming calling 
line identification. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said transmitting occurs during a 
telephone call, said step of transmitting comprising the substeps of: 

   disconnecting an audio path; 
   sending a frequency shift key encoded terminating directory number to 

said called station; and
 

   sending a call waiting alert to said called station. 
A telephone station set connectable to a switching system, said 
switching system connected to a telecommunication network, said telephone station 

set having more than one directory number associated with it at said switching 
system, said switching system sending signals representative of the terminating 

called line identification (TCLID) to said telephone station set responsive to receipt 
of an incoming call, said telephone station set co
mprising: 
   converter means connected to said switching system responsive to said 

signals from said switching system for converting said TCLID into digits; and 
   display means responsive to said converter means for displaying said 

digits; whereby a user of said telephone may determine which of said plurality of 
directory numbers is being called. 
A connection device for connecting a terminal unit to a switching 
system, said terminal unit connected through said connection device to said 

switching system by a line, said terminal unit having a directory number, said 
switching system sending signals representative of a terminating called line 

identification (TCLID) to said line responsive to an incoming call, said connection 
device comprising: 

   converter means connected to said line responsive to said signals for 
converting said TCLID into digits; 

   processor means connected to said converter means for comparing said 
digits with said directory number of said terminal unit; and 

   connection means responsive to said processor determining that said 
digits correspond to said directory number for connecting said terminal unit to said 

incoming call. 
In a telephone network, a method for alerting one of a plurality of 
telephones on a party line, wherein each of said plurality of telephones has a unique 

directory number, said method comprising the steps of: 
   receiving, in said switching system, signals from a calling station 

identifying the directory number of one of said plurality of telephones; and 
   responsive to receipt of said signals, transmitting data relating to said 

called party for display at each of said plurality of telephones. 
The method of claim 9, wherein said data comprises the unique 
directory number of the called party. 
The method of claim 9, wherein said line in analog, further including 
the step of generating a frequency shift key encoding of said unique directory 

number, and said step of transmitting data comprises transmitting said frequency 
shift key encoded directory number. 
The method of claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of telephones 
either includes a display, said method further comprising the step of displaying the 

unique directory number on said display; 
   or includes an audible signalling device, said method further comprising 

the step of audibly signalling differently for each of said called one of said plurality 
of telephones responsive to said unique directly number; 

   or includes an audible signalling device, said method further comprising 
the step of audibly signalling only the called one of said plurality of telephones 

responsive to said unique directory number. 
An analog multibutton keyset for use at a customer premises, said 
customer premises having a plurality of keysets and a plurality of directory numbers 

(DNs) assigned to said keysets, said keyset being connectable to a switching system, 
each of said keysets comprising: 

   means for connecting said keyset to said switching system by an 
individual analog line; 

   means responsive to a signal, received from said switching system on 
said one line and being representative of one of said DNs, for indicating which one 

of said plurality of DNs is being called; and 
   means for signalling to said switching system to deliver said call to said 

keyset via said line. 
The keyset of claim 13, wherein said indicating means includes 
means for converting said signal into digits and means responsive to said digits for 

informing a user of said DN of the call. 
The keyset of claim 14, wherein said means for converting said 
signals into digits comprises a frequency shift key demodulator. 
The keyset of claim 14, wherein said informing means either 
comprises a visual display; 

   or comprises an audio alerting system to provide distinctive ringing for 
each DN. 
The keyset of claim 13, wherein said signalling means either 
comprises a plurality of keys, wherein each of said keys causes signalling to be 

generated; 
   or comprises a plurality of buttons on said keyset, wherein each of said 

buttons causes DTMF signals to be generated in response to being pressed. 
In a telephone network comprising a telephone switching system 
connected by one line to each of a plurality of analog multibutton keysets, said 

plurality of keysets being associated with a plurality of DNs, a method comprising 
the steps of: 

   said switching system sending a signal representative of the terminating 
DN of a call to one or more of said plurality of keysets; 

   said one or more of said plurality of keysets indicating an incoming call 
for said terminating DN of said call; and 

   said switching system delivering said call to a first keyset to signal to 
said switching system. 
The method of claim 18, further including the step of setting up said 
call to a lead one of said plurality of keysets. 
The method of claim 5, wherein said step of sending a signal 
includes encoding the terminating DN of a call in a frequency shift key signal. 
The method of claim 20, further including the step of said one or 
more of said plurality of keysets decoding said frequency shift key encoded DN. 
The method of claim 18, wherein said step of said one or more 
keysets indicating an incoming call comprises said one or more keysets either 

displaying said terminating DN;
 

   or audibly alerting by a ringing signal that is different for each DN. 
The method of claim 18, wherein signalling said switch comprises 
sending dual tone multifrequency signalling to said switch responsive to a button on 

said keyset. 
The method of claim 18, further including the step of setting up said 
terminating call to a lead one of said plurality of keysets; and 

   the step of sending a signal comprises sending said signal to said lead 
keyset and to one or more dependent ones of said plurality of keysets. 
The method of claim 24, wherein said step of terminating said 
incoming call comprises terminating said call to said lead keyset if said lead keyset 

sends an off hook signal, and terminating said call to one of said dependent keysets 
if said one of said dependent keysets sends a call pick up signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
