<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635459</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for pressing glass articles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B1100	C03B1100	C03B1112	C03B1112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B11	C03B11	C03B11	C03B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for forming glass articles by press molding. In 

this process, molten glass is deposited by a gob discharge 
station into a female mold held by a first transfer 

machine. The transfer machine moves the mold containing 
formable material to a fixed anvil of a molding station 

where an article of desired shape is formed by moving a 
male forming member into the mold. A second transfer 

machine then moves the mold containing the article of 
desired shape to a cooling station where the glass article 

is cooled. The second transfer machine removes the mold 
from the cooling station and inverts it to separate the 

article from the mold. The mold is then returned to the 
molding station, where the first transfer machine again 

inverts the mold. The now empty mold is returned to the 
gob discharge station for deposition of a new gob of molten 

glass therein. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSSIE ALBERT MIJO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PITBLADDO RICHARD BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSSIE ALBERT MIJO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PITBLADDO RICHARD BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for pressing glass articles. Glass articles are conventionally manufactured by 
forming molten glass into a suitable configuration and 
cooling the article to a glass solid. In such processes, 
glass articles are generally formed from the molten 
material either by blow-molding, see U.S. patents 
4,367,087; 4,427,431, or pressing. Generally, blow molding processes are utilized to form 
glass containers such as bottles. Such forming techniques 
are not, however, suitable for the production of glass 
articles where very tight dimensional tolerances are 
required. For example, automobile headlamps, which 
comprise a front face with a multiplicity of lenses to 
focus the headlight beam and individual lenses, must be 
precisely formed within a tolerance of a few thousandths of 
an inch. Such precisely configured glassware must be formed 
using a pressing process, see U.S. Patents 1,986,449 and 
4,531,961. There are several problems associated with such 
pressing machines. For example, if a chute is used to 
deliver the gob to the mold, the gob may not end up in the  
 
center of the mold. Consequently, shear marks formed on 
the gob when it is cut may end up in an area out of the 
mold which causes a defect in the surface of the formed 
article after pressing. Furthermore, many glass articles have complex shapes 
which complicate the pressing process. For example, some 
headlamp lenses have rectangular shapes having dimensions 
such as, for example, 5" x 14". Such an oblong shape can 
lead to difficulties in pressing, since the gob has to 
spread a much farther distance in one direction compared to 
another. There are also problems inherent in the use of a 
rotating table press. One such problem is that the table 
rotates about a column which supports the table, while the 
forming station is located at the periphery of the table. 
Consequently, when the male forming member engages the 
mold, the periphery of the table may be deformed, causing 
the mold to misalign with the plunger. As a consequence, 
the mold may not be pressed uniformly. Such non-uniform 
pressing is likely to affect the dimensional tolerances and 
production rates of the product adversely. Another problem 
with a rotating table press occurs because the plunger is 
disposed on the outer periphery of the table. Such 
plungers are typically supported by a pair of posts, which 
tend to draw heat from the mold. Because there is only a 
single post on the opposite side of the mold
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming an article which comprises: 

A) providing a mold; 
B) depositing a formable material in said mold at a 
first location; 
C) moving said mold from said first location to a 
fixed forming station; optionally in a three-dimensional 

path, 
D) forming said material into an article having a 
desired shape at said forming station; 
E) moving said mold to a second station; 
F) removing said article from said mold after said 
mold has been deposited at said second station; 
G) moving said mold back to said first location; 
optionally, 
H) repeating steps B) through G) for a desired 
number of cycles. 
Method according to claim 1, wherein said mold is a 
female mold, said mold is placed on a fixed anvil at said 

forming station where it aligns with a male forming member 
which is moved into the mold to form an article and then is 

withdrawn, whereupon the mold with the article therein is 
moved to a cooling station, cooled, and then removed from 

the mold. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the mold 
temperature is measured after removal of an article, and 

the mold temperature is adjusted to a desired value such 
that it has a preselected temperature at said first 

location. 
A method according to claim 3, wherein said male 
forming member is provided with a passage for circulation 

of heat transfer fluid, and the method further comprises 
 

circulating a fluid through the passage to control the 
temperature of said male forming member. 
A method according to claim 3 or 4, wherein said 
female mold is fixedly aligned with said male forming 

member to permit correct formation of the article at said 
molding station. 
A method according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 wherein 
the formable material is molten glass. 
A method according to claim 1 or 3 wherein said 
cooling station has a plurality of cooling positions, which 

the formed article in said mold moves to in seriatim during 
said cooling. 
A method according to claim 7, wherein said cooling 
comprises: 

   conveying cooling gas to the cooling positions through 
cooling passages. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the molten 
glass is dispensed from a gob discharge station along a 

path during said depositing, and wherein said depositing 
comprises: 

   moving said mold transversely or vertically to the 
path the gob follows when dispensed from said gob discharge 

station. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein moving 
said mold back is done with at least one robot, having an 

arm with a first gripper and a second gripper for grasping 
the mold during said moving and during moving back to said 

first location. 
A method according to claim 10, wherein said moving 
said mold in 3 dimensions comprises:

 
   grasping, with the first gripper, the mold containing 

formable material and 
   releasing the mold containing formable material from 

the first gripper at said forming station and, wherein said 
moving said mold back to said first location comprises: 

   grasping, with the second gripper, an empty mold in 
inverted position relative to the mold containing formable 

material released at said forming station with the first 
gripper and 

   rotating the robot arm and the second gripper to 
invert the empty mold and position it for receiving 

formable material during said depositing. 
Method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
comprising the step of manipulating said mold to distribute 

said deformable material in said mold prior to said 
forming. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein said 
manipulating step comprises, during or after material 

deposition, moving said mold and/or tilting said mold, 
optionally transverse or vertically to the direction of 

movement of said material being deposited in one or more 
directions. 
Method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein cooling passages are provided with valves to 

regulate volumetric flow of cooling gas to the cooling 
positions, and the valves are operated by a controller to 

regulate the volumetric flow of cooling gas through the 
cooling passages, and/or the cooling gas is cooled 

indirectly by coolant fluid circulating through a heat 
exchanger. 
Apparatus for carrying on the method of any one of the 
preceding claims, comprising: 

   a gob discharge station;
 

   at least one article forming station for forming an 
article of desired shape from the deformable mass contained 

within a mold positioned in said forming station; 
   at least one first transfer machine including an arm 

for gripping a mold, positioning said mold in gob receiving 
relation to said discharge station, and, after a gob is 

received in a mold, moving said mold to and depositing said 
mold on said fixed article forming station; 

   at least one cooling station for receiving and holding 
molds containing a formed, hot article; 

   at least one second transfer machine including an arm 

for gripping a mold at said forming station and, after an 
article is molded, moving said mold from said forming 

station to said cooling station and depositing said mold on 
said cooling station; 

   means for removing a mold from said cooling station; 
and, 

   means for removing a formed article from a mold which 
has cooled at said at least one cooling station. 
Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said at least 
one article forming station comprises: 

   a male forming member having passages for circulation 
of heat transfer fluid and 

   means to advance said mold forming member into and out 
of a mold positioned at said fixed article forming station. 
A system according to claim 15, wherein said at least 
one cooling station comprises: 

   a plurality of cooling positions, to which the molds 
containing a formed, hot article ar moved in seriatim, 

optionally further comprising passages for conveying 
cooling gas to the cooling positions, further optionally 

valves in each of the cooling passages to regulate 
volumetric flow of cooling gas to the cooling positions 

and/or wherein said cooling station further comprises: a 
 

heat exchanger through which coolant fluid circulates to 
cool indirectly the cooling gas. 
Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the arm of 
said at least one first transfer machine is configured to 

move a mold from said article forming station to said 
discharge station, while the arm of said at least one 

second transfer machine is configured to move a mold, after 
removal of the formed article, to said article forming 

station, optionally each with two grippers for grasping 
molds. 
Apparatus according to claim 15 further comprising: 
   means to rotate the arms and said grippers of each of 

said first transfer machine when moving said mold from each 
of said article forming stations to said gob discharge 

machine to position said mold in gob receiving relation to 
said gob discharge machine and/or 

   means to rotate the arms and said grippers of each of 
said second transfer machine when moving said mold from one 

of said cooling stations to one of said article forming 
stations. 
A system according to claim 15 further comprising: a 
controller programmed to operate said system at varying 

formed article production rates, and/or with varying 
numbers of molds, and/or with molds of varying 

configuration. 
Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said gob 
discharge station is programmable, optionally programmed so 

that at least one of said article forming stations forms a 
different article or molds a gob of different weight than 

another of said article forming stations. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
