<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REFERENCE POINTER FOR A COMPASS DISPLAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1732	G01C1700	G01C1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C17	G01C17	G01C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic compass (17) has a display (21) including a reference pointer (19) that indicates a reference heading stored in response to an input signal. The reference heading is the current heading at the time of the input signal, and the reference pointer (19) in the display (21) is updated as the orientation of the compass changes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION NAVIGATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION NAVIGATION, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, JOHN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is in the field of electronic compasses. Compasses conventionally have been mechanical devices that 
utilise a pointer of magnetic material that aligns with the weak 
magnetic field of the Earth. The pointer for these devices is 
typically pivoted on a bearing and indicates the direction of the 
Earth's magnetic poles. Other indicia can be used to indicate the 
user's current heading in degrees from magnetic North. The art and science of electronics has been applied to compasses, 
replacing magnetic pointers with solid-state magnetic sensors that 
measure the Earth's field and circuitry to process the sensor data and 
output information on a display. For example, existing compasses 
utilize microprocessor-based systems to measure the direction of the 
Earth's field with bi-axial fluxgate magnetometers and output this 
information on liquid crystal displays (LCDs). These displays 
typically indicate a bearing in degrees from magnetic North. Electronic compasses have overcome many limitations of mechanical 
compasses, such as the slow response of the pointer pivot. There are 
some drawbacks of mechanical compasses, however, that have not yet been 
adequately solved by electronic equivalents. One is the inability to 
record and dynamically display a selected heading on a compass rose as 
a convenient reference to be used in navigational operations. Many instances arise during which one would like to conveniently 
remember and recall a direction (heading). For example, a traveller 
may be driving a vehicle along a familiar roadway in a particular 
direction, and get disoriented by an unexpected detour, or by taking a 
side road or highway exit into an unfamiliar neighbourhood. In this 
instance, the ability to recall the direction of the original roadway 
greatly facilitates reorientation. As another example, a hiker in a wilderness often must use a 
compass to follow a specific bearing to reach a given destination. The 
hiker would be assisted by an ability to graphically record the desired 
course on the compass display and maintain course by simply observing 
deviations from this reference direction. A third example involves the problem of returning to a particular 
location from a second known position. Many people often forget where 
they park their car in large sports stadium or shopping mall parking 
lots. If such a person had a hand-held compass that could record and  
 
display a heading, the user could point the compass to the direction 
(heading) of the facility's entrance
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic compass comprising: 

display means (21) for displaying heading information; 
sensing means (35) for determining the orientation of the compass 
relative to the Earth's magnetic field and for providing a signal 

related to said orientation; 
input means (23,25) for a user to supply input signals; and 
control means (43,47) coupled to said display means, to said 
sensing means, and to said input means for receiving said signal 

related to orientation and said input signals, and for causing said 
display means to display heading information in response to said 

signals; 
wherein said control means is configured to store a current 
heading as a reference heading in response to a user input signal, to 

cause said display means to display said reference heading as a 
reference pointer (19) pointing the direction of said reference 

heading, and to adjust the position of said reference pointer in said 
display means as the position and direction of said compass changes. 
A compass according to claim 1, wherein said display means 
comprises a liquid crystal display. 
A compass according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said reference 
pointer is a radial element proceeding from the approximate center of 

said display means. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein said 
reference pointer is bracketed in said display by radial lines on 

either side of said reference pointer, and the direction opposite the 
reference pointer is bracketed by radial lines in the same manner as 

the reference pointer. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein said input 
means comprises a set pushbutton operating as a toggle input such that 

one operation of said set pushbutton stores the current heading as the 
reference heading with said compass displaying said reference pointer 

according to said reference heading, the next operation of said  
 

pushbutton cancels said reference heading and the corresponding 
displayed reference pointer, and the next operation of said pushbutton 

stores a new reference heading according to the then-current heading, 
displaying the reference pointer according to the new reference 

heading. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein when said 
compass is turned off while displaying a reference pointer according to 

a stored reference heading, said control means retains said stored 
reference heading, so that when said compass is turned on again, said 

reference pointer is again displayed according to said stored reference 
heading. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein: 

said display means has an array of pointer shapes which are 
substantially invisible unless activated; and 
wherein said control means is for selectively activating said 
pointer shapes, said control means comprising memory means for storing 

a reference heading in response to a user signal, said reference 
heading being the current heading at the time of said user signal; 
said control means being configured to selectively activate said 
pointer shapes, providing a reference pointer pointing in the direction 

of said reference heading, and adjusted in position on said display as 
the current heading changes. 
A compass according to claim 7, wherein said display means 
additionally comprises bracket shapes, and said control means activates 

said bracket shapes to either side of each pointer shape displayed, and 
additionally activates bracket shapes bracketing the direction opposite 

the direction of each pointer shape displayed. 
A compass according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein said control 
means is configured to display alphanumeric direction indicia around 

the periphery of said display, said alphanumeric indicia positioned 
such that a line from the approximate center of the display to 

individual direction indicia will point substantially in the direction 
indicated by said individual direction indicia.  

 
A compass according to any one of claims 7-9, wherein said 
control means is configured to excite individual ones of said pointer 

shapes to display a north pointer on said display means. 
A compass according to claim 10, wherein said control means is 
configured to excite individual ones of said pointer shapes to display 

a north pointer on the same display as said reference pointer and said 
alphanumeric direction indicia. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein said control 
means is additionally configured to display alphanumeric direction 

indicia around the periphery of said display means and a north pointer 
pointing in the direction of magnetic north, and said compass is 

configured to operate in display modes comprising one or more of said 
reference pointer, said north pointer, and said alphanumeric indicia, 

said modes being selectable by said input signals. 
A compass according to claim 12, wherein said input signals 
comprise a signal for selecting between displaying said reference 

pointer and not displaying said reference pointer. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein said display 
comprises direction indicia and said display is configured to orient to 

magnetic north as said compass moves; and wherein said compass further 
comprises a direction indicator settable to indicate a direction at a 

fixed deviation from north as said compass moves, such that said 
direction indicator maintains said fixed deviation between settings. 
A compass according to any preceding claim, wherein said control 
means is configured to display a second reference pointer as a 

direction indicator having a constant offset from north, and wherein 
said second reference pointer may be turned on and turned off in said 

display by an input signal. 
A method for selecting direction of travel using an electronic 
compass comprising the steps of: 


storing a current heading as a reference heading in a control  
 

means of said electronic compass; 
displaying a reference pointer on a display of said compass, said 
reference pointer indicating the stored reference heading and being 

updated as said compass changes heading; and 
selecting direction of travel based on said displayed reference 
pointer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
