<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632319</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Film cassette.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B4204	G03B4204	G03C300	G03C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03C	G03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B42	G03B42	G03C3	G03C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
X-ray film cassettes for use in mammography 
suffer from various problems which contribute to a 

loss in image sharpness resulting from poor 
film/intensifying screen contact. Described herein is 

an improved film cassette (10) comprising a base (14) 
and a cover (16) adapted to close upon and cooperate 

with the base (14). A pressure plate (64) is disposed 
between the cover (16) and the base (14). The cover 

(16), base (14) and pressure plate (64) form a light-tight 
space for receiving a sheet of film (12). At 

least one biasing member (94),(96) is provided for 
biasing the pressure plate (64) against the base (14) 

when the cover (16) is closed on the base (14). The 
pressure plate (64) and base (14) each having a 

configuration such that when the cassette (10) is 
closed, a predetermined pressure distribution is 

applied to a sheet of film (12) placed in the cassette 
(10). There is also provided a method of making a 

cassette (10) which includes steps for defining a 
specific shape for the fabricated cassette (10) such 

that the cassette (10) will provide improved 
performance during use. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON JEFFREY CHARLES C O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON, JEFFREY CHARLES, C/O EASTMAN KODAK CO.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a film 
cassette and is more particularly concerned with a 
film cassette designed to hold a sheet of X-ray film. In the field of radiography, it is common to 
enclose an unexposed X-ray film in a light-tight 
cassette, which allows the radiographic procedure to 
be conducted in normal room lighting. The cassette is 
normally made from materials such as plastics, 
aluminum, glass fiber composites, or carbon fiber 
composites, which are opaque to visible light, but 
relatively transparent to X-rays. Since X-ray films 
are not highly efficient at producing latent images 
from X-ray exposure, it is common to include image 
intensifying screens within the cassettes to increase 
imaging efficiency. Typically, two intensifying screens are 
mounted on resilient foam pads, which are in turn, 
mounted on the opposing inner faces of the X-ray 
cassette. The X-ray film is placed between the 
opposing intensifying screens, which are urged into 
intimate contact with the film by the resilient foam 
pads. A latching mechanism and hinge allow the 
cassette to be opened so that exposed films can be 
removed for processing and unexposed films can be 
loaded into the cassette. Whereas the use of intensifying screens 
significantly decreases the amount of X-ray energy 
required to create a usable image on the film, there 
is an inherent loss in image sharpness as compared to 
an image formed without the aid of intensifying 
screens. An intensifying screen, typically made with 
rare earth phosphors, absorbs energy from the X-ray 
beam, and then re-emits the energy in the visible 
portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. The emitted  
 
visible wavelengths, principally blues, expose 
adjacent areas of the X-ray film. Since these visible wavelength emissions are 
omni-directional, any separation between the emitting 
phosphor and the light-sensitive layers of the film 
result in the image of each discrete point on the 
screen being formed over a finite area on the film. 
In a practical sense, the image of the edge of an 
object being X-rayed should result in a stepwise 
increase in the density of the image on the processed 
film, however, because of the spread of imaging light 
from the intensifying screen at the imaged edge, the 
resulting density increase occurs over a finite 
distance, thus the image of the edge is not sharp. In conventional radiography, both sides of 
the film are each coated with a light-sensitive layer 
and a clear, protective overcoat layer. Intensifying 
screens are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An X-ray film cassette (10) comprising: 
   a base (14); 

   a cover (16) adapted to close upon and 
cooperate with the base (14); 

   a pressure plate (64) disposed between the 
cover (16) and the base (14), the cover (16), base 

(14) and pressure plate (64) forming a light-tight 
space for receiving an X-ray film (12); and 

   a biasing member (94, 96) for biasing the 
pressure plate (64) against the base (14) when the 

cover (16) is closed on the base (14), the pressure 
plate (64) and the base (14) each having a 

configuration such that when the cassette (10) is 
closed, a predetermined pressure distribution is 

applied to a sheet of film (12) placed within the 
cassette (10). 
A cassette (10) according to claim 1, 
wherein the predetermined pressure distribution 

applied to the sheet of film (12) is substantially 
uniform. 
A cassette (10) according to claim 1 or 
2, wherein the pressure plate (64) and the base (14) 

are made of a plastic material. 
A cassette (10) according to any one of 

claims 1 to 3, wherein the pressure plate (64) 
comprises a substantially rectangular plate wherein 

the biasing means (94, 96) are applied along two 
opposed side edges of the pressure plate (64). 
A cassette (10) according to claim 4, 
wherein the biasing means (94),(96) comprises a layer 

of compression foam disposed between the cover (16) 
and the pressure plate (64) and along two side edges. 
A cassette (10) according to claim 5, 
wherein the layer of compressive foam comprises a pair 

of spaced strips (94, 96). 
A cassette (10) according to claim 4, 
wherein the biasing means (94, 96) comprises a pair of 

springs, each spring having a substantially C-shaped 
cross-sectional configuration. 
A cassette (10) according to any one of 
claims 1 to 7, wherein the pressure plate (64) and the 

base (14) have a convex configuration in the non-stressed 
condition. 
A cassette (10) according to any one of 
claims 1 to 8, including an intensifying screen (90) 

secured directly to the pressure plate (64). 
A method of manufacturing a film 
cassette (10) comprising a base (14), a cover (16) 

adaptive for closure upon the base (14), a pressure 
plate (64) disposed between the cover (16) and the 

base (14) and forming a space between the base (14) 
and pressure plate (64) for receiving an sheet of film 

(12), and a biasing member (94, 96) for biasing the 
pressure plate (64) toward base (14) when the cover 

(16) is closed upon the base (14), comprising the 
steps of: 


(a) mathematically determining the amount 
of deflection which would occur to the pressure plate 

(64) of a predetermined desired configuration when a 
predetermined loading force is applied to the pressure 

plate (64); 
(b) defining a new modified configuration 
of the pressure plate (64) in accordance to the amount 

of deflection calculated in the previous step; 
(c) mathematically determining the amount 
of deflection which would occur to the pressure plate 

(64) of the modified configuration when a 
predetermined loading force is applied to the pressure 

plate (64) in a direction normally applied to the 
pressure plate (64) during normal operation of the 

pressure plate (64) and determining the difference 
 

between the modified configuration in the deflected 
condition and the desired predetermined configuration; 
(d) making a pressure plate (64) in 
accordance with the modified configuration if the 

difference is within predetermined tolerances; 
(e) defining another modified shape in 
accordance with the difference if the difference is 

greater than the allowed tolerances; 
(f) repeating steps (c), (d) and (e) until 
the difference is within allowed tolerances; 
(g) mathematically determining the amount 
of deflection which would occur to the base (14) of a 

predetermined desired configuration when a 
predetermined loading force is applied to the base 

(14); 
(h) defining a new modified configuration 
of the base (14) in accordance to the amount of 

deflection calculated in the previous step; 
(i) mathematically determining the amount 
of deflection which would occur to the base (14) of 

the modified configuration when a predetermined 
loading force is applied to the base (14) in a 

direction normally applied to the base (14) during 
normal operation of the base (14) and determining the 

difference between the modified configuration in the 
deflected condition and the desired predetermined 

configuration; 
(j) making a pressure plate (64) in 
accordance with the modified configuration if the 

difference is within predetermined tolerances; 
(k) defining another modified shape in 
accordance with the difference if the difference is 

greater than the allowed tolerances; 
(l) repeating steps (i), (j) and (k) until 
the difference is within allowed tolerances. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
