<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654248</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Load transfer member for osteosynthesis
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1770	A61B1770	A61B1768	A61B1900	A61B1786	A61B1780	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Load transfer members for osteosynthesis embodied as bone fixating means and load carriers with a coupling device, as well as surgical instruments in which a nominal breaking point is integrated in the shaft at one point. This nominal breaking point ensures that that part of the load transfer member that remains in the bone has a section which is intended to facilitate removal and projects over the bone surface and on which an actuation member can engage in the event of an overload fracture of the load transfer member; this section can preferably also include a handle. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAERLE ANTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAERLE, ANTON, PROF. DR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAERLE ANTON PROF DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAERLE, ANTON, PROF. DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A load transfer member for osteosynthesis in the form of 
an operating instrument engaging in the bone only during 

an operation, such as a bone tap, a thread cutter, a 
flexible shaft or a milling cutter, consisting of a 

shank connecting non-positively with the bone and a 
device for coupling to other osteosynthetic aids, 

wherein the load transfer member comprises a 
predetermined breaking point located when in use between 

the coupling device and the bone and lying outside the 
bone mass and, in the case of breakage of the load 

transfer member at the predetermined breaking point, 
comprises a segment projecting beyond the bone surface 

and permitting direct engagement of an actuating tool. 
An implantable load transfer member for osteosynthesis, 
consisting of a shank (2, 21, 33, 52) connecting 

nonpositively with the bone and a device (3, 22, 39, 38, 
42, 44, 53) for coupling to other osteosynthetic aids, 

characterised in that the load transfer member comprises 
a predetermined breaking point (17, 22, 35, 51) located, 

when in use and after its attachment in or on the bone, 
between the coupling device and the bone and lying 

outside the bone mass and, in the case of breakage of 
the load transfer member at the predetermined breaking 

point, comprises a segment (19, 31, 52) projecting 
beyond the bone surface and permitting direct engagement 

of an actuating tool. 
A load transfer member according to claim 2, 
characterised in that at least part of the shank is 

constructed as a fixing means engaging in the bone, such  
 

as a bone pin, a thread-bearing member, a bone screw 
(32), a screw insert, nail, wire or prosthesis 

component. 
A load transfer member according to claim 2, 
characterised in that the shank is part of an 

osteosynthetic implant located outside the bone or lying 
thereon, such as a bone plate (21), a rod (52), a tube, 

a wire or a clip. 
A load transfer member according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that at least a first 

handling element (15, 31) is formed for an actuating 
tool. 
A load transfer member according to claim 5, 
characterised in that the handling element comprises an 

end face (47) suitable for the exertion of pressure. 
A load transfer member according to claim 5 or claim 6, 
characterised in that a second handling element (16, 36) 

is formed for an actuating tool. 
A load transfer member according to any one of claims 5 
to 7, characterised in that at least one handling 

element has a cross section (31) deviating from the 
purely circular and a load transfer and driving segment. 
A load transfer member according to claim 8, 
characterised in that at least one handling element 

comprises two driving segments (15, 16). 
A load transfer member according to claim 9, 
characterised in that at least one driving segment is 

conical or spherical in form. 
A load transfer member according to any one of the  
 

preceding claims, characterised in that the 
predetermined breaking point is formed by material 

weakening, such as notching, segmental cross-sectional 
reduction (35) or constriction (17). 
A load transfer member according to claim 2 or any of 
the preceding claims dependent on claim 2, characterised 

in that the predetermined breaking point is formed by 
cross-sectional undersizing in a load transfer member 

located outside the bone and acting as an implant 
component (52). 
A load transfer member according to claim 2 or any one 
of the preceding claims dependent on claim 2, said 

member forming, with other load transfer components, an 
implant system composed of several components, 

characterised in that an implant component comprises a 
prominent edge (50) in the contact area, which edge (50) 

has a notching effect on the shank of the load transfer 
member (53) during assembly and thereby generates a 

predetermined breaking point on the load transfer 
member. 
A load transfer member according to claim 4, in which 
the shank is constructed as part of an osteosynthetic 

plate and comprises at least one screw hole, which opens 
into a passage portion (24) in a transition area (23), 

the line normal to the tangents on the faces of the 
screw hole in the transition area (23) forming an angle 

alpha (25) opening in the passage area, characterised in 
that the predetermined breaking point is located in the 

area of the screw hole and the aperture angle alpha (25) 
is larger than 75°. 
A load transfer member according to claims 3 and 5 or 
any one of the preceding claims dependent on these 

claims, characterised in that the predetermined breaking  
 

point is formed between the bone thread portion and the 
coupling device in such a way that, when the thread-bearing 

member breaks in the area of the predetermined 
breaking point, at least one operative segment (16) of 

the handling element remains on the bone thread segment. 
A load transfer member according to claims 3 and 5 or 
any one of the preceding claims dependent on these 

claims, characterised in that the shank is threaded at 
least over a portion thereof and comprises a widened 

area (14, 34) at the transition point from the bone 
thread portion to the handling element. 
A load transfer member according to claim 16, 
characterised in that the widened area has an outer 

contour deviating from the cylindrical, for example 
conical (34), spherical or spheroidal. 
A load transfer member according to claim 16 or claim 
17, characterised in that the widened area is 

characterised by an increase in the cross section of the 
outer and/or core diameter. 
A load transfer member according to claims 3, 5 and 16 
or any one of the preceding claims dependent on these 

claims, characterised in that a segment (16) of the 
handling element extends into the widened area (14). 
A load transfer member according to claims 3 and 16 or 
any one of the preceding claims dependent on these 

claims, characterised in that a handling element (31) is 
positioned between the widened area and the coupling 

device. 
A load transfer member according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that a handling 

element is at least part of the coupling device.  
 
A load transfer member according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that part of the 

coupling device (47, 48, 49) comprises a profiled 
engagement surface, such as, for example, a grooved, 

textured or corrugated surface. 
A load transfer member according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the coupling 

device comprises an inner and/or outer threaded portion 
(30, 40) and at least one of the threads integral with 

the coupling area comprises a self-locking thread 
profile. 
A set of load transfer members according to any one of 
the preceding claims, characterised in that the load 

transfer members have bone threads and each load 
transfer member of the set has the same pitch (h) even 

when the nominal diameter (d) varies. 
A set of load transfer members according to any one of 
the preceding claims, characterised in that the load 

transfer members have bone threads and each load 
transfer member of the set has the same pitch (h) even 

when the core diameters (d
k
) vary. 
A set of load transfer members according to any one of 
the preceding claims, characterised in that the load 

transfer members have bone threads and each load 
transfer member of the set has the same pitch (h) even 

when the thread depth (gt) varies. 
A set of load transfer members according to any one of 
claims 24 to 26, characterised in that each set is 

composed at least of one operating instrument, such as a 
tap for example, and a bone implant adaptable in size 

thereto, such as a bone screw for example.  
 
A set of load transfer members according to claim 27, 
characterised in that the outer and/or core diameters of 

the bone implants are from 0.5 to 1.0 mm over the 
corresponding diameters of the operating instruments. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
