<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627179</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Moisture managing brassiere for sports and general wear.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41B900	A41B902	A41B912	A41B1100	A41B1100	A41B1102	A41C300	A41C300	A41D3100	A41D3102	A42C500	A42C502	A43B2300	A43B2326	A61F1300	A61F1300	A61F1315	A61F1315	D04B122	D04B126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41C	A41C	A41D	A41D	A42C	A42C	A43B	A43B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	D04B	D04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41B9	A41B9	A41B9	A41B11	A41B11	A41B11	A41C3	A41C3	A41D31	A41D31	A42C5	A42C5	A43B23	A43B23	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	D04B1	D04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A moisture managing brassiere (10) for sports wear 
and general wear includes a front portion (11), a back 

portion (12) connected to the front portion (11), and a 
pair of shoulder straps (13, 14) connected respectively 

at one end to the front portion (11) and at respective 
opposite ends to the back portion (12). The brassiere 

is constructed of a composite stretch fabric including 
an inner fabric layer (15), an intermediate fabric layer 

(16), and an outer shell fabric layer (17). The inner 
fabric layer (15) is constructed of hydrophobic moisture 

wicking fibers for residing in skin contact during 
garment wear. The intermediate fabric layer (16) 

resides adjacent to the inner fabric layer (15) for 
receiving, dispersing, and transporting moisture 

outwardly away from the inner fabric layer (15). The 
outer fabric layer (17) resides adjacent to the 

intermediate fabric layer (16) for receiving and 
dispersing moisture wicked outwardly from the inner (15) 

and intermediate fabric layers (16). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELPRO CORP A DELAWARE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELPRO CORPORATION (A DELAWARE CORPORATION)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER DANIEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETZ HERBERT LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER, DANIEL L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETZ, HERBERT LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A brassiere with adequate support strength is more 
comfortable for wear and reduces the risk of injury to 
the breast during periods of recreation and exercise. 
Prior art sports brassieres includes such features for 
providing additional support to the breasts. These 
bras, however, do not include a means for effectively 
moving moisture away from the skin as the body naturally 
perspires. During active periods, moisture perspiration tends 
to accumulate in an area directly beneath the breasts 
and between the breasts. Additionally, moisture tends 
to gather in the lower back portion of the brassiere. 
This creates a generally wet and uncomfortable 
environment against the skin, which can promote bacteria 
and fungus growth. The brassiere of the present 
invention includes a means for effectively handling this 
moisture by quickly moving it from the skin, and 
ultimately to the atmosphere. The brassiere of the present invention is also 
suited for general, everyday wear. Women's breasts naturally 
perspire throughout the day, even during times of  
 
relatively light activity. Accordingly, this invention 
can be worn to help transport moisture from the skin to 
an area of the brassiere where it can be more easily 
evaporated. This creates a drier, more comfortable, and 
more healthful environment for the breasts. It is an object of the invention to obviate and/or 
mitigate this disadvantage. According to one aspect of this invention there is 
provided a moisture managing brassiere having a breast 
supporting front portion, a back portion connected to 
said front portion, said brassiere constructed of a 
composite stretch fabric comprising: 
(a) an inner fabric layer constructed of 
hydrophobic moisture wicking fibers for residing in skin 
contact during garment wear and for wicking moisture 
away from the skin of the wearer; (b) an intermediate fabric layer residing 
adjacent to said inner fabric layer for receiving, 
dispersing, and transporting moisture outwardly away 
from said inner fabric layer; and (c) an outer fabric layer residing adjacent said 
intermediate fabric layer for receiving an dispersing 
moisture wicked outwardly from said inner and intermediate 
fabric layers, said outer fabric layers, said outer 
fabric layer comprising the outer shell fabric of said  
 
brassiere. The moisture managing brassiere may have a pair of 
shoulder straps connected respectively at one end to the 
front portion and at respective opposite ends to the 
back portion. The brassiere may be constructed of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A moisture managing brassiere having a breast 
supporting front portion, a back portion connected to 

said front portion, and a pair of shoulder straps 
connected respectively at one end to said front portion 

and at respective opposite ends to said back portion 
said brassiere constructed of a composite stretch fabric 

comprising: 

(a) an inner fabric layer constructed of 
hydrophobic moisture wicking fibers for residing in skin 

contact during garment wear and for wicking moisture 
away from the skin of the wearer; 
(b) an intermediate fabric layer residing 
adjacent to said inner fabric layer for receiving, 

dispersing, and transporting moisture outwardly away 
from said inner fabric layer; and 
(c) an outer fabric layer residing adjacent said 
intermediate fabric layer for receiving an dispersing 

moisture wicked outwardly from sad inner and 
intermediate fabric layers, said outer fabric layer 

comprising the outer shell fabric of said brassiere. 
A brassiere according to claim 1, wherein said 
inner fabric layer comprises a single-component fabric 

constructed of hydrophobic polyester yarns formed of 
 

fibers having a high surface area in relation to volume. 
A brassiere according to claim 1, wherein said 
inner fabric layer comprises an integrally knit 

bi-component fabric constructed of hydrophobic polyester 
fibers on an innermost fabric face next to the skin of 

the wearer, and hydrophilic nylon on an obverse fabric 
face away from the skin of the wearer. 
A brassiere according to claim 1, wherein said 
inner fabric layer comprises an integrally knit 

tri-component fabric constructed of hydrophobic 
polyester fibers on an innermost fabric face next to the 

skin of the wearer, a first hydrophilic nylon component 
residing adjacent to said hydrophobic polyester fibers 

and away from the skin of the wearer, and a second 
hydrophilic nylon component residing adjacent to said 

first hydrophilic nylon component and comprising an 
outermost fabric face of said tri-component fabric. 
A brassiere according to claim 4, wherein said 
second hydrophilic nylon component has a brushed fabric 

face for enhancing the ability of said second nylon 
component to disperse moisture moved outwardly from said 

first nylon component. 
A brassiere according to any preceding claim, 
 

wherein said intermediate fabric layer comprises first 
and second moisture transport inserts located in a lower 

front portion of said brassiere for residing generally 
beneath respective breasts of the wearer. 
A brassiere according to any of claims 1 to 5, 
wherein said intermediate fabric layer comprises a 

moisture transport insert having a continuous area of 
moisture transporting fabric located in a lower front 

portion of said brassiere, said moisture transport 
insert residing generally beneath the breasts of the 

wearer and extending laterally from beneath one breast 
to beneath the other breast during garment wear. 
A brassiere according to any of claims 1 to 5, 
wherein said intermediate fabric layer comprises a 

moisture transport insert having a continuous area of 
moisture transport fabric located in the lower front 

portion of said brassiere and a front center portion of 
said brassiere, said moisture transport insert residing 

generally between the breasts of the wearer and 
extending laterally beneath the breasts from one breast 

to the other breast during garment wear. 
A brassiere according to any of claims 6, 7, or 8, 
wherein said intermediate fabric layer comprises a 

moisture transport insert residing in the lower back 
 

portion of said brassiere and extending laterally from 
one side of the back portion to the other side of the 

back portion. 
A brassiere according to any preceding claims, 
wherein the hydrophobic yarn of said inner fabric layer 

is chosen from the fiber group consisting of polyester 
and polypropylene. 
A brassiere according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said intermediate fabric layer is constructed of 

yarns chosen from the fiber group consisting of rayon, 
polyester, cotton, and a blend of polyester and cotton. 
A brassiere according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said outer fabric layer includes elastic yarns 

incorporated therein for providing added stretch and 
support strength to the brassiere. 
A brassiere according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the front portion of said brassiere includes a 

pair of brassiere cups for holding and supporting the 
breasts of the wearer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
