<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0831348</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B638	G02B638	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There are provided a connector body (205) having an
accommodating recess in which a pair of ferrules (203) and a pair of

springs (204), respectively fitted over a pair of optical fibers (202), are
accommodated, as well as a connector cover (206). The connector

cover is provided with fixing pins (226,227,228), and the connector body is
provided with fixing holes (215;221,222) into which the fixing pins are press

fitted. A spring pressing portion (232) is provided on the connector
cover for pressing the spring with a natural length in the

direction toward its distal end at two positions when the
fixing pins are press fitted into the fixing holes, and for

holding the spring in a compressed state when the fixing pins
have been press fitted. A guide taper (232a) is formed at a tip of

the spring pressing portion. A pressing-portion fitting groove (233)
for inserting and guiding the spring pressing portion is

provided in the connector body (205).

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASADA KAZUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDA HIDEYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOGABE KAZUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASADA, KAZUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDA, HIDEYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOGABE, KAZUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical connector
which is used in interconnecting a pair of optical fibers or
interconnecting an optical fiber and a photoelectric conversion
element.An optical signal transmission path using optical
fibers is generally laid by optically connecting the optical
fibers by using optical connectors or the like at appropriate
distances. As conventional optical connectors of this type,
those described in, for example, Japanese Utility Model
Unexamined Publication No. Sho. 61-126204 and Japanese Patent
Examined Publication No. Hei. 8-7306 are known.Namely, in the optical connector disclosed in Japanese
Utility Model Unexamined Publication No. Sho. 61-126204, a
housing for accommodating a pair of ferrules is split into
upper and lower parts, and accommodating grooves for
accommodating the ferrules and a pair of springs (compression
coil springs) or the like are formed in the upper and lower
parts of the split housing. In this structure, the upper and
lower parts of such a housing are secured to each other by
screwing down in a state in which the ferrules and the springs
or the like are clamped from both upper and lower sides in the 
portion of the accommodating groove and are thereby prevented
from coming off and are held.On the other hand, the optical connector disclosed in
Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. Hei. 8-7306 is
provided with a plug body and a floating holder disposed
floatably within the plug. A ferrule accommodating recess 102
and a holding-member fitting recess 103 are formed in this
floating holder 101, as shown in Fig. 36.Then, ferrules 105 and springs 106 which are fitted
over distal end portions of optical fibers 104 are inserted
into the ferrule accommodating recess 102 and the holding-member
fitting recess 103 of the floating holder 101, and a
ferrule pressing member 107 is inserted into the holding-member
fitting recess 103. As a result of the insertion of this
ferrule pressing member 107, retaining portions 107a of the
ferrule pressing member 107 are engaged in retained portions
101a of the floating holder 101, and are thereby prevented from
coming off and held.At this time, the ferrules 105 are urged in the
inserting direction, i.e., in the direction toward their distal
ends, by the springs 106 which are in the compressed state.In this structure, the floating holder 101 in the
assembled state is accommodated in the aforementioned plug body
of the type split into the upper and lower parts, and the upper
and lower parts of the plug body are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical connector comprising:

a connector body having an accommodating recess
accommodating a ferrule fitted over an end portion of an

optical fiber and urging means for urging said ferrule in a
first direction toward a distal end portion thereof, said

accommodating recess having an opening which is opened upwardly
with respect to a bottom wall portion of said connector body,

and said connector body being arranged to prevent said ferrule
from coming off and hold said ferrule in a state that said

distal end portion of said ferrule projects forwardly from a
distal-end side wall portion of said accommodating recess; and
a connector cover fitted to said connector body so as
to close the opening in said accommodating recess,

   wherein a fixing pin for fixing said connector cover is
provided projectingly on one of said connector cover and said

connector body, and a fixing hole into which said fixing pin is
press inserted is provided in another one of said connector

cover and said connector body.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
wherein said fixing hole is formed in a tapered shape, and an

inside diameter in an inlet-side end of said fixing hole is
larger than an outside diameter of said fixing pin and an

inside diameter in a bottom-wall side end of said fixing hole
is smaller than the outside diameter of said fixing pin.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
further comprising:


a regulating stepped portion projected inwardly on a
peripheral wall portion of said accommodating recess of said

connector body, said regulating stepped portion regulating an
amount of insertion of said connector cover fitted in the

opening of said accommodating recess.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
wherein said fixing pins are provided at three locations on one

of said connector body and said connector cover, and said
fixing holes are provided at three corresponding positions in

another one of said connector body and said connector cover.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
further comprising:


a locking means formed at said bottom wall portion of
said connector body deflectably, and having a cantilevered

shape; and
a closing protrusion provided on said connector cover,
and closing a gap produced around said locking means.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
wherein said connector cover has a pressing portion pressing

said urging means with a natural length in the first direction
at a plurality of positions during a press-insertion of said

fixing pin into said fixing hole, and holding said urging means
in a compressed state after the press-insertion of said fixing

pin.
An optical connector according to claim 6,
wherein a guide taper for pressing and guiding said urging

means is formed at a tip of said pressing portion, and a
positioning guide portion for positioning said guide taper is

provided on said connector body so as to allow said guide taper
to correspond to an end portion of said urging means during the

press-insertion of said fixing pin.
An optical connector according to claim 6,
wherein the natural length of said urging means is shorter than

the length of a fitting portion of said ferrule over which said
urging means is fitted.
An optical connector according to claim 8,
wherein said pressing portion is provided with an interval

having a width which is identical to an outside diameter of the
fitting portion of said ferrule, and said pressing portion is

provided with a positional-offset restricting guide for
restricting a positional offset of said urging means whose

opposite sides are pressed by said pressing portions during the
press-insertion of said fixed pin.
An optical connector according to claim 6,
wherein said bottom wall portion of said connector body has a

holding groove portion positioning and holding said urging
means with the natural length.
An optical connector according to claim 6,
wherein said connector body has a positioning wall restricting

the movement of said urging means in a second direction being
perpendicular to an axial direction thereof.
An optical connector according to claim 6,
wherein said connector body has a supporting portion supporting

said pressing portion by abutting against a surface of said
pressing portion which is opposite to a surface thereof for

pressing said urging means.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
further comprising:


a pressing member pressing said urging means with a
natural length in the first direction at a plurality of

positions during an insertion of said pressing member in said
connector body, and holding said urging means in a compressed

state after the insertion of said pressing member, said
pressing member being guided vertically by a positioning guide

portion provided on said connector body during the insertion of
said pressing member.
An optical connector according to claim 13,
wherein a pressing-member fixing portion which fixes said

pressing member is provided on at least one of said connector
body and said connector cover.
An optical connector according to claim 1,
wherein said fixing hole has a small-diameter portion

communicating with an inlet-side opening portion thereof, an
inside diameter of said small-diameter portion being smaller

than an outside diameter of said fixing pin and a large-diameter
portion communicating with said small-diameter portion

via a stepped portion, an inside diameter of said large-diameter
portion being not less than the outside diameter of

said fixing pin, and further
   wherein said fixing pin is set up to be longer than

said small-diameter portion in such a manner that a tip end of
said fixing pin press-inserted into said fixing hole projects

into said large-diameter portion by a predetermined length
through said small-diameter portion.
An optical connector according to claim 15,
wherein said fixing pin is projected into said large-diameter

portion by more than 0.5 mm.
An optical connector according to claim 15,
wherein said fixing hole are formed in a cylindrical attaching

boss provided projectingly on the another one of said connector
cover and said connector body, and a distal-end of said

attaching boss has a split groove having a predetermined depth
so as to enlarge said attaching boss in a radial direction.
An optical connector according to claim 17,
wherein the depth of said split groove is a substantially half

length of said small-diameter portion.
An optical connector comprising:

a connector housing having:

a connector body provided an accommodating recess
accommodating a ferrule fitted over an end portion of an

optical fiber and urging means for urging said ferrule in a
direction toward a distal end thereof, said accommodating

recess having an opening which is opened upwardly, and said
connector body being arranged to prevent said ferrule from

coming off and hold said ferrule in a state that said distal
end of said ferrule projects forwardly from a distal-end side

wall portion of said accommodating recess;
a connector cover fitted to said connector body
so as to close the opening in said accommodating recess; and
a boot provided around said optical fiber, a ferrule-side
end portion of said boot being inserted into said

connector housing so as to be prevented from coming off and
retained,

   wherein at least one of said connector body and said
connector cover has a retaining portion, and an ferrule-side

end portion of said boot has a retained portion engaged with
said retaining portion so as to prevent from coming off and

retained.
An optical connector according to claim 19,
wherein said retaining portion has at least one of a recess and

a projection, and said retained portion has an other recess and
an other projection corresponding to said recess and said

projection.
An optical connector according to claim 19,
wherein said boot is formed of an elastomer.
An optical connector according to claim 21,
wherein an end portion of said boot which is opposite to the

ferrule-side end portion thereof is formed to be thinner in
thickness than the ferrule-side end portion thereof.
An optical connector according to claim 21,
wherein a part of said retained portion is formed of a through

hole, and said retaining portion is provided with a penetrating
projection which is passed through said through hole.
An optical connector according to claim 23,
wherein one of said connector body and said connector cover

opposing to a projecting end of said penetrating projection has
a supporting portion being abutted on said penetrating

projection in a direction in which said boot comes off said
connector housing when said boot is pulled in said coming-off

direction.
A boot for an optical connector, said boot
protecting a portion of an optical fiber extending form the

optical connector,

said boot having a retained portion being engagable
with a retaining portion for preventing said optical fiber

coming off said optical connector, said retained portion
provided on a connecting end portion which connects with said

optical connector,
   wherein said boot is formed of an elastomer and an end

portion of said boot which is opposite to said connecting end
portion is formed to be thinner in thickness than said

connecting end portion.
A boot for an optical connector according to
claim 25, wherein said retained portion is formed of a recess

corresponding to a projection provided on said retaining
portion.
A boot for an optical connector according to
claim 25, wherein said retained portion is formed of a through

hole penetrated by a penetrating projection provided on said
retaining portion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
