<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621848</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ONE-PIECE FITMENT AND PLUG WITH TAMPER-EVIDENT BAND.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B5502	B65B5502	B65D574	B65D574	B65D3900	B65D3900	B65D4700	B65D4736	B65D5502	B65D5506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B55	B65B55	B65D5	B65D5	B65D39	B65D39	B65D47	B65D47	B65D55	B65D55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fitment attached around an aperture in a container has a flange (16b) attached to a spout which is closed by an integrally molded plug (12b). The plug has a shoulder (73) which is engaged by seal bead (71) inside the spout over each other. The plug has an outward extending slotted ear (82) and the fitment has an upward extending finger (76) aligned with the slot in the ear and formed with tangs (78) which lock the finger and ear together as the plug is moved to the spout, thereby making the device tamper-evident. As a further feature of the invention, an over-size foil seal extends across the bottom of the flange and is welded or otherwise adhered to the bottom of the flange. After assembly the portion of the foil extending outside the flange is secured to the carton. This is particularly useful in aseptic packaging.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTOLA PACKAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTOLA PACKAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS BRIAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCH DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS BRIAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCH DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ONE-PIECE FITMENT AND PLUG WITH TAMPER-EVIDENT BANDBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to a new and improved spout fitment and a plug type cap for closing same. More particularly, the invention relates to a fitment which fits around a hole in a panel of a paperboard carton or around a hole in a flexible container, or the like, such as used for packaging liquid products and powders and to a closure for such fitment. The invention is further characterized in that it is tamper-evident. Further, in a modification of the invention, it has container sealing features making it useful in aseptic packaging.2. Description of Related ArtGenerally speaking, prior fitments have spouts with external threads closed by caps with internal threads. Some fitments are used in conjunction with plastic bag containers, the fitment being integrally welded to the plastic bag. Other prior art fitments are attached to a polymer-coated paperboard container such as a gable- top half-gallon container which, optionally, may be lined with foil or plastic. Generally, prior art 

 fitments for paperboard cartons include a thin flange which is welded to the surface of the container. The closure includes a foil seal which seals the mouth of the spout and a liner for the cap which serves a re- sealing function. Attachment to the polymer coated paperboard is accomplished by welding the flange of the spout to the polymer coating. Upon initial removal, the tamper-evident foil seal is removed and discarded.Fitments of the prior art have a number of deficiencies as compared to the present invention. In the first place, they employ multiple components which increase the cost of the combination very greatly over the simple structures of the present invention. Secondly, the assembly is difficult and involves rotary equipment which is difficult to control in practice and is expensive to install. Thirdly, because of the fact that the prior art spouts are externally threaded, the diameter of the opening in the spout is restricted inasmuch as there is only limited space on the panel of the container on which the flange can be located, thereby reducing the diameter of the fitment flange and correspondingly the internal diameter of the spout. Fourthly, commercially available fitment-closure combinations have no external tamper-evident features, demonstrated, for example, by the internal foil seal of the spout opening of the prior art. Finally, prior fitment-closure combinations have not been adoptable to aseptic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. In combination, a fitment and a plug therefor adapted to seal around an aperture in the surface of a container, said fitment comprising an annular flange shaped to fit around said aperture, a hole in said flange, a spout upstanding from said flange surrounding said hole, and first attachment means on said spout, said plug having a top, a skirt depending from said top, second attachment means on said skirt cooperable with said first attachment means to detachably secure said plug on said fitment, characterized by first tamper-evident means on said plug, second tamper-evident means on said fitment cooperable with said first tamper-evident means to prevent movement of said plug relative to said fitment so long as both said tamper-evident means are intact, and a seal member dimensioned larger than said flange and adapted to be secured to said panel outside the outer edge of said flange.
2. The combination of claim 1 in which said first tamper-evident means comprises a ring around said plug, frangible means connecting said ring to said plug, a finger depending from said ring and said second ta per- evident means comprises a socket on said flange shaped and positioned to receive said finger.
3. The combination of claim 1 in which said seal member comprises foil.
4. The combination of claim 3 in which said foil is metallic.
5. The combination of claim 1 in which said seal member is attached to said flange. 


 6. The combination of claim 1 in which said seal member is attached to the lower edge of said skirt.
7. The combination of claim 1 which further comprises a container formed with an aperture, said seal member being attached in aseptic manner to said container.
8. The combination of claim 2 in which said frangible means comprises thin bridges separated by spaces extending inward from said ring to said skirt.
9. The combination of claim 2 in which said finger is rectangular in cross-section, the width of said finger being positioned parallel to a horizontal tangent to said skirt.
10. The combination of claim 9 in which said socket comprises a vertical socket wall disposed outwardly relative to said finger.
11. The combination of claim 10 in which said socket wall is substantially parallel to a tangent to said spout.
12. The combination of claim 2 which further comprises a pull tab fixed to and extending upwardly from said ring, whereby pulling said tab breaks said frangible means.
13. The combination of claim 2 which further comprises a thumb tab extending substantially horizontally outward from said ring, whereby lifting said thumb tab breaks said frangible means.
14. The combination of claim 1 which further comprises frangible means initially interconnecting said plug and 


said fitment whereby said plug and said fitment may be injection molded in one piece.
15. The combination of claim 2 wherein said finger is initially positioned immediately above said socket whereby axial movement of said plug toward said fitment seats said finger in said socket.
16. The combination of claim 1 in which said first tamper-evident means comprises means forming a plug aperture extending outward from said plug and said second tamper-evident means comprises a finger extending upward from said fitment and through said plug aperture.
17. The combination of claim 16 in which said first attachment means and said second attachment means comprise interfitting threads, said finger preventing unscrewing said plug from said spout.
18. The combination of claim 16 in which said means forming a plug aperture comprises a loop attached to the perimeter of said plug.
19. The combination of claim 16 in which said finger extends up from the upper edge of said spout.
20. The combination of claim 19 in which said finger is connected to the upper edge of said spout by a frangible link.
21. The combination of claim 1 in which said first tamper-evident means comprises an ear extending out from said plug formed with a plug aperture.
22. The combination of claim 21 in which said finger is formed with an outward extending tang flexible so 


 that it may be pushed through said plug aperture and thus engage the upper surface of said ear to restrain upward movement of said plug relative to spout.
23. The combination of claim 22 in which said plug skirt fits inside said spout with a sliding, liquid tight fit.
24. In combination, a fitment and a plug therefor, said fitment comprising an annular flange having a hole, a spout upstanding from said flange surrounding said hole, first attachment means on said spout, said plug having a top, a skirt depending from said top, second attachment means on said skirt cooperable with said first attachment means to detachably secure said plug on said fitment, characterized by first tamper-evident means on said plug, second tamper-evident means on said fitment cooperable with said first tamper-evident means to prevent removal of said plug from said fitment so long as both said tamper-evident means remains intact, at least one said tamper-evident means being frangible, said first tamper-evident means comprising means forming a plug aperture extending outward from said plug and said second tamper-evident means comprises a finger extending upward from said fitment and through said plug aperture.
25. The combination of claim 24 which further comprises frangible means initially interconnecting said plug and said fitment whereby said plug and said fitment may be injection molded in one piece.
26. The combination of claim 24 in which said first attachment means and said second attachment means 


comprise interfitting threads, said finger preventing unscrewing said plug from said spout.
27. The combination of claim 24 in which said means forming a plug aperture comprises a loop attached to the perimeter of said plug.
28. The combination of claim 24 in which said finger extends up from the upper edge of said spout.
29. The combination of claim 28 in which said finger is connected to the upper edge of said spout by a frangible link.
30. The combination of claim 24 in which said first tamper-evident means comprises an ear extending out from said plug formed with said plug aperture.
31. The combination of claim 30 in which said finger is formed with an outward extending tang flexible so that it may be pushed through said plug aperture and thus engaging the upper surface of said ear to restrain upward movement of said plug relative to spout.
32. The combination of claim 31 in which said plug skirt fits inside said spout with a sliding, liquid tight fit.
33. The combination of claim 2 wherein said first and second attachment means comprise interfitting threads. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
