<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612888</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in or relating to cores for drainage elements or the like and method of manufacturing same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02B1100	E02B1100	E02D3100	E02D3102	E04F15024	E04F15024	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02B	E02B	E02D	E02D	E04F	E04F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02B11	E02B11	E02D31	E02D31	E04F15	E04F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A core (10) for forming a drainage element for use in forming 
sub-surface drains comprises a base plate (12) of plastics material 

having a plurality of spaced-apart frusto-conical projections (14) 
formed thereon extending from one or both sides of the base plate (12), 

each projection (14) including strengthening ribs or grooves (16) 
extending from the base to the top thereof. The core (10) is wholly or 

partially enclosed in a layer of geo-textile filter material (32) to 
form a drainage element. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARSHALL RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARSHALL,RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAMFORTH ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAMFORTH, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to cores for drainage elements 
or the like and more particularly, but not exclusively, to 
drainage elements for use in forming sub-surface drains. Prefabricated sub-surface drains; which are used to 
remove excess water from the ground in order to, for 
example, improve crop growth, stabilise the ground and 
strengthen foundations; normally comprise layers of filter 
material which are held in spaced-apart relationship by a 
core so that water entering the element through the filter 
material is allowed to drain through the cavity formed by 
the core between the filter material. Known cores usually include projections which extend 
transversely between the layers of filter material. 
However, it will be appreciated that the ground in which 
the drain is inserted exerts a compressive pressure on the 
drain and such known drains often suffer from the 
disadvantage that part or sections of the core collapse 
under compression or sustained long term loading causing a 
blockage in the drainage channel formed between the layers 
of filter material by the core. The object of this invention is to provide a core for 
use in a drainage element having an improved strength to 
weight ratio so as to be capable of withstanding greater 
compressive loads than known cores of equal weight and for  
 
similar spacing of projections and thickness. According to one aspect of this invention, a core for 
use in a drainage element comprises a base plate having a 
plurality of spaced-apart projections formed thereon, 
wherein the or each projection includes one or more 
strengthening ribs or grooves extending at least partially 
of the height of the associated projection. Preferably, the projections formed on the base plate 
extend both upwardly and downwardly from opposite sides 
thereof. Preferably, also, the ribs or grooves extend for the 
full height of the associated projection from the base to 
the top thereof. Each projection is, preferably, frusto-conical in 
shape. Preferably, the ribs or grooves are equi-angularly 
spaced-apart around the curved surface of the associated 
projection. Preferably, also, the projections are formed in the 
base plate material by a moulding operation. The core is, preferably, formed of a plastics 
material, such as high density polyethylene or similar 
material, by a thermo-forming process. Preferably, the core is tapered in cross-section so 
that the height of the projections increases from one side 
edge of the core to the opposite side edge thereof. 
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A core for use in a drainage element comprising a 
base plate having a plurality of spaced-apart projections 

formed thereon, wherein the or each projection includes 
one or more strengthening ribs or grooves extending at 

least partially of the height of the associated 
projection. 
A core according to Claim 1, wherein the projections 
formed on the base plate extend both upwardly and 

downwardly from opposite sides thereof. 
A core according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the 
ribs or grooves extend for the full height of the 

associated projection from the base to the top thereof. 
A core according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein each projection is frusto-conical in shape. 
A core according to Claim 4, wherein the ribs or 
grooves are equi-angularly spaced-apart around the curved 

surface of the associated projection. 
A core according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the projections are formed in the base plate 

material by a moulding operation. 
A core according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the core is formed of a plastics material by a 

thermo-forming process. 
A core-according to Claim 7, wherein the plastics 
material from which the core is formed is a high density 

 
polyethylene. 
A core according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the core is tapered in cross-section so that the 

height of the projections increases from one side edge of 
the core to the opposite side edge thereof. 
A core according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the core is impermeable to the transmission of 

liquids from one side thereof to the other. 
A core according to any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein 
the core is adapted to be permeable to liquids by 

providing apertures in the base plate in the areas thereof 
between the bases of the projections. 
A drainage element comprising a core according to any 
one of the preceding claims having a layer of filter 

material mounted thereon. 
A drainage element according to Claim 12, wherein the 
layer of filter material is mounted on the tops of the 

projections. 
A drainage element according to Claim 12 or Claim 13, 
wherein layers of filter material are disposed on both 

sides of the core. 
A drainage element according to Claim 14, wherein the 
core is disposed within an envelope of filter material so 

that both of the sides and the edges of the core are 
enclosed therewithin. 
A drainage element according to Claim 15, wherein 
 

where the core is of tapered cross-section, the envelope 
of filter material enclosing the projections of greatest 

height forms together therewith an integral drainage tube 
section. 
A drainage element according to Claim 15 or Claim 16, 
wherein the envelope of filter material extends beyond the 

edge of the core at one side edge thereof to enable a 
separate conventional drainage pipe to be inserted 

slidably therein to form a drainage tube section. 
A drainage element according to any one of Claims 12 
to 17, wherein the filter material is secured to at least 

the tops of the projections on one side of the core. 
A drainage element according to Claim 18, wherein the 
filter material is secured to both sides of the core. 
A drainage element according to Claim 18 or Claim 19, 
wherein the filter material is secured to the core by 

means of adhesive. 
A drainage element according to Claim 18 or Claim 19, 
wherein the filter material is secured to the core by 

bonding, or by fusion of the core and filter material. 
A drainage element according to any one of Claims 12 
to 21, wherein the filter material is a geo-textile 

fabric. 
A method of forming a drainage element according to 
any one of Claims 12 to 22, comprising draining a length of 

core material according to any one of Claims 1 to 11 from 
 

a supply, drawing a sheet of filter material from a supply 
so that the core is disposed in the central area of the 

filter material with the projections extending from one 
side of the base plate of the core in contact with filter 

material, and folding both of the edge portions of the 
filter material projecting beyond the sides of the core 

onto the top surface of the core to contact the base plate 
or the tops of the projections extending from the opposite 

side of the base plate. 
A method according to Claim 23, wherein the edge 
portions of the filter material are brought into 

overlapping engagement and are secured together to enclose 
the core therewithin and form the drainage element with a 

single joint line. 
A method according to Claim 23 or Claim 24, wherein 
one edge portion of the filter material is folded over an 

additional plate disposed at one side edge of the core 
before being brought into overlapping engagement and being 

secured to the other edge portion of the filter material 
and/or to the core, thereby forming a sleeve at one side 

edge of the core into which a drainage tube can be 
inserted. 
A method according to any one of Claims 23 to 25, 
wherein the base plate of the core is secured to the 

filter material. 
A method according to any one of Claims 23 to 26, 
 

wherein the tops of the projections of the core are 
secured to the filter material. 
A method according to any one of Claims 25 to 27, 
wherein the overlapping edge portions of the filter 

material, the base plate of the core and the filter 
material, and the tops of the projections and the filter 

material are secured by means of adhesive, by fusion, or 
by bonding. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
