<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610319</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED SOLUTION FILLING SYSTEM FOR A FILM PROCESSOR APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03D306	G03D306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03D	G03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03D3	G03D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The front-filling system (1) consists of a pair of fill buckets (7, 9) located on the front of the processor housing (3, 5). The fill buckets are connected to internal solution tanks (19, 21) by fill tubes (29, 31) such that fluid in the fill buckets will be delivered to the solution tanks as solution is added during filling or replenishment. The fill buckets are provided with movable lids (11, 13), to minimize evaporation and accumulation of debris, and are physically separated to prevent cross-contamination during the filling process. The fill buckets, or portions thereof, may be made of transparent material to aid in observing solution levels and solution condition. The fill buckets are positioned and sized to allow for easy filling and replenishment, and for easy observation of solution levels and solution condition without removal of top lids. The fill buckets each have overflow sluices (33, 35) to eliminate any possibility of overflow within the interior solution tanks.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHER IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHER INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER WARREN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRYSTAL LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUCHISKY THOMAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER, WARREN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRYSTAL, LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUCHISKY, THOMAS, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: IMPROVED SOLUTION FILLING SYSTEM FOR A FILM PROCESSOR APPARATUSBackground of the InventionThis invention relates, generally, to automatic film processor apparatuses and, more particularly, to an improved solution filling system for such devices.As is known in the art, in the typical film processor apparatus, the film is conveyed through the processor tanks in either a horizontal, vertical or serpentine path by spaced pairs of transport rollers, or between mesh-web carrier belts. As the film is conveyed through the apparatus, it is sequentially immersed in a developer solution, a fixer solution and water. Thereafter, the film is dried and dispensed from the apparatus.The developer and fixer solutions and water are contained in separate tanks located in the processor housing. In the horizontal path apparatus, the liquids are pumped from the tanks into roller racks located above the tanks, thereby to contact the film as it passes through the roller racks. The liquids drain from the roller racks back into the tanks, such that the liquids are continuously recirculated. In the vertical path, and the serpentine path devices, the transport rollers or mesh-web carrier belts convey the film directly into the tanks where the film is submerged in the liquids. As will be apparent, in all types of film processing apparatus, the liquid levels in the tanks will gradually diminish as the liquids wet the film and as the liquids evaporate. As a result, it is necessary for the apparatus operator to fill all tanks initially, once monthly for example, and then, to replenish the liquids periodically. In some types of processor apparatus, this replenishment is accomplished automatically, by the use of sensing and pumping systems or by gravity-feed systems employing overhead-mounted inverted jugs. These automatic 

 replenishment systems tend to be either expensive or prone to operational problems, or both.In the known non-automatic-replenishment processors, the developer solutions and fixer solutions are replenished by manually removing the top lid or upper housing of the apparatus, to expose the tanks therein, in order to visually observe the amount of replenishment required, and in order to visually observe the condition of the solutions (i.e. the color of each is an indication of solution efficacy) . Developer solutions and fixer solutions are then added to their respective tanks by lifting jugs of each solution above the apparatus, and pouring solutions down into the respective tanks. This same procedure is also
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Having thus described the invention, what is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is:
1. A film processor apparatus, comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) at least one solution tank for retaining a supply of solution; c) means for receiving a supply of solution for said at least one solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly; and d) means for providing fluid communication between said solution receiving means and said at least one solution tank.
2. The developer apparatus according to claim 1 further including a second solution tank, wherein said means for supplying solution includes one fill bucket for each said solution tank.
3. The film processor apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said fill buckets include a movable lid.
4. The film processor apparatus according to claim 2 further including means for monitoring the level and condition of said solution within said film processor.
5. The film processor apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said solution level and condition monitoring means includes said fill buckets; said solution level and condition within said fill buckets being visible through at least a portion of said fill buckets.
6. The film processor apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said fill buckets are mounted such that the level of solution in said fill buckets corresponds to the level of solution in said at least one solution tank.
7. The film processor apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for providing fluid communication includes a fill tube extending from said fill buckets into the interior of the internal tank 


assembly and communicating with said at least one solution tank.
8. The film processor apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said fill tube communicated with a reserve tank, said reserve tank being in communication with said at least one solution tank.
9. The film processor apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the level and condition of solution within said fill bucket is monitored by observation of the level of fluid within said fill bucket.
10. The film processor apparatus according to claim 2 further including means for preventing cross-contamination of said solutions carried by said film processor during filling or replenishment of said solutions.
11. The film processor according to claim 10 wherein said cross-contamination preventing means includes overflow sluices on said fill buckets, such that solutions in the fill buckets will overflow said fill buckets prior to overflowing said solution tanks in the internal tank assembly.
12. The film processor according to claim 11 wherein said cross-contamination preventing means includes said fill buckets, said fill buckets being spaced from one anther.
13. A film processor comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) at least one solution tank for retaining a supply of solution; c) means for receiving a supply of solution for said at least one solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly and d) means for monitoring the level of solution within said solution tank. 


 14. The film processor of claim 12 wherein said solution receiving means includes a fill bucket which is in fluid communication with said solution tank.
15. The film processor of claim 13 wherein said solution level monitoring means includes said fill bucket, said fill bucket including means for determining said solution level and condition.
16. The film processor of claim 14 wherein said solution level determining means includes a portion of said fill bucket, said solution being visible through at least a portion of said fill bucket.
17. The film processor of claim 14 wherein said bucket is positioned such that the level of solution in said fill bucket corresponds to the level of solution in said solution tank.
18. A film processor comprising a tank assembly including a two solution tanks, means for filling said solution tanks, and means for preventing cross-contamination of said solutions in said solution tanks.
19. The film processor of claim 17 wherein said cross-contamination filling means comprises overflow sluices, said sluices allowing said solutions to flow out of said tank assembly before said solution tanks overflow.
20. The film processor of claim 17 wherein said cross-contamination preventing means includes said solution tank filling means, there being one filling means for each said solution tank, said filling means being spaced from each other. 


 _ _
AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 22 February 1993 (22.02.93); origina
l
 claims 14 and 15 cancelled; original claims 1,2,5,8,11,13,16-20 amended; other claims unchanged (4 pages)]
1. A film processor apparatus, comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) at least one solution tank for retaining a supply of solution; c) a reserve tank in fluid communication with said solution tank for holding a reserve of said solution; d) means, separate from said reserve tank, for receiving a supply of solution for said at least one solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly; and e) means for providing fluid communication between said solution receiving means and said at least one solution tank.
2. The developer apparatus according to claim 1 further including a second solution tank, wherein said means for receiving a supply of solution includes one fill bucket for each said solution tank.
3. The film processor apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said fill buckets include a movable lid.
4. The film processor apparatus according to claim 2 further including means for monitoring the level and condition of said solution within said film processor.
5. A film processor apparatus, comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) a first and a second solution tank for retaining supplies of solutions; c) means for receiving a supply of solution for each said solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly, said solution receiving means including one fill bucket for each said solution tank; d) means for providing fluid communication between said solution receiving means and said at least one solution tank; and 


 e) means for monitoring the level and condition of said solution within said film processor, said solution level and condition monitoring means including said fill buckets; said solution level and condition within said fill buckets being visible through at least a portion of said fill buckets.
6. The film processor apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said fill buckets are mounted such that the level of solution in said fill buckets corresponds to the level of solution in said at least one solution tank.
7. The film processor apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for providing fluid communication includes a fill tube extending from said fill buckets into the interior of the internal tank assembly and communicating with said at least one solution tank.
8. A film processor apparatus, comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) at least one solution tank for retaining a supply of solution; c) a fill bucket for receiving a supply of solution for said at least one solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly; and d) means for providing fluid communication between said solution receiving means and said at least one solution tank including a fill tube extending from said fill buckets into the interior of the internal tank assembly and communicating with said at least one solution tank; said fill tube communicating with a reserve tank, said reserve tank being in communication with said at least one solution tank.
9. The film processor apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the level and condition of solution within said fill bucket is monitored by observation of the level of fluid within said fill bucket. 


 10. The film processor apparatus according to claim 2 further including means for preventing cross-contamination of said solutions carried by said film processor during filling or replenishment of said solutions.
11. A film processor apparatus, comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) a first and a second solution tank for retaining supplies of solutions; c) means for receiving a supply of solution for each said solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly, said solution receiving means including one fill bucket for each said solution tank; d) means for providing fluid communication between said solution receiving means and said at least one solution tank; and e) means for preventing cross-contamination of said solutions carried by said film processor during filling or replenishment of said solutions; said cross-contamination preventing means including overflow sluices on said fill buckets, such that solutions in the fill buckets will overflow said fill buckets prior to overflowing said solution tanks in the internal tank assembly.
12. The film processor according to claim 11 wherein said cross-contamination preventing means includes said fill buckets, said fill buckets being spaced from one anther.
13. A film processor comprising: a) an internal tank assembly; b) at least one solution tank for retaining a supply of solution; c) a fill bucket, in communication with said solution tank, for receiving a supply of solution for said at least one solution tank located separate from said internal tank assembly; and 


 d) means for monitoring the level of solution within said solution tank including said fill bucket, said fill bucket including means for determining said solution level and condition.
16. The film processor of claim 13 wherein said solution level determining means includes a portion of said fill bucket, said solution being visible through at least a portion of said fill bucket.
17. The film processor of claim 13 wherein said bucket is positioned such that the level of solution in said fill bucket corresponds to the level of solution in said solution tank.
18. A film processor comprising a tank assembly including a two solution tanks, means, separate from said solution tanks, for filling said solution tanks, and means for preventing cross-contamination of said solutions in said solution tanks comprising open solution tank overflow prevention means.
19. The film processor of claim 18 wherein said solution tank overflow prevention means comprises overflow sluices in said filling means, said sluices being positioned to allow said solutions to flow out of said tank assembly before said solution tanks overflow.
20. The film processor of claim 18 wherein said cross-contamination preventing means further includes said solution tank filling means, there being one filling means for each said solution tank, said filling means being spaced from each other. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
