<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649998</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transmission and control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H6330	F16H6330	F16H6302	F16H6302	F16H6128	F16H6128	F16H6112	F16H6112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A countershaft type power transmission (10) 
has a plurality of hydraulically actuated 

synchronisers (20,26,46,48) which are selectively 
operable to establish the gear ratios in the 

transmission. Each synchroniser is effective to 
control one or more ratios and is positionable between 

neutral positions. A hydraulic control system is 
provided to control the movement of the synchronisers 

and to hydraulically force each synchroniser to 
neutral when it is not called upon for ratio 

establishment. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a combination of a 
transmission and control, and more particularly, to 
ratio interchange controls. Automatically shifted countershaft type 
transmissions provide improved overall efficiency when 
compared with planetary type fluid drive 
transmissions. The countershaft transmission can be 
operated with greatly reduced hydraulic fluid flow. 
Also, these transmissions employ a friction type input 
device which does not require continuous fluid 
pressure when engaged. This further improves the 
efficiency of the transmission. A hydromechanical control mechanism is 
provided for the synchroniser mechanisms in a 
countershaft type transmission. The control includes 
servo mechanisms for controlling the synchronisers and 
valving to prevent the operation of more than one 
servo mechanism at any given time. The inactive servo 
mechanisms are hydraulically and spring set to neutral 
conditions until activated hydraulically to establish 
the desired ratio in the transmission. WO-A-89/04432 
discloses an arrangement in accordance with the 
pre-amble of claim 1. It is an object of this invention to provide 
an improved transmission and control, wherein a 
plurality of synchroniser clutches are controlled 
individually in a ratio position or a neutral 
position, and wherein one synchroniser clutch is in a 
ratio position, the remaining synchroniser clutches 
are powered to respective neutral positions. To this end, a transmission and control in 
accordance with the present invention is characterised 
over WO-A-89/04432 by the features specified in Claim 
1.  
 The present invention can provide an 
improved transmission and control, wherein a plurality 
of synchroniser clutches are controlled individually  
 
by servo mechanisms to either a ratio position or a 
neutral position, and wherein when one synchroniser 
clutch is disposed in a ratio position, the remaining 
synchroniser clutches are spring set and hydraulically 
held in a neutral position. The present invention will now be described, 
by way of example, with reference to the accompanying 
drawings, in which:- 
Figure 1 is a schematic representation of a 
countershaft type transmission in which the present 
invention can be utilised; Figure 2 is a layout representation of the 
valving and servo mechanism shown in Figures 2A - 2F 
which are utilised to control the transmission shown 
in Figure 1; Figures 2A through 2F are diagrammatic 
representations of the valving and servo mechanisms 
used with the present invention; Figures
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmission and control comprising a 
source (60) of fluid pressure; a plurality of 

synchroniser clutch means (20,26,46,48) for 
selectively establishing a plurality of speed ratios 

between an input shaft (12) and an output shaft (36); 
first servo means (162) selectively movable to a first 

position, second position and neutral position for 
operating a first (20) of said synchroniser clutch 

means to establish a first ratio, a second ratio and a 
neutral condition, respectively; second servo means 

(190,188) selectively movable to at least a first 
position, and a neutral position for operating a 

second (46,48) of said synchroniser clutch means to 
establish a third ratio and a neutral condition, 

respectively; and shift valve means (128-132) for 
selectively conditioning each of the servo means 

individually to a respective ratio condition; 
characterised in that the first servo means (162) has 

a neutral control chamber (261); in that the second 
servo means (190,188) has a neutral control chamber; 

by servo disengage valve means (78-84) for selectively 
directing fluid pressure from the source to respective 

ones of the neutral control chambers to enforce 
controlling each of said servo means in the neutral 

condition; and in that the shift valve means (128-132) 
simultaneously controls the servo disengage valve 

means to establish the neutral condition in the other 
of the servo means.  

 
A transmission and control as claimed in 
Claim 1, further comprising third servo means (212) 

having a neutral pressure chamber and being 
selectively movable to a first position and a neutral 

position for operating a third (26) of said 
synchroniser clutch means to establish a fourth ratio 

and a neutral condition.  
 
A transmission and control as claimed in 
Claim 2, further comprising fourth servo means (188) 

having a neutral pressure chamber and being 
selectively movable to a first position, second 

position and neutral position for operating a fourth 
(48) of said synchroniser clutch means to establish a 

fifth ratio, a sixth ratio and a neutral condition, 
respectively; wherein one of the ratios is a reverse 

ratio. 
A transmission and control as claimed in 
Claim 1, wherein the second servo means (188) is 

selectively movable to a second position for operating 
the second (48) of said synchroniser clutch means to 

establish a fourth ratio. 
A transmission and control as claimed in 
Claim 4, further comprising third servo means (190) 

including a neutral pressure chamber and being 
selectively movable to a first position and a neutral 

position for operating a third (46) of said 
synchroniser clutch means to establish a fifth ratio 

and a neutral condition. 
A transmission and control as claimed in 
any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein each servo means has 

valve means responsive to the position thereof for 
preventing pressurised fluid distribution to selected 

ones of the other servo means when a condition other 
than neutral has been selected in one of the servo 

means. 
A transmission and control as claimed in 
any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising means 

(60,68) for establishing and directing pressurised 
fluid to the servo means and the servo disengage valve 

means, and the neutral pressure chambers being  
 

selectively pressurised to selectively enforce the 
neutral condition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
