<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630419</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MANUFACTURE OF NET SHAPED METAL CERAMIC COMPOSITE ENGINEERING COMPONENTS BY SELF-PROPAGATING SYNTHESIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C22C105	C22C105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C22C	C22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C22C1	C22C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method of making metal ceramic composites and the metal ceramic compositions and articles made therefrom, especially net-shaped articles having a wide variety of applications. The present invention involves preparing a combustion synthesis mixture comprising at least one substance containing a combustible mixture of powders and at least one low-melting metal, and carrying out a combustion synthesis therewith. Ceramic or metallic reinforcements may be incorporated in the combustion synthesis. The present invention allows the control of porosity in the resultant composite compositions and can result in composites having high toughness characteristics.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV CINCINNATI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHADURI SARIT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANARSLAN NECIP S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI HUNG P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKHAR JAINAGESH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHADURI, SARIT, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANARSLAN, NECIP, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, HUNG, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKHAR, JAINAGESH,A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MANUFACTURE OF NET SHAPED METAL CERAMIC COMPOSITE ENGINEERING COMPONENTS BY SELF-PROPAGATING SYNTHESISBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method of making net shaped and near-net shaped metal ceramic composite materials using self-propagating high temperature synthesis (SHS) . Also part of the present invention are the materials prepared by such process.Several generic manufacturing technologies form the backdrop for the present invention. These technologies include casting, deformation processing, powder-based processes (such as sintering) and vapor phase deposition. All of these technologies are highly energy- and labor-intensive, involving several discrete time-consuming operations. In contrast, SHS techniques require no energy input, relatively little labor and allow the entire manufacturing process to be carried in relatively few processing steps.The production of net shaped or near-net shaped articles by SHS techniques allow articles to be made with little or no post-manufacture machining. No high temperature furnaces are needed for manufacture, rendering the process largely capital insensitive and completely energy insensitive. High production rates 

are possible and such composites can be reliably produced.Metal ceramic composite materials are considered as one of the most preferred material types for engineering applications. Current applications include automotive applications and use in aerospace and chemical industries; in general in those engineering environments where wear and erosion properties are important. In the automotive industry, for example, parts made from high temperature composites and monolithic ceramics allow the development of high performance engines, lowering exhaust emissions and giving higher fuel efficiency.To be considered a candidate for such applications, the component parts must be reliable, requiring materials possessing high toughness and strength, low thermal expansion coefficients and low susceptibility to flaws, environmental degradation, cyclic stresses and temperatures. For wear resistant parts (e.g. bearings, seals, valves, etc.), the materials should have optimized tribological properties in the working environment. Such properties can be met by using materials with high hardness and toughness, chemical inertness and low thermal expansion coefficients.The methods and composites of the present invention may be used to produce any of a wide variety of engineering components such as tool bits, grinding wheels,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A method of producing a net shaped metal ceramic composite having a shape comprising preparing a mixture of:
(a) at least one combustible powder which, when ignited, is capable of forming a ceramic, and
(b) at least one low melting metal; forming said mixture into said shape of said net shaped metal ceramic composite and igniting said mixture so as to produce a net shaped metal ceramic composite by combustion synthesis.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said at least one substance comprises a mixture of titanium and boron.
3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the ratio or titanium to boron in said substance containing titanium and boron is in the range of 85:15, plus or minus about 13%.
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said low-melting metal is selected from the group consisting of the metals copper, niobium, aluminum, iron and molybdenum; and mixtures thereof.
5. The method according to claim 4 wherein said low-melting metal is copper.
6. The method according to claim 2 wherein the ratio of titanium to boron to copper in said mixture is about 68:12:20 and said low-melting metal is copper.
7. The method according to claim 1 wherein said mixture additionally comprises at least one ceramic or metallic reinforcement.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein said at least one ceramic or metallic reinforcement
"
 is selected from the group consisting of: 


 borides of titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, molybdenum, hafnium, chromium, and vanadium; carbides of titanium, hafnium, boron, aluminum, tantalum, silicon, tungsten, zirconium, niobium, and chromium; nitrides of titanium, zirconium, boron, aluminum, silicon, tantalum, hafnium, and niobium; suicides of molybdenum, titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, and vanadium; oxides of iron, aluminum, chromium and titanium; and phosphides of nickel and niobium.
9. A method of producing a ret shaped metal ceramic composite having a shape comprising preparing a mixture of:
(a) a substance containing titanium and boron, the ra(Jio of said titanium to said boron in said substance being in the range of 85:15, plus or minus about 13%; and
(b) copper present i_a an amount such that the overall racio of said titanium to said boron to said copper in said mixture is about 68:12:20; and forming said mixture into said shape of said net shaped metal ceramic composite so as to produce a net shaped metal ceramic composite by combustion synthesis.
10. The method according to claim 9 wherein said mixture additionally comprises at least one ceramic reinforcement capable of undergoing said combustion synthesis so as to produce said net shaped metal ceramic composite.
11. The method of claim 8 wherein said at least one ceramic reinforcement is selected- from the group consisting of: 


 borides of titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, molybdenum, hafnium, chromium, and vanadium carbides of titanium, hafnium, boron, aluminum, tantalum, silicon, tungsten, zirconium, niobium, and chromium; nitrides of titanium, zirconium, boron, aluminum, silicon, tantalum, hafnium, and niobium; suicides of molybdenum, titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, and vanadium; oxides of iron, aluminum, chromium and titanium; and phosphides of of nickel and niobium.
12. A method of producing a net shaped metal ceramic composite having a shape comprising preparing a misture of:
(a) a substance oon__a-ining titanium and boron, the ratio of said titanium to said boron in said substance being in the range of 85:15, plus or minus about 13%; and
(b) copper present i__ an amount such that the overall ratio of said titanium to said boron to said copper in said mixture is about 68:12:20; and (c) at least one ceramic reinforcement selected from the group consisting of: borides of titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, molybdenum, hafnium, chromium, and vanadium; carbides of titanium, hafnium, boron, aluminum, tantalum, silicon, tungsten, zirconium, niobium, and chromium; nitrides of titanium, zirconium, boron, aluminum, silicon, tantalum. 


 - 22 -
hafnium, and niobium;
Suicides of molybdenum, titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, and vanadium; oxides of iron, aluminum, chromium and titanium; and phosphides of nickel and niobium; and forming said mixture into said shape of said net
10 shaped ceramic composite and igniting said mixture so as to produce a metal ceramic composite by combustion synthesis.
13. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to the method of claim 1.
15
14. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to the method of claim 2.
15. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to the method of claim 3.
16. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared
20 according to the method of claim 4.
17. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to the method of claim 5.
18. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to the method of claim 6.
25 19. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to the method of claim 9.
20. A net shaped article of manufacture prepared according to. the method of claim 12.
21. A method of producing a metal ceramic
30 composite comprising preparing a mixture of:
(a) at least one combustible powder which, when ignited, is capable of forming a ceramic, and
(b) at least one low melting metal;
35 and igniting said mixture so as to produce a metal 


 14 - 23 -
ceramic composite by combustion synthesis.
22. The method according to claim 21 wherein said at least one substance comprises a mixture of titanium and boron.
23. The method according to claim 22 wherein the ratio or titanium to boron in said substance containing titanium and boron is in the range of 85:15, plus or minus about 13%.
24. The method according to claim 21 wherein said low-melting metal is selected from the group consisting of the metals copper, niobium, aluminum, iron and molybdenum; and mixtures thereof.
25. The method according to claim 24 wherein said low-melting metal is copper.
26. The method according to claim 22 wherein the ratio of titanium to boron to copper in said mixture is about 68:12:20 and said low-melting metal is copper.
27. The method according to claim 21 wherein said mixture additionally comprises at least one ceramic or metallic reinforcement.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein said at least one ceramic or metallic reinforcement is selected from the group consisting of: borides of titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, molybdenum, hafnium, chromium, and vanadium carbides of titanium, hafnium, boron, aluminum, tantalum, silicon, tungsten, zirconium, niobium, and chromium; nitrides of titanium, zirconium, boron, aluminum, silicon, tantalum, hafnium, and niobium; suicides of molybdenum, titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, and vanadium; oxides of iron, aluminum, chromium and titanium; ^ and phosphides of nickel and niobium. 


 29. A method of producing a metal ceramic composite comprising preparing a mixture of:
(a) a substance containing titanium and boron, the ratio of said titanium to said boron in said substance being in the range of 85:15, plus or minus about 13%; and
(b) copper present in an amount such that the overall ratio of said titanium to said boron to said copper in said mixture is about 68:12:20; and igniting said mixture so as to produce a metal ceramic composite by combustion synthesis.
30. The method according to claim 29 wherein said mixture additionally comprises at least one ceramic reinforcement capable of undergoing said combustion synthesis so as to produce a metal ceramic composite.
31. The method of claim 28 wherein said at least one ceramic reinforcement is selected from the group consisting of: borides of titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, molybdenum, hafnium, chromium, and vanadium; carbides of titanium, hafnium, boron, aluminum, tantalum, silicon, tungsten, zirconium, niobium, and chromium; nitrides of titanium, zirconium, boron, aluminum, silicon, tantalum, hafnium, and niobium; suicides of molybdenum, titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, and vanadium; oxides of iron, aluminum, chromium and titanium; and phosphides of of nickel and niobium.
32. A method of producing a metal ceramic composite comprising preparing a mixture of: 


 (a) a substance containing titanium and boron, the ratio of said titanium to said boron in said substance being in the range of 85:15, plus or minus about 13%; and
(b) copper present in an amount such that the overall ratio of said titanium to said boron to said copper in said mixture is about 68:12:20; and
(c) at least one ceramic reinforcement selected from the group consisting of: borides of titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, molybdenum, hafnium, chromium, and vanadium; carbides of titanium, hafnium, boron, aluminum, tantalum, silicon, tungsten, zirconium, niobium, and chromium; nitrides of titanium, zirconium, boron, aluminum, silicon, tantalum, hafnium, and niobium;
Suicides of molybdenum, titanium, zirconium, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, and vanadium; oxides of iron, aluminum, chromium and titanium; and phosphides of nickel and niobium; and igniting said mixture so as to produce a metal ceramic composite by combustion synthesis.
33. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 21.
34. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 22. 


 - 26 -
35. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 23.
36. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 24.
37. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 25.
38. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 26.
39. A composition of matter prepared according
10 to the method of claim 29.
40. A composition of matter prepared according to the method of claim 32.
15
20
25
30
35 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
