<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645599</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrothermal chemical cartridge
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F42B600	F42B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F42B	F42B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F42B6	F42B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrothermal chemical cartridge with a fuse of 
tapering cross section enables higher impulse energy to 

be imparted to a projectile by means of complete 
controlled burning of propellant. A long, narrow tube 

filled with propellant has a fuse on its inside surface 
with a cross section that tapers toward the discharge 

end, separated from the electrical ground of the 
cartridge casing by a layer of insulation sufficiently 

thin to be destroyed as the fuse ignites the propellant. 
A high-voltage electrode connected at the back end of 

the tube provides for application of a pulse of 
sufficient current density to ohmically heat or burn the 

fuse in a controlled fashion from the discharge end to 
the back end. Many such tubes can be bundled together 

in a large casing for wide barrel guns. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAXWELL TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAXWELL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKINSON MARK G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKINSON, MARK G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to means and
methods for controlled ignition of propellants, and more
particularly, to electrothermal chemical cartridges
adapted for use in guns and the like, where ignition of
a slow burning propellant is controlled by electrical
activation of a tapered fuse.The effective delivery of thrust to a projectile in
a gun, or a projectile in the form of a rocket or the
like, depends upon control of the ignition of the
propellant. It is desirable to cause the energy of the
burning propellant to be delivered within the time of
interest, namely the time in which the projectile is
subject to thrust from the propellant. Yet a complete
and instantaneous detonation of all the propellant is
destructive to the gun and does not maximize thrust.
Preferably, the pressure acting on the projectile is
substantially constant, thereby achieving maximum
acceleration for a given bore pressure tolerance.According to the state of the art, ignition and
burning of propellant in conventional cartridges is
controlled by the geometry of propellant grains. The
shape, size and degree of perforation of solid
propellant grains controls the rate of combustion once
the propellant has been ignited by a fuse. However,
these factors limit the energy density which can be
packed into a cartridge and subsequently delivered to
the projectile. For example, the conventional
propellant RDX used in the art has a density of about
1.8 grams per cubic centimeter. It is typically
pelletized into cylindrical pellets having a diameter of
0.95 cm (3/8 inch, and a length of 1.27 cm (1/2 inch), and is
perforated. As a result, in the pelletized form necessary for
controlled burning on a millisecond time scale, RDX has
a density of about 1 gram per cubic centimeter.
Furthermore, desensitizing agents are typically added to
the propellant to further slow or control the
combustion, which reduce the density to about half of
the original density of RDX.A variation on the conventional cartridge is the
bulk liquid propellant cartridge, where a less
sensitive, but also less potent liquid propellant is
loaded at full density. Here, combustion rate is
controlled not by grain size, but by the growth of a
"Taylor Bubble", representing the interface between
gaseous burn products and the unburned liquid.
Unfortunately, the evolution of the bubble involves
turbulent fluid dynamics as well as instability growth,
and thus is not reproducible.As an alternative to conventional cartridges, it is
been attempted in the art to initiate and control the
b
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electro-thermal chemical cartridge (10),
comprising a tube having a discharge end (12) and a

back end (14), a propellant (24) which substantially
fills the volume of the tube, and a high-voltage

electrode (26) in electrical contact with the back end
(14) of the tube, said electro-thermal chemical

cartridge (10) being characterised by:

an insulation layer (16) within said tube,
a fuse layer (18) on the inner surface of said
insulation layer (16) disposed to be heated to a

threshold temperature when sufficient current density
is applied therein, the cross-sectional area of which

fuse layer (18) decreases from the back end (14) to
the discharge end (12), and
a conductive layer (20) on the outer surface of
said insulation layer (16); and wherein the high-voltage

electrode (26) is in electrical contact with
the fuse layer (18) at the back end (14) of the tube.
A cartridge according to Claim 1, wherein said
insulation layer (16) is sufficiently thin such that

when a section of said fuse layer (18) ignites
propellant (24), said insulation layer (16) is

destroyed in the vicinity of the ignition, and no
longer insulates said conductive layer (20) from the

section of spent fuse, and wherein said conductive
layer (20) extends from said discharge end (12) to a

position sufficiently distant from said back end (14)
to prevent arcing between said high-voltage electrode

(26) and said conductive layer (20).
A cartridge according to Claim 2, further
comprising an insulation jacket (28) covering the edge 

of said conductive layer (20) closest to the back end
(14).
A cartridge according to any preceding claim,
wherein said fuse layer (18) comprises a plurality of

strips (54) extending from the back end (14) to the
discharge end (12), the width of each of which tapers

toward the discharge end (12).
A cartridge according to any preceding claim,
wherein said fuse layer (18) comprises copper, and

wherein said propellant (24) comprises aluminum
particles suspended by a gelling agent in water.
A cartridge according to any preceding claim,
wherein said propellant (24) comprises aluminum

particles and ammonium nitrate suspended by a gelling
agent in water.
An electro-thermal chemical cartridge (200)
comprising a plurality of cartridges (202) according

to any preceding claim bundled together inside an
outer casing (204), wherein a single high-voltage

electrode (206) is in electrical contact with all said
fuse layers (18) at the back end (208).
A cartridge according to Claim 7, wherein said
conductive layers (20) are in substantial electrical

contact with one another.
A cartridge according to Claim 7 or 8, wherein
said propellant (24) comprises aluminum particles

suspended by a gelling agent in water.
A cartridge according to any one of Claims 7 to 
9, further comprising an insulating support (214)

substantially covering said single high-voltage
electrode (206) to prevent electrical contact between

said electrode (206) and said outer casing (204).
A method of making an electro-thermal chemical
cartridge (10) 
comprising the steps of:

providing a sheet of insulation (50) to one
surface of which is attached a plurality of parallel

conductive metallic fuse strips (54) having tapered
widths such that the cross-sectional area of said fuse

strips (54) decreases along the length of the fuse
strips (54) from the wide ends thereof;
forming said sheet into a tube (100) with said
fuse strips (54) running along the length of the inner

side of said tube (100);
covering a substantial length of the outer
surface of said tube (100) with a conductive material

(20, 112);
connecting a high-voltage electrode (26) to said
fuse strips (54) at their wide ends; and
filling said tube (100) with a propellant (24).
A method according to Claim 11, wherein said
plurality of fuse strips (54) are provided by etching

a layer (52) of copper which is laminated to said
sheet of insulation.
A method according to Claim 11 or 12, comprising
the further step of covering the end of the conductive

material (20,112) closest to said high-voltage
electrode (26) with an insulating material (28, 116).
A method according to any one of Claims 11 to 13,
wherein the propellant (24) comprises aluminum 

particles suspended by a gelling agent in water.
A method according to any one of Claims 11 to 14,
wherein the propellant (24) comprises aluminum

particles and ammonium nitrate suspended by a gelling
agent in water.
A method according to any one of Claims 11 to 15,
comprising the further step of bundling a plurality of

said tubes (100) together in an outer casing (204).
A method according to Claim 16, comprising the
further step of shaping said tubes (100) such that

they substantially fill all the volume of the casing
(204).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
