<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657139</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical stapling instrument with articulated stapling head assembly on rotatable and flexible support shaft
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1728	A61B17072	A61B17068	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved surgical instrument (50) is provided 
for applying surgical fasteners, such as staples (65), 

to human tissue which is particularly suited for 
applying one or more rows of fasteners (65) across a 

tissue lumen. The surgical instrument (50) can be used 
in thoracic and abdominal surgical procedures where 

access to the surgical site is restricted. The 
surgical instrument (50) includes an articulated 

fastener applying assembly (60) mounted on a rotatable 
and flexible support shaft assembly (70) to provide more 

convenient access to restricted surgical sites. 
The fastener applying assembly (60) has a compact 

construction including a fixed jaw (62) which supports a 
fastener cartridge (64) and a movable jaw (66) which supports 

an anvil (68) for clamping the tissue therebetween. The 
fastener applying assembly (60) includes a pin placement 

mechanism (290) which is actuated by the movable jaw (66) to 
control the movement of a tissue retaining pin (280) on 

the fixed jaw (62). A dual cam mechanism is provided 
for driving the fasteners (65) into the tissue clamped 

between the anvil (68) and the fastener cartridge (64). The 
instrument (50) has an actuator handle assembly (80) with an 

improved actuator mechanism (84) for closing the jaws (62,66) 
and driving the fasteners (65) into the tissue. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a
surgical instrument for applying surgical fasteners
to tissue and, more particularly, to a surgical
stapling instrument with an articulated stapling
head assembly mounted on a rotatable and flexible
support shaft to provide more convenient access to
restricted surgical sites.In recent years, there has been an increasing
number of surgeons using surgical staples, rather
than conventional sutures. This is true because
the use of surgical staples and surgical stapling
instruments has made many difficult procedures much
simpler to perform. Of more importance, however,
is that the use of surgical staples significantly
reduces the time required for most procedures, and
therefore reduces the length of time which the
patient must be maintained under anesthetic. Many
types of surgical stapling instruments have been
devised for different surgical procedures. The present invention is directed to a
surgical instrument for applying surgical fasteners
to internal organs and tissues such as the lung,
esophagus, stomach, duodenum, and intestines. The
invention is embodied in a linear surgical stapler
which permits access to restricted surgical sites,
e.g., the pelvic area of the human body.In its earliest form, the linear surgical
stapling instrument was a permanent, multi-use
instrument and the surgical staples were manually
loaded into the instrument one at a time. An
example of a surgical stapling instrument of this
type is disclosed in U. S. Patent 3,080,564. This
type of instrument was, in general, complex in
construction, expensive to manufacture, heavy,
bulky and difficult to both load the surgical
staples and to clean and sterilize after each use.
A subsequent improvement in linear surgical
stapling instruments was the provision of
presterilized, disposable loading units or staple
cartridges. U. S. Patents 3,275,211, 3,315,863 and
3,589,589 disclose examples of permanent, multi-use
linear instruments having replaceable staple
cartridges.Several types of surgical fastener applying
instruments are known for applying surgical
fasteners to body tissue clamped between relatively
movable fastener holding and anvil portions of the
instrument. The surgical fasteners may be metal
staples as shown, for example, in U. S. Patent
3,275,211, or consist of non-metallic resinous
materials as shown, for example, in U. S. Patent
4,402,445. In the case of metal staples, the
staple legs are typically driven through the tissue
and formed by the anvil to secure the staples in 
the tissue.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument (50) for applying one or
more surgical fasteners (65) to tissue (55), comprising:


a fastener applying assembly (60) including a
fastener holder (64) for receiving one or more surgical

fasteners (65), an anvil (68) for clamping the tissue against
said fastener holder, and a driver (320) for driving the

fasteners from said fastener holder into the tissue
clamped by said anvil against said fastener holder;
an actuator handle assembly (80) including means (86, 148)
for actuating said driver; and
a shaft assembly (70) for mounting said fastener
applying assembly on said actuator handle assembly which

is rotatable about its longitudinal
axis to orient said fastener applying assembly in

different angular orientations relative to said
actuator handle assembly,
characterized in that
 said shaft assembly includes a support shaft
section (74), connected to a flexible shaft section (76),

adapted to be bent in any radial direction relative
to the longitudinal axis (54) of said shaft assembly.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1,
wherein:


said flexible shaft section is located at the
distal end of said shaft assembly adjacent to said

fastener applying assembly.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1, which
includes:


a pivot connection (72) at the distal end of said
shaft assembly for supporting said fastener

applying assembly to pivot about an axis (52) transverse
to the longitudinal axis of said shaft assembly.
The surgical instrument of Claim 3,
wherein:


said pivot connection includes detent means (236, 237, 238, 239)
for maintaining said fastener applying assembly in

predetermined angular positions relative to the
longitudinal axis of said shaft assembly.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1,
wherein:


said flexible shaft section is adapted to
retain its bent shape and to resist deflection when

said fastener applying assembly is actuated.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1, which
includes:


means (82) for locking said shaft assembly in
different angular orientations relative to said

actuator handle assembly.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1,
wherein:


said flexible shaft section is limited to a
predetermined range of bending angles relative to

the longitudinal axis of said shaft assembly.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1,
wherein:


said fastener holder is adapted to receive a
plurality of surgical fasteners arranged in one or

more rows.
The surgical instrument of any one of the preceding Claims, wherein

said actuator handle assembly includes first
actuator means (84, 170) for moving said anvil into a tissue

clamping position and second actuator means (86, 148) for
actuating said driver.
The surgical instrument of Claim 9,
wherein:


said first actuator means includes a closure
cable (170) extending through said shaft assembly for

pulling said anvil toward said fastener holder to
clamp the tissue therebetween.
The surgical instrument of Claim 10,
wherein:


said second actuator means includes a firing
cable (148) extending through said shaft assembly for

actuating said drive to drive the fasteners
from said fastener holder and to form the fasteners

against said anvil.
The surgical instrument of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein:

said fastener applying assembly includes a first
jaw (62) which supports said fastener holder

and a second jaw (66) which
supports the anvil;
said actuator handle assembly includes a jaw
closure lever (84) for closing said jaws to clamp the

tissue between said anvil and said fastener holder 
and a firing trigger (86) for actuating said

driver;
a tissue retaining pin (280) is mounted inside one of said jaws
and movable from a retracted position within said one jaw

when said jaws are open to an extended position engaging the
other jaw when said jaws are closed; and
actuator means (246) are provided on said other jaw for moving said tissue
retaining pin between the retracted and extended positions.
The surgical instrument of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein:

said fastener applying assembly includes a proximal jaw (62) which
supports said fastener holder

and a distal jaw (66) which supports said anvil;
said actuator handle assembly includes a jaw closure
lever (84) for closing said jaws to move said anvil into a tissue

clamping position and a firing lever (86) for actuating
sa
id driver;
a closure cable (170) connects said distal jaw to said jaw
closure lever and extends through said shaft assembly for

pulling said distal jaw toward said proximal jaw when said
jaw closure lever is actuated;
a firing cable (148) connects said driver to said
firing trigger and extends through said shaft

assembly for actuating said driver when said
firing trigger is actuated;
the instrument comprises a dual cam mechanism (324, 326, 328, 400) adapted to actuate said
driver with a first mechanical advantage over a first

portion of the stroke of said firing lever and with
a second mechanical advantage over a second portion of the

stroke of said firing lever.
The surgical instrument of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein: 

said fastener applying assembly includes a fixed jaw (62) which
supports said fastener holder

and a movable jaw (66) which supports said anvil;
said actuator handle assembly includes a jaw closure
lever (84) for closing said jaws to move said anvil into a tissue

clamping position and a firing trigger (86) for actuating
said driver;
a closure cable (170) connects said movable jaw to said jaw
closure lever and extends through said shaft assembly for

pulling said movable jaw toward said fixed jaw when said jaw
closure lever is actuated;
a firing cable (148) connects said driver to said
firing trigger and extends through said shaft

assembly for actuating said driver when said
firing trigger is actuated; and
the instrument comprises jaw coupling means for slidably and pivotally coupling
said movable jaw to said fixed jaw, said jaw coupling means

including a slidable roller pin (254) slidably and rotatably
mounted in guide slots (258) formed in each of said jaws.
The surgical instrument of any one of the
preceding Claims, wherein:


said support shaft section and said flexible
shaft section are axially aligned.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
