<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ABRASIVE GRAIN WITH METAL OXIDE COATING, METHOD OF MAKING SAME AND ABRASIVE PRODUCTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B4187	C04B3510	B24D300	C09K314	B24D300	C04B3510	C04B35111	C09K314	C04B35111	C04B35628	C04B35626	C04B4187	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	B24D	C09K	B24D	C04B	C04B	C09K	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B41	C04B35	B24D3	C09K3	B24D3	C04B35	C04B35	C09K3	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of preparing preferred abrasive grain material is provided. The method involves steps of coating a non-sintered aluminum base particles with a metal alkoxide containing coating; heating to convert the coating to a metal oxide coating; and then sinter the base particles to provide sintered particles having an alpha alumina-based core with an autogenously bonded metal oxide coating. The invention also concerns improved abrasive grain materials and abrasive products (1, 10) including the improved abrasive grain materials (4, 11, 52) therein.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to improved abrasive grains, in
particular, alpha alumina-based ceramic abrasive grains. The invention further
concerns methods of preparing improved abrasive grains and abrasive products
which contain improved grains.The abrasives industry generally concerns abrasive products
comprising a binder and a plurality of abrasive grains. During abrasion, the
abrasive grains are brought into contact with a work surface generally at a
considerable pressure and with development of a substantial amount of heat. It
is important for such operations that the abrasive products securely retain the
abrasive grains. That is, generally, premature release of the abrasive grains
from the abrasive products is to be avoided.A variety of abrasive products are known, including coated
abrasive products, bonded abrasives and nonwoven abrasives. Generally,
premature release of abrasive grains has been a problem with respect to all of
the various types of abrasive products. The problem is particularly significant
when the abrasive product is used for high stock removal applications. During
such uses, the abrasive product must be able to withstand high pressures and
rotative speeds, while still providing a good, sufficient abrasive cut. For
example, a coated abrasive disk may traverse 12,000 revolutions per minute
(rpm) and be subjected to an interface pressure as high as 15 kg/cm2. Such
severe conditions may be preferred for certain applications as they result in
increased cut rates. However, they severely tax the integrity of the bond
between the abrasive grain and the binder (adhesive) system. If the bond at this
interface fails, the abrasive grains are ejected (or shelled) from the abrasive
product. In the coated abrasive industry, the term "shelling is sometimes
utilized to refer to the phenomenon of premature abrasive grain release from
binder, in use. Generally, the term "shelling" is applied whether the product
involved is a coated abrasive or some other form of abrasive product, such as a
bonded abrasive or nonwoven abrasive. Herein, the term "shelling" is meant to
refer in general to premature release of abrasive grains from a binder system
(or bond system) without regard to type of construction or substrate involved.From Journal of the American Ceramic Society 68(1985) C60 zirconia-alumina
powders are known which are prepared by controlled hydrolysis of zirconium
propoxide in a dispersion of α-alumina powder in anhydrous 100% ethanol.According to the present invention a method of preparing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making ceramic abrasive grain, said method
comprising the steps of:


(a) providing a mass of particles comprising alpha-alumina
precursor material;
(b) coating said particles with a coating composition
comprising metal alkoxide to provide coated

particles; and
(c) heating said coated particles to a temperature
between 400 and 1000°C under conditions which convert

said coating to a metal oxide coating which is
autogenously bonded to the surf
ace of each of said
particles and converting and sintering said particles at a

temperature between 1200 and 1650°C under conditions to provide alpha
alumina-based particles.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said coating
composition also includes metal oxide modifier precursor

selected from the group consisting of salts of:
magnesium; zinc; cobalt; iron; nickel; zirconium;

manganese; silicon; hafnium; chromium; yttrium;
praseodymium; samarium; ytterbium; neodymium; lanthanum;

gadolinium; cerium; dysprosium; erbium; titanium; and
mixtures of two or more thereof.
The method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said metal
alkoxide is selected from the group consisting of one or

more alkoxides of: zirconium; titanium; aluminum;
magnesium; zinc; cobalt; nickel; silicon; hafnium; iron;

manganese; chromium; yttrium; praseodymium; samarium;
ytterbium; neodymium; lanthanum; gadolinium; cerium;

dysprosium; erbium; and mixtures of two or more thereof. 
The method according to any preceding claim wherein said
metal alkoxide has a general Formula I as follows:


Formula I
    Y
x
M(OR)
n-x

wherein:

M is a multivalent metal cation;
n is the oxidation state of M;
x is an integer having a value of 0 to n-1;
O is oxygen;
OR is an alkoxy group wherein each R group is
independently an alkyl group; and
each Y group is independently an organic group or
inorganic group.
A method according to claim 4 wherein:

(a) said metal alkoxide comprises material wherein n-x is
within the range of 2-6;
(b) each R group is independently a linear or branched
alkyl group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms; and
(c) M is metal cation selected from cations of metals in
the group consisting of: zirconium; titanium;

aluminum; magnesium; zinc; cobalt; nickel; silicon;
hafnium; iron; manganese; chromium; yttrium;

praseodymium; samarium; ytterbium; neodymium;
lanthanum, gadolinium; cerium, dysprosium; erbium;

and mixtures of two or more thereof.
Ceramic abrasive grain made according to the process of
any preceding claim.
Ceramic abrasive grain comprising:

   (a) a plurality of sintered particles, each particle
comprising:


(i) an alpha-alumina-based core; and 
(ii) a metal oxide coating autogeneously bonded to
said alpha-alumina-based core; said metal oxide

coating comprising randomly shaped metal oxide
islands of 10-50 µm in length (greatest

dimension) and less than 5 µm in thickness.
Ceramic abrasive grain according to claim 7 including a
plurality of metal oxide spheres autogeneously bonded to

said alpha-alumina-based core.
Ceramic abrasive grain according to claim 7 or 8
including a plurality of metal oxide spheres bonded to

said metal oxide islands.
An abrasive product comprising;

(a) a binder; and
(b) the abrasive grain of claim 6, 7, 8 or 9.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
