<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for baking and cooling semiconductor wafers and the like.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F720	G03F720	H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L21027	H01L2131	H01L2167	H01L21687	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for quickly and uniformly 
baking and cooling semiconductor wafers, flat panels for 

flat panel displays, and the like, in which a wafer or 
flat panel is placed in close proximity to a hotplate and 

a thermally conductive, non-reactive gas, such as helium, 
is introduced into the airspace between the wafer or flat 

panel and the hotplate. The thermally conductive, non-reactive 
gas, in one embodiment, is preheated before 

introduction into the airspace between the wafer or flat 
panel and the hotplate, by being passed through a bore 

through the hotplate. Additionally, the wafer is 
automatically aligned in a milled recession in the 

hotplate surface for future handling. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMICONDUCTOR SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMICONDUCTOR SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATCHELDER WILLIAM T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATCHELDER, WILLIAM T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This disclosure relates to the field of the 
semiconductor fabrication, and in particular, to an 
improved method and apparatus for baking semiconductor 
wafers and the like to a desired temperature quickly and 
evenly. In the art of the semiconductor fabrication, it is 
often necessary to bake a semiconductor wafer or similar 
article, e.g. a large, flat panel for a flat panel 
display, which has been coated with a chemical, such as 
photoresist, to a desired temperature so as to cure the 
chemical. For example, semiconductor wafers are typically 
heated to a temperature of 100°C to cure a coating of 
photoresist chemical. The particular temperature which is 
desired is dependent upon the particular chemical coating 
the wafer or flat panel, the thickness of the chemical 
coating, and the desired effect. In the prior art, hotplates were used to bake wafers. 
For example, a wafer that was coated on one side with a 
chemical, such as photoresist, was placed on a hotplate, 
such that the uncoated side of the wafer was in direct 
contact with the hotplate. The wafer was held in position 
by applying a vacuum to the underside of the wafer through 
bores drilled into the hotplate. The hotplate was then 
heated to 100°C to thereby bake the wafer, bringing the 
wafer up to 100°C. This baking system of the prior art posed two 
problems: First, since the uncoated side, i.e., the 
"backside", of the wafer would often be contaminated with 
chemical, the hotplate, which was in direct contact with  
 
the uncoated side of the wafer, likewise became 
contaminated with chemical. Therefore, the hotplate would 
require frequent cleaning, requiring frequent breaks in 
the semiconductor manufacturing process. Second, as the wafer was in direct contact with the 
hotplate, the wafer is susceptible to contamination on the 
backside of the wafer. Particulates on the backside of 
the wafer often cause focus errors during the resist 
exposure process. In cases where higher temperatures are 
used, sudden contact of the heated hotplate with the wafer 
can cause thermal shock which sometimes leads to warping 
or fracturing of the substrate. For these reasons, semiconductor manufacturing has 
moved towards a "proximity bake", in which the wafer is 
spaced from the hotplate by three support posts, so as to 
leave a 5 mil gap between the wafer and the hotplate. 
This prevents backside contamination by avoiding direct 
contact between the backside of the wafer and the 
hotplate. Prevention of backside contamination reduces 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method comprising: 
   placing a substantially flat article in proximity to a 

hotplate, which has a desired temperature, so as to form an 
airspace therebetween; and 

   introducing a thermally conductive, non-reactive gas 
into the airspace. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising: 
   heating the gas prior to the step of introducing the gas 

into the airspace. 
The method of claim 1 or 2 further comprising: 
   bringing the gas to the temperature of the hotplate 

prior to the step of introducing the gas into the airspace. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the step of 
bringing the gas to the temperature of the hotplate comprises: 

   introducing the gas into a bore in the hotplate which 
opens into the airspace between the hotplate and the flat 

article. 
The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein 
the desired temperature is room temperature. 
The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein 
the thermally conductive, non-reactive gas is helium. 
The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein 
the step of introducing the gas comprises: 


(a) introducing the gas into the airspace for a first 
period of time; and 
(b) ceasing introduction of the gas into the airspace 
for a second period of time. 
The method of claim 7, wherein steps (a) and (b) 
are repeated so as to alternately introduce gas for a first 

period of time and cease introduction of gas for a second 
period of time. 
An apparatus for heating a substantially flat 
article to a desired temperature, the apparatus comprising: 

   a hot plate, mounted on a support structure, having a 
top side; 

   means for heating the hotplate to the desired 
temperature; 

   support means on the top side of the hotplate for 
supporting the flat article in proximity to the hotplate and 

creating an airspace between the flat article and the 
hotplate; 

   a thermally conductive, non-reactive gas source 
connected to the support structure; and 

   means for introducing an amount of thermally conductive, 
non-reactive gas from the gas source into the airspace. 
The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising means, 
connected to the gas source, for preheating the gas prior to 

introduction into the airspace. 
The apparatus of claim 9 or 10, wherein the 
thermally conductive, non-reactive gas is helium and further 

wherein the thermally conductive, non-reactive gas source is a 
helium source. 
The apparatus of claim 9, 10 or 11, wherein the 
hotplate has a bore therethrough and further wherein the means 

for introducing the gas into the airspace introduces the gas 
into the bore through the hotplate such that the gas is at the 

temperature of the hotplate when introduced into the airspace. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 9 to 12, 
wherein the means for introducing the gas comprises:

 
   a pressure regulator, coupled to the gas source and 

having an output, for regulating the pressure of the gas as 
the gas is released from the gas source; 

   a solenoid valve, coupled to the output of the pressure 
regulator, for selectively controlling the flow of the gas 

from the gas source through a solenoid valve output to the 
airspace; and 

   a flow meter, coupled to the solenoid valve output, for 
measuring the flow of gas from the gas source to the airspace. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 9 to 13, 
wherein the support means is an annular bench which supports 

the flat article near the outer edge of the flat article. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the annular 
bench includes an annular vacuum hold-down groove. 
An apparatus for cooling a substantially flat 
article to a desired temperature, the apparatus comprising: 

   a chill plate, mounted on a support structure and having 
a desired temperature, having a top side; 

   support means on the top side of the hotplate for 
supporting the flat article in proximity to the hotplate and 

creating an airspace between the flat article and the chill 
plate; 

   a thermally conductive, non-reactive gas source 
connected to the support structure; and 

   means for introducing an amount of thermally conductive, 
non-reactive gas from the gas source into the airspace. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
