<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bicycle repair stand.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25H100	B25H100	B62H300	B62H300	B62H310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25H	B25H	B62H	B62H	B62H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25H1	B25H1	B62H3	B62H3	B62H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Bicycle repair stand, characterized in that it 
principally consists of a fixed erectable first support 

part (2) with a first holder (3) which allows a bicycle 
(4) to be supported by its crank axle holder (5) or in 

the immediate vicinity of the crank axle holder (5) and 
hingeably connected to the first support part (2), a 

second support part (6) with a second holder (7) which 
allows the above mentioned bicycle (4) to be supported 

on the fork (8), whereby the angle of the second 
support part (6) is adjustable. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GANTOIS JOHAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GANTOIS, JOHAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANTOIS JOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANTOIS, JOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a bicycle repair stand, in 
other words a device which allows a bicycle to be 
repaired while this is securely anchored in a well-defined 
position. Everywhere it is known that with the repair or the 
maintenance of a bicycle, an upright positioning of the 
cycle is recommended and that when the above mentioned 
bicycle is stably positioned at some height from the 
ground, work on the bicycle can be performed most 
ergonomically, or in other words all parts are most 
easily accessible to the person. Bicycle repair stands are already known in various 
forms. The known embodiments however show various 
disadvantages, either because of the fact that they are 
not very stable, are not universal, are awkward in use 
or take up much room. The object of the present invention is therefore a 
bicycle repair stand which does not show the above 
mentioned disadvantages. In the first place the invention aims at a bicycle 
repair stand which is universal, in other words a 
bicycle repair stand which can be used for various 
types of bicycles, such as mountain bikes, minibikes, 
racing bicycles, etc. irrespective of the form of the 
frame. Another object of the invention consists in offering a 
simple and stable construction which is very easy and 
quick to erect, whereby the weight of this construction 
is small and whereby this construction can be  
 
manufactured at low cost price. Another object of the invention consists in offering a 
bicycle repair stand which can be folded up and which 
is very compact in folded up position and can 
consequently easily be stored and can be transported 
without problems. For this purpose the invention relates to a bicycle 
repair stand, characterized in that it principally 
consists of a fixed erectable first support part with 
a first holder which allows a bicycle to be supported 
by its crank axle holder or in the immediate vicinity 
of the crank axle holder and hingeably connected to the 
first support part, a second support part with a second 
holder which allows the above mentioned bicycle to be 
supported near the free extremity of a fork, whereby 
the angle of the second support part is adjustable. Because of the fact that the second holder is attached 
to a hingeable support part, the distance between the 
first holder and the second holder can easily be 
adjusted to the dimensions of every bicycle, 
irrespective of the distance between the crank axle 
holder and the fork in question. The second support part is preferably attached 
underneath
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1.- Bicycle repair stand, characterized in that it 
principally consists of a fixed erectable first support 

part (2) with a first holder (3) which allows a bicycle 
(4) to be supported by its crank axle holder (5) or in 

the immediate vicinity of the crank axle holder (5) and 
hingeably connected to the first support part (2), a 

second support part (6) with a second holder (7) which 
allows the above mentioned bicycle (4) to be supported 

on the fork (8), whereby the angle of the second 
support part (6) is adjustable. 
2.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the first support part (2) 

consists of at least two support elements (9, 10) 
hingeably connected to each other, which allow the 

bicycle repair stand (1) to be folded open, 
respectively to be completely folded up; and that the 

first support part (2) is provided with a lock (11) in 
order to lock the component parts hereof in folded open 

position. 
3.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the first support part (2) 

consists precisely of two support elements (9, 10), 
whereby the first support element (9) is hingeably 

attached at its upper extremity to the second support 
element (10); that the first holder (3) is installed on 

the upper extremity of the second support element (10); 
and that the second support part (6) is hingeably 

attached to the second support element (10) of the 
first support part (2). 
4.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 2 or 3, 
characterized in that the support elements (9, 10) are 

 
T-shaped and each consists of a profile (13, 14) with 

a transverse foot (15, 16) mounted hereunder. 
5.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
claims 2 to 4, characterized in that the lock (11) 

consists of a connecting element (32) which is 
hingingly attached to one of the support elements (9, 

10) of the first support part (2) and coupling means 
(33) which allow the free extremity of the connecting 

elements (32) to be attached to the other support 
element (10, 9). 
6.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 5, 
characterized in that the coupling means (33) consist 

of a hook-shaped element (36) which can work together 
with an opening (37). 
7.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 5 or 6, 
characterized in that the connecting element (32) 

consists of an L-shaped or curved connection which is 
connected by an extremity to one of the above mentioned 

support elements (10, 9) and with its other extremity 
fits around the other support element (9, 10). 
8.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 7, 
characterized in that a tool table (38) is secured to 

the connecting element (32), such that this tool table 
(38) is horizontal when the bicycle repair stand (1) is 

folded open and is parallel to the support elements (9, 
10) of the first support part (2) when the bicycle 

repair stand (1) is folded up. 
9.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the first 

holder (3) consists of an element (18) with at least 
one seat forming notch (19, 20). 
10.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 9, 
characterized in that the first holder (3) has two 

seats located at a distance from each other and in 
line, between which a free space is present. 
11.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the first holder 

(3) consists of an element (42) which is provided with 
two parallel extending seats (43) located at a distance 

from each other. 
12.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the first 

holder (3) is formed of a one-piece part out of 
plastic, that on its underside is provided with a 

protrusion (21) with which it is attached in the first 
support part (1). 
13.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the second 

support part (6) consists of one hingeable support 
element (22). 
14.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the second 

holder (7) consists of a transverse shaft (30) of which 
the shaft extremities can work together with a fork (8) 

of the bicycle (4) and a tightening mechanism (31) in 
which to clamp the fork (8). 
15.- Bicycle repair stand according to claim 14, 
characterized in that the tightening mech
anism (31) 
consists of a quick coupling. 
16.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
claims 1 to 13, characterized in that the second holder 

(7) consists of a fork-shaped element (46) with 
 

clamping elements (48) which allow the bicycle (4) to 
be clamped in by its front wheel (47). 
17.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the hinge point 

between the first support part (2) and the second 
support part (6) consists of a clamping universal 

joint. 
18.- Bicycle repair stand according to one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the first 

support part (2) consists of two support elements (9, 
10) and the second support part (6) consists of one 

support element (22), whereby the three support 
elements (9, 10, 22) are located parallel next to each 

other in the folded up position of the bicycle repair 
stand (1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
