<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Television receiver
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N322	H04N544	H04N327	H04N544	H04N3233	H04N327	H04N546	H04N701	H04N3223	H04N546	H04N701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N3	H04N5	H04N3	H04N5	H04N3	H04N3	H04N5	H04N7	H04N3	H04N5	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to display a video signal having an 
aspect ratio of 4 to 3 on a video display screen having a 

16 to 9 aspect ratio a nonlinear vertical deflection 
signal is used to compress the video image along the top 

and bottom edges of the 16 to 9 aspect ratio screen. The 
video image is compressed only along the top and bottom 

edges of the screen because it has been found that motion 
of the point of view of the viewer relative to the 

displayed image is generally horizontal but is 
infrequently vertical. One approach to providing the non-linear 

vertical deflection waveform is to detect whether 
the input video signal for display on a 16 to 9 aspect 

ratio screen is a 4 to 3 aspect ratio signal and, if so, 
to read out special, non-linear data from a memory. This 

special waveform data is used to generate the non-linear 
vertical deflection waveform. If the input video signal 

is detected to be a 16 to 9 aspect ratio signal, standard 
data is read out from the memory to be used to generate 

the appropriate linear vertical deflection waveform. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BABA SUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURA TOSHIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BABA, SUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURA, TOSHIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a
television receiver having a display screen with a wide
aspect ratio of 16 to 9 and, more particularly, to such a
television receiver that can display a video image having
a 4 to 3 aspect ratio.A television receiver having a display screen
with the wide aspect ratio of 16 to 9 has been put into
practical use. Conventionally, the display of a video
signal conformed to a standard aspect ratio of 4 to 3 on a
display screen of such a television receiver has been as
shown in Figs. 6A to 6C of the accompanying drawings.
That is, in the approach resulting in the display of Fig.
6A, portions where no video image is displayed are formed
at the right and left ends of the display screen. In the
approach resulting in the display of Fig. 6B, the display
of the video signal is expanded such that a horizontal
width of the 4 to 3 aspect ratio video image coincides
with the horizontal width of the 16 to 9 aspect ratio
display screen.According to the displaying method corresponding
to Fig. 6A, however, the portions where no video image is
displayed at the right and left ends of the display screen
are a disadvantage to the viewer. According to the
displaying method of Fig. 6B, the upper and lower portions
of the video image based on the video signal to be
displayed on the display screen are cut off and not seen,
so that the viewer is again disadvantaged because he can
not see all the video image present in the video signal.Further, as shown in Fig. 6C, there has been
proposed another display approach intended as a
improvement over the approach of Fig. 6A in which the 
video image based on the 4 to 3 aspect ratio video
signal is expanded in the horizontal direction, so that
the video image based on the 4 to 3 aspect ratio video
signal coincides with the horizontal and vertical
widths of the 16 to 9 aspect ratio display screen.
Nevertheless, according to this display method, since
the video image on the display screen is compressed in
the vertical direction, the visual image looks very
unnatural. This system is described in published EP
Patent Application 0,551,168, for example.In contrast to the aforesaid various
displaying methods, there has been proposed another
displaying method resulting in the screen shown in Fig.
7A. In this method, as shown by Fig. 7B representing a
conceptual drawing of Fig. 7A, only portions in the
vicinity of the right and left ends of the video image
on the screen are expanded in the horizontal direction.
According to this method, a viewer can see the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal generating circuit for a
television display apparatus including a display of a

first aspect ratio, the circuit comprising:

an input terminal for receiving one of a
video signal of the first aspect ratio and a video

signal of a second, different aspect ratio;
a vertical scanning circuit (4,5;14,15) for
vertically scanning said video signal to display a

video signal received at said input terminal;
control means (1,2;12,22) for controlling
said vertical scanning circuit so as to compress at

least one of an upper image border and lower image
border of said video signal when said video signal of a

second aspect ratio is received at said input terminal
such that when both of said upper border and said lower

border are compressed, the amount of respective
compression is not symmetrical about the horizontal

centre line of the display.
A circuit according to claim 1, wherein a
vertical linearity of a vertical deflection waveform of

said vertical scanning circuit is changed at the upper
and lower borders of said display so as to be

compressed in the vertical direction by said control
means (1,2;12,22). 
A circuit according to claim 2, wherein
said vertical linearity is a curve spanning a vertical

scanning interval.
A circuit according to claim 3, wherein
said control means comprises a waveform memory (2) for

producing data of said curve fed to said vertical
scanning circuit (4,5;14,15).
A circuit according to claim 1, 2, 3 or
4, further comprising a mode detecting circuit (8) for

detecting the aspect ratio of the input video signal
and producing a control signal to be fed to said

control means (1,2;12,22) to depress said vertical
scanning height according to the detected aspect ratio.
A circuit according to claim 5, further
comprising a switch (9) for selectively connecting said

control signal from said mode detecting circuit (8) to
said control means (1,2;12,22).
A circuit according to claim 1, wherein
said vertical scanning circuit comprises an error

amplifier (12) receiving at one input a linear sawtooth
vertical deflection signal for producing a vertical

deflection signal fed to a vertical deflection coil
(15) of said vertical scanning circuit, and said

control means comprises a capacitor (16) connected to
said deflection coil (15) for connecting said

deflection coil (15) to ground through a resistor (17)
and feedback means (18,19,20) for connecting a

parabolic waveform signal developed at a connection
node between said deflection coil (15) and said

capacitor (16) back to a second input of said error 
amplifier (12), and wherein said control means further

comprises a nonlinear correction waveform signal
connected to said second input of said error amplifier

(12).
A television display apparatus including
a signal generating circuit according to any one of the

preceding claims.
A method of displaying a video signal
having a 4 to 3 aspect ratio on a video display screen

having a 16 to 9 aspect ratio, comprising the steps of:

detecting whether an input video signal for
display has the 4 to 3 aspect ratio;
generating a nonlinear correction waveform;
generating a nonlinear vertical deflection
waveform from a linear vertical deflection waveform for

the 16 to 9 aspect ratio display screen and the
generated nonlinear correction waveform;
feeding the generated nonlinear vertical
deflection waveform to a vertical deflection coil (15);

and
compressing a video image along the top and
bottom borders of the display screen using the

nonlinear vertical deflection waveform such that said
compression of said top and bottom borders is not

symmetrical about the horizontal centre line of the
display.
A method according to claim 9, wherein
the step of generating a nonlinear correction waveform

includes the step of reading out waveform data from a
waveform memory in response to said detecting the 4 to

3 aspect ratio of the input video signal.
A method according to claim 9 or 10,
wherein the step of generating a nonlinear correction

waveform includes providing a sinusoidal waveform over
a vertical deflection period.
A method according to claim 9, wherein
said step of generating a nonlinear correction waveform

includes the steps of connecting a nonlinear correction
waveform signal to a first input of an error amplifier

(12) that receives at another input a sawtooth vertical
deflection signal and further comprising the step of

feeding back to the first input of the error amplifier

(12) a parabolic waveform at a connection point between
a capacitor (16) and a vertical deflection coil (15)

that receives the nonlinear vertical deflection
waveform developed by the error amplifier (12).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
