<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621008</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mechanical morcellator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61M100	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed towards a mechanical 
morcellator (10) which includes a rotatable and relatively 

retractable cutting head (20). User manipulation varies the amount 
the cutting head extends out of a sheath (14), the amount of 

suction communicated to the cutting head (20), and the operation 
of a motor (76) which rotatably drives the cutting head. Suction 

is communicated to the cutting head (20) to aspirate the tissue 
fragmented by the cutting head. The morcellator (10) is adapted 

to be inserted through a laparoscopic port site and directly 
fragment and aspirate tissue from within a patient's body. 

Alternate embodiments of the present invention provide 
different cutting head extension and retraction devices. The 

morcellator of the present invention allows removal of tissue 
without the need for large entry incisions. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOX WILLIAM D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKHURST HARRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOX WILLIAM D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKHURST HARRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is generally directed to tissue 
removal devices and, more particularly, to mechanical 
morcellation devices. During surgical procedures and, more particularly, tissue 
removal procedures, it is desirable to limit the size of the 
entry incision to minimize the trauma experienced by the 
patient. In the past, efforts to minimize entry incision size 
have generally been limited due to the size of the tissue to 
be removed and the need for access to the tissue. However, in modern surgery access to the organ is 
provided by inserting one or more trocar and cannula to the 
tissue cite. Thereafter, one or more laparoscopes are used 
to view the tissue to be removed, and additional port sites 
are used to gain access to the tissue to sever it from tissue 
which is to remain. However, the entry incision must still 
be sized to allow removal of the severed tissue and, 
therefore, the reduction in entry incision size is rather 
limited even in more modern or recently developed surgical 
procedures. One system which has been developed to overcome this 
limitation is described in Laparoscopic Nephrectomy: A review 
of 16 Cases, Surgical Laparoscopy & Endoscopy, Vol. 2, No. 1, 
pp.29-34 (Raven Press, Ltd., 1992), the disclosure of which 
is expressly incorporated herein in its entirety. This 
publication describes a method for removing renal tissue using 
a mechanical morcellator. In this method of removal, the 
kidney and associated renal tissue, after being severed from 
the ureter, renal arteries, and veins, are placed in an  
 
impermeable containment bag. The neck of the bag is closed, 
withdrawn from a laparoscopic port site, and reopened to gain 
access to the tissue contained therein. Thereafter, with the 
tissue remaining in the bag within the patient's body, a 
morcellator cutting head is introduced into the bag and 
activated, fragmenting and aspirating the renal tissue. The 
aspirated tissue is retained within a filtering chamber within 
the morcellator handle, which must be cleaned following the 
surgical procedure. Although the morcellation device and method disclosed in 
this reference represents an improvement over tissue removal 
methods which require a large entry incision, several 
undesirable structural and operational features remain. The morcellation techniques known in the art do not 
provide a cover for the cutting head or allow relative 
extension and retraction of the cutting head. Also, the known 
morcellators do not provide means, whether electrical or 
mechanical,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mechanical morcellator comprising a cutting head 
means, drive means operably connected to said cutting head 

means to rotatably drive said cutting head means, sheath 
means, and extension means adapted to relatively move one of 

said sheath means and said cutting head means between first 
and second positions wherein, when in the first position, the 

sheath means generally surrounds the cutting head means and, 
when in the second position, the cutting head means extends 

out of the sheath means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 1, 
further comprising a suction control means, said suction 

control means being operable to control suction force 
communicated to the cutting head means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 2, 
wherein the extension means comprises a manually operated 

trigger means, said suction control means and one of said 
sheath means and said cutting head means being responsive to 

movement of said trigger means between an initial position and 
a subsequent position so that said sheath means and cutting 

head means are in the first position when the trigger means 
is in the initial position and the sheath means and cutting 

head means are in the second position when the trigger means 
is in the subsequent position, with a one-for-one 

correspondence between suction force and the amount the 
cutting head means extends out of the sheath means between the 

initial and subsequent trigger positions. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 3, 
further comprising switch means adapted to connect the drive 

means to power, said switch means having first and second 
contacts, said first contact being carried by said trigger 

means and being operable to engage said second contact when 
the trigger means is in the subsequent position. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 4, 
wherein the trigger means comprises a sliding trigger and a 

trigger latch, said trigger latch comprising latch means which 
releasably engage a latch surface to prevent unintentional 

movement of said trigger. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 5, 
wherein the sheath means moves relative to the cutting head 

means, said trigger means being engageable with the sheath 
means and operable to move the sheath means relative to the 

cutting head means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 2, 
wherein said extension means comprises a rotary sheath knob, 

rotation of said sheath knob causing said sheath means to move 
longitudinally relative to said cutting head means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 2, 
wherein said extension means comprises a slide switch, said 

slide switch being attached to said sheath means and being 
operable to longitudinally move said sheath means relative to 

said cutting head means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 2, 
further comprising a manually operated trigger means, said 

suction control means being responsive to movement of said 
trigger means between initial and subsequent positions, 

wherein, when the trigger means is in the initial position, 
a first suction force is communicated to said cutting head 

means and, when the trigger means is in the subsequent 
position, a second suction force is communicated to said 

cutting head means, said second suction force being greater 
than the first suction force. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 9, 
wherein the drive means is responsive to movement of the 

trigger means between said initial and subsequent positions 
such that, when the trigger means is in the initial position, 

the drive means is in a non-operating condition and, when the 
trigger means is in the subsequent position, the drive means 

is in an operating condition. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 10, 
wherein the trigger means comprises a trigger latch and a 

sliding trigger, said trigger latch comprising latch means 
which releasably engage a latch surface to prevent 

unintentional movement of said trigger. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 11, 
wherein the sheath means moves relative to the cutting head 

means and the suction control means is integral with the 
trigger means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 12, 
wherein said extension means comprises said trigger means, 

said sheath means being responsive to movement of said trigger 
means between an initial position and a subsequent position 

so that said sheath means and cutting head means are in the 
first position when the trigger means is in the initial 

position and the sheath means and cutting head means are in 
the second posi
tion when the trigger means is in the 
subsequent position, with a one-for-one correspondence between 

suction force and the amount the cutting head means extends 
out of the sheath means between the initial and subsequent 

trigger positions. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 12, 
wherein said extension means comprises a rotary sheath knob, 

rotation of said sheath knob causing said sheath means to move 
longitudinally relative to said cutting head means. 
A mechanical morcellator according to claim 12, 
wherein said extension means comprises a slide switch, said 

slide switch being attached to said sheath means and being 
operable to longitudinally move said sheath means relative to 

said cutting head means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
