<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654829</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Increased density MOS-gated double diffused semiconductor devices.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21336	H01L2940	H01L29417	H01L2966	H01L29739	H01L2978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method of fabricating semiconductor devices such 
as transistors and in the devices formed thereby, a doped 

polysilicon layer is formed overlying an insulated gate. 
The doped polysilicon layer extends over the top and the 

sidewalls of the gate to contact the underlying substrate. 
The dopants implanted in the polysilicon layer are 

diffused into the underlying substrate to form the source 
region in a self-aligned process which requires no extra 

masking step. The doped polysilicon layer, by contacting 
the source region and also overlying the gate, allows 

external electrical contact to be made on the top of the 
gate to the source regions, eliminating the need for a 

special source contact adjacent to the gate. This 
conserves surface area of the device, allowing fabrication 

of a smaller and hence more economical device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALOGIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SGS THOMSON MICROELECTRONICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALOGIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SGS-THOMSON MICROELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to M08-gated double-diffused 
semiconductor devices. Such devices include lateral and 
vertical DMOS transistors, IGBTs, MOS-controlled 
thyristors (MCT's) and any MOS-gated or MOS-controlled, 
device formed using DMOS technology, whether as a discrete 
device, or as a device incorporated in an integrated 
circuit. More specifically, the invention relates to a 
method of fabricating such devices using two layers of 
polysilicon, one layer of which is the gate electrode and 
a second layer overlying and insulated from the gate 
electrode which second layer serves as a source of dopant 
for one or more of the device regions and also serves as 
an electrical contact to that (those) region(s). In 
addition, components such as resistors, capacitors, 
diodes, and thin film transistors can be simultaneously 
fabricated using this second layer of polysilicon. DMOS (double-diffused MOS) devices using gate 
electrodes of polysilicon (polycrystalline silicon) are 
well known in the art and are conventionally fabricated 
using multiple cells or repetitive interdigitated 
structures on a die by forming various layers (see 
Figure 1) in and on an epitaxial (epi) layer 6 which is 
doped N- and formed on a silicon crystal substrate 8 doped 
N+. Typically, a polysilicon (polycrystalline silicon) 
gate layer 10 is formed on an underlying gate oxide layer 
12 to serve.as a gate electrode. (All figures in this 
disclosure are cross-sectional views of a portion of a 
semiconductor wafer or die). Source regions 14 and a body 
region 16 (including a P+ body region 18) are diffused  
 
into epi layer 6. P+ body region 18 is shown in Figure 1 
as being both more heavily doped than the P-type body 
region and deeper than the body region. Region 18 only 
needs to be more heavily doped than the body region; it 
does not need to be deeper. Source 14 and body 16 regions 
are then both electrically contacted by depositing 
conductive material 20 in the area between gates of 
adjacent cells. Also, a conductive drain contact 22 is 
established on the underside of the substrate 8 (or on the 
top surface of the device if it is in an integrated 
circuit.) In this structure disadvantageously the area devoted 
to the source and body contact 20 between gates 10 
requires a certain amount of surface area on the epi layer 
6 so as to be properly spaced from the gates 10. This is 
shown by the conventional contact alignment tolerance "d". 
Thus these devices have larger surface area than is 
otherwise necessary. It is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transistor comprising: 
   a semiconductor body; 

   a first region of a first conductivity type in 
said body and extending to a principal surface 

thereof; 
   a second region of a second conductivity type in 

said first region and extending to said principal 
surface; 

   a gate electrode overlying said principal 
surface; 

   an insulating layer overlying at least a portion 
of a side of said gate electrode and at least a 

portion of a top surface of said gate conductor; and 
   a conductive polycrystalline silicon layer 

overlying over said insulating layer and contacting 
said second region at said principal surface. 
The device of Claim 1, wherein said polycrystalline 
silicon layer at said principal surface is of 

about the same width as is said second region at said 
principal surface. 
The device of Claim 1, wherein said polycrystalline 
silicon layer is externally electrically 

contacted at a portion thereof overlying said top surface 
of said gate electrode. 
The device of Claim 2, further comprising a 
third region of said first conductivity type formed in 

said substrate and extending at said principal surface 
from an edge of said second region. 
The device of Claim 1, said body defining a 
groove extending through said first region. 
A semiconductor device comprising: 
   a semiconductor substrate; 

   a plurality of doped regions formed in the 
substrate; 

   at least one insulated gate structure formed on 
a surface of the substrate; 

   a conductive layer formed overlying the gate 
structure and extending onto the substrate to contact 

at least one of the doped regions; a width of the 
conductive layer at the surface of the substrate 

being about equal to a thickness of the conductive 
layer overlying the gate structure. 
A method of forming a transistor comprising the 
steps of: 

   providing a semiconductor body; 
   forming a gate electrode overlying a portion of 

a principal surface of said body; 
   forming a first region of a first conductivity 

type in said body and extending to said principal 
surface; 

   forming an insulating layer overlying at least a 
portion of a side of said gate electrode and at least 

a portion of a top surface of said gate electrode; 
   forming a layer of polycrystalline silicon overlying 

said insulating area and contacting said 
principal surface; 

   implanting charged ions of a second conductivity 
type into said layer of polycrystalline silicon; and 

   diffusing a portion of said charged ions into 
said body at a location wherein said layer of polycrystalline 

silicon contacts said principal surface, 
thereby forming a second region of said second 

conductivity type in said body. 
The method of Claim 7, further comprising the 
 

step of electrically contacting said second region at a 
portion of said polycrystalline silicon layer overlying 

said top surface of said gate electrode. 
The method of Claim 7, further comprising the 
step of forming a third region of said first conductivity 

type in said substrate and extending to said principal 
surface, an edge of said third region being aligned to a 

plane defined by a side of said layer of polycrystalline 
silicon. 
The method of Claim 7, wherein the step of 
forming said first region comprises aligning an edge of 

said first region to a side of said gate electrode. 
The method of Claim 7, wherein the step of 
forming said first region comprises the steps of: 

   implanting ions of said first conductivity type 
into said layer of polycrystalline silicon; and 

   diffusing said ions into said semiconductor 
body; and 

   further comprising the steps of: 
      implanting additional ions of said first 

conductivity type into only portions of said 
layer of polycrystalline silicon; and 

      diffusing said additional ions into said 
semiconductor body. 
The method of claim 10, wherein the step of 
implanting charged ions of a second conductivity type 

comprises the steps of: 

   forming a protective layer impervious to said 
implanting and overlying only a portion of said layer 

of polycrystalline silicon, prior to said step of 
implanting; and 

   further comprising the steps of:
 

      removing a portion of said layer of polycrystalline 
silicon from part of said principal 

surface after the step of implanting; and 
      implanting charged ions of said first 

conductivity type into said semiconductor body 
at said part of said principal surface. 
The method of Claim 7, further comprising the 
steps of: 

   forming a groove in said body adjacent a portion 
of said body overlying said gate electrode; and 

   implanting charged ions of said first 
conductivity type into the walls of said groove. 
A transistor comprising: 
   a semiconductor body; 

   a first region of a first conductivity type in said 
body and extending to a principal surface thereof; 

   two spaced apart second regions of a second 
conductivity type in said first region and each extending 

to said principal surface, said two spaced apart second 
regions each abutting said first region; 

   two spaced apart gate electrodes overlying said 
principal surface; 

   an insulating layer overlying at least a portion of a 
side of each said gate electrode and at least a portion of 

a top surface of each said gate electrode; 
   a conductive polycrystalline silicon layer overlying 

each said insulating layer and a separate portion thereof 
contacting each said second region at said principal 

surface, wherein the two separate portions of said 
polycrystalline silicon layer are spaced apart at said 

principal surface, said first region not being overlain by 
either of the two separate portions. 
A semiconductor device comprising: 
   a semiconductor body; 

   a first region of a first conductivity type in said 
body and extending to a principal surface thereof; 

   a second region of a second conductivity type in said 
body and extending to said principal surface; 

   a gate electrode overlying said principal surface; 
   an insulating layer overlying at least a portion of a 

side of said gate electrode and at least a portion of a 
top surface of said gate electrode; and 

   a conductive polycrystalline silicon layer overlying 
said insulating layer and contacting said first region at 

said principal surface and said second region at said 
principal surface, 

   wherein a portion of said polycrystalline silicon 
layer overlying said first region is of said first 

conductivity type, and a portion of said polycrystalline 
silicon layer overlying said second region is of said 

second conductivity type. 
The device of claim 15, further comprising a third 
region of said first conductivity type in said body and 

extending to said principal surface. 
The device of claim 15, wherein a conductive layer 
overlies said polycrystalline silicon layer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
