<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611119</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optically active compound, liquid crystal composition containing same, liquid crystal device, display apparatus and display method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F113	C09K1958	C09K1942	C09K1934	C07D23926	C09K1958	C09K1942	C07D23900	C09K1934	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	C09K	C09K	C09K	C07D	C09K	C09K	C07D	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	C09K19	C09K19	C09K19	C07D239	C09K19	C09K19	C07D239	C09K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optically active compound of the formula (I) 

is suitable as a component 
for a liquid crystal composition providing improved 

response speed. The optically active compound of the 
formula (I) is characterized by having a fluorine-substituted 

optically active cite and 

group 
connected by 1 - 6 methylene groups. The above liquid 

crystal composition is useful as an element of a 
liquid crystal device and a display apparatus 

providing a good display characteristics. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optically
active compound, a liquid crystal composition, a
liquid crystal device, a display apparatus and a
display method, and more particularly to an optically
active mesomorphic compound, a liquid crystal
composition containing the mesomorphic compound with
improved responsiveness to an electric field, a liquid
crystal device using the liquid crystal composition
for use in a display device, a liquid crystal-optical
shutter, a display apparatus using the device,
and a display method of using the composition and
device.Hitherto, liquid crystal devices have been
used as an electro-optical device in various fields.
Most liquid crystal devices which have been put into
practice use TN (twisted nematic) type liquid
crystals, as shown in "Voltage-Dependent Optical
Activity of a Twisted Nematic Liquid Crystal" by M.
Schadt and W. Helfrich "Applied Physics Letters" Vol.
18, No. 4 (Feb. 15, 1971) pp. 127-128.These devices are based on the dielectric 
alignment effect of a liquid crystal and utilize an
effect that the average molecular axis direction is
directed to a specific direction in response to an
applied electric field because of the dielectric
anisotropy of liquid crystal molecules. It is said
that the limit of response speed is on the order of
µsec, which is too slow for many uses. On the other
hand, a simple matrix system of driving is most
promising for application to a large-area flat display
in view of cost, productivity, etc., in combination.
In the simple matrix system, an electrode arrangement
wherein scanning electrodes and signal electrodes are
arranged in a matrix, and for driving, a multiplex
driving scheme is adopted wherein an address signal is
sequentially, periodically and selectively applied to
the scanning electrodes and prescribed data signals
are selectively applied in parallel to the signal
electrodes in synchronism with the address signal.When the above-mentioned TN-type liquid
crystal is used in a device of such a driving system,
a certain electric field is applied to regions where a
scanning electrode is selected and signal electrodes
are not selected (or regions where a scanning
electrode is not selected and a signal electrode is
selected), which regions are called "half-selected
points". If the difference between a voltage applied
to the selected points and a voltage applied to the 
half-selected points is sufficiently large, and a
voltage threshold level required for allowing liquid
crystal molecules to be aligned or oriented
perpendicular to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optically active compound represented by
the following formula (I):



wherein R denotes a linear or branched alkyl group
having 1 - 18 carbon atomsoptionally including one or

non-neighboring two or more methylene groups
replaced with -O-, -S-, -CO-, -COO-, -OCO-, -CH=CH-or

-C≡C-, said alkyl group optionally including
hydrogen replaced with fluorine; X

denotes a single bond, -COO-, -OCO-, -CH
2
O-, -OCH
2
-,
-CH
2
CH
2
- or -C≡C-; A denotes


wherein Y
1
 and Y
2
 independently denote hydrogen,
fluorine, methyl or trifluoromethyl; B denotes A,



m is an integer of
1 - 16; n is an integer of 1 - 6; p is 0 or 1; and *

denotes the location of an optically active center.
A compound according to Claim 1, wherein A
in the formula (I) is



wherein Y
1
 and Y
2

independently denote hydrogen, fluorine, methyl or
trifluoromethyl. 
A compound according to Claim 1, which is
represented by the following formula (Ia) or (Ib):



wherein Y'
1
 and Y'
2
 independently denote hydrogen,
fluorine, methyl or trifluoromethyl; and R, m, n, Y
1
,
Y
2
 and * have the same meanings as defined above.
A compound according to any one of Claims 1-3,
wherein n in the formula (I) is 2.
A compound according to any one of Claims 1-4,
wherein R in the formula (I) is any one of the

following groups (i) to (v):

(i)

n-C
a
H
2a+1
-Z-
(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)


wherein 
a
 and j independently denote an integer of 1 - 
16; b and e independently denote an integer of 1 - 8;

f and i independently denote 0 or 1; d, g and k
independently denote an integer of 0 - 7; h is an

integer of 1 - 15; and Z is a single bond, -O-, -COO-
or -OCO-.
A liquid crystal composition comprising at
least two compounds, at least one of which is an

optically active compound of the formula (I) according
to any one of claims 1-5.
A composition according to Claim 6, which
comprises 1 - 80 wt. % of an optically active compound

of the formula (I).
A composition according to Claim 6, which
comprises 1 - 60 wt. % of an optically active compound

of the formula (I).
A composition according to Claim 6, which
comprises 1 - 40 wt. % of an optically active compound

of the formula (I).
A composition according to any of claims 6 to 9, which has
a chiral smectic phase.
A composition according to any of claims 6 to 10, which has 
a cholesteric phase.
A liquid crystal device, comprising a pair of
electrode plates and a liquid crystal composition

according to any of claims 6 to 11 disposed between the electrode
plates.
A device according to Claim 12, which further
comprises an alignment control layer.
A device according to Claim 13, wherein the
alignment control layer has been subjected to rubbing.
A device according to Claim 12, 13 or 14 wherein the
liquid crystal composition is disposed in a thickness

suppressing formation of a helical structure of liquid
crystal molecules between the electrode plates.
A display apparatus comprising a liquid
crystal device according to any of claims 12 to 15, and voltage

application means for driving the liquid crystal
device.
A display apparatus according to Claim 16,
wherein switching of liquid crystal molecules is

performed by utilizing ferroelectricity of the liquid
crystal composition to effect display. 
A display apparatus according to claim 16 or 17
which further comprises a light source.
A display method, comprising:

providing a liquid crystal composition as defined
in any of claims 6-11; and
switching the alignment direction of liquid crystal
molecules by applying voltages to the liquid crystal

composition to effect display.
A display method, comprising:

providing a liquid crystal device comprising a pair
of electrode plates and a liquid crystal composition as

defined in any of claims 6-11 disposed therebetween;
and
switching the alignment direction of liquid crystal
molecules by applying voltages to the liquid crystal

composition disposed between the electrode plates to
effect display.
A method according to claim 20, which further
comprises providing a liquid crystal device having an

alignment control layer.
A method according to claim 21, wherein the
insulating alignment control layer has been subjected to

rubbing. 
A method according to claim 20, 21 or 22, wherein
the liquid crystal composition is disposed in a thickness

suppressing formation of a helical structure of liquid
crystal molecules between the electrode plates.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
