<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614529</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OXYGEN ANALYZER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27416	G01N27416	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An analyzer (10) for detecting a selected chemical (such as oxygen) in a process fluid includes a plurality of electrodes (12, 14, 22) that are separated from the fluid by a membrane (18) that is permeable to the selected chemical, each of the electrodes (12, 14) when energized producing a signal in response to the selected chemical in the fluid. The selected chemical level in the process fluid is determined based on the signal produced by a first one of the electrodes (12) and the determined level is used with the signal produced by a second one of the electrodes (14) to detect whether the membrane (18) has become faulty (e.g., fouled by materials in the process fluid).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOXBORO CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE FOXBORO COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLETCHER KENNETH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLETCHER, KENNETH, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to analyzers for
determining the level of a selected chemical in a process
fluid.A typical analyzer for measuring the level of a
chemical in a process fluid includes a voltammetric
sensor that supports one or more electrodes in
electrolytic contact with the fluid. The electrodes are
immersed in an electrolytic solution of fixed composition
at one end of the sensor and are separated from the
process fluid by a membrane that is permeable to the
selected chemical. This type of sensor is known as a
Clark cell when the chemical to be measured is oxygen or
its allotropes such as ozone.When the sensor is inserted in the process fluid
and an oxygen-permeable membrane is used, oxygen in the
fluid diffuses through the membrane into the electrolytic
solution. As a result, when the electrodes are energized
(with either D.C. or pulsed potential) they produce an
electrical signal that is proportional to the level of
oxygen in the electrolyte, and hence the amount of oxygen
in the process fluid.Such sensors may be adversely affected by membrane
breakage or fouling. For example, the membrane may
become fouled during use by materials (such as dirt, oil,
grease, sludge, etc.) in the process fluid that collect
on the membrane, reducing its permeability. As a result,
the signal produced by the sensor will no longer
accurately reflect the oxygen level in the process fluid,
thereby leading to measurement errors. This problem is
particularly acute when the process fluid comprises
sludge-laden waste water in sewage treatment plants.US-4900422 describes a sensor for monitoring dissolved oxygen in
a solution which includes means for detecting fouling or breakage of the
membrane. This invention provides an efficient and highly
accurate technique for determining whether the sensor
membrane has become faulty by providing the sensor with
multiple electrodes -- one of which is used to measure
the level of a selected chemical in the process fluid,
and another electrode serving as a diagnostic device that
enables faults in the membrane to be detected.In one general aspect of this concept, the signal
produced by a first electrode when energized is used to
determine the selected chemical level of the process
fluid, and the signal produced by a second electrode when
energized is used in conjunction with the determined
level to detect whether the membrane is faulty.Preferred embodiments include the following
features.The signal produced by the second electrode is
analyzed to derive an expected level of the selected
ch
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus (10) for detecting a selected chemical
in a fluid, comprising


a plurality of electrodes (12, 14) separated from said
fluid by a membrane (18) that is permeable to said selected

chemical, each of said electrodes when energized
producing a signal in response to said selected chemical

in said fluid,
a power source (72, 28, 26) for energizing said electrodes, and
means (26, 28, 30, 32) for determining a level of said selected
chemical in said fluid based on said signal produced by a

first one of said electrodes (12) and means (30, 32) for
comparing said determined level with said signal produced

by a second one of said electrodes (14), and mans (32) for
detecting whether said

membrane is faulty based on said comparing.
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising

means (32) for analyzing said signal produced by said
second electrode (14) to derive an expected level of said

selected chemical, and
means (32) for detecting that said membrane (18) is faulty
if said determined level differs from said expected level

by more than a selected amount.
The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a
controller (24) for causing said power source to energize said

second electrode (14) for a selected duration of time and for causing said
means for analyzing to analyze said signal (90) produced by

said second electrode (14) during a portion (94) of
said selected duration.
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said
controller causes said power source to energize said

first electrode (12) for a duration that exceeds said selected
duration. 
The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said
controller causes said power source to energize said

first electrode for a duration which causes said
signal produced by said first electrode (12) to reach a

steady-state value (86).
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said
controller causes said power source to energize said

first electrode (12) and said second electrode (14) for mutually
exclusive intervals of time.
The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said
controller includes means for causing said power source to energize said

first electrode (12) for a first duration which causes
said signal produced by said first electrode to reach a

steady-state value (86) and means for causing said power source to
energize said second electrode for a second duration

which does not cause said signal produced by said second
electrode to reach a steady-state value.
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said first

duration is greater than 1 minute.
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said first
duration is at least 15 minutes.
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said second
duration is on the order of 10 seconds and occurs between

successive energizations of said first electrode (12).
The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising
means for setting

said first duration and said second duration. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means
for analyzing includes means for integrating said signal (90)

produced by said second electrode (14) during said
portion (94) of said selected duration to

produce said expected level.
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said
selected amount is based on a calibrated ratio between

said determined level and said expected level.
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said
selected amount is between 10% and 50% of said calibrated

ratio.
The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising
means (36) for generating an alarm if said means for detecting

detects that said membrane (18) is faulty.
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said
portion (94) is less than said selected

duration.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said
membrane (18) is subject to fouling when material in said fluid,

to which said membrane is impermeable,collects on and
reduces the permeability of said membrane to said

selected chemical, said means for determining including
means for detecting that said membrane is fouled when

said determined level and said signal produced by said
second electrode differ by more than a selected amount,

and indicating that said fouled membrane is faulty.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first
electrode (12) and said second electrode (14) are disposed within a

liquid electrolyte (16) and are spaced by a distance (S) which 
enables said electrodes to respond to said selected

chemical in different regions of said electrolyte.
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said first
electrode (12) and said second electrode (14) are each annular and

are disposed coaxially with respect to each other.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said
selected chemical includes oxygen or an allotrope

thereof.
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising

circuitry (170) for detecting an electrical resistance
between said first electrode (12) and said second electrode (14),

and
means (32) for determining that said membrane is
fractured if said resistance differs from a reference

resistance by a selected amount.
The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising
a controller which causes said power source to energize

said second electrode (14) for a selected duration of time and
said means for determining to analyze said signal (90),

produced by said second electrode during a
portion (94) of said selected duration to detect whether said

membrane is faulty, said detecting circuitry detecting
said resistance after said portion of said

selected duration.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said power
source includes a third electrode (20) for supplying

electrical current to energize said first electrode (12) and
said second electrode (14). 
The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said first (12),
second (14), and third (20) electrodes are disposed in an

electrolyte liquid (16) that is enclosed by said membrane (18), and
further comprising


sensing circuitry (190) for sensing a loss of said electrolyte
liquid and activating an alarm to notify a user thereof.
The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said power
source (72) includes a driver (74) for generating electrical

current at an output thereof and applying said current to
said third electrode (20), said sensing circuitry (190) including

circuitry (192,32) for monitoring a voltage at said output and
determining that said loss has occurred if said voltage

exceeds a threshold.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first (12),
and second (14) electrodes are disposed in a cavity (44), a portion

of which is bounded by said membrane (18), and further
comprising an electrolyte liquid (16) disposed in said cavity

at a selected pressure, and means (64) for maintaining said
electrolyte liquid at said selected pressure in response

to changes in temperature of said electrolyte liquid.
The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said first (12)
and second (14) electrodes are spaced by a selected distance (S)

from said membrane, and further comprising a diaphragm (64)
that bounds a second portion (66) of said cavity, said

diaphragm being maintained at a tension which is less than a
tension of said membrane so that said diaphragm

expands preferentially to said membrane in
response to said changes in temperature, thereby to

maintain said selected distance.
The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said power
source further includes 


a reference electrode (22) disposed adjacent to first
electrode (12) and said second (14) electrode, and
circuitry (76) for controlling electrical power applied
to said third electrode (20) based on an electrical potential

developed between said reference electrode (22) and an
energized one of said first electrode (12) or said second

electrode (14).
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising

means (51) for measuring a temperature of said fluid, and
means (32, 88) for correcting the level of said selected
chemical determined by said determining means based on

said temperature.
Apparatus for detecting a selected chemical
in a fluid, comprising


a housing (42) that is adapted to be inserted in said
fluid, said housing having an end (48) over which

a membrane (18) that is permeable
to said selected chemical is disposed, said end (48) having a surface

disposed substantially parallel to said membrane for supporting a plurality
of electrodes (12, 14) adjacent to said membrane and separated from

said fluid by said membrane,
a first one of said electrodes (12) being adapted to be
energized for first duration of time which enables

said first electrode (12) to produce a first signal (86) that
indicates a level of said selected chemical in said

fluid,
a second one of said electrodes (14) being adapted to
be energized for a second duration of time which

enablessaid second electrode to produce a second signal (90)
that, when compared with said first signal, provides an

indication of whether said membrane is faulty.
The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising means
for energizing said first electrode so that said first

duration of time enables said first
signal to reach a steady-state value in response to said

level of said selected chemical, and for energizing said second electrode so that said second duration 
does not enable said second signal to reach a

steady-state value in response to said level of said
selected chemical.
A method for detecting a selected chemical in

a fluid, comprising

providing a plurality of electrodes (12, 14) separated from
said fluid by a membrane (18) that is permeable to said

selected chemical, each of said electrodes when energized
producing a signal in response to said selected chemical

in said fluid,
energizing said electrodes,
determining a level of said selected chemical in
said fluid based on said signal produced by a first one

of said electrodes,
comparing said determined level with said signal produced by
a second one of said electrodes, and
detecting whether said membrane is faulty based on
said comparing.
The method of claim 32 further comprising

analyzing said signal produced by said second
electrode (14) to derive an expected level of said selected

chemical, and
detecting that said membrane is faulty if said
determined level differs from said expected level by more

than a selected amount.
The method of claim 33 further comprising
energizing said second electrode (14) for a selected duration

of time and analyzing said signal (90) produced by said second
electrode during a portion (94) of said selected

duration. 
The method of claim 34 further comprising
energizing said first electrode for a duration that

exceeds said selected duration.
The method of claim 35 further comprising
energizing said first electrode (12) for a duration which causes

said signal produced by said first electrode to
reach a steady-state value (86).
The method of claim 34 further comprising
energizing said first electrode (12) and said second electrode (14)

for mutually exclusive intervals of time.
The method of claim 35 further comprising
energizing said first electrode (12) for a first duration

which causes said signal produced by said first
electrode to reach a steady-state value (86), and energizing

said second electrode (14) for a second duration which does not
cause said signal produced by said second electrode to

reach a steady-state value.
The method of claim 38 wherein said first
duration is greater than 1 minute and said second

duration is on the order of 10 seconds and occurs between
successive energizations of said first electrode.
The method of claim 38 further comprising
allowing a user of said apparatus to select said first

duration and said second duration.
The method of claim 34 wherein said step of
analyzing includes integrating said signal (90) produced by

said second electrode (14) during said portion
of said selected interval to produce said expected level. 
The method of claim 41 wherein said selected
amount is based on a calibrated ratio between said

determined level and said expected level.
The method of claim 42 wherein said selected
amount is between 10% and 50% of said calibrated ratio.
The method of claim 42 further comprising
generating an alarm if said means for detecting detects

that said membrane is faulty.
The method of claim 34 wherein said
portion is less than said selected

duration.
The method of claim 32 wherein said membrane
is subject to fouling when material in said fluid, to which

said membrane is impermeable, collects on and reduces the
permeability of said membrane to said selected chemical,

said step of detecting including determining that said
membrane is fouled when said determined level and said

signal produced by said second electrode differ by more
than a selected amount, and further comprising indicating

that said fouled membrane is faulty.
A method for detecting a selected chemical in
a fluid, comprising


providing a plurality of electrodes separated fron
said fluid by a membrane that is permeable to said

selected chemical, each of said electrodes when energized
producing a signal in response to said selected chemical

in the fluid,
energizing a first one of said electrodes for a
time which causes said signal produced thereby in

response to said selected chemical to reach a steady-state 
value (86) and determining a level of said selected

chemical based on said signal produced by said first
electrode,
energizing a second one of said electrodes for a
time which does not enable said signal produced thereby

in response to said selected chemical to reach a steady-state
value, and
detecting whether said membrane is faulty based on
comparing said signal produced by said second electrode

with said determined level.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
