<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616949</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hot fill plastic container having reinforced pressure absorption panels
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D102	B65D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D1	B65D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hot-fill plastic container (10) includes a plurality of 
elongated vertically oriented vacuum absorption panels (24) in 

its sidewall, each of the panels having an outwardly projecting 
center portion (40) which is divided into upper and lower panel 

portions (41,42) by a transversely extending rib (45), the panel 
portions being connected to the top (32) and bottom (33) of the 

vacuum panel by outwardly curved connecting portions (43,44) 
which reverse the curvature of the vacuum panel adjacent to its 

upper and lower edges to reinforce the vacuum panels to prevent 
the sidewall from taking a permanent set which deflected 

inwardly, the corners (36,36a) of the vacuum panel having a 
relatively large radius of curvature to provide stiffening of the 

panels at their corners. Annular reinforcement ribs (51,52) 
located in the sidewall above and below the vacuum panels provide 

additional support for the upper and lower edges of the vacuum 
panels. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EBERLE THEODORE F JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAILLIENCOURT DWAYNE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EBERLE, THEODORE F., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAILLIENCOURT, DWAYNE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to hot-fill plastic or polyester
containers, and more particularly to an improved sidewall
construction for such containers.
In the past, most plastic or polyester containers were used to
contain liquids that are initially dispensed at room
temperature or chilled. However, in recent years, there has
been a significant increase in the demand for polyester
containers for packaging "hot fill" beverages. "Hot-fill"
applications impose additional mechanical stresses on the
container structure which cause the container to be less
resistant to deformation when the container is being handled
or if it is dropped. The thin sidewalls of conventional
polyester containers deform or collapse at hot fill
temperatures. Moreover, the rigidity of the container
decreases immediately after the "hot-fill" liquid is
introduced into the container, making the container more
susceptible to failure due to mechanical stresses. As the
hot-filled liquid cools, it shrinks in volume which has the
effect of lowering the pressure or producing a "hot-fill"
vacuum in the container. The container must be able to
sustain such internal pressure changes while maintaining its
configuration.Various methods have been devised to counter thermal
instabilities. One method broadly involves heat treating the
polyester to induce molecular changes which will result in a 
container exhibiting thermal stability. Other methods involve
forming the polyester structure into a structural
configuration which can maintain stability during hot fill.
Thus, the hot-fill containers being produced have a generally
cylindrical main body which is provided with a plurality of
elongated vertically oriented panels. These panels, which are
commonly referred to as pressure or vacuum absorption panels,
are designed to flex inwardly after the container has been
filled with a hot liquid to accommodate the inevitable volume
shrinkage of the liquid in the container as the liquid cools.
However, the inward flexing of the panels caused by the hot
fill vacuum creates high stress points at the top and bottom
edges of the pressure panels, and especially at the upper and
lower corners of the panels. These stress points weaken the
portions of the sidewall near the edges of the panels,
allowing the sidewall to collapse inwardly during handling of
the container or when containers are stacked together. The
cylindrical label mounting area must support the wrap-around
label and must absorb a vacuum without losing its cylindrical
label mounting shape.These problems
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thin-walled container (10) formed from a plastic
material and adapted to contain a liquid at a temperature

elevated above room temperature, said container
comprising: an upper portion (14) which includes

a sealable closure (15); a lower portion (16)
including a base closing the bottom of the container;

and a sidewall (12) extending between said
upper and lower portions, said sidewall being generally

tubular in shape and including a plurality of
vacuum panels (24), said vacuum panels being adapted

to flex inwardly upon a lowering of internal pressure
during cooling of said liquid, 
characterized in
that
 each of said vacuum panels has at least one
elongated, outwardly projecting portion (40) which

extends from the upper edge (32) to the lower
edge (33) of said vacuum panel (24), said vacuum

panels being adapted to flex inwardly between their
upper edge (32) and lower edge 33 upon a lowering of

internal pressure.
The container according to claim 1, wherein said
vacuum panels (24) are elongated and vertically oriented. 
The container according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said
outwardly projecting portion includes at least one

raised center portion (40') and first and second
connecting portions (43, 44) connecting said raised

center portion to said upper and lower edges,
respectively, of said vacuum panel.
The container according to claim 1 wherein a
panel portion (40') extends between and spaced from said

panel upper and lower edges, and at least one
outwardly projecting connecting portion (43)

extends between one edge (41a) of said
panel portion and one of said edges (32)

of said vacuum panel, said connecting portion
connecting said one edge of said

panel portion to said side wall along said one edge
of said vacuum panel in a manner to permit said panel

portion and said connecting portion fo flex inwardly.
The container according to one or more of claims 3,
4, wherein said connecting portion reverses the

curvature of said vacuum panel adjacent to the
portion of said sidewall extending along said one

edge of said vacuum panel.
The container according to one or more of claims 3,
4, wherein said connecting portion (43) extends

between said upper edge (32) of said vacuum panel and
an upper edge (41a) of said panel portion, and

includes a second connecting portion (44) extending
between said lower edge (33) of said vacuum panel and

a lower edge (42a) of said panel portion, and wherein
said vacuum panel includes a transverse rib (45)

dividing said panel portion into upper and lower
vertically oriented panel portions (41, 42) extending 

between said upper and lower edges of said vacuum
panel.
The container according to one or more of claims 1 to
4, wherein said vacuum panel has first and second

parallel vertical sides (34, 35) connected to said
upper and lower edges of said vacuum panel by

arcuately shaped corners (36, 36a) having a radius of
curvature in the range of about 10 to 12 mm.
The container according to one or more of claims 1 to
4, and including a first annular reinforcement rib

(51) located in said sidewall above said vacuum
panels and a second annular reinforcement rib (52)

located in said sidewall below said vacuum panels,
said first and second annular ribs extending

continously around the inner circumference of said
sidewall, supporting said vacuum panels at their

upper and lower edges.
The container according to one or more of claims 1 to
8, each vacuum panel (24) including elongated,

outwardly projecting upper and lower panel portions
(41, 42), the ratio of the overall height of said

container to the diameter of said sidewall being at
least 3 to 1.
The container according to claim 9, wherein the ratio
of the overall height of said container to the

diameter of said sidewall is approximately 3.26 to 1,
the ratio of the vertical length to the transverse

width of each of said vacuum panels is in the range
of about 3 to 1 to about 5 to 1, and the ratio of the

vertical length to the transverse width of each of

said vacuum panels is approximately 4.15 to 1. 
The container according to claim 9, wherein said
outwardly projecting panel portions extend between

said upper and lower edges (32, 33) of said vacuum
panel and are oriented vertically within said vacuum

panel, and wherein the ratio of the vertical length
of said vacuum panel to the vertical length of one

of said panel portions is in the range of about 2.5
to 1 to about 3 to 1.
The container according to claim 6,
wherein said upper and lower panel portions

are generally rectangular in shape, and wherein the
transverse width of said connecting portions in the

proximity of said top and bottom of said vacuum
panel corresponds to the transverse width of said

upper and lower panel portions.
The container according to claim 12, wherein
the transverse width of each of said connecting

portions increases in a direction from the edges of
said upper and lower panel portions to said top and

bottom of said vacuum panel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
