<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611999</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reusable positive-charging organic photoconductor containing phthalocyanine pigment and cross-linking binder
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G506	G03G506	G03G505	G03G505	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G5	G03G5	G03G5	G03G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An organic positive-charging photoconductor (+) OPC is 
disclosed. The (+) OPC has a conductive substrate; a hydroxy-containing 

binder component forming a layer greater 
than or equal to about 1 micron thick on said substrate; an 

X-type, metal-free phthalocyanine pigment component 
uniformly distributed throughout said binder component; and 

a reactive additive component selected from the list of 
cross-linkable resins, carboxlyic acid anhydrides, 

aldehydes, poly-ols, alkoxy silane coupling agents, reactive 
allyl polymers and dismaleimides, the reactive additive 

component also being uniformly distributed throughout, and 
being in cross-linked relation with, the hydroxy-containing 

binder component with an electron withdrawing functional 
group and an electron donating functional group in the same 

molecule. The (+) OPC, which may also contain a co-additive 
component, exhibits increased stability in a laser printing 

process. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN KHE CHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN, KHE CHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Field of the Invention. This invention relates generally
to photoconductors for electrophotography. The
invention is a positive charging, organic photoconductor
material with superior stability for dry and liquid toner
electrophotography.Related Art. In electrophotography, a latent image is
created on the surface of an insulating, photoconducting
material by selectively exposing areas of the surface to
light. A difference in electrostatic charge density is
created between the areas on the surface exposed and unexposed
to light. The visible image is developed by electrostatic
toners containing pigment components and thermoplastic
components. The toners are selectively attracted to
the photoconductor surface either exposed or unexposed to
light, depending on the relative electrostatic charges of
the photoconductor surface, development electrode and the
toner. The photoconductor may be either positively or
negatively charged, and the toner system similarly may
contain negatively or positively charged particles. For
laser printers, the preferred embodiment is that the
photoconductor and toner have the same polarity, but
different levels of charge.A sheet of paper or intermediate transfer medium is
then given an electrostatic charge opposite that of the
toner and passed close to the photoconductor surface,
pulling the toner from the photoconductor surface onto the
paper or intermediate medium, still in the pattern of the
image developed from the photoconductor surface. A set of
fuser rollers melts and fixes the toner in the paper,
subsequent to direct transfer, or indirect transfer when 
using an intermediate transfer medium, producing the printed
image.The important photoconductor surface, therefore, has
been the subject of much research and development in the
electrophotography art. A large number of photoconductor
materials have been disclosed as being suitable for the
electrophotographic photoconductor surface. For example,
inorganic compounds such as amorphous silicon (Si), arsenic
selenite (As2Se3), cadmium sulfide (CdS), selenium (Se),
titanium oxide (TiO2) and zinc oxide (ZnO) function as
photoconductors. However, these inorganic materials do not
satisfy modern requirements in the electrophotography art of
low production costs, high-speed response to laser diode or
other light-emitting-diode (LED) and safety from non-toxicity.Therefore, recent progress in the electrophotography
art with the photoconductor surface has been made with
organic materials as organic photoconductors (OPC).
Typically, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A positive-charging, organic photoconductor for electrophotography,
comprising:


a conductive substrate;
a hydroxy-containing binder component forming a layer
greater than or equal to about 1 micron thick on said

substrate, the hydroxy-containing binder being selected
from the group of polyvinyl acetals, polyvinyl formals,

phenolic resins, phenoxy resins, cellulose and its
derivatives, copolymers of vinyl alcohol, hydroxylated

polymers, and copolymers of hydroxy monomers and silicon
resins;
an X-type, metal-free phthalocyanine pigment component
uniformly distributed throughout said binder component in

the range of about 8 wt. % to about 50 wt. %, relative to
the hydroxy-containing binder component; and
a reactive additive component selected from the group
consisting of cross-linkable resins, carboxylic acid

anhydrides, aldehydes, polyols, alkoxy silane coupling
agents, reactive allyl polymers and dismaleimides, said

reactive additive component also being uniformly
distributed throughout, and being in cross-linked relation

with, said hydroxy-containing binder component
wherein the said cross-linked relation of the reactive
additive component with the hydroxy-containing binder

component results in improved electrical charge acceptance
and charge retention ability of the organic photoconductor

and results in the % cross-linking of the organic
photoconductor being greater than 46% as measured by the

dichloromethane bath test.
The photoconductor of claim 1 wherein the phthalocyanine
pigment has a particle size of less than one µm with

absorption maxima in the infrared or near infrared range.
The photoconductor of claim 1 wherein the phthalocyanine
pigment component is a combination of two or more types of

X-type metal-free phthalocyanine pigments.
The photoconductor of claim 1 which also comprises a
metal-type phthalocyanine component.
The photoconducto of claim 1 wherein the reactive additive
component is present in the range of about 0.0015 wt. % to

about 95 wt. %, relative to the hydroxy-containing binder
component.
The photoconductor of claim 1 which also comprises a
co-additive component selected from the group of compounds

which contain both an electron withdrawing functional group
and an electron donating function group in one molecule.
The photoconductor of claim 1 which also comprises a
co-additive component selected from the group consisting

of:

4-Pyrimidone,
Pyrido-1,4,-oxazin-one,
2,3-Pyridinedicarboxylic anhydride,
2-(N-Propylcarbamoyl)-1,2,3,4 tetrahydroisoquinoline,
Aminophthalimide,
4-Amino-9-fluorenone,
6-Amino-3,4-benzocoumarin,
7-Amino-4-methylcoumarin,
Antipyrine
4-Antipyrinecarboxaldehyde,
Benzalphthalide,
2-Benzoxazolinone,
3-Benzylphthalide, 
2-(4-Biphenylyl)-5-(4-tert-butylphenyl)-1,3,4 oxadiazole
2-(4-Biphenylyl)-5-phenyl-1,3,4 oxadiazole,
3-Cyanoindole,
1,4-Dichlorophthalazine,
3,4-Dimethyl-1-phenyl-3-pyrazolin-5-one,
2,5-Diphenyl-1,3,4-oxadiazole,
4-Hydroxyantipyrine,
1-(2-Mesitylenesulfonyl)-1,2,4-triazole,
3-Methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one,
Tetrahydro-2-pyrimidone,
Phthalazine, and
1-Methylhydantoin.
The photoconductor of claim 6 or 7 wherein the co-additive
component is present in the range of about 0.0015 wt. % to

about 95 wt. %, relative to the hydroxy-containing binder
component.
The photoconductor of claim 1 wherein the phthalocyanine
pigment component is formed from a premixed dispersion with

a solvent.
A method for making a positive-charging, organic photoconductor
for electrophotography which comprises:


pre-mixing an X-type, metal-free phthalocyanine pigment, a
reactive additive component selected from the group

consisting of cross-linkable resins, carboxylic acid
anhydrides, aldehydes, polyols, alkoxy silane coupling

agents, reactive allyl polymers and dismaleimides, and a
solvent to obtain a premix dispersion;
adding the premix dispersion to a solution containing a
hydroxy-containing binder component, the X-type metal-free

phthalocyanine component being in the range of about 8 wt.
% to about 50 wt. %, relative to the hydroxy-containing

binder component, to obtain a coating solution, the
hydroxy-containing binder being selected from the group of 

polyvinyl acetals, polyvinyl formals, phenolic resins,
phenoxy resins, cellulose and its derivatives, copolymers

of vinyl alcohol, hydroxylated polymers, and copolymers of
hydroxy monomers and silicon resins;
applying the coating solution to a conductive substrate;
and
subjecting the coated substrate to cross-linking
conditions, including a cure at temperatures between

100 - 300°C for 2-3 hours, to cross-link the said reactive
additive component with the said hydroxy-containing binder

component, wherein the said cross-linking results in
improved electrical charge acceptance and charge retention

ability of the organic photoconductor, and results in the %
cross-linking of the organic photoconductor being greater

than 46% as measured by the dichloromethane bath test.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
