<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615628</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEISMIC ENERGY SOURCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V1137	G01V102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V1	G01V1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A seismic energy source (10) for producing pressure pulses is disclosed. The source contains a substantially symmetrical main chamber (22) for storing compressed fluid. Two shuttles (24, 26) adapted to abut against each other are slideably placed around the housing (20) to sealingly enclose the chamber (22). A separate control chamber (46) for each shuttle is formed to urge its associated shuttle against the other shuttle when pressurized fluid is supplied to the control chamber (46). A separate firing chamber (80) is formed for each shuttle between the shuttle and the housing. The firing chambers are activated by the fluid from the main chamber (22) to simultaneously move both the shuttles (24, 26) away from each other to allow the compressed fluid to discharge from the main chamber (22) into the surrounding medium. A separate relief valve (81) is connected between each control chamber and the main chamber which allows the fluid from the control chamber to discharge into the main chamber when the control chamber pressure exceeds the main chamber pressure by a predetermined value.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
I O EXPLORATION PRODUCTS U S A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
I/O EXPLORATION PRODUCTS (U.S.A.), INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENKINS PHILIP J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENKINS, PHILIP, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an energy source 
for generating a pressure pulse in a surrounding 
medium, such as water. Energy sources of this kind are 
suitable for use in marine seismic exploration. In marine seismic exploration, to obtain 
geophysical information relating to the substrata 
located below a body of water, acoustic energy in the 
form of pressure pulses or shock waves is released into 
the water every few seconds. The shock waves propagate 
into the substrata beneath the water from where they 
are reflected and refracted back to the water. The 
returning shock waves are detected by a plurality of 
sensors (usually hydrophones) placed in seismic cables 
towed behind a vessel. The useful data contained in 
the signals produced by the sensors is processed to 
determine the geophysical structure of the surveyed 
substrata. Air guns or gas guns are most commonly used as the 
acoustic energy sources or transmitters to produce 
shock waves having known characteristics. State of the 
art air guns normally have an annular housing which 
contains an integral chamber for storing a volume of 
compressed air. A sleeve-type shuttle sealingly 
encloses a portion of the housing to prevent compressed 
air from escaping into the surrounding medium, which is 
usually water. Means are provided to move the shuttle 
to break the seal, which permits the compressed air to 
escape into the surrounding water. The air guns which 
use a sleeve-type shuttle as described above are 
sometimes referred to in the oil and gas industry as 
sleeve-type air guns. US 4,472,794 on the one hand and 
US 4,623,033 and US 5,001,679 on the other hand 
disclose two types of sleeve-type air guns that are 
used for performing marine geophysical surveying. US 4,472,794 discloses an air gun that has a  
 
housing which defines a main chamber for storing 
compressed air and a firing chamber. The main chamber 
has a discharge port. A movable sleeve type shuttle is 
placed within the housing to enclose sealingly the 
discharge port when it is in its normal closed 
position. A solenoid valve applies high pressure air 
to the firing chamber, which causes the sleeve shuttle 
to move away from the closed position. A relatively 
long acceleration distance for the sleeve shuttle is 
provided so that the sleeve shuttle may attain a high 
velocity before it passes over the discharge ports. 
When the sleeve shuttle opens the ports, the compressed 
air discharges from the main chamber to the surrounding 
medium creating a pressure pulse. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An energy source for generating a pressure 
pulse in a surrounding medium, the energy source 

comprising a housing (20) having a main chamber (22) 
for storing a fluid under compression, two mutually 

facing shuttles (24, 26) arranged slidably around the 
chamber, priming means (46, 47) for urging the shuttles 

(24, 26) against each other and firing means (78, 80) 
for causing movement of the shuttles away from each 

other when fired, characterised in that the firing 
means comprises two firing arrangements (78, 80) 

arranged to act on respective ones of the shuttles (24, 
26) for simultaneously initiating motion of each 

shuttle away from the other shuttle. 
An energy source according to claim 1 and 
comprising a valve (72) operable to utilise stored 

compressed fluid in the main chamber (22) as a primary 
source of energy with which to initiate motion of each 

shuttle (24, 26). 
An energy source according to claim 1 or 2, 
wherein the firing arrangements comprise respective 

firing chambers (78, 80). 
An energy source to claim 3, comprising means 
(77, 79) for selectively, and substantially 

simultaneously, supplying fluid to each of the firing 
chambers. 
An energy source according to claim 4, 
wherein said fluid supplying means comprises a feed 

line (77, 79). 
An energy source according to claim 4 or 5 
and comprising means (81) for reducing the forces 

applied by the priming means (46, 47) as the fluid is 
supplied to the firing chambers. 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the priming means comprises a 

control chamber arrangement (46, 47) to be supplied  
 

with pressurized fluid to urge the shuttles together. 
An energy source according to claim 7 and 
comprising means (81) for supplying fluid under 

pressure first to the control chamber arrangement (46, 
47) and then to the main chamber (22). 
An energy source according to claim 7 or 8, 
and comprising relief valve means (81) for discharging 

fluid from the control chamber arrangement into the 
main chamber (22) when the pressure in the control 

chamber arrangement exceeds the pressure in the main 
chamber (22) by a predetermined value. 
An energy source according to claims 8 and 9, 
wherein the supplying means comprise the relief valve 

means (81). 
An energy source according to claim 7, 8, 9 
or 10, wherein the control chamber arrangement 

comprises two control chambers (46, 47) for respective 
shuttles (24, 26), the outer ends of the respective 

shuttles being sealingly and slidably received by their 
respective control chambers (46, 47), each control 

chamber having a fluid inlet (64, 66) via which the 
control chamber concerned can be pressurised by the 

introduction of fluid therein to exert force on the 
shuttle concerned and thus to urge the shuttle 

concerned towards the other of the shuttles. 
An energy source according to claim 11, when 
appended to claim 9, comprising two relief valves (81) 

disposed between respective ones of the control 
chambers and the main chamber. 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, comprising a seal (30) for forming a 

fluid-tight seal between the mutually facing surfaces 
of the shuttles when said priming means has urged the 

shuttles against each other. 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the shuttles are so disposed  

 
on the housing that the gap between the shuttles when 

the firing means are actuated is aligned with the 
central region of the main chamber (22). 
An energy source according to claim 14, 
wherein a plane (31) defined by the interface between 

the shuttles when they are urged against each other 
divides the main chamber (22) into two portions of 

approximately equal volume. 
An energy source according to claim 15, 
wherein the main chamber (22) is substa
ntially 
symmetrical about said plane (31). 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the housing has an apertured 

section having apertures (23) disposed such that the 
apertures are exposed to the surrounding medium when 

the shuttles are moved apart from each other, thus 
bringing the main chamber (22) into fluid communication 

with the surrounding medium. 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, adapted for using air as the said 

fluid. 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, adapted for use in a surrounding 

medium of water. 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, comprising an insert (102) inside the 

main chamber (22) to reduce the volume thereof in 
comparison to the volume that the chamber would have in 

the absence of the insert. 
An energy source according to claim 20 when 
appended to claim 15, comprising two inserts (120, 122) 

disposed in respective ones of the two portions of the 
main chamber (22) . 
An energy source according to claim 21, 
wherein the said two inserts (120, 122) are placed at 

the ends of the main chamber (22).  
 
An energy source according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the housing has a circularly 

cylindrical outer surface portion on which both 
shuttles are coaxially mounted, the shuttles having 

inner circularly cylindrical surface portions of equal 
diameter slidably to engage said outer surface portion. 
An energy source according to claim 23 when 
appended to claim 3 and comprising into further 

circularly cylindrical outer surface portions at 
respective ends of, and with smaller diameters than 

that of, the first-mentioned outer surface portion, 
there being radially extending annular flanges at the 

junctions between the outer surface portions, the 
flanges constituting walls of respective ones of said 

firing chambers (78, 80). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
