<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638199</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROMAGNETICALLY ACTUATED RECIPROCATING COMPRESSOR DRIVER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B1703	F04B1704	H01F708	H01F716	H02K3300	H02K3310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F04B	H01F	H01F	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B17	F04B17	H01F7	H01F7	H02K33	H02K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Compressor (50) has electromagnetic actuator (52) for driving the piston (58) in compression cylinder (56). Electromagnetic element (76) has core (77) and coil (80). The core has surface (104) and channel (90). The coil is disposed in the channel. Axially reciprocating armature element (78) is interconnected with the piston, defining an axial stroke having a stroke midpoint and stroke peak. The armature element has surface (94) dimensioned to align with the electromagnet surface at the stroke peak. Primary spring (84) disposed on one end of the armature element biases the armature from axial movement. Secondary spring (86) disposed on the opposing end of the armature element biases the armature from movement in an opposite axial direction. The springs bias the armature to resonate at a pre-determined frequency. Applied current at stroke midpoint continues the resonating frequency, and allows the armture surface to overcome friction losses and compression forces. Two actuators placed back-to-back creates a dual piston compressor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AURA SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AURA SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORINIGO FERNANDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUART KEITH O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORINIGO FERNANDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUART KEITH O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
ELECTROMAGNETICALLY ACTUATED RECIPROCATINGCOMPRESSOR DRIVERRELATED APPLICATION DATAThe present application is a continuation-in-part of commonly-owned, co-pending application Serial No. 07/988,280, filed on December 9, 1992, which, in turn, is a continuation-in- part of commonly owned, co-pending application, U.S. Serial No. 07/957,194, filed on October 5,1992 for Electromagnetically Actuated Valve, which is incorporated by reference herein.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to a driver for an electromagnetically actuated valve, and more particularly to an electromagnetically actuated compressor driver which creates linear reciprocating motion directly.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONOne basic problem with a standard refrigerator compressor is the inefficiency of the compressor due to the friction generated by the piston drive mechanism in the standard compressor. A standard reciprocating refrigerator compressor uses a motor to rotate a crankshaft, which in turn moves a piston up and down within a compression chamber. Referring to FIG. 1 , a typical refrigerator compressor 10 is shown. More specifically, the induction motor 12 creates a torque on the crankshaft 14 which causes the piston 16 to move back and forth within the cylinder 18 via a connecting rod 20. During operation, the force 

exerted by the compressing gas is transferred through the piston's spherical bearing 22 down the connecting rod 20 to the connecting rod bearing 24 and and finally to the crankshaft bearings 26. These bearings are all heavily side loaded, creating a great amount of friction. As a result, the bearings must be continuously lubricated to prevent the heat build-up which will eventually burn out the bearing.Therefore, a need exists for a compressor driver that provides the required piston movement without producing undesired amounts of friction.Another problem with the standard compressor is that its manufacturing process is complex, and therefore relatively expensive. The conventional induction motor in the compressor is constructed from a laminated stack of silicon-iron sheets, with a copper coil complexly woven throughout. The motor's stator is assembled by stamping appropriately-shaped individual laminates from a coiled sheet silica-iron. Typically over one hundred individual laminates are required. The laminates are varnished, stacked in a jig, and welded along the side to create one integral unit. Coil slots and holes are machined into the stacked assembly, and plastic insulation inserts are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
l THE CLAIMS
2
3 We claim as our invention:
1 1 . An electromagnetic actuator for driving an external
2 load comprising:
3 an electromagnetic element, said electromagnetic
4 element including a core and a coil, said core having an
5 electromagnet surface and an opening at said electromagnet
6 surface extending through said core, said opening defining a
7 channel, said coil being disposed in said channel; and
8 an axially reciprocating armature element, said
9 armature element defining an axial stroke having a stroke lo midpoint, said armature element having an armature surface l i dimensioned to align with and correspond to said electromagnet i2 surface, said armature further being biased to resonate in an i3 axial direction at a pre-determined frequency, said armature i4 further being adapted for connection to the external load; is wherein applying current to the coil in the i6 electromagnetic element when the electromagnet surface is i7 aligned with the armature surface passes through the stroke is midpoint allows said armature surface to overcome frictional i9 forces and to continue resonating at the predetermined frequency.
1 2. An electromagnetically actuated valve in accordance
2 with Claim 1 wherein the axial stroke of said armature element
3 further defines a stroke peak, and further wherein said armature
4 surface and said electromagnet surface are aligned at the stroke
5 peak.
ι 3. An electromagnetically actuated valve in accordance
2 with Claim 1 further comprising a primary spring and a secondary 


 3 spring, said springs contacting opposing ends of said armature,
4 thereby biasing said armature to resonate at the pre-determined
5 frequency.
1 4. An electromagnetically actuated valve in accordance
2 with Claim 1 wherein said electromagnetic element and said
3 armature element are annular in cross-section.
1 5. An electromagnetically actuated valve in accordance
2 with Claim 1 further comprising a shaft, said shaft connecting
3 said armature element to the external load.
ι 6. A compressor having a compression cylinder defining
2 an aperture and a piston, the piston disposed within the aperture
3 for axial movement between an upper end of the aperture and a
4 lower end of the aperture, wherein the piston's movement is
5 actuated by an electromagnetic actuator comprising:
6 an electromagnetic element, said electromagnetic
7 element including a core and a coil, said core having an
8 electromagnet surface and an opening at said electromagnet
9 surface extending through said core, said opening defining a lo channel, said coil being disposed in said channel; l i an axially reciprocating armatu re element i2 interconnected with the piston, said armature element defining i3 an axial stroke having a stroke midpoint, said armature element i4 having an armature surface dimensioned to align with and is correspond to said electromagnet surface; i6 at least one primary spring disposed on one end of i7 said armature element, said primary spring biasing said armature is from movement in a first axial direction; and i9 at least one secondary spring disposed on an opposing
20 end of said armature element from said primary spring, said 


 1 secondary spring biasing said armature from movement in a 2 second axial direction opposite said first axial direction; 3 wherein said armature is biased by said springs to 4 resonate at a pre-determined frequency, and applying current to 5 the coil in the electromagnetic element when the armature 6 surface passes through the stroke midpoint allows said armature 7 surface to overcome losses due to friction and compression 8 forces, and causes the armature surface to continue resonating at 9 the predetermined frequency.
1 7. A compressor in accordance with Claim 6 wherein the
2 axial stroke of said armature element further defines a stroke
3 peak, and further wherein said armature surface and said
4 electromagnet surface are aligned at the stroke peak.
ι 8. A compressor in accordance with Claim 6 wherein
2 said electromagnetic element and said armature are annular in
3 cross-section.
ι 9. A dual piston compressor having two compression
2 cylinders at opposing ends of said compressor, each cylinder
3 defining an aperture and having a piston disposed within the
4 aperture for axial movement between an upper end of the aperture
5 and a lower end of the aperture, said compressor comprising:
6 a first and a second electromagnetic actuator for driving
7 each of the pistons, said first and second actuators each further
8 comprising ;
9 an electromagnetic element, said electromagnetic ιo element including a core and a coil, said core having an l i electromagnet surface and an opening at said electromagnet i2 surface extending through said core, said opening defining a i3 channel, said coil being disposed in said channel; and 


i4 an axial ly reciprocati ng armatu re element is interconnected with said piston, said armature element defining i6 an axial stroke having a stroke midpoint, and further having an
17 armature surface dimensioned to align with and correspond to is said electromagnet surface; i9 a primary biasing element for biasing the armature element
20 of both the first and second actuator in opposing axial directions;
2i two secondary biasing elements, each of said secondary
22 biasing elements biasing one of the first and second actuators in
23 an opposing axial direction from the primary biasing element;
24 wherein said first and second actuators are biased to
25 resonate at a pre-determined frequency 180 degrees out of phase
26 from each other, and further wherein applying current to the coil
27 in the electromagnetic element when the armature surface passes
28 through the stroke midpoint accelerates the armature surface,
29 allowing the armature surface to overcome frictional and
30 compression forces, and causing the armature surface to continue 3 i resonating at the predetermined frequency
1 10. A compressor in accordance with Claim 9 wherein the
2 axial stroke of said armature element further defines a stroke
3 peak, and further wherein said armature surface and said
4 electromagnet surface are aligned at the stroke peak.
1 1 1 . A compressor in accordance with Claim 9 wherein
2 said compressor further comprises a common intake valve
3 assembly and a common exhaust assembly said intake and exhaust
4 assemblies being connected to the two compression cylinders
1 12. A compressor in accordance with Claim 1 1 wherein
2 said compressor further includes a central area disposed
3 intermediate the first and second actuators, and further wherein 


said central area includes a vent line to said intake valve assembly.
13. A compressor in accordance with Claim 9 wherein said said electromagnetic elements and said armatures are annular in cross-section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
