<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A composition including a catalytic metal-polymer complex and a laminate preform or a laminate formed therefrom
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K103	C08J322	B32B508	C08F28300	C08G6391	H05K318	H05K318	H05K103	C08F29006	B32B508	C08F28301	C08F29000	C08J320	C08F29000	C08G6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	C08J	B32B	C08F	C08G	H05K	H05K	H05K	C08F	B32B	C08F	C08F	C08J	C08F	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K1	C08J3	B32B5	C08F283	C08G63	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	C08F290	B32B5	C08F283	C08F290	C08J3	C08F290	C08G63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The inventive method provides a simple and economical 
method of manufacturing a laminate which is catalytically 

effective for subsequent electroless deposition thereon of 
metals, such as copper, and which is useful as a substrate 

for printed circuit boards. Advantageously, the inventive 

method provides an improved laminate having a substantially 
uniform distribution of finely divided catalytic metal, 

Me
(0)
, within a crosslinked synthetic polymer impregnant. A 
catalytic metal-polymer complex is formed between a salt of 

a catalytic metal and a crosslinkable synthetic polymer, 
optionally containing a monomeric reactive diluent, to 

provide a concentrate which may be worked up into an 
impregnating composition for impregnating reinforcing 

material therewith. The complex is then destroyed and the 
catalytic metal, such as palladium-II, reduced to elemental 

metal, such as palladium metal, Pd
(0)
, during or after crosslinking 
of the polymer system under conditions effective for 

crosslinking the polymer system.. Preferably destruction and 
reduction occur during crosslinking. The catalytic metal is 

a Group IB or Group VIII metal, preferably palladium or 
nickel. The crosslinkable synthetic polymer is an 

unsaturated polyester or polyvinyl ester. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALPHA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE ALPHA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANE SCOTT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANCEY CHARLIE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANE, SCOTT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANCEY, CHARLIE F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a composition including a
novel catalytic metal-polymer complex which is useful in a
method of manufacturing a laminate preform or a laminate.
The laminate is catalytically effective for subsequent electroless
metallization thereof and is useful, for example, as
a substrate for printed circuit boards. In particular, the
invention relates to a method in which reinforcing material
is impregnated with a composition including a crosslinkable
synthetic polymer complexed with a salt of a Group IB or
Group VIII metal, and the complex is destroyed and the metal
reduced to finely divided elemental metal during or after
crosslinking of the polymer.Electrically insulating substrates may be made surface
active to chemical metallization, that is, electroless deposition
thereon of metal such as copper by two basic techniques.
Electroless deposition of metals is well known in
the art, see, for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,560,257 to F.
W. Schneble, Jr., et al.. The substrate may be
filled, i.e., fabricated to contain, a dispersed filler
comprising a metal catalytic to the deposition of the
electroless metal as is known from, for example, U.S. Patent
No. 3,549,009 to F. W. Schneble, Jr., et al. Alternatively,
a substrate free of metal catalyst may have its surfaces
activated by immersion of the substrate in a solution
containing a salt of a Group IB or Group VIII metal as is
known from, for example, U.S. Patent No. 2,702,253 to
Bergstrom or U.S. Patent No. 3,011,920 to Shipley, or in a
solvent-metal complex as described, for example, in U.S.
Patent No. 4,575,467 to Sirinyan.Substrates fabricated to contain a small percentage
catalytic metal according to the prior art, however, exhibit 
certain deficiencies. Catalytic metal coated fillers
according to U.S. Patent No. 3,546,009, for example, are
known to yield substrates having an uneven distribution of
the catalytic metal coated filler therein resulting from the
relatively high specific gravity and tendency to settle of
such fillers. Uneven filler distribution is known to cause
bowing and twisting problems within the resulting substrate.
Moreover, uneven metal distribution is known to cause
varying rates of electroless metal deposition, for example,
onto sidewall surfaces of throughbores in the substrate,
during electroless metallization. Employing catalytic metal
coated fillers additionally tends to produce a substrate
surface that is polymer-rich and catalytic metal-deficient.
Consequently, it is common to coat such substrates with a
catalyst-co
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A concentrate, comprising:

a catalytic metal-polymer complex formed between at
least one salt of a catalytic metal and at least one

crosslinkable synthetic monomer or polymer, wherein the salt
is an organic carboxylate of palladium or nickel and wherein

the at least one crosslinkable synthetic monomer or polymer
is one of (a) an unsaturated polyester or a polyvinyl ester,

and (b) a monomer which contains a double bond and which is a
reactive diluent compatible with unsaturated polyesters or

polyvinyl esters.
The concentrate according to claim 1, wherein the
salt is an acetate.
The concentrate according to claim 1 or 2 wherein
the monomer which contains a double bond and which is a

reactive diluent is styrene.
The concentrate according to claim 1 or 2 wherein
the at least one crosslinkable synthetic monomer or polymer

is said crosslinkable synthetic monomer, and wherein the

concentrate further comprises an amount of said polymer
effective to stabilize said catalytic metal-polymer complex. 
A composition, comprising:

a concentrate as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3
and at least one additional substance selected from the

group consisting of (a) a crosslinkable synthetic polymer
which is an unsaturated polyester or a polyvinyl ester, (b)

a crosslinkable synthetic monomer which contains a double
bond and which is a reactive diluent compatible with

unsaturated polyesters or polyvinyl esters, (c) a solvent,
and (d) a crosslinking agent.
The composition according to claim 5, wherein
the at least one additional substance includes a

crosslinking agent and wherein the crosslinking agent
comprises at least one peroxide.
A laminate preform, comprising:

(A) at least one layer of reinforcing material;

and

(B) an impregnating composition as claimed in claim
5 or 6 applied to the at least one layer of reinforcing

material, wherein the laminate preform includes said at
least one crosslinkable synthetic polymer as a B-stage

polymer.
The laminate preform according to claim 7,
wherein the impregnating composition further comprises a

reducing agent which influences reduction rate of the
catalytic metal-polymer complex and which is water, cobalt

octate, cobalt napthenate, aluminium isopropoxide, or
lithium aluminium hydride. 
The laminate preform according to claim 7 or 8
wherein the reinforcing material comprises chopped random

mat fiberglass, fiberglass roving, fiberglass veil, or
woven fiberglass.
The laminate preform according to claim 7 or 8,
wherein the laminate preform has a pair of opposing

surfaces, and further comprises at least one layer of metal
foil applied to at least one surface of the laminate

preform.
The laminate preform according to claim 10, wherein
the metal foil is copper foil.
A laminate which is catalytically effective for
subsequent electroless metallization thereof, comprising:


(A) at least one layer of reinforcing material;

and
(B) at least one crosslinked synthetic polymer
containing finely divided particles of at least one

catalytic metal, as elemental metal, uniformly distributed
therein impregnating the layer of reinforcing material,
wherein the crosslinked synthetic polymer is a
polymer comprised of at least one material which is an

unsaturated polyester or a polyvinyl ester,
wherein the catalytic metal is palladium or nickel, and
wherein essentially no settling of the finely divided
particles of catalytic metal has occurred.
The laminate according to claim 12, wherein the
at least one crosslinked synthetic polymer is a prepolymer

which additionally comprises a monomer which contains a
double bond and which is a reactive diluent compatible with

unsaturated polyesters or polyvinyl esters.
The laminate according to claim 13, wherein the
monomer which contains a double bond and which is a

reactive diluent is styrene.
The laminate according to any one of claims 12 to
14, wherein the reinforcing material comprises chopped

random mat fiberglass, fiberglass roving, fiberglass veil,
or woven fiberglass.
The laminate according to any one of claims 12 to
14, wherein the laminate has a pair of opposing

surfaces, and further comprises at least one sheet of metal
foil applied to at least one surface thereof.
The laminate according to claim 16, wherein the
metal foil is copper foil.
A method of manufacturing a laminate preform, as
claimed in any one of claims 7 to 11 comprising:


(i) admixing at least one organic carboxylate salt of a
catalytic metal which is palladium or nickel with at least

one crosslinkable synthetic monomer or polymer to form a
catalytic metal polymer complex there-between and provide a

concentrate; 
(ii) admixing the concentrate with at least one
additional substance selected from the group consisting of

(a) a crosslinkable synthetic polymer which is an
unsaturated polyester or a polyvinyl ester, (b) a

crosslinkable monomer which contains a double bond and
which is a reactive diluent compatible with unsaturated

polyesters or polyvinyl esters, (c) a solvent, and (d) a
crosslinking agent, to provide an impregnating composition,

which impregnating composition includes said at least one
crosslinkable synthetic polymer;
(iii) impregnating at least one layer of reinforcing
material with the impregnating composition; and
(iv) partially crosslinking said at least one
crosslinkable polymer, along with any monomer present, to a

B-stage polymer to thereby provide a laminate preform.
The method according to claim 18, wherein the
laminate preform has a pair of opposing surfaces, and

wherein the method further comprises applying metal foil to
at least one of the pair of opposing surfaces prior to step

(iv) to provide a metal foil clad laminate preform.
A method of manufacturing a laminate, as claimed in
any one of claims 12 to 17 said method comprising:


(i) admixing at least one organic carboxylate salt of a
catalytic metal which is palladium or nickel, with at least

one crosslinkable synthetic monomer or polymer to form a
catalytic metal-polymer complex there-between 

and provide a concentrate, wherein the at least one
crosslinkable synthetic monomer or polymer is one of (a) an

unsaturated polyester or a polyvinyl ester, and (b) a
monomer which contains a double bond and which is a

reactive diluent compatible with unsaturated polyesters or
polyvinyl esters;
(ii) admixing the concentrate with at least one
additional substance selected from the group consisting of

(a) a crosslinkable synthetic polymer which is an
unsaturated polyester or a polyvinyl ester, (b) a monomer

which contains a double bond and which is a reactive
diluent compatible with unsaturated polyesters or polyvinyl

esters, (c) a solvent, and (d) a crosslinking agent to
provide an impregnating composition, which impregnating

composition includes said at least one crosslinkable
synthetic polymer;
(iii) impregnating at least one layer of reinforcing
material with the impregnating composition to form a

laminate preform;
(iv) crosslinking the at least one crosslinkable
synthetic polymer, along with any monomer present, to a C-stage

polymer; and
(v) destroying the catalytic metal-polymer complex
and reducing the catalytic metal to elemental metal to

provide a finished laminate comprised of at least one layer
of reinforcing material impregnated with at least one

crosslinked synthetic polymer containing finely divided 
particles of at least one catalytic metal, as elemental

metal, uniformly distributed therein, whereby the laminate
is made catalytically effective for subsequent electroless

metallization thereof.
The method according to claim 20, wherein the
crosslinking of step (iv) and the destroying and reducing

of step (v) occur simultaneously.
The method according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the
salt is an acetate.
The method according to any one of claims 20 to 22,

   wherein the at least one additional substance includes
a crosslinking agent, and wherein the crosslinking agent

comprises at least one peroxide.
The method according to any one of claims 20 to 22,

   wherein the impregnating composition further comprises
a reducing agent which influences reduction rate of the

catalytic metal-polymer complex and which is water, cobalt
octate, cobalt napthenate, aluminium isopropoxide, or

lithium aluminium hydride.
The method according to any one of claims 20 to 24,

   wherein the catalytic metal-polymer complex is
destroyed and the catalytic metal is reduced to elemental

metal in step (v) by heating to a temperature of from 120°C
to 210°C for a time ranging from 15 minutes to 1 hour. 
The method according to any one of claims 20 to 25,

   wherein the laminate preform has a pair of opposing
surfaces, and wherein the method further comprises applying

metal foil to at least one of the pair of opposing surfaces
prior to step (iv) to provide a metal foil clad laminate

preform.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
