<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614468</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POLYONIC TRANSITION METAL CATALYST COMPOSITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07F1700	C08F4642	C07F1700	C08F46592	C08F1000	C08F1000	C08F460	C08F4619	C08F4645	C08F46192	C08F464	C08F400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07F	C08F	C07F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07F17	C08F4	C07F17	C08F4	C08F10	C08F10	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Improved ionically activated transition metal catalyst compositions which are useful in the polymerization of olefins comprise a transition metal cationic component associated with and stabilized by a polyanionic moiety comprising a plurality of metal or metalloid - containing non-coordinating anionic groups pendant from and chemically bonded to a core component.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER HOWARD WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER, HOWARD, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to polyionic catalyst 
compositions and their use to polymerize olefins, 
diolefins and/or acetylenically unsaturated monomers to 
homopolymer and copolymer products. Ziegler-Natta (Z-N) and metallocene-alumoxane type 
catalyst systems for the polymerization of olefins are 
well known in the art. Recently a new, ionic pair type 
of catalyst has been developed which yields polymers of 
improved properties compared to those made with 
conventional type catalysts systems. Among the various 
publications regarding ionic catalysts, the first to 
describe this new system was Turner, et al. in EPA 
277,003 and 277,004. EPA 277,003 and EPA 277,004 
disclose new cyclopentadienyl based catalyst systems 
comprising an ionic compound wherein the 
cyclopentadienyl transition metal component or 
metallocene is reacted with an activator comprising an 
anion and a cation; the cation being one which is 
reactable with a non-cyclopentadienyl ligand of the 
cyclopentadienyl moiety to yield as the reaction 
product a neutral ligand derivative, and a cationic 
metallocene species to which the anion of the activator 
compound is essentially non-coordinating. EPA 277,003 
describes an anion component which comprises a 
plurality of boron atoms while EPA 277,004 describes an 
anion species which is a single coordination complex 
shielding a central charge-bearing metal or metalloid 
atom. These ionic complexes can optionally be placed on 
a support as described in PCT W091/09882. In 
accordance with WO 91/09882, the ionic catalyst is  
 
physi-sorbed onto an inert carrier which has been previously 
dehydrated and treated with an alkyl aluminum solution. The ionic 
catalyst is not covalently bonded onto the support carrier and is 
extractable or desorbable by solvents. While improvements in catalyst activity and processing were 
observed with both the homogeneous and heterogeneous ionic catalyst 
described above, further improvements are sought for the catalyst 
system thought anion effects as well as to address the issue of catalyst 
desorption found when heterogeneous catalyst are used. The 
publications referred to contain no teachings or suggestions as to the 
advantages which may derive from having a plurality of non-coordinating 
anion species chemically e.g. covalently bonded to a core 
component. According to the present invention there is provided an activated 
catalyst composition comprising a polyanionic moiety comprising a 
plurality of metal or metalloid atom - containing non-coordinating 
ani
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An activated catalyst composition comprising a polyanionic 
moiety comprising a plurality of metal or metalloid atom-containing 

non-cordinating anionic groups pendant from and 
chemically bonded to a core component, a plurality of the 

pendant non-coordinating anionic groups of which are in non-coordinating 
association with a plurality of cationic transition 

metal components derived from one or more ligand stabilized 
transition metal compounds. 
A composition according to claim 1 in which the anionic groups 
are represented by the formula: 


(Q
1
Q
2
...Q
n
MD
d
)
-
 
wherein: 


M is a metal or metalloid element selected form 
Groups 3-15; 
Q
1
 - Q
n
 are radical ligands each of which is, 
independently, hydride, halide, disubstituted amido, 

alkoxide, aryloxide, hydrocarbyl, substituted hydrocarbyl, 
halocarbyl, substituted halocarbyl, or a hydrocarbyl- or 

halocarbyl- substituted organometalloid; 
n is the number of Q-ligands; 
d is 0 or 1; and 
when d is 1, D is a bridging moiety which links a 
pendant non-coordinating anion to the core. 
A composition according to claim 2, wherein the bridging moiety 
of the polyanion is a hydrocarbyl, halocarbyl, substituted 

hydrocarbyl, hydrocarbyloxy, aryloxy, oxo, imido, or sulfido 
group.  

 
A composition according to any of the preceding claims wherein 
the non-coordinating anionic groups of the polyanion comprise 

radical ligands bonded to the metal or metalloid element, at 
least one of said radical ligands being an aromatic or substituted 

aromatic radical containing from 6 - 20 carbon atoms. 
A composition according to claim 4 wherein at least one radical 
ligand is a pentafluorophenyl group. 
A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the metal or metalloid is boron or aluminum. 
A composition according to claim 6, in which the polyanion is 
represented by the formula 


[(ArAr'Q
1
BD
d
)
-
 
y
(T)]
-y
 
wherein 


Ar and Ar' are the same or different aromatic or 
substituted aromatic hydrocarbyl radical containing from 

6 to 20 carbon atoms; 
T is the core component; 
B is boron; 
d is 0 or 1 
when d is 1, D is a bridging moiety which 
chemically links the boron atoms to the core T; 
Q
1
 is a halide, hydride, hydrocarbyl or substituted 

hydrocarbyl radical containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms, 
or an aromatic or substituted aromatic radical containing 

at least 6 carbon atoms; and 
y is an integer equal to or greater than 2. 
A composition according to claim 7, in which the polyanion is 
represented by the formula:  

 

[((pfp)
3
B-D
d
)
-
 
y
(T)]
-y
 
   wherein pfp is pentafluorophenyl. 
A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, in 
which the polyanion is derived from an intermediate compound 

in which the metal or metalloid element of the non-coordinating 
anionic groups is chemically bonded to a reactive radical 

containing at least one reactive functional group, said radical 
being chemically reactable with the core component, or being 

polymerizable with other such intermediate compounds and 
optionally other comonomer to form the core component. 
A composition according to claim 9, wherein the reactive radical 
comprises 


 
-ROH ; -ROSiR ' / jX
3-j
 ; 

 
-RSiR ' / jX
3-j
 
wherein each R is independently a hydrocarbyldiradical, X is a 

halide or alkoxide radical and j is 0, 1 or 2. 
A composition according to any one of the claims 1-8, where the 
core component comprises a cross-linked polystyrene or 

polydivinyl benzene polymeric core, or a polyanionic Lewis basic 
core substrate reactable with a Lewis acid. 
An activated catalyst composition according to claim 1, which 
comprises a product of reaction between (i) a transition metal 

compound having at least one leaving group ligand and (ii) a  
 

polyanionic activator composition comprising a plurality of 
cations Ct which balance the charge of the non-coordinating 

anionic groups. 
A composition according to claim 12, which comprises the 
product of reaction between (i) the transition metal compound 

having at least one leaving group ligand and (ii) cations Ct which 
are reactive with the leaving group ligand. 
A composition according to claim 13, wherein the cations Ct are 
ammonium, phosphonium, carbonium, oxonium, tropylium or 

silver cations or are represented by the formula 

[LH]
+
 
wherein
 
   L is a neutral Lewis base and [LH]
+
 is a Bronsted acid. 
A composition according to claim 14, wherein L is ammonia, an 
amine or hydrocarbyl substituted amine, or aniline or a N-hydrocarbyl 

substituted aniline. 
An activated catalyst composition according to any of claims 12 
to 15, wherein the transition metal compound is of the formula 


(LS)ZX
1
X
2
 
wherein
 
   Z is a group 3 to 10 transition metal, X
1
 is an 
anionic leaving groups ligand or a non-coordinating anion 

leaving group, X
2
 is a hydride or hydrocarbyl ligand, and 
(LS) is a ligand system which completes the coordination 

number of Z.  
 
An activated catalyst composition according to claim 16, wherein 
the transition metal compound has a ligand system coordinated 

to the transition metal, which system comprises (i) two 
cyclopentadienyl ligands, each optionally substituted and the 

two optionally being bridged with a bridging atom or group or 
(ii) a single, optionally substituted, cyclopentadienyl ligand and 

a heteroatom - containing ligand, the two ligands optionally 
being bridged with a bridging atom or group. 
A method of producing an activated catalyst composition 
according to any one of the claims 1 to 17 which comprises 

contacting (i) a transition metal compound having at least one 
leaving group ligand and (ii) the polyanionic activator 

composition according to any one of claims 13 to 15 for a time 
and under conditions sufficient to allow cations of (ii) to react 

with the leaving group ligands of (i). 
A method of producing an activated catalyst composition 
according to any one of claims 1 to 17 which comprises 

contacting (i) a transition metal composition comprising a 
transition metal cationic component stabilized with a single non-coordinating 

anionic component with (ii) a polyanionic activator 
composition according to any one of claims 13 to 15 for a time 

and under conditions sufficient to allow (a) cations of (ii) to react 
with the non-coordinating anionic component of (i), and (b) the 

transition metal cationic components of (i) to form a stable non-coordinating 
association with the polyanionic moiety of the 

polyanionic activator composition. 
A process for polymerizing an olefin to a polyolefin which 
comprises contacting an olefin monomer and optionally one or 

more comonomers with an activated catalyst composition 
according to any one of claims 1 to 17, at a temperature and for a 

time sufficient to polymerize at least a portion of the olefin to a 
polyolefin.  

 
A process according to claim 20, wherein the polyanionic moiety 
of the activated catalyst composition is insoluble in the 

monomer. 
A process according to claim 21, wherein the activated catalyst 
composition is immobilized with regard to a fluidized flow of 

monomer or polymer, which process comprises maintaining 
monomer in fluidized contact with the immobilized activated 

catalyst composition at a temperature and for a time sufficient to 
polymerize at least a portion of the olefin to a polyolefin, and 

removing the polyolefin from contact with the activated catalyst 
composition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
