<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627838</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Conference call participation tracking.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M356	H04M356	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method and apparatus for tracking participation in a conference call 
a conference tracker (28) at a first location (fig.1) transmits a status signal to another 

conference tracker at a second location (not shown). The conference tracker at the 
second location receives the status signal and recognizes it as representative of an 

attribute of one or more of the parties at the first location. The attribute represented 
may be the identity of the first location, thereby informing the conference tracker at 

the second location that the first location remains connected to the conference call. 
In this manner, the conference tracker may inform a party of the number of 

connected locations or that a particular location has disconnected. The attribute 
represented may be the listening party of the location of the speaking party. The 

attribute represented may be the identity of the speaking party, thereby enabling the 
conference tracker at the second location to determine which party is speaking. 

Status signals transmitted by each conference tracker may comprise audio pulses of 
unique frequencies, thereby enabling each conference tracker to determine the origin 

of each status signal. Consecutive pulses may be used to identify a particular status 
(e.g., connected or speaking). 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS, ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of telephone communication and 
more specifically to telephone conference calling. Telephone conference calls allow multiple parties to participate in a 
single conversation. Conference calls couple a plurality of locations (usually more 
than two) with use of a communication channel. At each location, there may be one 
or more parties (participating persons) to the conversation. Each location may 
include, for example, a conventional telephone set used by a single party, or a 
conventional speakerphone used by one or more parties. The communication 
channel supporting a conference call typically comprises a conventional switched 
telephone network. Should the communication channel include a wireless (e.g., 
cellular) communication lid, one or more of the participating "locations" may 
comprise a mobile cellular phone or speakerphone. Although a widely used tool in business and industry, telephone 
conference calls suffer from certain problems which impact on their effectiveness as 
a substitute for other methods of communication, such as a face-to-face meeting. 
For example, during a typical conference call, a party cannot be sure who else is on 
the line (i.e., connected) at any given time. Moreover, unless a listener is familiar 
with the voice of each participant in the call, it may be unclear which party is 
speaking at any given time. Questions such as "John, are you still on the line?" or 
"Who just said that?" need to be asked frequently. Such difficulties can cause the 
conversation to become less productive and often uncomfortable or even 
embarrassing. The present invention provides a technique for tracking the participation 
of parties in a conference call. A participating (first) location transmits a tracking 
signal to another participating (second) location. The second location receives the 
tracking signal and recognizes it as representative of an attribute of one or more of 
the parties at the first (transmitting) location. Such attributes may include, for 
example, the location of a party, the location of a party presently speaking, and the 
identity of a speaking party. Illustratively, tracking signals are transmitted and 
received at each location by a conference call tracking device. Such a device is 
preferably interposed between a telephone deskset and handset, connected to each by  
 
standard 4-wire telephone cords. According to a first illustrative embodiment of the present invention, the 
party attribute recognized by a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for tracking participation in a conference call, said 
conference call including a plurality of parties at a plurality of locations, wherein a 

tracking signal is transmitted from a first one of said locations to a second one of 
said locations, said method comprising the step of recognizing said tracking signal at 

said second location as representative of an attribute of one or more parties at said 
first location. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said attribute reflects an 
identity of the location of the parties. 
A method according to claim 2 further comprising the step of 
detecting whether said tracking signal has not been transmitted from said first 

location for a predetermined amount of time. 
A method according to claim 3 further comprising the step of 
communicating to one or more of the parties at said second location an information 

signal when said tracking signal has not been transmitted from said first location for 
a predetermined amount of time, said information signal comprising a disconnection 

signal reflecting that said first location is no longer connected to said conference call. 
A method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of 
monitoring tracking signals from one or more of said locations to determine a 

number of said locations connected to said conference call. 
A method according to claim 5 further comprising the step of 
providing a signal reflecting said number to one or more of the parties at said second 

location. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said attribute reflects an 
identity of the location at which a parry is speaking. 
A method according to claim 7 further comprising the step of 
communicating to one or more of the parties at said second location an information 

signal, said information signal comprising a speaking location signal reflecting the 
identity of said location at which a party is speaking. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said attribute reflects an 
identity of a party who is speaking. 
A method according to claim 9 further comprising the step of 
communicating to one or more of the parties at said second location an information 

signal, said information signal comprising a speaking party signal reflecting the 
identity of said party who is speaking. 
A method according to claim 4, 8 or 10 wherein said communicating 
step comprises generating an audible information signal. 
A method according to claim 4, 8 or 10 wherein said communicating 
step comprises providing said information signal to a display. 
A method according to claim 4, 8 or 10 wherein said information 
signal comprises a signal having been generated by speech input at said first 

location. 
A method according to claim 4, 8 or 10 wherein said information 
signal comprises a signal having been generated by key entry input at said first 

location. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said tracking signal is 
combined with a speech signal for transmission across a communication channel. 
A method according to claim 15 further comprising the step of 
filtering said combined tracking and speech signal at said second location to 

distinguish said tracking signal from said speech signal. 
A method according to claim 16 wherein said communication 
channel comprises a plurality of frequency subbands and wherein said filtering step 

comprises filtering one or more of said subbands to distinguish said tracking signal 
from said speech signal. 
Apparatus for tracking participation in a conference call, said 
conference call including a plurality of parties at a plurality of locations, wherein a 

 
tracking signal is transmitted from a first one of said locations to said apparatus 

located at a second one of said locations, said apparatus comprising means for 
recognizing said tracking signal as representative of an attribute of one or more 

parties at said first location. 
Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said apparatus is coupled 
between a telephone deskset and a telephone handset. 
Apparatus for tracking participation in a conference call, said 
conference call including a plurality of parties at a plurality of locations, said 

apparatus located at a first one of said locations, said apparatus comprising means for 
transmitting a tracking signal to a second one of said locations, said tracking signal 

recognized at said second location as representative of an attribute of one or more 
parties at said first location. 
Apparatus according to claim 20 further comprising means for 
generating a location identifier signal identifying said first location; and means for 

transmitting said location identifier signal to said second location. 
Apparatus according to claim 20 further comprising means for 
generating a party identifier signal identifying one of the parties at said first location; 

and means for transmitting said party identifier signal to said second location. 
Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said tracking device is 
coupled between a telephone deskset and a telephone handset. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
