<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618328</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Steam shower and process for controlling the gloss and/or smoothness of a web
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21G700	D21G100	D21F700	D21F700	D21G100	D21G700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21G	D21G	D21F	D21F	D21G	D21G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21G7	D21G1	D21F7	D21F7	D21G1	D21G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A steam shower is specified having a feed conduit (16) for steam, a nozzle arrangement (33) and a valve (19), which is arranged between feed conduit and nozzle arrangement. Using a steam shower of this type, it is intended to ensure a sufficient moistening of a web to be moistened, even at relatively high web speeds. For this purpose, an acceleration channel (35) extending essentially linearly is arranged after the valve (19) in the flow direction of the steam, from which acceleration channel a nozzle channel (36) branches off to the nozzle arrangement (33) at a prescribed distance from the end (37) of the acceleration channel (35). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIB APPARATEBAU GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
V.I.B. APPARATEBAU GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINHEIM STEFAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINHEIM, STEFAN H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Steam spray pipe having a supply pipe for steam (11), 
a nozzle arrangement (33, 34) and a valve (19) which 

is arranged between the supply pipe and the nozzle 
arrangement, characterised in that behind the valve 

(19) in the direction of flow of the steam an 
acceleration channel (35) extending essentially in a 

straight line is arranged from which at a 
predetermined distance before the end (37) of the 

acceleration channel (35) a nozzle channel (36) 
branches off to the nozzle arrangement (33, 133). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 1, characterised 
in that the acceleration channel (35) is arranged in 

a channel housing (42) which is located completely in 
the interior of the supply pipe (16). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the acceleration channel (35) is 

closed off at its end (37) by a baffle plate (38) 
which, in the region of its lowest point viewed in the 

direction of gravity, has an opening (39). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 3, characterised 
in that the acceleration channel (35) is connected via 

the opening (39) to a disposal channel (40). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 3 or 4, 
characterised in that the opening (39) is constructed 

as a throttle. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 1 to 
5, characterised in that the valve (19) is arranged 

with its valve seat (20) and locking member (21) in 
the interior of the supply pipe (16) and with its  

 
driving member (22) outside the supply pipe (16). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 6, characterised 
in that the driving member (22) is thermally decoupled 

from the supply pipe (16) at least by its housing 
(25). 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 1 to 
7, characterised in that the valve (19) is constructed 

as a pneumatically controllable analogue and 
especially linear valve. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 1 to 
8, characterised in that the nozzle arrangement is 

oriented downwardly in the direction of gravity. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 1 to 
9, characterised in that opposite the nozzle 

arrangement a nozzle arrangement of a second spray 
pipe is arranged, the direction of the steam emerging 

from one nozzle arrangement being essentially directed 
opposite to that of the steam emerging from the other 

nozzle arrangement. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 1 to 
3, characterised in that the steam spray pipe is 

arranged in front of the first roller gap in a roller 
gap arrangement having several roller gaps, especially 

a supercalender. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 1 to 
10, characterised in that the nozzle arrangement has 

a steam chamber (34, 134) into which the nozzle 
channel (36) opens on one side and which is provided 

with nozzles (33). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 12, characterised  
 

in that the steam emerging from the nozzle channel 
(36) changes its direction of motion at least once in 

the steam chamber (34, 134). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 12 or 13, 
characterised in that a baffle plate (41) is arranged 

in the steam chamber (34) in extension of the nozzle 
channel (36). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 14, characterised 
in that the normal to the baffle plate is inclined 

with respect to the axis of the nozzle channel. 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 14 or 15, 
characterised in that the baffle plate is connected 

through side walls to the surrounds of the opening of 
the nozzle channel, the side walls opening in the 

direction towards a steam chamber wall. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
16, characterised in that the nozzle channel (36) 

opens out off-centre into the steam chamber (134) and 
the nozzles (133) are arranged outside the projection 

of the opening of the nozzle channel (36) on to the 
outer wall of the steam chamber (134). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 17, characterised 
in that the steam chamber (134) has an essentially 

circular cross section and the nozzle channel (36) 
opens therein essentially tangentially. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
18, characterised in that the steam chamber (34, 134) 

is arranged in a heated housing (17, 44). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 19, characterised 
in that the housing is formed at least in part by a  

 
part of the bounding wall (17) of the supply pipe (16) 

which is formed out in the direction towards the 
interior of the supply pipe (16). 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
20, characterised in that the nozzles (33) are 

arranged in a diffuser plate (32) which closes the 
steam chamber (34) towards t
he outside. 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 21, characterised 
in that the diffuser plate (32) is connected in 

thermally conducting manner to the bounding wall (17) 
of the supply pipe (16). 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 22, characterised 
in that the diffuser plate (32) and/or the baffle 

plate (41) are formed from a material which with 
respect to the material of the bounding wall (17) of 

the supply pipe (16) has approximately the same 
coefficient of thermal expansion but a substantially 

better thermal conductivity. 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 23, characterised 
in that the diffuser plate (32) and/or the baffle 

plate (41) are formed of copper while the bounding 
wall (17) of the supply pipe (16) consists essentially 

of special steel. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 19 to 
24, characterised in that the housing (44) of the 

steam chamber (134) is provided with heating channels 
(45, 46) which are connected to the interior of the 

supply pipe (16) and through which steam can flow. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
25, characterised in that the nozzles (33, 133) are 

formed by bores which are arranged in at least two  
 

rows which are offset with respect to one another so 
that in the machine direction (6) of a material web 

(4) to be moistened a bore of one row is located in 
front of or behind a bore spacing of another row. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
25, characterised in that the nozzles are constructed 

as slit nozzles. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
27, characterised in that the nozzles (33, 133) are 

grouped together in zones, the nozzles (33, 133) of 
one zone being fed by a common steam chamber (34, 134) 

which is separate from the steam chambers of other 
zones and can be controlled separately. 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 28, characterised 
in that nozzle arrangements (33, 133) of neighbouring 

zones are arranged overlapping one another. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 26 to 
29, characterised in that with respect to the 

direction of the longitudinal extension of the supply 
pipe the rows (43) enclose an acute angle. 
Steam spray pipe according to Claim 30, characterised 
in that the angle is adjustable. 
Steam spray pipe according to one of the Claims 12 to 
30, characterised in that the nozzles (33, 133) have 

a diameter or width which is smaller than their 
length. 
Method for adjusting the lustre and/or smoothness of 
a material web guided through a roller gap 

arrangement, especially with the aid of steam spray 
pipes according to one of the Claims 1 to 32, in which  

 
an actual value of lustre and/or smoothness of the 

material web is acquired in the machine direction 
behind the roller gap arrangement and compared with a 

target value and the quantity of steam delivered by 
the steam spray pipes is varied in zones as a function 

of the difference between the target and actual value, 
characterised in that for all zones of at least one 

side of the material web jointly, a constant steam 
pressure is set and in the event of a difference 

between the target and actual value in the machine 
direction the degree of opening of the valves of all 

zones is changed by the same value, the valves being 
constructed as analogue and linearly controlled, 

especially linear valves. 
Method according to Claim 33, characterised in that in 
the case of a deviation of the target and actual value 

in the cross-machine direction the valves of the 
individual zones are adjusted independently of one 

another and only as a function of the difference 
associated with their own zone. 
Method according to Claim 33 or 34, characterised in 
that on accelerating or slowing down the web the 

quantity of steam given off is increased or decreased 
according to a predetermined function essentially 

independently of the actual values determined. 
Method according to Claim 35, characterised in that 
the specified function describes a linear dependence 

on time or the speed of the web. 
Method according to Claim 35 or 36, characterised in 
that the change in the quantity of steam is introduced 

as a function of a signal initiating the speed change 
of the web.  

 
Method according to one of the Claims 33 to 35, 
characterised in that at least a portion of the steam 

is applied before the first roller gap, especially 
from both sides of the material web simultaneously. 
Method according to one of the Claims 33 to 38, 
characterised in that the application of steam to a 

side of a material web is carried out by at least two 
steam spray pipes. 
Method according Claim 39, characterised in that one 
of the steam spray pipes is controlled so that it 

compensates for differences between target and actual 
values in the machine direction while another is 

controlled so that it compensates for differences in 
the cross-machine direction. 
Method according to Claim 39 or 40, characterised in 
that one of the steam spray pipes is used for a coarse 

adjustment and another for a fine adjustment of the 
quantity of steam delivered. 
Method according to one of the Claims 39 to 40, 
characterised in that a steam spray pipe is connected 

up after the capacity limit of another pipe has been 
reached. 
Method according to Claim 39 or 40, characterised in 
that all the steam spray pipes are controlled in 

parallel. 
Method according to one of the Claims 33 to 43, 
characterised in that in the case of a difference 

determined between the target and actual value a ratio 
is first formed from the difference and the maximum 

value for smoothness and/or lustre and the quantity of 
steam delivered is increased or decreased by an amount  

 
which results from the multiplication of the ratio by 

the maximum quantity of steam which can be delivered. 
Method according to one of the Claims 33 to 44, 
characterised in that when changing the quantity of 

steam in one zone for compensating for a difference 
between the target and actual value in the cross-machine 

direction, the quantity of steam in at least 
one other zone is changed with corresponding reversal 

of sign in order to hold the quantity of steam 
delivered in total constant. 
Method according to Claim 45, characterised in that 
the quantity of steam changed with reversal of sign is 

distributed over several zones. 
Method according to one of the Claims 33 to 46, 
characterised in that a predetermined minimum quantity 

of steam and/or maximum quantity of steam is set for 
all zones as a function of the material of the 

material web. 
Method according to one of the Claims 33 to 47, 
characterised in that the difference in the quantities 

of steam delivered by neighbouring zones is limited to 
a predetermined maximum value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
