<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654419</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Package assembly comprising a nozzle with piercing means
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8132	B65D8132	B65D7552	B65D7558	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D81	B65D81	B65D75	B65D75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package assembly comprising a package, a nozzle part, 
piercing means and fixing means, the package being in 

particular intended for receiving liquids and at least partly 
manufactured from a pierceable foil or another pierceable 

material, the nozzle part comprising a discharge channel, and 
the piercing and fixing means being capable of connecting the 

nozzle part to the package such that the discharge channel, in 
a discharge position, connects the interior of the package to 

the surroundings. The fixing means comprise a receiving part 
capable of receiving the nozzle part in a first position, the 

piercing means, when the receiving part and the package are 
fixedly connected, being at a distance from the package, and 

control means being present between the receiving part and 
nozzle part for bringing the nozzle part from the first 

position into the discharge position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FILOFORM BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FILOFORM B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IPENBURG WILLEM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IPENBURG, WILLEM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a package assembly according to
the preamble of claim 1. Such assembly is known from
AU-B-45725/79.A known package assembly for receiving liquids, and in
particular for high-viscous liquids, consists of a package, a
nozzle part with piercing means and fixing means in the form
of a loose adhesive ring. In this known package assembly, the
package consists of two pierceable foil strips, sealed at at
least one edge after the package has been filled. The nozzle
part comprises a discharge channel, a fixing flange and
piercing means in the form of a number of cutting lips
extending around the end of the discharge channel from the
fixing flange. The adhesive ring is a thin, flexible ring
having a layer of glue on one side and a central opening of
the size of the section of the nozzle part adjacent to the
fixing flange. The known package assembly can be handled as
follows.The package is taken in the hand by a user and, if
necessary, kneaded thoroughly. Subsequently, the nozzle part
is arranged on one of the sides of the package. This involves
the adhesive ring being slid over the nozzle part until it 
abuts against the fixing ring, the adhesive layer facing the
package. The nozzle part is then pressed onto the package with
the fixing flange, and secured by means of the adhesive ring.
While the fixing flange is being pressed onto the package, the
cutting lips are pressed through the wall of the package,
causing the discharge channel to connect the inside of the
package with the surroundings and enabling removal of the
liquid from the package.During use, the known package assembly has the drawback,
in particular when liquids are used capable of building up a
pressure in the package, such as reactive substances, that
already during the arrangement of the nozzle part on the
package, a part of the liquid will be able to flow out of the
package and end up on the user's clothes or hands. Moreover, a
part is the contents will thus be lost.A further drawback of this known assembly is that during
use, the nozzle part with the adhesive ring are to be provided
on the package by the user himself. Hence, it is possible that
the fixing flange is not fixed on the package in the correct
manner, which has an adverse effect on the use of the package
assembly. For instance, prior to or during use, the package
may have become greasy or dirty by the user's hands or it may
be wrinkled, as a result of which the adhesive ring will
poorly adhere to the package, or dirt may end up between the
fixing ring and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A package assembly comprising a package (1), a nozzle
part (7), piercing means (27) and fixing means (8, 208), the

package (1) being in particular intended for receiving liquids
and at least partly manufactured from a pierceable foil or

another pierceable material, the nozzle part (7) comprising a
discharge channel, and the fixing means (8, 208) being capable

of connecting the nozzle part (7) to the package (1) such that
the discharge channel (17), in a discharge position, connects

the interior of the package (1) to the surroundings, wherein
the fixing means comprise a receiving part (8, 208) capable of

receiving the nozzle part (7) in a first position, wherein the
piercing means (27), when the receiving part (8, 208) and the

package (1) are fixedly connected, are at a distance from the
package (1), control means (10, 15) being present between the

receiving part (8, 208) and the nozzle part (7) for bringing
the nozzle part (7) from the first position into the discharge

position, characterized in that the piercing means comprise a
cutting tooth (27) or a like cutting means extending from the

outside of the nozzle part adjacent to the bottom end thereof
substantially transversely to the longitudinal axis of the

discharge channel.
An assembly according to claim 1, characterized in that
the cutting part comprises a cutting edge (20) at least partly

extending around the end (18) of the discharge channel (17). 
An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the nozzle part (7) is detachable from

the receiving part (8, 208).
An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the nozzle part (7) can be screwed on or

in the receiving part (8, 208).
An assembly according to claims 1 and 4, characterized in
that the cutting tooth is formed by a substantially

transversely cut-off end of the thread on the nozzle part.
An assembly according to claim 5, characterized in that
the receiving part (8, 208) is a ring (9) having an internal

thread (10, 210) and a flat bottom side (11), fixedly
connectable to the package (1), and comprising a contact face

(12) for a sealing ring face (22) provided around the
discharge channel (17).
An assembly according to any one of claims 1-5,
characterized in that the nozzle part (7) can be fixed on or

in the receiving part (8, 208) by means of a bayonet fit or a
like connection.
An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the nozzle part (7) is connected to the

receiving part (8, 208) by means of a flexible part.
An assembly according to claim 8, characterized in that
the flexible part is a closed wall fittingly connecting to the

receiving part (8, 208) on the one hand and to the nozzle part
(7) on the other, the arrangement being such that during use,

liquid from the package can only be passed to the surroundings
via the discharge channel (17). 
An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims,
the package being divided into at least two separate

compartments and manufactured from at least two foil strips,
characterized in that the receiving part (8, 208) is provided

on one of the foil strips preferably adjacent to a
longitudinal edge thereof.
An assembly according to any one of the claims 4-10,
characterized in that the receiving part (208) is annular and

is provided with a screw thread (210) having one helix at the
most.
A set of at least a receiving part and a nozzle part,
intended for use for the forming of an assembly

according to one of the preceding claims, the receiving part
being provided with adhesive means for positioning this part

on a flexible package, the nozzle part and the receiving part
being constructed as defined in claim 1.
A method for manufacturing a package assembly according
to any one of claims 1-11, wherein the receiving part and,

optionally, at least one compartment-separating element are
fixed on a tubular foil section, and the foil section is

filled with one or more reactive components, whereupon the
tubular section is sealed at the open ends, and wherein a

nozzle part as defined in claim 1 is provided.
A method for applying a foam-forming agent by means of an
assembly according to any one of claims 1-11, wherein at least

two components are contacted with each other and mixed in the
package, after which the nozzle part is brought into the

discharge position in the receiving part, after which the 
foam-forming contents of the package are squeezed out to the

surroundings via the discharge channel, at least through
compression of the package.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
