<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649549</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD OF IMAGING WRITTEN INFORMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing apparatus functioning as a writing device that images information as it is written on to a surface by measuring the forces applied at the stylus tip. The imaging device includes an ink pen cartridge and strain gauges mounted along the longitudinal axis of the cartridge. The strain gauges measure lateral forces deflecting the pen cartridge, and the longitudinal forces pressing the cartridge into the pen housing. Alternatively, strain gauges can also determine the force of the pen tip against the writing surface. The gauges generate signals representative of the forces applied to the pen point as the pen moves along or presses against a writing surface. A further set of sensors can be employed to determine movement and orientation of the device relative to the surface even when the pen is not in contact with the surface. Data representative of the written images are captured by analyzing the forces applied to the pen point.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMART PEN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMART PEN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHRIVER STEPHEN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHRIVER, STEPHEN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to the field of image processing and in 
particular to devices for capturing image data information as it is written on a 
surface. Various systems have been proposed in the past for capturing image 
information as the information is written. Such systems typically detect forces that 
describe the pattern being traced out on a surface. These forces can be used to 
recreate the written image. How accurately written images can be recreated depends 
on how completely the forces describe the motion of the device against the surface. 
For example, forces applied to more than one axis of a pen point may represent that 
the pen point moved along the writing surface, or may represent that the pen is being 
held at an angle on a stationary point. Without more information an accurate image 
cannot be obtained. The ability to image written information, therefore, is limited by 
the information concerning pen position and orientation. For a device to accurately image information as it is written, data 
concerning the device's position on the writing surface, orientation to the writing 
surface and movement along the writing surface must be gathered. In general, devices for imaging information as it is written gather 
information concerning movement by detecting the mechanical forces at the device's 
point while the point is in contact with the writing surface. In order to gather 
reasonably accurate information, imaging devices have typically employed special 
pen point cartridges for sensing mechanical forces. In many cases these pen point 
housings exhibit non-linear behavior, i.e. elastic compression, thereby corrupting the 
sensed data. Furthermore, these housings are costly and too fragile for a typical 
work environment. In order to correctly process the forces sensed at a pen point, the 
orientation of the device to the surface must be known. For example, the device's 
ability to distinguish between forces caused by the pen point being held at an angle 
at a stationary spot and forces caused by the pen point being moved along a surface, 
cannot be resolved unless the orientation of the device is known. Devices for 
imaging written information have typically required that the pen point be held at a 
specific angle, usually perpendicular to the writing surface. While this method  
 
allows an accurate assessment of the forces when the pen point is held correctly, its 
accuracy falls off with slight variations of orientation and is therefore often 
impractical for the ordinary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic imaging system (10) for imaging information as the 
information is traced on a surface relative to a first and second axis 

on the surface, comprising 


a stylus element (12) for making contact with a surface and 
having at least a portion thereof capable of deflecting relative to a 

longitudinal axis (26) extending through the stylus, the deflecting 
being in response to a tracing of a pattern on the surface, 
contact sensing means (16) for generating contact signals 
representative of the force of the surface against the stylus and 

directed along the longitudinal axis of the stylus, 
movement sensing means (14) having sensor elements (20, 22) 
for generating deflection signals representative of the deflecting of 

the stylus as the stylus moves relative to the first and second axis, 
 
characterised by: 


a tilt sensor (32) disposed relative to the longitudinal axis of 
the stylus element for generating a signal representative of the 

angular orientation of the stylus element relative to the surface, and 
a processing unit (64) for generating, as a function of the 
deflection signals, the contact signals and the angular orientation of 

the stylus element, a signal representative of the position of the 
stylus element relative to the first and second axes on the surface. 
A system according to Claim 1 wherein the stylus element is a ball 
point pen cartridge. 
A system according to Claim 1 wherein the stylus element is a felt 
marker cartridge. 
A system according to any preceding Claim wherein the movement 
sensing means (22) comprises a support body (50) having an interior 

chamber dimensioned for axially receiving the stylus element (12). 
A system according to any preceding Claim wherein the stylus 
further comprises means for transmitting forces in response to a 

tracing of a pattern on the surface and the movement sensing means 
comprises transducer means mounted to the stylus element. 
A system according to Claim 5 wherein the stylus further comprises 
means for transmitting forces in response to a tracing of a pattern 

on the surface and movement sensing means comprises strain gauge 
transducers (20, 22) mounted axially along the stylus element. 
A system according to any preceding Claim wherein the movement 
sensing means comprises optical transducer mounted to the stylus 

element for optically detecting the movement of the stylus element 
across markers on the writing surface.  

 
A system according to any preceding Claim wherein the contact 
sensing means comprises a transducer means mounted to a 

deformable support body situated behind the stylus element and 
axially aligned with the longitudinal axis of the stylus element. 
A system according to any preceding Claim further comprising means 
for determining the accelerational forces applied as the stylus is 

moved, even in the absence of surface contact. 
A system according to any preceding Claim comprising: 

housing means for housing in substantial axial alignment the 
stylus element, movement sensing means and contact sensing means; 
coupling means for transferring the signals representative of 
deflections of the stylus to a processing device for processing the 

signals, 
the tilt sensor being housed within the housing. 
A system according to Claim 10 wherein the coupling means 
comprises at least one signal generation means whereby control 

signals are generated independent of the contact sensing means or 
the movement sensing means. 
A system according to Claim 10 or Claim 11 wherein the coupling 
means comprises an infrared transmitter.  

 
A system according to any one of Claims 10 to 12 wherein the housing 
means comprises a telescoping element for extending the stylus 

element to a surface for maintaining stylus contact with the surface. 
A system according to any one of Claims 10 to 12 wherein the housing 
means comprises a telescoping element for extending the movement 

sensing means to a surface for maintaining movement sensing means 
contact with the surface. 
A system according to any preceding Claim wherein the tilt sensor 
has an element capable of moving relative to the longitudinal axis of 

the stylus in response to gravitational force, and has sensor 
elements coupled to the movable element for detecting the position of 

the element relative to the longitudinal axis and generating a signal 
representative of the elements position relative to the longitudinal 

axis. 
A system according to Claim 15 wherein the movable element of the 
tilt sensor comprises a moment arm extending relative to the 

longitudinal axis to deflect transversely to the longitudinal axis in 
response to the force of gravity and wherein the sensor elements are 

disposed relative to a first sensor axis and a second sensor axis and 
the tilt sensor generates a signal representative of the position of 

the moment arm relative to the longitudinal axis and the first and  
 

second sensor axes. 
A system according to Claim 15 wherein the movable element is a 
conductive electrolyte fluid and the sensor elements comprise a 

plurality of electrical conductor elements for generating a signal 
representative of the level of the fluid relative to the electrical 

conductor elements. 
A system according to any preceding Claim wherein the processing 
unit generates, the position of the stylus element relative to the first 

and second axes on the surface as a function of frictional forces 
exerted by the surface against the stylus element. 
A method for imaging information as the information is traced on a 
surface comprising: 


applying a stylus (12) to make contact with a surface; 
generating signals related to the force of contact of the stylus 
(12) with the surface, 
generating signals related to the movement of the stylus (12) 
across the surface and relative to at least two axes in the plane of 

the surface, characterised by 
generating signals related to the angular orientation of the stylus (12) 
relative to the surface defined by the two axes in the plane of the surface, and 
determining from the force signals and the orientation signals  
 

the pattern traced by the stylus (12) on the surface. 
A method according to Claim 19 further comprising the step of 
extending a sensing means from an electronic imaging apparatus to 

a writing surface for maintaining the relative position of traced 
images. 
A method according to Claim 20 further comprising the step of 
measuring the forces against an extended sensing means for 

maintaining the relative position of traced images. 
A method according to any one of Claims 19 to 21 wherein the method 
further comprises generating signals related the angle of inclination 

of the stylus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
