<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627358</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multiwell in-vitro fertilization plate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M116	B01L300	B01L300	C12M120	B65D4314	B65D4320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	B01L	B01L	C12M	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	B01L3	B01L3	C12M1	B65D43	B65D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plate assembly (10) for useful for 
in
vitro
 
fertilization procuedures such as receiving ova and 

for forming, evaluating, holding, manipulating and culturing embryos 
includes a base (12) with an 

apportioned top surface (14) and a sidewall (17). The top surface has a 
plurality of open wells (16) embedded 

therein for receiving ova to be cultured. The wells (16) are 
substantially cylindrical and have 

substantially flat closed bottoms (18) to facilitate microscopic 
examination of the well contents. The 

assembly includes a removable lid (20) for covering the top surface (14) 
of the base. The lid (20) is preferably 

divided into sections (22,23) comparable to the top surface portions 
(24,25) of the base. Each lid section (22,23) may be 

separately slidably moved between a closed position where the lid (20) 
covers a comparable portion of 

the top surface (14) and an open position where the top surface (14) is 
uncovered. The lid (20) has projections (60) 

which interact with grooves (58) in the base (12) in a cam/cam follower 
relationship to allow slidable 

movement of the lid sections (22,23) between the closed and the open 
positions while retaining the lid 

sections (22,23) to the base. The inside surface of the lid (20) and the 
base top surface (14) each have elements (50) 

which interact when the lid is in the closed position to form a 
tortuous path for gas interchange 

between the wells and the outside environment, thus substantially 
preventing microbial 

contamination of the wells when the lid is closed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEVENS TIMOTHY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEVENS, TIMOTHY A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to tissue culture apparatus and more particularly to a plate 
apparatus useful in forming, holding, manipulating and growing mammalian embryos. Formation and growth of mammalian embryos has become increasing important. The 
advances in understanding of the mechanisms of ovum generation coupled with advances in 
ultrasound imaging and microsurgical techniques have fostered a tremendous increase in 
formation and growth of mammalian embryos, both for domestic animals and especially for human 
embryos as invitro fertilization (IVF) techniques have been perfected. In a human IVF procedure generally the female is treated with hormones to stimulate 
maturation of multiple ova. These ova are then surgically recovered by microsurgical techniques 
directly from the ovary. The recovered ova are then placed into a suitable vessel and exposed to 
sperm collected from the male for fertilization. After fertilization occurs, the fertilized ovum is 
allowed to grow to a multicelled embryo, then recovered and returned to the female, where 
implantation of the embryo on the wall of the uterus is expected to occur, resulting, from that 
time forward, in a normal pregnancy. In order to generate a suitable embryo for implantation by the IVF procedure briefly 
outlined above, practitioners must be highly skilled in many manipulative procedures as well as 
interpretation of laboratory results. Initially, a determination needs to be made of the dosage of 
hormones to be administered to the female. This determination may involve specialized blood 
tests, ultrasound imaging and laparoscopic procedures. During the hormone dosage phase, blood 
hormone levels are determined and ultrasound evaluation of the ovaries is often practiced. The 
collection of the ova is another specialized procedure involving ultrasound imaging and 
microsurgery. Once the ova are collected, careful microscale manipulations and optical 
microscopic evaluation of individual ovum, sperm, fertilized ovum and embryo are part of the 
process to generate an embryo suitable for implantation. The implantation phase again may  
 
involve ultrasound imaging and microsurgical techniques. In each phase, specialized equipment 
plays an important role in the success of the procedure. Specialized equipment has been developed to assist practitioners in every phase of the IVF 
process. An important part of the process is the phase where the collected ova are placed into a 
laboratory vessel for the fertilization and growth. Initially,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plate assembly (10) useful for 
in
vitro
 fertilization procedures comprising: 

a base (12) having an apportioned top surface (14) and a sidewall (17), said top surface having a 
plurality of open wells (16) embedded therein, said wells having an inside surface for receiving 

ova to be cultured into embryos, said wells having substantially flat transparent closed 
bottoms (18) for facilitating microscopic examination therethrough, and 
a removable lid (20) for covering said top surface (14) of said base, characterised in that said lid is divided 
into sections (22, 23) comparable to said top surface portions (24, 25), wherein each section of said lid is 

separately slidably moved between a closed position wherein said lid section covers said 
top surface portion and an open position uncovering said top surface portion. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said base further includes said wells being 
substantially cylindrical and having open tops each with a raised lip projecting above said 

top surface; and wherein said lid further includes an inside surface having a plurality of 
raised rings projecting therefrom, said rings corresponding in number to said plurality of 

said wells in said base portion, said rings being positioned and sized so that when said lid 
is in said closed position, said rings form a substantially concentric barrier adjacent and 

outside said lips on said wells, thereby providing a tortuous path for gas interchange with 
said wells. 
The assembly of claim 2 wherein said base top surface portions have a perimeter 
defined by a continuous raised shoulder, said lid sections each having a perimeter 

substantially comparable to said base top surface portion perimeter, said lid sections inside 
surface each having a raised bead defining said perimeter, said bead being sized and 

positioned so that when said lid section is in said closed position and said rings are 
adjacent to said lips, said raised shoulder is positioned substantially adjacent said raised 

bead, thereby forming a tortuous path for gas interchange and substantially preventing 
microbial contamination.  

 
The assembly of claim 3 wherein each bead further includes a plurality of standoffs 
projecting therefrom for contacting said shoulder, thereby maintaining a clearance between 

said shoulder and said bead when said lid is in said closed position. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said base top surface is substantially square, 
having two substantially equal portions, each portion having two substantially equal 

cylindrical wells substantially symmetrically embedded therein. 
The assembly of claim 5 wherein said lid covers at least a first portion of said 
sidewall of said base portion, said first portion of said sidewall having a plurality of 

grooves therein, and said lid having inward projections placed and sized to fit in said 
grooves in a cam/cam follower relationship so that when said lid sections are positioned 

for covering said wells, said projections are in a first position in said grooves, and when 
said lid sections are slidably moved to uncover said top surface, said projections are in a 

second position in said grooves, thereby retaining said lid sections on said base. 
The assembly of claim 6 wherein said base further includes an extension located on 
a second portion of said sidewall not covered by said lid when lid is in said closed position, 

said extension being sized and shaped for aiding manipulation of said assembly, and said 
extension having a surface for receiving identification marking. 
The assembly of claim 7 formed from a plastic resin. 
The assembly of claim 8 wherein said inside surface of said wells has a treatment 
for facilitating cell attachment and growth. 
A packaged plate assembly useful for 
in
vitro
 fertilization procedures comprising a 
sealed package substantially resistant to the passage of microorganisms having therewithin 

the assembly of claim 9. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
