<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Article transfer and processing assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G1500	G01G1500	B65G3300	B65G3304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G15	G01G15	B65G33	B65G33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An article transfer and processing assembly comprises a 
rotatable scroll device (13) for individually 

transferring articles to be processed, such as canisters 
containing liquid material, to an article processing 

station, such as a weighing station (25). The rotatable 
scroll device (13) is formed about its periphery with a 

groove (15) which is profiled so as to define a first 
groove portion (15a) for receiving an article to be 

transferred, a second groove portion (15b) communicating 
with the first groove portion for progressively 

increasing the transfer speed of the article to a 
predetermined speed, a third groove portion (15c) 

communicating with the second groove portion for 
conveying the article at the predetermined speed, and a 

fourth groove portion (15d) communicating with the third 
groove portion for permitting the article to decelerate 

onto the processing station (25) under frictional forces, 
the maximum rate of deceleration being determined by the 

profile of the fourth groove portion (15d). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRASEBY PRODUCT MONITORING LIM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRASEBY PRODUCT MONITORING LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLAN JAMES D C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLAN, JAMES D.C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an article transfer and 
processing assembly which incorporates a rotating scroll 
transfer mechanism for individually transferring articles to be 
processed to a processing station, for example to a 
weighing station for weighing the article, the rotating scroll transfer 
mechanism being formed about its periphery with a groove. Processing of an article is carried out at various phases 
during manufacture on a production line, for example 
filling and subsequent weighing, or checkweighing, of an 
article such as a canister containing a liquid material is 
often carried out to ensure that the weight of the contents 
of the canister are within a predetermined range. One 
problem that arises with processing operations, such as 
weighing or checkweighing, is that when the canister is 
deposited at a processing station it takes time for the 
canister and, where appropriate, its contents to settle in 
order for an operation to be carried out or for an 
acceptably reliable determination of the properties of the 
canister, and if necessary of its contents, to be made. In 
general, the problem is dependent upon the speed at which 
the canister is deposited at the processing station and, 
where the canister contains a liquid material, the problem 
is additionally dependent on the manner in which the 
canister is conveyed and the consequent agitation of the 
contents of the canister.  
 GB-A-1 271 085 describes a weighing apparatus in which a 
rotatable scroll device is used to transfer containers to 
and from a weighing device. Although an underweight 
container may be "topped-up", there is no disclosure of the 
problems associated with the need to allow the contents of 
the container to settle in order to obtain an acceptably 
reliable determination of the weight of the container to be 
made. It is an object of the present invention to transfer an 
article, such as a canister containing a liquid material, 
to a processing station, such as a weighing station, in a 
manner which minimises the settling time of the article at 
the processing station. According to the present invention there is provided an 
article transfer and processing assembly comprising a 
rotatable scroll device for individually transferring 
articles to be processed to an article processing station, 
the rotatable scroll device being formed about its 
periphery with a groove which is profiled so as to define 
a first groove portion for receiving an article to be 
transferred, a second groove portion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An article transfer and processing assembly comprising 
a rotatable scroll device (13) for individually 

transferring articles to be processed to an article 
processing station (25), the rotatable scroll device being 

formed about its periphery with a groove (15), 
characterised in that the groove (15) is profiled so as to 

define a first groove portion (15a) for receiving an 
article to be transferred, a second groove portion (15b) 

communicating with the first groove portion for 
progressively increasing the transfer speed of the article 

to a predetermined speed, a third groove portion (15c) 
communicating with the second groove portion for conveying 

the article at the predetermined speed, and a fourth groove 
portion (15d) communicating with the third groove portion 

for permitting the article to decelerate onto the 
processing station (25) under frictional forces, the 

maximum rate of deceleration being determined by the 
profile of the fourth groove portion (15d). 
An assembly as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the assembly includes a conveyor (1) for conveying 

articles to be processed to the rotatable scroll device 
(15).  

 
An assembly as claimed in claim 2, characterised in 
that a guide (5) is provided relative to the conveyor (1) 

for directing articles towards the first groove portion 
(15a). 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the assembly includes a star wheel 

(27) for removing processed articles from the processing 
station (25). 
An assembly as claimed in claim 4, characterised in 
that articles are removed from the processing station (25) 

to a conveyor. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 5 when dependent on 
claim 2, characterised in that the conveyor (1) for 

receiving processed articles is the same as the conveyor 
(1) for conveying articles to be processed. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the scroll device (13) is rotatable 

by way of a drive shaft (19) engaging with one end thereof. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the processing station (25) comprises 

a weighing station.  
 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that an axially extending generally 

horizontal support (7) is provided for supporting articles 
being transferred by the scroll device (13). 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that an axially extending generally 

upright support (11) is provided for retaining articles 
being transferred within the groove (15) of the scroll 

device (13). 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the first groove portion (15a) has a 

zero pitch and progressively increasing depth. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the second groove portion (15b) has 

a progressively increasing pitch and constant depth. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the third groove portion (15c) has a 

constant pitch and constant depth. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the fourth groove portion (15d) has 

a progressively decreasing pitch and constant depth.  
 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the leading edge (17) of the fourth groove 

portion (15d), that is the edge nearest the processing 
station (25), is removed over at least a part of the length 

thereof extending from the free end of the fourth groove 
portion towards the third groove portion (15c). 
An assembly as claimed in claim 15, characterised in 
that, where the leading edge (17) of the fourth groove portion 

(15d) is removed over the entire length thereof, the 
leading edge (17) of the third groove portion (15c) is removed 

over at least a part of the length thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
