<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654989</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOTOSTABLE SUNSCREEN COMPOSITIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K827	A61K819	A61Q1704	A61K829	A61K819	A61Q1704	A61K830	A61K825	A61K835	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K8	A61K8	A61Q17	A61K8	A61K8	A61Q17	A61K8	A61K8	A61K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to sunscreen compositions having improved photostability, especially in the UVA region, along with providing broad coverage in both the UVA and UVB regions. These compositions are achieved by combining a UVA-absorbing dibenzoylmethane sunscreen with a UVB-absorbing benzylidene camphor sunscreen. In highly preferred embodiments, these compositions also contain from about 0.1 % to about 25 % of an inorganic physical sunblock. These compositions are useful for protecting the skin from the harmful effects of ultraviolet radiation and for moisturizing the skin.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to sunscreen compositions 
having improved photostability, especially in the UVA region, 
along with providing broad coverage in both the UVA and UVB 
regions. These compositions are achieved by combining a 
UVA-absorbing dibenzoylmethane sunscreen with a UVB-absorbing 
benzylidene camphor sunscreen 
and an inorganic physical sunblock. These 
compositions are useful for protecting the skin from the 
harmful effects of ultraviolet radiation. The damaging effects of sunlight on skin are well 
documented. The major short term hazard of prolonged exposure 
to sunlight is erythema (i.e. sunburn). The 290 to 320 
nanometer wavelength ultraviolet radiation range, designated as 
the "UVB" wavelength range, tends to be the primary cause of 
erythema. The 320 to 400 nanometer wavelength ultraviolet 
radiation range, designated as the "UVA" wavelength range, also 
produces erythema, but much more energy is required. In addition to the short term hazard of erythema, there 
are also long term hazards associated with UV radiation 
exposure. One of these long term hazards is malignant changes 
in the skin surface. Numerous epidemiologic studies 
demonstrate a strong relationship between sunlight exposure and 
human skin cancer. Another long term hazard of ultraviolet radiation is 
premature aging of the skin. This condition is characterized 
by wrinkling and yellowing of the skin, along with other 
physical changes such as cracking, telangiectasis (spider 
vessels), solar keratoses (growths), ecchymoses (subcutaneous 
hemorrhagic lesions), and loss of elasticity (sagging). The  
 
adverse effects associated with exposure to UVA and UVB 
wavelength radiation are more fully discussed in DeSimone, 
"Sunscreen and Suntan Products", Handbook of Nonprescription 
Drugs, 7th Ed., Chapter 26, pp. 499-511 (American 
Pharmaceutical Association, Washington, D.C.; 1982); Grove and 
Forbes, "A Method for Evaluating the Photoprotection Action of 
Sunscreen Agents Against UV-A Radiation", International Journal 
of Cosmetic Science,4, pp. 15-24 (1982); and U.S. Patent 
4,387,089, to DePolo, issued June 7, 1983. Both sunscreen agents and physical sunblocks are 
commercially available to protect the skin from UV radiation. 
Without being limited by theory, it is believed that sunscreen 
agents exert their effects through chemical means, i.e., they 
absorb ultraviolet radiation so that it cannot penetrate the 
skin. Physical sunblocks scatter, reflect, and absorb 
ultraviolet radiation. See, Sayre, R.M. et
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sunscreen composition having 
broad UVA and UVB coverage, comprising: 


(a) from 0.1% to 10% of a sunscreen compound (I) having 
the general structure 


 
wherein A is a substituent selected from the group 

consisting of H, -OR, and -NR
2
 wherein each R is 
independently H, or straight or branched chain alkyl 

having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms; B is a substituent 
selected from the group consisting of H and -OH; and 

C is a substituent selected from 
H, or straight or branched chain alkyl having from 

1 to 20 carbon atoms; 
(b) from 0.1% to 10% of a sunscreen compound (II) having 
the general structure 


 
wherein D and E are substituents independently 

selected H, straight or 
branched chain alkyl having from 1 to 20 carbon 

atoms, and -OR, where R is H, or straight or branched 
chain alkyl having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms; 
(c) from 0.1% to 25% of a physical sunblock; and 
(d) a safe and effective amount of a pharmaceutically-acceptable 
carrier; 
  
 

wherein the weight ratio of sunscreen compound (I) to 
sunscreen compound (II) is from 1:1.5 to 1.5:1. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 1 comprising 
from 0.5% to 5% of sunscreen compound (I); from 0.5% to 5% 

of sunscreen compound (II); and from 1% to 4% of a 
physical sunblock. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 2 wherein the 
weight ratio of sunscreen compound (I) to sunscreen 

compound (II) is from 1:1.1 to 1.1:1, preferably wherein 
the weight ratio of sunscreen compound (1) to sunscreen 

compound (II) is 1:1. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 3 wherein 
sunscreen compound (I) is selected from 

4,4'-methoxy-
t
-butyldibenzoylmethane, 
4-isopropyldibenzoylmethane, 4-methoxydibenzoylmethane, 

2,4'-hydroxy-
t
-butyldibenzoylmethane, 2,4,4'-hydroxymethoxy-
t
-butyldibenzoylmethane, 
and mixtures thereof; 

sunscreen compound (II) is selected from 
3-(4-methylbenzylidene) camphor, 

3-benzylidene camphor, 3-(4-methoxybenzylidene) camphor, 
and mixtures thereof; and said physical sunblock is 

selected from titanium dioxide, 
iron oxides, zinc oxide, silica, mica, and mixtures 

thereof; preferably wherein sunscreen compound (I) is 
selected from 

4,4'-methoxy-
t
-butyldibenzoylmethane, 
4-isopropyldibenzoylmethane and mixtures thereof; 

sunscreen compound (II) is 3- (4-methylbenzylidene) 
camphor; and said physical sunblock is selected from 

titanium dioxide, iron oxides, zinc 
oxide, and mixtures thereof; and more preferably wherein 

sunscreen compound (I) is selected from  
 

4,4'-methoxy-
t
-butyldlbenzoyl- methane, 
4-isopropyldibenzoylmethane, and mixtures thereof; 

sunscreen compound (II) is 3-(4-methylbenzylidene) 
camphor; and said physical sunblock is titanium dioxide. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 1 wherein said 
physical sunblock has been surface treated; preferably 

wherein said physical sunblock is selected from titanium 
dioxide which has been surface treated with a mixture of 

stearic acid, alumina, and silica. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 1 wherein said 
composition further comprises from 0.1% to 20% of a 

sunscreen compound selected from 
2-ethylhexyl p-methoxycinnamate, 2-ethylhexyl 

N,N-dimethyl-p-aminobenzoate, p-aminobenzoic acid, 
octocrylene, 2-phenylbenzimidozole-5-sulfonic acid, 

oxybenzone, homomenthyl salicylate, octyl salicylate, 
sulisobenzona, amyl p-methoxy- cinnamate, amyl N,N-dimethyl-p-aminobenzoate, 

4-N,N-(2-ethylhexyl)methylaminobenzoic 
acid ester of 2,4-dihydroxybenzophenone; 

N,N-di-(2-ethylhexyl)-4-aminobenzoic acid ester with 4-hydroxydibenzoylmethane; 
4-N,N(2-ethylhexyl)methylaminobenzoic 

acid ester with 4-hydroxydibenzoylmethane; 
4-N,N-(2-ethylhexyl)methylaminobenzoic acid ester of 

2-hydroxy-4-(2-hydroxyethoxy)benzophenone; 4-N,N-(2-ethylhexyl) 
methylaminobenzoic acid ester of 

4-(2-hydroxyethoxy)dibenzoylmethane; N-N-di-(2-ethylhexyl)-4-aminobenzoic 
acid ester of 2-hydroxy-4-(2-hydroxyethoxy)benzophenone, 

and N,N-di-(2-ethylhexyl)-4-aminobenzoic 
acid ester of 4-(2-hydroxyethoxy)dibenzoylmethane, 

and mixtures thereof.  
 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 1 or Claim 4 
wherein said pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier is an 

oil-in-water emulsion. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 7 which further 
comprises glycerol, a silicone fluid, a carboxylic acid 

copolymer, and DEA-cetylphosphate. 
A sunscreen composition according to Claim 1 wherein said 
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier is selected from 

a water-in-oil emulsion, an oil, an 
aqueous-based lotion or gel, and an anhydrous gel. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
