<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611969</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Time-sharing radar system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1393	G01S328	G01S1334	G01S1300	G01S702	G01S702	G01S1342	G01S1387	G01S314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S3	G01S13	G01S13	G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radar system and method for use in collision avoidance 
systems. A radar system in accordance with the present invention 

may comprise a plurality of antennas (10A-10D), an RF power generator 
(20), a 

transmitting unit (30), a receiving unit (40), and a direction detector. 
Each of the antennas is arranged to radiate a beam having 

substantially the same pattern as the beams radiated by the other 
antennas. The beam of each antenna is radiated in a slightly 

different direction from the beams radiated by the other antennas. 
Each antenna is also arranged to receive return beams, wherein each 

of the return beams comprises a beam radiated from one of the beam 
radiating means and reflected by an object. The RF power generator 

generates RF power of nearly constant amplitude. The transmitting 
unit distributes the RF power to each of the antennas, and the RF 

power is radiated successively. The receiving unit generates 
amplitude detecting signals which are used to detect the amplitudes 

of the return beams received by the antennas. Each of the 
amplitude detecting signals is utilized by a pair of antennas. One 

antenna of each pair radiates a beam and receives a return beam 
produced therefrom. The other antenna receives a return beam 

produced by a beam radiated by an adjacent antenna. The direction 
detecting means detects a direction to the object based on the 

amplitude detecting signals, the arrangement of the antennas, and 
a timing of distribution of FM signals to the antennas. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONDA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONDA GIKEN KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHIHARA JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMATSU SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHIHARA, JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMATSU, SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a time-sharing radar system as defined in the
preamble part of claim 1 as well as a method for achieving improved accuracy
in detecting a direction to a target as defined in the preamble part of claim 7.
In particular, the present invention relates to time-sharing radar systems and
methods which are useful in alarm systems for detecting and avoiding
potential automobile collisions.A radar system, which is mounted on a vehicle such as an
automobile and used in conjunction with an alarm system to detect
and warn of potential frontal and rearend collisions, can be
implemented using either a pulse radar system or an FM radar
system. However, it has been recognized that FM radar systems are
preferred over pulse radar systems because it is necessary for
radar systems used in collision warning systems to have a minimum
range of several decimeters. In FM radar systems, a frequency
modulated (FM) signal having a frequency varying with time (and
preferably varying linearly with time) is generated. In such
systems, the generated FM signal is divided into two parts. One
part is radiated from an antenna while the other part is supplied
to one input terminal of a mixer as a local FM signal. The beam
radiated from the antenna, if reflected by an object or target,
will produce a return beam. The return beam may then be received 
by either the same or a different antenna and supplied to another
input terminal of the mixer for mixing with the local FM signal.
The mixer, in turn, will produce a beat signal having a frequency
corresponding to the phase shift or time lag existing between the
two signals supplied to its input terminals. The time lag is equal
to the propagation time required for the radiated beam to travel to
and return from the target. Thus, the lag time is proportional to
the range to the target, and the range to the target can be
calculated using the frequency of the beat signal.To avoid interference from microwave transmission systems
already in existence, it is presently preferred to use beams having
a frequency higher than 30GHz (i.e., beams having a wave length on
the order of one millimeter:mm wave), which are rapidly attenuated
upon propagation. This is so because the longest range to be
detected is about several hundred meters. Beams having a frequency
of about 60 GHz are exemplary.FM radar systems are also preferred over pulse radar
systems because a plurality of FM transceivers may be set to detect
a direction to the target in addition to the range to the target.
In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A time-sharing radar system comprising:

a plurality of beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d), each
being arranged to radiate a beam having a selected pattern or

directivity in a direction slightly different from the beams
radiated by the other beam radiating and receiving means, and each

being arranged to receive return beams, each of said return beams
being formed by a beam radiated from one of said beam radiating and

receiving means and reflected by an object;
an signal generating means (20) for generating signals of
nearly constant amplitude;
a timing control means (30, 50) for controlling when said beams
are radiated from said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d), said

beams being radiated from said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d)
successively;
a receiving unit (40, 50) for generating amplitude level detecting
signals to be used to detect amplitude levels of said return beams

received by said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d), one group of
said level detecting signals being generated from return beams

resulting from radiation from one of said beam radiating and
receiving means (10a-10d), reflection by said object, and reception by the

same radiating and receiving means (10a-10d), and 
a direction detecting means (50) for detecting a direction to
said object based upon said amplitude level detecting signals, an

arrangement of said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d), and a
timing relationship existing between and among said signals

distributed to said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d),

   characterized in that the timing control means (30, 50) is adapted
so that the receiving unit (40, 50) also generates another group of said level

detecting signals being generated from return beams resulting from
radiation from one of said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d),

reflection by said object, and reception by an adjacent radiating
and receiving means (10a-10d).
A time-sharing FM radar system according to claim 1
wherein:


said signal generating means (20) comprises an FM signal
generating means for generating an FM signal having a frequency

varying periodically with time;
said timing control means (30, 50) comprises a transmitting unit (30)
for distributing said signals generated by said signal generating

means (20) to each of said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d) for
successive radiation;
said receiving unit (40, 50) including a plurality of mixers (43a-43d), each
of said mixers being set to correspond to one of said beam

radiating and receiving means (10a-10d), each of said mixers (43a-43d) mixing a local
FM signal (LOa-LOd) and a signal (RXa-RXd) indicative of one at said return beams

received by said corresponding beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d)
to produce a beat signal (BTa-BTd) as one of said level detecting signals, 

said local FM signal (LOa-LOd) being a non-radiated signal related to said
FM signal distributed to said beam radiating and receiving means;

and
said receiving unit (40, 50) further including a range detecting
means (50) for detecting a range to said object based upon a frequency

of at least one of said produced beat signals (BTa-BTd).
A time-sharing FM radar system according to claim 2
wherein:


said transmitting unit (30) includes a transmitting switching
circuit (31) for distributing said FM signal generated by said FM signal

generating means (20) to each of said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d)
successively in accordance with an order of arrangement of said

beam radiating and receiving means; and
said receiving unit (40, 50) includes a local switching circuit (41)
for distributing said local FM signal (LOa-LOd) to each of said mixers (43a-43d)

successively, such that said local FM signal (LOa-LOd) is distributed to one
of said mixers (43a-43d) and has a partially common period with said FM

signal distributed to said corresponding beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d) and also has a
partially common period with said FM signal(s) distributed to at

least one other beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d) adjacent to said
corresponding beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d).
A time-sharing FM radar system according to claim 3
wherein:


said local FM signal (LOa-LOd) is distributed to one of said mixers (43a-43d)
having a period partially uncommon to said FM signals distributed

to said beam radiating and receiving means (10a-10d); and
said receiving unit (40, 50) further includes a noise detecting
means (50) for detecting noise within a beat signal (BTa-BTd) output from said

mixer (43a-43d) in said partially uncommon period.
A time-sharing FM radar system according to claim 4
wherein:


said receiving unit (40, 50) further includes a noise eliminating
means (50) for subtracting said detected noise from said beam signal

output from said mixer (43a-43d) in a partially common period.
A time-sharing radar system according to claim 1
wherein:


said signal generated by said signal generating means (20) is
a pulsive electromagnetic wave.
A method for achieving improved accuracy in
detecting a direction to a target, said method being for use in a

radar system for use in collision avoidance systems, said radar
system having a fixed number of antennas (10a-10d), each antenna being

arranged to radiate a beam having a selected pattern in a direction
slightly different from the beams radiated by the other antennas,

and said method comprising the steps of:

generating a plurality of RF signals having substantially
similar amplitudes;
sequentially providing said RF signals to each of said
antennas (10a-10d) for radiation;
allowing a first beam to be radiated by a selected
antenna (10a-10d), reflected by an object, and received by the same antenna,

said beam received by said selected antenna (10a-10d) forming a first
return beam;
detecting an amplitude level of each of said return
beams; and
determining a direction to said target based upon said
amplitude levels of said return beams;

   characterized in that a second beam is also
radiated by said selected

antenna (10a-10d), reflected by said object, and received by an antenna
adjacent to said selected antenna (10a-10d), said beam received by said

adjacent antenna forming a second return beam. 
A method according to claim 7, the step of determining a direction to
said target comprising the steps of:


a) for each of said return beams determining an associated
amplitude level (Laa, Lab, Lbb, ... Ldd),
b) taking said amplitude levels (Laa, Lab, Lbb, ... Ldd) as a
weighting factor for the direction (a, ab, b, ... d) of the

associated antenna (10a, 10b, 10c, 10d),
c) calculating the weighted average () of the directions (a, ab,
b, ... d) of the antennas (10a, 10b, 10c, 10d).
Method according to claim 8, further comprising a step of detecting
which of said amplitude levels (Laa, Lab, Lbb, ... Ldd) exceeds a

threshold value, wherein only those amplitude levels (Laa, Lab, Lbb, ...
Ldd) exceeding said threshold value are used for calculating the

weighted average () of the directions (a, ab, b, ... d) of the
antennas (10a, 10b, 10c, 10d).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
