<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657939</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device having a high voltage termination improvement and method of fabrication.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2902	H01L2906	H01L2910	H01L2940	H01L2940	H01L2966	H01L2978	H01L29861	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high voltage semiconductor device having an improved junction termination 
extension for increasing the surface breakdown junction voltage. The device 

comprises a semiconductor substrate (20,42,44) of a first 
electrical conductivity type having 

a major surface (24) with an edge (26). The substrate has a first impurity region (22) 
of a second electrical conductivity type formed therein and having a first doping 

concentration and a second impurity region (28) of a said second electrical 
conductivity type, having a second doping concentration less than the first doping 

concentration, formed in the substrate between the first impurity region and the edge, 
and a field shield plate (30) disposed on the major surface in conductive relation with 

the first impurity region. The first field shield plate has an outer edge which 
terminates above the second impurity region (28). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIBIB MUHAMMED AYMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIBIB, MUHAMMED AYMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to semiconductor devices having improved high voltage 
terminations. More particularly, the present invention pertains to semiconductor 
devices having improved junction termination extensions which allow for an increased 
surface breakdown junction voltage. In addition, this invention pertains to a method 
of manufacturing semiconductor devices having improved junction termination 
extensions for increasing the surface breakdown junction voltage. Semiconductor devices having regions of alternate conductivity suffer 
breakdown when operated at high voltages. The specific voltage where breakdown 
occurs is the breakdown voltage. In planar high voltage technology where a P-N 
junction is diffused into a silicon substrate or wafer having a major surface, the 
portion of the device most susceptible to breakdown occurs at the region of the 
junction located on the major surface of the substrate (surface junction) which is in 
close proximity to the edge of the substrate. For a given high voltage applied across a P-N junction, breakdown will occur 
at the surface junction sooner than at the junction region in the bulk of the substrate 
beneath the major surface because the presence of additional charges on the major 
surface results in a higher electric field at the major surface. This breakdown is 
referred to as surface junction breakdown. In an effort to reduce the threat of surface junction breakdown, prior art 
semiconductor devices have employed field shield plates disposed on the major surface 
of the substrate over the surface junction to better distribute the electric field that 
exists on the major surface. In addition, the surface junction has also been extended 
by interposing at the surface junction between the P material and N material, a lightly 
doped region. Thus, for example, in a diode where a P region is formed in an N-substrate  
 
so that a P/N- surface junction is formed, a lightly doped P region (P-) is 
deposited at the surface between the P and N- regions, thereby creating a surface 
junction extension. The P- junction extension region forms a controlled gradient of 
the doping concentration between the P and N- regions of the device at the major 
surface which further reduces surface breakdown. Semiconductor devices utilizing field shield plates and junction extensions are 
disclosed in C. A. Goodwin, et al, "A Dielectrically Isolated Bi-Polar CMOS-DMOS 
(BCDMOS) Technology For High Voltage Applications," Proceedings of the 
Symposium on High Voltage and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high voltage semiconductor device having an improved junction 
termination extension for increasing the surface breakdown junction voltage, 

comprising: 
   a semiconductor substrate of a first electrical conductivity type, said 

substrate defining a major surface having an edge; 
   a first impurity region of a second electrical conductivity type formed 

in said substrate and having a first doping concentration; 
   a second impurity region formed in said substrate between said first 

impurity region and said edge for forming a junction on said major surface between 
said second impurity region and said edge, said second impurity region being of a said 

second electrical conductivity type and having a second doping concentration less than 
said first doping concentration; 

   a first field shield plate disposed on said major surface in conductive 
relation with said first impurity region, said first field shield plate having an outer 

edge terminating above said second impurity region before said junction; and 
   an insulating material disposed on said major surface of said substrate 

and separating said first field shield plate from said second impurity region. 
The device of claim 1, wherein said insulating material is further 
disposed on said first field shield plate. 
The device of claim 2, further comprising a second field shield plate 
disposed on said insulating material above said first field shield plate and in conductive 

relation with said first impurity region, said second field shield plate having an outer 
edge terminating beyond said junction. 
The device of claim 2, further comprising a third impurity region 
formed in said first impurity region, said third impurity region being of said first 

 
electrical conductivity type, and further comprising a second field shield plate disposed 

on said insulating material above said first field shield plate and in conductive relation 
with said third impurity region, said second field shield plate having an outer edge 

terminating beyond said junction. 
The device of claim 3, wherein said first field shield plate is comprised 
of polycrystalline silicon and wherein said second field shield plate is comprised of 

metal. 
A method of manufacturing a high voltage semiconductor device having 
an improved junction termination extension for increasing the surface breakdown 

junction voltage, comprising the steps of: 
   forming, on a semiconductor substrate having a first electrical 

conductivity type and defining a major surface having an edge, a first impurity region 
of a second electrical conductivity type having a first doping concentration; 

   forming a second impurity region in said substrate between said first 
impurity region and said edge so that a junction on said major surface between said 

second impurity region and said edge is created, said second impurity region being of 
a said second electrical conductivity type and having a second doping concentration 

less than said first doping concentration; 
   forming a first field shield plate on said major surface in conductive 

relation with said first impurity region, said first field shield plate having an outer 
edge terminating above said second impurity region before said junction; and 

   disposing an insulating material on said major surface of said substrate 
for separating said first field shield plate from said second impurity region. 
The method of claim 6, wherein said step of disposing an insulating 
material on said substrate further comprises disposing said insulating material on said 

first field shield plate. 
The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of forming a second 
field shield plate on said insulating material disposed on said first field shield plate and 

in conductive relation with said first impurity region, said second field shield plate 
having an outer edge terminating beyond said junction. 
The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of forming a third 
impurity region in said first impurity region, said third impurity region being of said 

first electrical conductivity type, and disposing a second field shield plate on said 
insulating material above said first field shield plate and in conductive relation with 

said third impurity region, said second field shield plate having an outer edge 
terminating beyond said junction. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
