<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619608</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Circuit board for optical devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L25075	H01L2504	H01L2504	H01L25075	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit board for mounting one or more optical 
devices such as light receiving LSI chips and light 

emitting LSI chips. The circuit board has a flexible 
transparent substrate (1) a window portion (7) which is 

formed as a slit-like transparent region of the transparent 
substrate, a plurality of electrodes (2) for bonding the 

optical devices thereon provided on one surface of the 
substrate, a plurality of aggregated electrodes (3) 

provided on the other surface on a region corresponding to 
the electrodes in a manner extending respectively in the 

longitudinal direction of the window portion (7) and 
electrical connection portions (26) penetrating the 

substrate. Each of the aggregated electrodes (3) is 
electrically connected with two or more of the electrodes 

through the electrical connection portion. The circuit 
board will be used in, for example, an optical reader, an 

optical printer or the like in such a manner that the light 
which is coming in and/or going out of the optical device 

is transmitted through the window portion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUI CHEMICALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUI CHEMICALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODO TOSHIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUKUDA NOBUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKASE MITSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODO, TOSHIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUKUDA, NOBUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKASE, MITSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a circuit board for
mounting an optical device to be used in light/electricity
conversion or electricity/light conversion, more
particularly to an optical device circuit board to be
used for an optical reader, optical image forming device,
optical printer or the like.Recently, an electronic circuit has been applied in
a wide variety of fields from, for example, business
equipment to household articles or toys, and accordingly
the development of small type, light weight, high speed
and accurate equipment is now in progress. Also in the
field of various kinds of image input terminal equipment
including a high-speed facsimile, a scanner, a white
board copying machine, or such as a copying machine
represented by electrophotography, there is an increasing
demand for the equipment of high quality, high resolution,
capable of handling a half-tone image while having
a simple, compact structure and also can be produced at
low cost.In the image input terminal equipment as above,
optical information is converted to an electric signal by 
means of an image sensor. Fig. 1 is a typical cross
sectional view illustrating an example of the structure
of a conventional image sensor. In Fig. 1, a shading
layer 52 is provided on a glass substrate 51 with a
slender part cut out to form a slit 52a. The slit 52a
extends in the direction perpendicular to the surface of
the paper showing the figure, and Fig. 1 is a cross sectional
view taken along the plane perpendicular to the
longitudinal direction of the slit 52a. A transparent
insulation layer 53 is provided in a manner to cover the
shading layer 52 and slit 52a, and a plurality of light
receiving devices 56 and electrodes 54 electrically
connected therewith respectively are provided on the
transparent insulation layer 53. The light receiving
devices 56 are disposed along the longitudinal direction
of the slit 52a. A transparent protective layer 55 is
provided so as to cover the whole area of the transparent
insulation layer 53, electrode 54 and light receiving
device 56, and on the surface of the transparent protective
layer 55, i.e., on the outermost surface of the
image sensor, a transparent conductive layer 57 is
formed. This image sensor is manufactured as a unit.For reading a letter or a figure on a manuscript 59
by using this image sensor, it is enough when the manuscript
59 is placed on the surface of a transparent
conductive layer 57 so that the manuscript can be moved 
in the direction of an arrow shown in the figure with a
dotted
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical circuit board for mounting a plurality of
LSI chips (13) for emitting and/or receiving light,

comprising:

a transparent substrate (1); said transparent
substrate including a slot-shaped

window portion (7) for transmitting light
which is coming in and/or going out of a said LSI chip

(13) through said substrate (1);
a plurality of chip connection electrodes (2)
provided on a first primary surface of said transparent

substrate (1) to which LSI chips (13) will be mounted in
use;
said chip
connection electrodes (2) being elongated, each extending

away from said window portion (7) in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal side of said slot-shaped window portion, said plurality of chip
connection electrodes forming a plurality of rows parallel one another on at least one of the longitudinal sides of said window portion (7);
a plurality of input/output circuit connection
electrodes, I/OCC electrodes, (3) provided on a second

primary surface of said substrate (1), said I/OCC
electrodes (3) being elongated, each extending in a direction parallel

to the longitudinal side of said slot-shaped
window portion (7); said plurality of I/OCC electrodes forming a plurality of columns parallel to one another; said second primary surface being

opposite to said primary surface with reference to said
transparent substrate (1); and said I/OCC electrodes (3)

being provided on a region of said substrate (1)
corresponding to the region of the first primary surface

bearing the chip connection electrodes (2) so that, 
viewed in plan, said chip connection and I/OCC electrodes

define a grid pattern with intersections;
electrical connection portions (26) penetrating said
transparent substrate in the regions of intersections,

whereby each of said I/OCC electrodes (3) is electrically
connected with a respective one or plurality of chip

connection electrodes (2) through one or a plurality of
said electrical connection portion
s (26); and a plurality of external connection terminals (30) electrically connected
with respective ones of said plurality of I/OCC electrodes (3) and provided

on said first primary surface and/or said second primary surface.
The optical circuit board according to claim 1,
wherein said chip connection electrodes (2) are composed

of at least one metal selected from gold, silver, copper,
nickel, chromium, tungsten, tin, lead and solder, or an

alloy thereof.
The optical circuit board according to claim 1,
wherein said chip connection electrodes (2) are composed

of a laminate having a first metal layer (2a) and a
second metal layer (2b) formed on said first metal layer.
The optical circuit board according to claim 3,
wherein each of said first and second metal layers

(2a,2b) is composed of at least one metal selected from
gold, silver, copper, nickel, chromium, tungsten, tin,

lead and solder, or an alloy thereof; and

said second metal layer (2b) is formed in such a
manner that one or more LSI chips can be mounted thereon

by press-bonding or heat-bonding thereon.
The optical circuit board according to claim 4,
wherein said second metal layer (2b) is formed by gold

plating or solder plating.
The optical circuit board according to claim 4,
wherein said second metal layer (2b) is formed by

printing a gold or silver or solder layer.
The optical circuit board according to claim 1,
wherein said I/OCC electrode (3) is composed of at least

one metal selected from gold, silver, copper, nickel,
chromium, tungsten, tin, lead and solder, or an alloy

thereof.
The optical circuit board according to any preceding claim,
wherein said external connection terminals (30) are

composed of at least one metal selected from gold,
silver, copper, nickel, chromium, tungsten, tin, lead and

solder, or an alloy thereof.
The optical circuit board according to claim 8, 
wherein said external connection terminals (30) are

provided on the first primary surface, and each said
external connection terminal (30) is electrically

connected to a said I/OCC electrode (3), and each I/OCC
electrode (3) is connected to an electrical connection

terminal (30) by a respective electrical connection
portion which penetrates through said transparent

substrate (1).
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim wherein a common electrode (36) and an external

connection terminal (30a) which is electrically connected
to said common electrode, are both provided on said first

primary surface; and some of said chip connection
electrodes (2a) are connected to said common electrode

(36) instead of to said I/OCC electrodes (3).
The optical circuit board according to claim 1,
wherein a common electrode (36) and a plurality of

external connection terminals are provided on said first
primary surface and/or said second primary surface, and

some of said chip connection electrodes are connected to
said common electrode and each of the said external

connection terminals is electrically connected with each
or a respective one or plurality of said I/OCC electrodes

(3) and said common electrode.
The optical circuit board according to any preceding 
claim, wherein a shading layer (5) for defining said

window portion (7) and preventing light passing through
an area other than said window portion in the transparent

substrate (1) is provided on said first primary surface
and/or said second primary surface bordering on said

window portion (7).
The optical circuit board according to any of claims
1-11, wherein a shading layer (5) for defining said

window portion (7) and preventing the light passing
through an area other than said window portion in the

transparent substrate (1) is provided on said first
primary surface at one side of said window portion (7),

and said chip connection electrodes (2) are provided at
the opposite side of said window portion (7) and

bordering thereon.
The optical circuit board according to any of claims
1-11, wherein a shading layer (5) for defining said

window portion (7) and preventing the light passing
through the area other than said window portion in said

transparent substrate is provided on said first primary
surface so as to be disposed on said chip connection

electrodes (2) and on each space between neighboring chip
connection electrodes (2).
The optical circuit board according to claim 12, 13 or 14
wherein said shading layer (5) is composed of 

metal.
The optical circuit board according to claim 12, 13 or 14
wherein said shading layer (5) is composed of resin

containing carbon black particles or color pigment
components.
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim, wherein a conductive antistatic layer (6) is

provided on said second primary surface.
The optical circuit board according to claim 17,
wherein said antistatic layer (6) is composed of a member

having a shading property and provided so as to define
said window portion (7) while preventing the light

passing through an area other than said window portion in
said transparent substrate.
The optical circuit board according to claim 18,
wherein said antistatic layer (6) is composed of metal.
The optical circuit board according to claim 18,
wherein said antistatic layer (6) is composed of resin

having carbon black or metal particles dispersed therein.
The optical circuit board according to claim 18, 19 or 20
wherein said antistatic layer (6) is formed so as

to enclosed the circumference of said window portion (7). 
The optical circuit board according to any of claims
18-21 wherein said antistatic layer (6) extends along the

longitudinal direction of said window portion (7) on both
sides thereof.
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim further comprising a light guide (18) provided on

said second primary surface for guiding light from said
window portion (7) and/or to said window portion (7).
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim wherein a low reflection layer (4) is provided in

the bonding interface between said chip connection
electrodes (2) and said transparent substrate (1).
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim wherein a low reflection layer (4) is provided in

the bonding interface between said I/OCC electrodes (3)
and said transparent substrate (1).
The optical circuit board according to any of claims
12-16 or any of claims 17-25 when appendant thereon,

wherein a low reflection layer (4) is provided in the
bonding interface between said shading layer (5) and said

transparent substrate (1).
The optical circuit board according to claim 18 or
any of claims 19-26 when appendant thereon wherein a low 

reflection layer (4) is provided in the bonding interface
between said antistatic layer (6) and said transparent

substrate (1).
The optical circuit board according to any one of
claims 24, 25, 26 and 27,
 wherein the light reflectance
of said low reflection layer (4) is 50% or less.
The optical circuit board according to any one of
claims 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28, wherein said low reflection

layer (4) is composed of metal, a metal compound, resin
or an organic compound.
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim wherein a transparent protection layer (8) is

provided on said second primary surface in such a manner
that the protection layer covers said window portion (7).
The optical circuit board according to claim 18,
wherein a transparent protection layer (8) is provided on

said second primary surface in such a manner that the
protection layer (8) covers said window portion (7)

and/or said antistatic layer (6).
The optical circuit board according to any preceding
claim wherein said transparent substrate (1) is composed

of a flexible film-like material. 
The optical circuit board according to claim 32,
wherein said transparent substrate (1) is composed of at

least one substance selected from polyethylene
terephthalate, polyethylene naphthalate, polyamide,

polyether, polysulfone, polyethersulfone, polycarbonate,
polyarylate, polyetherimide, polyether etherketone,

polyimide and polyparabanic acid, or copolymer thereof.
The optical circuit board according to claim 32 or
33 wherein the thickness of said transparent substrate

(1) is in the range of 5 to 500µm.
The optical circuit board according to claim 32 or
33 wherein the thickness of said transparent substrate

(1) is in the range of 10 to 200µm.
The optical circuit board according to claim 32 or
33, wherein the thickness of said transparent substrate

(1) is in the range of 20 to 50µm.
An optical reader for optically reading a
manuscript, including an optical circuit board according

to any preceding claim having one or more optical reading
LSI chips mounted thereon with connection bumps; wherein

said circuit board is disposed with the longitudinal
direction of said window portion (7) traversing the

direction of the intended relative movement of said
manuscript with reference to said optical reader. 
An optical image forming apparatus for optically
forming an image on photosensitive matter, including an

optical circuit board according to any of claims 1-36
having one or more optical image forming LSI chips

mounted thereon with connection bumps; wherein said
circuit board is placed with the longitudinal direction

of said window portion (7) traversing the intended
direction in which the relative movement between said

photosensitive matter and said optical image forming
apparatus occurs.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
