<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620559</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reduced pressure drop spacer for boiling water reactor fuel bundles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21C334	G21C334	G21C3344	G21C3348	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21C3	G21C3	G21C3	G21C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spacer array is disclosed in which alternating 
cells (4,8) are disposed at differing elevations. In a preferred 

octagonal spacer cell array, alternate fuel rods within the 
rows and columns of the fuel bundle matrix are surrounded by 

octagonal spacer cells at a first elevation. Likewise, and in 
the same preferred octagonal spacer array, the remaining 

alternate fuel rods within the rows and columns of the fuel 
bundle matrix are surrounded by octagonal spacer cells at a 

second elevation. The octagonal spacer cells of the spacer 
array at one level adjoin the octagonal spacer cells of the 

spacer array at an adjacent level. Specifically, each 
octagonal spacer cell has the top and/or the bottom of as many 

as four of its eight sides disposed for joinding with one side 
of as many as four octagonal cells in an adjacent cell layer. 

Each cell has approximately 0.6 of an inch height, or one-half 
the 1.2 inch height of the prior art. Physically each cell 

would have approximately half the height of the prior art cell 
type spacers. There results a spacer cell array which 

distributes half of the pressure drop at a first elevation, 
and the remaining half of the pressure at a second elevation 

for a projected spacer area ofone-half that area of the prior 
art. Further, and because the two cell arrays making up the 

spacer are disposed at differing elevations -- immediately 
above and below each other -- the produced flow resistance at 

one level of the spacer cells does not have horizontally 
immediately adjacent cells. Thus, the cells in one layer do 

not co-act with adjacent flow frictions to the same extent as 
the co-action would occur if all flow frictions and 

restrictions were at the same elevation. There results an 
improved and lesser pressure drop in the disclosed spacer 

array. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATTER GERALD MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATZNER BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATTER, GERALD MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATZNER, BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fuel spacers utilized 
in boiling water nuclear reactor fuel bundles. Fuel bundles for boiling water nuclear reactors can 
be generally summarized as to their construction. They 
include a lower tie plate, an upper tie plate and a plurality 
of vertically upstanding fuel rods there between. Insofar as 
is relevant to this invention, a fuel bundle channel surrounds 
the lower tie plate, extends around the fuel rods to the upper 
tie plate, and forms a confined fluid flow path unique to each 
fuel bundle. This flow path between the tie plates is 
essentially isolated from both other fuel bundles and the 
surrounding core by-pass region about the fuel bundles. The lower tie plate supports the fuel rods and 
permits the entry of water for both the generation of steam 
and moderation of fast moving electrons from the nuclear 
reaction in the fuel rods to slower moving electrons to 
continue the nuclear reaction. The upper tie plate allows the 
escape of water and generated steam. It is from the escaped 
steam that power is ultimately generated, this generation 
occurring typically in a turbine that is remote from the 
reactor. The fuel rods within the fuel bundle are long and 
slender -- typically being in the range of 160 inches in  
 
length. These fuel rods are all placed within a square matrix 
5¼ inches on a side (dimension is approximate). The modern 
tendency to enable both improved nuclear performance and steam 
generation efficiency has been to place increasing numbers of 
discrete fuel rods into the same 5¼ inch square section. 
Currently densities of fuel rods are known that include 8 by 
8, 9 by 9, and 10 by 10, matrices of fuel rods. With the 
dense fuel bundle arrays, the individual fuel rods become 
smaller of diameter and the fuel rods become more flexible 
between the upper and lower tie plate. Water and steam fluid flow through the fuel bundles 
causes the long slender fuel rods to become subject to 
vibration. Without restraint, the fuel bundles could come 
into abrading contact and lose their required sealing of their 
contained nuclear fuel. Further, when the fuel rods move out 
of alignment, they lose designed nuclear efficiency which is 
realized when the rods maintain precise designed side-by-side 
spacing. Accordingly, it has long been the accepted practice 
of the nuclear industry to incorporate so-called fuel rod 
spacers at varied elevations within the fuel bundles. The prior art construction of fuel bundle spacers is 
relatively easy to understand. A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cell spacer array for surrounding the 
discrete fuel rods of fuel bundles within a fuel bundle 

channel having walls at an elevation comprising: 
   a first layer of cells enclosing alternate fuel rods 

within the rows and columns of the fuel bundle matrix at a 
fir
st elevation horizontally across said spacer; 
   a second layer of cells enclosing the remaining 

alternate fuel rods within the rows and columns of the fuel 
bundle matrix at a second elevation horizontally across said 

spacer whereby said first layer encloses a first fraction of 
said fuel rods of said matrix at the elevation of said spacer 

and said second layer encloses the remaining fraction of said 
fuel rods of said matrix at the elevation of said spacer; 

   said first and second layers abutted to one another 
to form immediately contiguous spacer layers; 

   means for joining said first and second layers at 
said points of abutment to form said first and second layers 

into a unitary structure. 
The cell spacer array for surrounding the 
discrete fuel rods of fuel bundle at an elevation of claim 1 

and wherein: 
   each of said cells is octagonal. 
The cell spacer array for surrounding the 
discrete fuel rods of fuel bundle at an elevation of claim 1 

and wherein: 
   said rows and columns of fuel rods are normal to 

walls of said channel. 
A fuel bundle for a boiling water nuclear 
reactor, said fuel bundle comprising in combination: 

   an array of upstanding fuel rods; 
   a lower tie plate for supporting said array of 

upstanding fuel rods and permitting the entry of water 
moderator into said fuel bundle;

 
   an upper tie plate for fastening to at least some of 

said fuel rods and permitting the escape of liquid and 
generated steam from said fuel bundle; 

   a plurality of cell spacers for surrounding the 
discrete fuel rods of fuel bundles within a fuel bundle 

channel at discrete elevations; 
   at least one of said cell spacers including: 

   a first layer of cells enclosing alternate fuel rods 
within the rows and columns of the fuel bundle matrix at a 

first elevation horizontally across said spacer; 
   a second layer of cells enclosing the remaining 

alternate fuel rods within the rows and columns of the fuel 
bundle matrix at a second elevation horizontally across said 

spacer whereby said first layer encloses a first fraction of 
said fuel rods of said matrix at the elevation of said spacer 

and said second layer encloses the remaining fraction of said 
fuel rods of said matrix at the elevation of said spacer; 

   said first and second layers abutted to one another 
to form immediately contiguous spacer layers; 

   means for joining said first and second layers at 
said points of abutment to form said first and second layers 

into a unitary structure. 
The fuel bundle for a boiling water nuclear 
reactor of claim 4 and wherein: 

   each of said cells is octagonal. 
The fuel bundle for a boiling water nuclear 
reactor of claim 4 and wherein: 

   a plurality of said spacers includes said first and 
second layers of cells. 
A method of forming overlying and underlying 
octagonal rows of spacer cells at first and second adjoining 

elevations to form a spacer of sufficient vertical height to 
brace fuel rods passing through the cells of said spacer, said 

method comprising the steps of:
 

   providing an elongate metallic strip having width 
equal to the vertical height of said spacer and length 

sufficient for form at least two octagonal cells for said 
spacer; 

   locating upper and lower opposite sides of said 
octagonal cells on said strip; 

   cutting in from a first elongate edge of said strip 
along a border of one opposite side; 

   separating said strip centrally in a first direction 
along the length of three of said octagonal sides to the 

border of said other opposite side; 
   cutting in from a second and opposite elongate edge 

of said strip along the opposite border of the opposite side; 
   separating said strip centrally in a second and 

opposite direction along the length of three of said octagonal 
sides, said separation being in an opposite direction to said 

first separation step; and, 
   bending said separated strip into a plurality of 

octagon cells, with at least one cell at said first elevation 
and at least one cell at said second elevation for surrounding 

adjacent said fuel rods at the elevation of said spacer. 
The method of claim 7 and including the steps 
of: 

   joining a first row of cells made by said bending 
step with a second row of cells made with said bending step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
