<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653088</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LABELS AND MANUFACTURE THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31D102	G09F310	G09F302	G09F302	B31D100	G09F310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31D	G09F	G09F	G09F	B31D	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31D1	G09F3	G09F3	G09F3	B31D1	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-adhesive label (2) comprising a self-adhesive base portion (6) which is adhered by its self-adhesive surface to a backing of release material (4), a folded leaflet portion (8) which is disposed over the base portion (6) and a self-adhesive overlaminate portion (10) which is adhered by its self-adhesive surface to a part of the top surface of the folded leaflet portion (8) and to exposed parts of the top surface of the base portion (6) on opposed sides of the folded leaflet portion (8) so as to retain the leaflet portion (8) in a folded configuration, the overlaminate portion (10) exposing an end part of the folded leaflet portion (8) whereby the end part can be pulled by user thereby to open the label. The invention also provides a method of producing such labels (2).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTANCE DAVID JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTANCE, DAVID JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INSTANCE DAVID JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INSTANCE, DAVID JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a self-adhesive label 
and to a method of producing self-adhesive labels. It is known to manufacture multilaminar self-adhesive 
labels for application to products, the labels being 
openable so as to reveal previously hidden printed areas. US-A-5127676 discloses a self-adhesive label and a 
method of producing self-adhesive labels having the features 
of the pre-characterising portions of claims 1 and 10 
respectively. The present invention aims to provide an improved 
extended text self-adhesive label. Accordingly, the present invention provides a 
self-adhesive label comprising a self-adhesive base portion 
which is adhered by its self-adhesive surface to a backing 
of release material, a folded leaflet portion which is 
disposed over the base portion and a self-adhesive 
overlaminate portion which is adhered by its self-adhesive 
surface to a part of the top surface of the folded leaflet 
portion and to exposed parts of the top surface of the base 
portion on opposed sides of the folded leaflet portion so as 
to retain the leaflet portion in a folded configuration, 
characterised by the overlaminate portion exposing an end 
part of the folded leaflet portion whereby the end part can 
be pulled by a user thereby to open the label. The present invention also provides a method of 
producing a succession of self-adhesive labels carried on a 
backing of release material, the method comprising the steps 
of: (a) providing a laminar material comprising a web of 
self-adhesive base material carried on a backing web of 
release material; (b) applying a succession of folded 
leaflets to the top surface of the web of base material; (c) 
applying a self-adhesive overlaminating web over the folded 
leaflets and exposed parts of the top surface of the web of  
 
base material; and (d) cutting through the overlaminating 
web, the folded leaflets and the base material as far as the 
backing of release material so as to form a succession of 
self-adhesive labels on the backing of release material, in 
each self-adhesive label a portion of a respective folded 
leaflet being sandwiched between a portion of the 
overlaminating web and a portion of the base material web, 
characterised by the overlaminating step (c) and the cutting 
step (d) being carried out so that in each self-adhesive 
label a part of the folded leaflet is exposed by the portion 
of the overlaminating web. Embodiments of the present invention will now be 
described by way of example only with reference to the 
accompa
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A self-adhesive label (2) comprising a self-adhesive 
base portion (6) which is adhered by its self-adhesive 

surface to a backing (4) of release material, a folded 
leaflet portion (8) which is disposed over the base portion 

(6) and a self-adhesive overlaminate portion (10) which is 
adhered by its self-adhesive surface to a part of the top 

surface of the folded leaflet portion (8) and to exposed 
parts of the top surface of the base portion (6) on opposed 

sides of the folded leaflet portion so as to retain the 
leaflet portion (8) in a folded configuration, characterised 

by the overlaminate portion (10) exposing an end part (12) 
of the folded leaflet portion (8) whereby the end part (12) 

can be pulled by a user thereby to open the label (2). 
A self-adhesive label according to claim 1 wherein the 
overlaminate portion (10) comprises a plastics layer. 
A self-adhesive label according to claim 1 or claim 2 
wherein the base portion (6) comprises a plastics layer. 
A self-adhesive label according to claim 3 wherein the 
base portion (6) is coated with a material which partially 

deadens the adhesive interface between the self-adhesive 
surface of the overlaminate portion (10) and the upper 

surface of the base portion (6). 
A self-adhesive label according to claim 4 wherein the 
material comprises a varnish. 
A self-adhesive label according to claim 5 wherein the 
varnish is a UV curable varnish. 
A self-adhesive label according to any foregoing claim 
wherein the said end part (12) is disposed at one edge of 

the self-adhesive label (2).  
 
A self-adhesive label according to claim 7 wherein the 
end part (12) is disposed between two exposed parts (14) of 

the base portion (6). 
A self-adhesive label according to any foregoing claim 
wherein the base portion (6) has a thickness greater than 

that of the overlaminate portion (10). 
A method of producing a succession of self-adhesive 
labels (2) carried on a backing (24) of release material, 

the method comprising the steps of: 

(a) providing a laminar material (20) comprising a web 
(22) of self-adhesive base material carried on a backing web 

(24) of release material; 
(b) applying a succession of folded leaflets (32) to 
the top surface of the web (22) of base material; 
(c) applying a self-adhesive overlaminating web (34) 
over the folded leaflets (32) and exposed parts of the top 

surface of the web (22) of base material; and 
(d) cutting through the overlaminating web (34), the 
folded leaflets (32) and the base material (21) as far as 

the backing (24) of release material so as to form a 
succession of self-adhesive labels (2) on the backing (24) 

of release material, in each self-adhesive label (2) a 
portion of a respective folded leaflet (32) being sandwiched 

between a portion of the overlaminating web (34) and a 
portion of the base material web (32), characterised by the 

overlaminating step (c) and the cutting step (d) being 
carried out so that in each self-adhesive label (2) a part 

(38) of the folded leaflet (32) is exposed by the portion of 
the overlaminating web (34). 
A method according to claim 10 wherein the 
overlaminating web (34) has a width less than that of the 

base material (21). 
A method according to claim 11 wherein the 
overlaminating and base material webs (34,22) are offset 

whereby the said parts of the folded leaflets (32) are 
exposed and not covered by the overlaminating web (34).  

 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 12 
wherein in the cutting step (d) at least one end of the 

folded leaflets (32) is cut away. 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 13 
wherein the overlaminating web (34) comprises a plastics web. 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 14 
wherein the base material (22) comprises a plastics web. 
A method according to claim 15 further comprising the 
step before applying step (b) of coating the base material 

(22) with a material which, in the resultant labels, 
partially deadens the adhesive interface between the 

self-adhesive surface of the overlaminating web (34) and the 
upper surface of the base material (22). 
A method according to claim 16 wherein the material 
comprises a varnish. 
A method according to claim 17 wherein the varnish is a 
UV curable varnish. 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 18 
wherein the said exposed part (38) of the folded leaflet 

(32) is disposed at one edge of the self-adhesive label (2) 

between two exposed parts of the base material (22). 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 19 
wherein the base material (22) has a thickness greater than 

that of the overlaminating web (34). 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 20 
wherein the folded leaflets (32) are individual leaflets 

which are applied to the web (22) of base material in step 
(b). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
