<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic system for terminating bus lines
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K19003	H03K190185	H03K19003	G06F1340	H03K190185	H04L2502	G06F1340	H04L2502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	G06F	H03K	H04L	G06F	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	G06F13	H03K19	H04L25	G06F13	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic system includes a plurality of 
electronic circuits each having a signal input and 

output function, a bus to which the plurality of 
electronic circuits are connected, first termination 

resistors connected to ends of the bus, and a 
termination voltage circuit having a first part 

generating a first voltage and a second part generating 
a second voltage. The sum of the first voltage and the 

second voltage is supplied, as a power supply voltage, 
to output circuits of the plurality of electronic 

circuits connected to the bus. The second voltage is 
supplied to the first termination resistors as a 

termination voltage. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAGUCHI MASAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAGUCHI, MASAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to electronic systems which transmit signals to remote devices via signal lines, and more particularly to an electronic system which transmits a signal having an amplitude less than the power supply voltage applied to the electronic system.Recently, there has been considerable activity in the development of small-amplitude high-speed signal transmissions. In such transmissions, signals having amplitudes less than the power supply voltage are transmitted. For example, the GTL (Gunning Transceiver Logic) standard is known. According to this GTL standard, the output circuit is an open-drain type driver and an impedance match termination is employed. Under these conditions, the following parameters are defined: termination voltage VTT=1.2 V±5%;reference⁢ voltage VREF=0.8 V;output high-level voltage VOH=0.8 V+400 mV;output low-level voltage VOL=0.8 V-400 mV;input high-level voltage VIN=0.8 V+50 mV;
and input low-level voltage VIN=0.8 V-50 mV.Regarding the small-amplitude high-speed signal transmissions, the following documents are known: 1) Taguchi et al., "COMPARING SMALL-AMPLITUDE INTERFACES TOWARD 100 MHZ TIMES", Nikkei Electronics, No. 591, pp. 269 - 290, 1993. 9. 27; and 2) Taguchi et al., "SMALL-AMPLITUDE INTERFACE CIRCUIT FOR HIGH-SPEED MEMORY BUS", Study Document of Institute of Electronics, Communication and Information Engineers, November 26, 1993.Fig. 1 is a block diagram of a system having electronic systems in which a small-amplitude signal, which has an amplitude less than the power supply voltage, is transmitted therebetween via a bus line. The system shown in Fig. 1 includes a microprocessor 1, SDRAM (Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory) devices 21, 22 and 2n (where n is an integer), and a bus line 3 via which small-amplitude signals are transmitted. At the present time, the transmission of signals between the microprocessor 1 and the DRAM devices 21 - 2n are carried out at tens of mega-hertz. However, it is required that signal transmissions be performed at 100 MHz or higher.Fig. 2 is a circuit diagram of conventional interfaces and a bus system employed in electronic systems as described above. A microprocessor 5 has a signal input/output terminal 6, a reference voltage input terminal 7 and an input circuit 8. The signal input/output terminal 6 is used to input and output a signal DQ. The reference voltage input terminal 7 is used to receive a reference voltage Vref. The input circuit 8 includes a differential amplifier circuit. Further, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic system comprising:

a plurality of electronic circuits (44) each having a signal input and output function;
a bus (51) to which the plurality of electronic circuits (44) are connected;
first termination resistors (52) connected to ends of the bus (51); and
a termination voltage circuit (37) connected to a termination voltage line (43) and a power supply line (42) and having a first part which is a first voltage generating circuit (38) generating a first voltage (V1) and a second part which is a second voltage generating circuit (39) generating a second voltage (V2), a sum of the first voltage (V1) and the second voltage (V2) being supplied, as a power supply voltage, to output circuits (48) of the plurality of electronic circuits (44) connected to the bus (51), the second voltage (V2) being supplied to the first termination resistors (52) as a termination voltage (VTT),
wherein an output of an output circuit (48) can be switched between two levels,
wherein the system is operable such that:

when the output of the output circuit (48) is in one of said levels, a current (i
0
) flows in a closed circuit made up of the first part (39), the termination voltage line (43), the first termination resistors (52), the bus (51), the output circuit (48), the ground, and the first part (39);
when the output of the output circuit (48) is in the other of said levels, a current (i
1
) flows in a closed circuit made up of the second part (38), the power supply line (42), the output circuit (48), the bus (51), the first termination resistors (52) and the second part (38).
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and second parts of said termination voltage circuit are connected in series.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising second resistors connected to branch points, the plurality of electronic circuits being coupled to the branch points of the bus via said second resistors.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second resistors have resistance values which produce driving currents for driving the output circuits, said driving currants being equal to those obtained if the second resistors are omitted and the power supply voltage supplied to the output circuits is increased.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a second resistor which connects at least one electronic circuit to the bus, the remaining electronic circuits being directly connected to the bus.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 5, wherein:

driving currents for driving the output circuits of the remaining electronic circuits directly connected to the bus have a first driving current value viewed from the bus;
driving current for driving the output circuit of said at least one electronic circuit connected to the bus via the second resistor has a second driving current value; and
the first driving current value is equal to or nearly equal to the second driving current value.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein a value of a characteristic impedance of a wire connecting a second resistor and one of the plurality of electronic circuits connected to the bus via the second resistor is equal to or less-than a resistance value of the second resistor and half of a value of a characteristic impedance of the bus.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits directly connected to the bus provides an output signal via a second resistor disposed close to the output circuit of said at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said second resistor has a negative temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said second resistor is arranged in a package of said at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first voltage generated by said first part depends on operation temperatures of the output circuits of some or all of the plurality of electronic circuits, and has a positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the second voltage generated by said second part depends on operation temperatures of the output circuits of some or all of the plurality of electronic circuits, and has a positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a temperature sensor
 provided at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits,

wherein the first part generates the first voltage so as to be varied in response to a temperature sensed by the temperature sensor, and has a positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the second part generates the second voltage so as to be varied in response to the temperature sensed by the temperature sensor, and has another positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein:

at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits is connected to the bus via a second resistor;
the first voltage generated by the first part depends on temperatures of some or all of electronic circuits directly connected to the bus, and has a positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the second voltage generated by the second part depends on the temperatures of some or all of electronic circuits directly connected to the bus, and has another positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a temperature sensor provided at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits directly connected to the bus,

wherein the first part generates the first voltage so as to be varied in response to a temperature sensed by the temperature sensor, and has a positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the second part generates the second voltage so as to be varied in response to the temperature sensed by the temperature sensor, and has another positive temperature coefficient.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of the output circuits of the plurality of electronic circuits comprises a pull-up element of a first transistor formed of a p-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor, and a pull-down element of a second transistor formed of an n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 19, further comprising a first inverter of a complementary type driving the first transistor, and a second inverter of the complementary type driving the second transistor,
wherein the first and second inverters are supplied with a power supply voltage equal to the sum of the first voltage and the second voltage.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein:

each of the output circuits of the plurality of electronic circuits comprises a pull-up element of a first transistor formed of an n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor, and a pull-down element of a second transistor formed of a p-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor; and
a threshold voltage of the first transistor is equal to or higher of a low-level output signal output from each of the output circuits, and is lower than a threshold voltage of the second transistor.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein:

each of the output circuits of the plurality of electronic circuits comprises a pull-up element of a first transistor formed of an n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor of a depletion type, and a pull-down element of a second transistor formed of a p-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor of an enhancement type; and
a threshold voltage of the first transistor is equal to or higher than a low-signal level output from each of the output circuits.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a packaged termination device having the first termination resistors.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a packaged termination device having the first termination resistors, at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits and said packaged termination device being arranged on a circuit board in a stack formation.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the packaged termination device has a reference voltage output terminal via which the termination voltage is output as a reference voltage used in the plurality of electronic circuits.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a packaged termination device having the first termination resistors and said second part of the termination voltage circuit.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a packaged termination device having the first termination resistors and the
 second part of the termination voltage circuit,

wherein at least one of the plurality of electronic circuits and the packaged termination device are arranged on a circuit board in a stack formation.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the packaged termination device has a reference voltage output terminal via which the second voltage is output as a reference voltage used in the plurality of electronic circuits.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of the first termination resistors has a resistance value greater than an effective characteristic impedance of the bus and smaller than a characteristic impedance of the bus obtained when no load is connected to the bus.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output circuit comprises :

a first pull-up element formed of a first p-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor, and a first pull-down element formed of a first n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor;
a first inverter having a second pull-up element formed of a second p-channel insulation gate
 type field effect transistor, and a second pull-down element formed of a second n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor; and
a second inverter having a third pull-up element formed of a third p-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor, and a third pull-down element formed of a third n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor,
a power supply voltage supplied to said first and second inverters being the same as power supply voltage supplied to said output circuit.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the power supply voltage supplied to said output circuit is supplied, as a back bias voltage, to the second and third p-channel insulation gate type field effect transistors.
The system as claimed in electronic claim 1, wherein:

the output circuit comprises a first pull-up element formed of a first n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor, and a first pull-down element formed of a second n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor,
the first n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor has a threshold voltage equal to or higher than a low-level signal output from said output circuit and is lower than a threshold voltage of said second n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor.
The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the output circuit comprises a first pull-up element formed of a first n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor of a depletion type, and a first pull-down element formed of a second n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor of an enhancement type,

the first n-channel insulation gate type field effect transistor has a threshold voltage equal to or higher than a low-level signal output from said output circuit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
