<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651259</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for measuring modulation acccuracy of a transmitted signal
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2500	G01R2926	H04L2720	H04L2720	G01R2500	G01R2900	G01R2320	G01R2320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	H04L	H04L	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R25	G01R29	H04L27	H04L27	G01R25	G01R29	G01R23	G01R23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for determining the phase and 
amplitude accuracy of continuous-phase-modulated signals is 

described. A modulated RF signal generated by a transmitter 
is down converted to a relatively low intermediate frequency 

which is filtered and sampled by a high sampling rate 
analog-to-digital convertor. a digital signal processor 

processes the digital signals to produce a measured 
amplitude function and a measured phase function 

corresponding to the modulated RF signal. From the measured 
amplitude and phase functions, an ideal phase function 

corresponding to the modulated RF signal is calculated and 
synthesized. The ideal phase function is compared to the 

measured phase function to determine the phase function from 
which the modulated RF signal phase error and frequency 

error are computed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIRGENHEIER RAYMOND A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN RICHARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIRGENHEIER, RAYMOND A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN, RICHARD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to digital
radios and, more specifically, to measuring the phase and
amplitude errors in a continuous-phase-modulated signal.1985 IEEE Military Communication Conf. Milcom 85',
p.480-484 discloses a system for determining path
related errors in transmitted signals.Presently a number of manufacturers manufacture and
market radios for use in communications, such as digital
cellular radios and the like. Typically each manufacturer
provides its own specifications for its products.
Traditionally the accuracy of these specifications has been
measured using many separate, possibly indirect methods.
Phase accuracy of the transmitted signal, for example,
typically is indirectly determined by measuring spurious
signals, phase noise, the modulation index, frequency
settling speed, carrier frequency and data clock frequency.
Further, amplitude measurements present special problems
because the amplitude versus time profile must be
synchronized to the data typically utilizing external
equipment. It has been proposed that a standardized mobile
digital radio system be implemented throughout Europe. Such
a radio system would require that all components such as
transmitters and receivers for example, be manufactured to
standard specifications measured by a common method. A
group known as the Group Speciale Mobile (GSM) has proposed
a measurement technique to measure the accuracy of the 
modulation process of the transmitted signal. In the
proposed measurement technique, a sampled measurement of the
transmitted phase trajectory is obtained. This measurement
is compared with the mathematically computed ideal phase
trajectory to determine the phase difference between the
transmitted signal and the ideal signal. The regression
line of the phase difference thus determined provides an
indication of the frequency error and the regression line is
subtracted from the phase difference to give the phase
error. Utilization of a standard method such as this would
simplify the testing and manufacture of radios. An
individual manufacturer would then only need to insure that
the standardized overall phase error specifications were met
rather than several interrelated specifications.The present invention provides a method and apparatus
in accordance with claims 1 and 14 hereinafter,
for computing the ideal phase trajectory of a
transmitted signal to be used in the above described GSM
standard phase error measurement method. According to the
principles of the present invention a transmitted signal

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of measuring the accuracy of a
transmitter's modulation where a transmitted

signal is modulated in
accordance with a data signal, the method

including comparing the transmitted signal
with a reference signal to determine errors

in the transmitted signal, the method being
characterised by: processing the transmitted

signal to obtain a digitised representation
thereof, and estimating parameters of the

reference signal from the digitised
representation of the transmitted signal,

wherein modulation accuracy is measured by
comparison of the transmitted signal against

a reference signal whose parameters are
derived from the transmitted signal.
The method of claim 1 which includes
determining phase and magnitude functions for

both the reference signal and the transmitted
signal, and comparing the respective phase

and magnitude functions to determine phase
and magnitude errors of the transmitted

signal.
The method of claim 1 which includes
estimating the following parameters of the

reference signal : clock delay, data sequence,
carrier frequency, carrier phase, and

amplitude scale factor.
The method of claim 3 in which
estimating the clock delay includes detecting

zero-crossings of a frequency deviation
function and fitting a periodic clock impulse

train to said zero-crossings.
The method of claim 1 in which the
transmitted signal is digitally modulated.
The method of claim 1 in which the
transmitted signal is continuously phase

modulated.
A method according to any of the
foregoing claims which further includes:


processing the digitised representation
of the transmitted signal in a digital signal

procossor to detect parameters of the
transmitted signal including a data sequence

contained therein; and
using the detected data sequence in
estimating parameters of the reference

signal.
The method of claim 7 which
includes:


determining in-phase and quadrature-phase
signal components as functions of time

for the transmitted signal;
computing a phase function and a
magnitude function corresponding to said

transmitted signal by utilising said in-phase
and quadrature-phase signal components;
differentiating said phase function to
provide a frequency function corresponding to

said transmitted signal;
subtracting a frequency of the
transmitted signal from said frequency

function to provide a frequency deviation
function corresponding to said transmitted

signal;
detecting zero-crossings of said
frequency deviation function; and
detecting the data sequence from said
detected zero crossings.
The method of claim 8 which includes
compensating said detected zero-crossings in

response to said detected data sequence.
The method of claim 9 which
includes:


estimating the period and phase of a
transmitter data clock function from said

compensated zero crossings;
synchronising said detected data
sequence with said transmitter data clock

function to establish an active measurement
interval;
calculating a reference signal phase
function corresponding to said transmitted

signal; and
comparing said calculated reference
signal phase function to said computed phase

function to determine a phase difference
function of said transmitted signal.
The method of claim 7 in which the
determining errors step includes performing a

linear regression analysis. 
The method of claim 7 which
includes:


determining in-phase and quadrature-phase
signal components as functions of time

for the transmitted signal;
computing a phase function and a
magnitude function corresponding to said

transmitted signal by utilising said in-phase
and quadrature-phase signal components;
synchronising said detected data
sequence with a known bit sequence for

providing a transmitter data clock function
and a data bit sequence interval signal;
calculating a reference phase function
utilising said detected data sequence, said

transmitter data clock function, and said
data bit sequence interval signal; and
comparing said reference phase function
to said computer phase function to determine

a phase difference function of said
transmitted signal.
The method of any of the foregoing
claims which further includes refining said

estimated parameters to minimize an RMS phase
error.
An apparatus for measuring the
accuracy of a transmitter's modulation,

wherein a transmitted signal is modulated
with a bit sequence representing data, the

apparatus being characterised by: a digitiser(1)
for digitising the transmitted signal; means (2)

for transforming said digitised signal into
component in-phase and quadrature-phase

signals; means (3) responsive to said
component in-phase and quadrature-phase

signals for determining a phase function and
an amplitude function corresponding to said

transmitted signal; means (4) for
synchronising the data bit sequence in the

transformed digital signal with a known bit
sequence to provide a data bit sequence

signal; a detector (5) for detecting the data
bit sequence; means (6) responsive to the

detected data bit sequence for estimating
parameters of a reference signal; and means

(7) for comparing said reference signal to
the transmitted signal to determine the

modulation accuracy of the transmitted
signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
