<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630318</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VACUUM INSULATING AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4434	B29C4434	B32B324	B32B324	B32B326	B32B326	B32B518	B32B518	C03B1900	C03B1908	C04B3800	C04B3800	C22C108	C22C108	E04B180	E04B180	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	C03B	C03B	C04B	C04B	C22C	C22C	E04B	E04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C44	B29C44	B32B3	B32B3	B32B3	B32B3	B32B5	B32B5	C03B19	C03B19	C04B38	C04B38	C22C1	C22C1	E04B1	E04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Vacuum insulating and construction materials (1) are provided by producing bubble containing, solid materials such as individual bubbles, multiple bubbles, foamed material, and the like in an environment of less than atmospheric pressure and enclosing the bubbles produced in an air-tight encapsulating material (5) while still in the environment of less than atmospheric pressure. On being moved into an environment of atmospheric pressure the bubbles retain their vacuum quality.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOVITSKY CHARLES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOVITSKY CHARLES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVITSKY CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVITSKY CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VACUUM INSULATING AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIALBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to insulation and construction materials. In one of its aspects it relates to material used for thermal and acoustic insulation. In another of its aspects it relates to vacuum insulation materials i.e. insulating materials containing enclosed spaces in which the pressure is less than atmospheric pressure. In another of its aspects this invention relates to construction materials containing enclosed spaces in which the pressure is less than atmospheric pressure. In yet another of its aspects this invention relates to ultralight construction materials. In still another of its aspects this invention relates to the production of vacuum insulation materials. In still another of its aspects this invention relates to the production of construction materials containing enclosed spaces in which the pressure is less than atmospheric pressure. v 2. Description of the Prior ArtVacuum insulation techniques have been known for use in various applications for both thermal and acoustic insulation material. Such material makes use of the advantage of having a reduced number of molecules in a vacuum chamber encapsulated within the material so that the transfer of heat or sound is reduced as compared to material having chambers encapsulating gases at atmospheric pressure or higher pressures. Obviously, the greater the 

reduction of pressure within a vacuum chamber the more effective will be the barrier to the transfer of heat or sound energy through the chamber and increasing the ratio of open space to supporting structure also reduces the transfer of heat or sound through an insulating material. While several approaches have been tried in the production of vacuum insulation the most common schemes have relied on producing air-tight enclosing structures that are supported from within by loosely packed filler which upon the evacuation of gas from the structure prevents the structure from collapsing on itself, but still provides interstices between the units of filler from which gas can be withdrawn. After the evacuation of gas, the structure is sealed to maintain the vacuum. Other production approaches enclose within a single air-tight, outer structure a multiplicity of either elongated, relatively flat, air-tight, bag structures or elongated, sausage-shaped, air-tight structures of relatively small diameter, either of which are supported on the inside by microporous insulation material. Gas is withdrawn
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for preparing an article of manufacture said article comprising at least one chamber enclosed by a solid, air-tight, encapsulating material, (a) the pressure inside said at least one chamber being less than atmospheric pressure, and (b) said encapsulating material of sufficient strength to maintain the integrity and the vacuum characteristic of said at least one chamber said method comprising: in an environment under less than atmospheric pressure (1) treating a liquid material to provide a treated solid material having at least one enclosed chamber therein wherein said at least one enclosed chamber is under less than atmospheric pressure and (2) encapsulating said at least one chamber in a solid, air- tight, encapsulating material of sufficient strength to maintain the integrity and the vacuum characteristic of said at least one enclosed chamber thereby providing an air-tight, encapsulated article having at least one enclosed chamber under less than atmospheric pressure. 2. A method of claim 1 wherein the liquid material in step (1) is prepared by melting a solid material.
3. A method of claim 1 wherein the liquid material is selected from the group consisting of metals, metal alloys, polymeric materials (preformed polymers) , glass, glass- ceramics, metallic glass, wax, concrete and mixtures thereof. 


 4. A method of claim 1 for preparing an article of manufacture comprising: treating a molten, encapsulating material in an environment under less than atmospheric pressure to provide a treated material having at least one enclosed chamber therein under less than atmospheric pressure wherein said treated material on solidifying is air-tight thereby maintaining the vacuum characteristic of said at least one chamber and of sufficient strength to maintain the integrity of said at least one chamber, thereby providing an air-tight article having at least one chamber under less than atmospheric pressure.
5. A method of claim 4 comprising: (1) treating a molten material to provide at least one chamber therein, (2) while still in the molten state introducing said material with at least one chamber therein into a mold, (3) allowing said material in said mold to cool below its melting temperature thereby providing a solidified molded article and (4) removing said molded article from said mold. 6. A method of claim 5 wherein (1) comprises creating a multiplicity of bubbles within said molten material.
7. A method of claim 6 wherein (l) comprises agitating said molten material.
8. A method of claim 7 wherein (1) comprises aerating said molten material.
9. A method of claim 4 wherein treating a molten material to provide at least one chamber therein comprises 


blowing a bubble wherein the pressure within said bubble is less than atmospheric pressure and separating said bubble from the device from which it was blown thereby enclosing the chamber therein. 10. A method of claim 4 wherein treating a molten material to provide at least one chamber therein comprises blowing a series of bubbles joined together in a chain wherein the pressure within said bubbles is less than atmospheric pressure. 11. A method of claim 1 wherein (1) comprises foaming a foamable composition of (a) foamable material and (b) foaming agent to provide a multiplicity of bubbles, wherein the pressure in said bubbles is less than atmospheric pressure, in a foamed article of manufacture. 12. A method of claim 11 where in said foamable material is chosen from the group consisting of polymeric material and concrete.
13. A method of claim 11 wherein said foamable material on being foamed into an article of manufacture has, at least on its outer periphery, air-tight enclosure of said bubbles.
14. A method of claim 12 wherein said foamable material on being foamed produces a foamed article of manufacture providing air-tight enclosure of at least some of said bubbles.
15. A method of claim 12 wherein said foamable material on being foamed produces a foamed article of 


manufacture providing air-tight enclosure of at least the majority of said bubbles.
16. A method of claim 13 wherein said foamed article of manufacture is provided with an air-tight covering by a method chosen from the group consisting of dipping, spraying and coating said foamed article.
17. A method of claim 1 comprising (1) forming a bubble or group of bubbles in a mixture of plastic in an evaporatable carrier material and (2) allowing said carrier to evaporate thereby recovering a solidified plastic bubble or group of plastic bubbles.
18. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 1.
19. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 2.
20. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 3.
21. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 4. 22. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 5.
23. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 9.
24. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 10.
25. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 11. 


 26. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 13.
27. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 14. 28. An article of manufacture made by the process of claim 17.
29. An article of manufacture comprising a foamed material chosen from the group consisting of metal, metal alloys, polymeric material, glass, glass-ceramic, metallic glass, wax and concrete in which bubbles formed are enclosed in air-tight encapsulation by the material foamed and in which the pressure within the encapsulated bubbles is less than atmospheric.
30. An article of manufacture comprising (1) a foamed polymeric material in which the bubbles formed are enclosed by the material foamed and in which the pressure within the enclosed bubbles is less than atmospheric and (2) an air¬ tight covering, chosen from the group consisting of metal, metal alloys, polymeric material, glass, glass-ceramic, metallic glass, and wax, encapsulating said foamed material.
31. An article of manufacture comprising a multiplicity of chambers said chambers enclosed in air¬ tight encapsulation by the material forming the chamber walls wherein said material forming said chamber walls is of sufficient strength to maintain the integrity of the 


structure of said chambers and wherein the pressure within at least some of said chambers is less than atmospheric.
32. An article of manufacture of claim 29 wherein said material forming the chamber walls is chosen from the group consisting of metal, metal alloys, polymeric material, glass, glass-ceramic, metallic glass, and wax.
34. An article of manufacture comprising (1) a multiplicity of chambers said chambers enclosed by a material forming the chamber walls wherein said material forming said chamber walls is of sufficient strength to maintain the integrity of the structure of said chambers and wherein the pressure within at least some of said chambers is less than atmospheric and (2) an air-tight covering enclosing said multiplicity of chambers. 32. An article of manufacture of claim 31 wherein said material forming the chamber walls and said air-tight covering are chosen from the group consisting of metal, metal alloys, polymeric material, glass, glass-ceramic, metallic glass, and wax. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
