<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640998</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Load break disconnecting device with solid arc suppression means.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H900	H01H910	H01H930	H01H932	H01H8500	H01H85042	H01H8530	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H9	H01H9	H01H9	H01H9	H01H85	H01H85	H01H85	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved load break disconnecting device is disclosed, 
comprising a conductive portion having a non-gassing fuse, a fuse 

cartridge (74) having first and second ends and enclosing said fuse, a 
conducting hinge assembly (76) and conducting stationary contact means 

(46), and a non-conducting arc extinguishing sleeve (152) with 
latch means for 

latching the sleeve in a non-covering position until the switch (42) is 
closed and biasing means for snapping the sleeve (152) into an 

arc-extinguishing, covering position when the switch is opened. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOPER POWER SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOPER POWER SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASSLER STEPHEN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON STEPHEN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAPP JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASSLER, STEPHEN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, STEPHEN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAPP, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of United States 
patent application Serial No. 07/946,961 filed September 17, 1992 
and entitled "Current Limiting Fuse and Dropout Fuseholder for 
Interchangeable Cutout Mounting". This invention relates to load break disconnecting switches 
which are used with transfcrmers and more particularly with housed, 
ground-level mounted transformers employed with underground 
distributions systems. Electrical distribution systems are typically buried 
underground for reasons of aesthetics, safety and system longevity. 
The step down distribution transformers employed in such 
distribution systams must be accessible, however, so that they are 
generally mounted on a ground-level concrete pad and are enclosed 
within a metallic housing. It is preferable that these housings 
are as compact as possible, not only so that they will be 
inconspicuous, but also for reasons of economy and safety. As a 
result, conventional load break disconnecting switches and fuses, 
which are designed for use and installations where space is not a 
particular problem, have been found unsatisfactory for use with 
underground systems. Loadbreak disconnecting switches and fuses are mounted between 
upper and lower insulators with the upper insulator having a 
stationary contact jaw and the lower insulator supporting a hinge 
member. The distance between the upper stationary contact jaw and  
 
the lower hinge member is a standard distance in the industry. To 
avoid replacing the mounting to install a new loadbreak 
disconnecting device, it is preferred that the loadbreak 
disconnecting device have dimensions and features which allow it to 
be used with conventional insulator mountings. U. S. Patent 3,235,696 to Mikulecky discloses a typical prior 
art load break disconnecting device. The load break disconnecting 
device of Mikulecky is a nonconductive means mounted on an elongate 
switch means and is resiliently urged into covering relation of a 
conductive portion of the switch means relative to stationary 
contact means upon movement of the switch means away from the 
stationary contact means so that any arc struck therebetween will 
be extinguished. The nonconductive means is a sleeve 
concentrically mounted on the switch means for longitudinal 
movement toward a covering relation with respect to the conductive 
portion. The switch means includes a spring latch means for 
holding the nonconductive means away from the conductive portion 
and the stationary contact means includes a latch
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An improved load break disconnecting device comprising: 
   a conductive portion having a non-gassing fuse; 

   a fuse cartridge having first and second ends and enclosing 
said fuse; 

   first and second end caps affixed to and enclosing said first 
and second ends, respectively, of said fuse cartridge and each 

including a cylindrical portion projecting outwardly from its 
center, said cylindrical portions each having an outer diameter; 

   a conducting hinge assembly affixed to said second cap for 
pivotally mounting said conductive portion within a switch 

mounting; 
   a contact tube having one end affixed to a nonconducting plug 

and pull ring and having a second end connected to said cylindrical 
portion of said first cap, and having conductive engagement with a 

stationary contact means; 
   a nonconducting sleeve concentrically slidingly positioned 

over said first end of said fuse cartridge and said first cap, said 
sleeve having a closure portion at its first end and a cylindrical 

reentry portion extending into said sleeve from said closure 
portion, said reentry portion having an inner diameter sized to 

sequentially slidingly engage said outer diameters of said first 
cylindrical portion of said first cap, said contact tube, and said 

plug;
 

   a coil spring disposed between said first cap and said closure 
portion and centered on said reentry portion for biasing said 

sleeve toward said plug; 
   a latch means mounted within said contact tube and positioned 

to hold said nonconductive sleeve in a latched position below said 
contact tube until it is unlatched by engagement with said 

stationary contact means, whereupon said coil spring urges said 
nonconductive sleeve upward until said nonconductive sleeve engages 

said stationary contact means, so that disengagement of the contact 
tube from the stationary contact means allows said spring to urge 

said nonconductive sleeve upward into engagement with said plug, 
thereby confirming and extinguishing any arc between said 

stationary contact means and said conductive portion. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein the fuse is a non-gassing 
full range type fuse. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein the fuse includes a 
high fault current interrupting assembly and a low fault current 

interrupting assembly. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein the coil spring 
extends to at least 2 times its compressed length during operation 

of the device. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said fuse Includes 
a blown fuse indicator affixed to said second end of said fuse and 

an indicator wire which allows said blown fuse indicator to drop 
through an opening in said cylindrical portion of said second end 

 
cap and become visible below said hinge when said fuse has 

operated. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said end caps are 
epoxied to said ends of said fuse and serve to prevent the ingress 

of moisture into the fuse. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said latch means is 
a latch spring having a latch portion extending through a 

longitudinal slot in said contact tube for engagement with said 
stationary contact means. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said second end of 
said contact tube includes a bore in which said latch spring is 

housed within said contact tube. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said plug and said 
sleeve are made of nonconducting plastic. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said pull ring is 
integrally formed with said plug. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein said plug and said 
contact tube have one outer diameter at their point of connection, 

said diameter of said plug tapering to a slightly increased 
diameter at a point between said contact tube and said ring. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein a stem is embedded 
in said plug and extends into said contact tube. 
The load break device of claim 1, wherein mica insulators are 
positioned between said first cap and said fuse. 
An improved load break disconnecting device comprising:
 

   a conductive portion having a non-gassing fuse pivotally 
mounted at one end on a conductive hinge; 

   a stationary contact jaw for conductive engagement with a 
second end of said conductive portion; 

   an arc extinguishing means mounted on said conductive portion 
such that when said conductive portion is disengaged from said 

contact jaw resulting in an electrical current arc therebetween, 
said arc extinguishing means moves to a covering position with 

respect to said conductive portion, thereby extinguishing said arc. 
The improved load break disconnecting device of claim 14 
wherein said fuse has a rating of at least 17.2 kv and at least 50 

amps. 
The improved load break disconnecting device of claim 14 
wherein said fuse comprises: 

   a body; 
   a support structure disposed within said body and having 

spaced-apart fuse element supporting surfaces; 
   a fuse element disposed about said support structure in 

contact with said supporting surfaces and having an array of 
reduced area portions; and 

   said reduced area portions of said array being nonrandomly 
disposed about said support structure so as to be substantially 

free from contact with said supporting surfaces. 
The improved load break disconnecting device of claim 16 
wherein:

 
   said fuse element is spirally disposed about said support 

structure in a plurality of spaced-apart turns; and 
   said reduced area portions in said turns of said fuse element 

are aligned in columns. 
The improved load break disconnecting device of claim 17 
wherein said reduced area portions in adjacent turns of said fuse 

element are offset. 
The improved load break disconnecting device of claim 14 
wherein said fuse comprises: 

   a body; 
   a spider disposed within said body and having spaced-apart 

supporting arms with a valley between said arms; and 
   a fuse element disposed on said spider in contact with said 

supporting arms, said fuse element including a segment disposed 
between two of said supporting arms and wherein said segment is 

recessed into said valley between said arms. 
The improved load break disconnecting device of claim 14 
wherein said fuse comprises: 

   an insulative fuse cartridge having first and second 
conductive end caps and a longitudinal axis; 

   a non-conductive support disposed longitudinally within said 
cartridge and extending between said first and second conductive 

end caps, said non-conductive support having a plurality of support 
surfaces projecting radially from said longitudinal axis; 

   a length of fuse element having a plurality of spaced-apart 
reduced area portions along said length; and

 
   said length of said fuse element being wound along said non-conductive 

support and engaging said support surfaces between 
adjacent reduced area portions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
