<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644359</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lubrication system for vehicle transmission.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H308	F16H3095	F16H5704	F16H5704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H3	F16H3	F16H57	F16H57	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for lubricating the gears and bearings in a 
vehicle transmission (10) includes a fluid pump (60) 

mounted on the exterior of the transmission housing (14) 
and connected to a rotatably driven shaft contained 

therein. When operated, the pump (60) draws lubricant 
from a sump defined in the lower portion of the 

transmission housing (14). In a first embodiment, the 
lubricant from the pump (60) is delivered through a fluid 

conduit (65) to a single internal lubricant conduit (70) 
disposed within the transmission housing (14). The 

internal lubricant conduit (70) includes first (72) and 
second (74) distribution legs having respective 

pluralities of apertures (72a, 74a) formed therein. The 
apertures (72a, 74a) are located directly above the 

region where the various gears contained within the 
transmission (10) mesh. Lubricant sprayed from the 

apertures (72a, 74a) falls from the meshing gears under 
the influence of gravity and is collected in the sump 

defined in the lower portion of the transmission housing 
(14) so as to be recirculated. In a second embodiment, 

the lubricant from the pump (80) is delivered through a 
fluid conduit (86) to a pair of internal lubricant 

conduits (92, 93) disposed within the transmission 
housing (14). Each of the internal lubricant conduits 

(92, 93) includes respective pluralities of apertures 
(92a, 93a) formed therein located directly above the 

region where the various gears contained within the 
transmission (10) mesh. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JESTER TERRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JESTER, TERRY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to vehicle 
transmissions and in particular to an improved system for 
lubricating the gears and bearings in a vehicle 
transmission. In most vehicles, a transmission is provided in the 
drive train between the engine and the driven wheels. As 
is well known, the transmission includes a housing 
containing an input shaft, an output shaft, and a plurality 
of meshing gears which are selectively connected between 
the input shaft and the output shaft. The meshing gears 
contained within the transmission housing are of varying 
size so as to provide a plurality of speed reduction gear 
ratios between the input shaft and the output shaft. By 
appropriate selection of these meshing gears, a desired 
speed reduction gear ratio can be obtained between the 
input shaft and the output shaft. As a result, 
acceleration and deceleration of the vehicle can be 
accomplished in a smooth and efficient manner. Typically, this gear ratio selection is accomplished 
by moving one or more control members provided within the 
transmission. Movement of the control member causes 
certain ones of the meshing gears to be connected between 
the input shaft and the output shaft so as to provide the 
desired gear ratio therebetween. In a manual transmission, 
movement of the control member is accomplished by manual 
exertion of the vehicle driver, such as through a shift 
lever. In an automatic transmission, movement of the 
control member is accomplished by a pneumatic or hydraulic 
actuator in response to predetermined operating conditions.  In both manual and automatic transmissions, it is 
known to provide lubricant within the transmission for 
minimizing the adverse effects of friction caused by the 
meshing gears contained therein. In the past, the lower 
portion of the housing of the transmission functioned as a 
sump for the lubricant. Portions of the meshing gears of 
the transmission were partially submerged in the lubricant. 
Thus, when such gears were rotated during use, the 
lubricant was carried thereon or splashed into the meshing 
teeth thereof so as provide lubrication. Although this sump type of lubrication system has 
functioned successfully in the past, it has been found to 
have several drawbacks. First, a certain amount of 
clearance space must be provided between the lower portions 
of the meshing gears and the housing of the transmission. 
Consequently, a relatively large amount of lubricant is 
required to fill the sump of the transmission housing to a 
sufficiently high
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmission comprising: 
   a housing including an inner surface defining a sump for 

collecting lubricant and an outer surface; 
   an input shaft; 

   an output shaft; 
   a plurality of gears selectively connectable between said 

input shaft and said output shaft for providing a plurality of 
gear ratios therebetween; 

   a lubricant distribution conduit disposed within said 
housing and having at least one aperture formed therein; 

   a pump mounted on said outer surface; and 
   means for connecting said sump to said pump and said pump to 

said lubricant distribution conduit such that operation of said 
pump draws lubricant from said sump and delivers such lubricant 

to lubricant distribution conduit and said plurality of gears. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
aperture is disposed adjacent to some of said plurality of gears 

such that lubricant is sprayed from said aperture thereon. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
lubrication distribution conduit has a plurality of apertures 

formed therein. 
The transmission defined in claim 3 wherein each of said 
apertures is disposed adjacent to some of said plurality of gears 

such that lubricant is sprayed from said aperture thereon. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said means 
for providing fluid communication includes an entry leg extending 

through said housing for providing fluid communication between 
said pump and said fluid distribution conduit. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein some of said 
plurality of gears are mounted on a shaft disposed within said 

housing, said lubrication distribution conduit extending 
generally parallel to said shaft. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
lubricant distribution conduit includes a first distribution leg 

and a second distribution leg, each of said first and second 
distribution legs having an aperture formed therein. 
The transmission defined in Claim 7 wherein said 
lubrication distribution conduit further includes an intermediate 

leg providing fluid communication between said first distribution 
leg and said second distribution leg. 
The transmission defined in Claim 7 wherein some of said 
plurality of gears are mounted on a first countershaft disposed 

within said housing and some of said plurality of gears are 
mounted on a second countershaft disposed within said housing, 

 
said first distribution leg being disposed adjacent to said first 

countershaft, said second distribution leg being disposed 
adjacent to said second countershaft. 
The transmission defined in Claim 9 wherein said first 
distribution leg extends generally parallel to said first 

countershaft and said second distribution leg extends generally 
parallel to said second countershaft. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
housing includes a drain port and a lubricant port formed 

therein, said pump includes an inlet port and an outlet port, and 
said means for providing fluid communication includes a first 

fluid conduit providing fluid communication between said drain 
port and said inlet port and a second fluid conduit providing 

fluid communication between said outlet port and said lubricant 
port. 
The transmission defined in Claim 11 wherein said drain 
port includes a first fluid-tight fitting which extends through 

said housing to provide fluid communication between said sump and 
said first fluid conduit, and wherein said lubricant port 

includes a second fluid-tight fitting which extends through said 
housing to provide fluid communication between said second fluid 

conduit and said lubricant distribution conduit. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said pump 
is connected to be driven by said transmission to supply 

lubricant from said sump to said lubrication distribution 
conduit. 
The transmission defined in Claim 1 wherein said pump 
is mounted on said transmiss
ion. 
A transmission comprising: 
   a housing defining a sump for collecting lubricant; 

   an input shaft extending within said housing; 
   an output shaft extending within said housing; 

   a plurality of gears disposed within said housing and 
selectively connectable between said input shaft and said output 

shaft for providing a plurality of gear ratios therebetween; 
   a lubricant distribution conduit disposed within said 

housing and including a first distribution leg and a second 
distribution leg, each of said first and second distribution legs 

extending through said housing and having an aperture formed 
therein; 

   a pump mounted externally of said housing; and 
   means for providing fluid communication between said sump 

and said pump and between said pump and said lubricant 
distribution conduit such that operation of said pump draws 

lubricant from said sump and delivers such lubricant through said 
 

first and second distribution legs to some of said plurality of 
gears, said means for providing fluid communication including a 

fluid conduit connected to each of said first and second 
distribution legs at a location externally of said housing. 
The transmission defined in Claim 15 wherein said means 
for providing fluid communication further includes a T-shaped 

fluid conduit having a first leg communicating with said first 
distribution leg, a second leg communicating with said second 

distribution leg, and a third leg communicating with said pump. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
