<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614578</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPACT BROADBAND MICROSTRIP ANTENNA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q138	H01Q138	H01Q904	H01Q927	H01Q1100	H01Q1104	H01Q1308	H01Q1308	H01Q2100	H01Q2100	H01Q2120	H01Q2120	H01Q2500	H01Q2504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q9	H01Q9	H01Q11	H01Q11	H01Q13	H01Q13	H01Q21	H01Q21	H01Q21	H01Q21	H01Q25	H01Q25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Arrangements of compact broadband microstrip antennas are disclosed. Each arrangement comprises a dielectric material (32, 62) with the microstrip antennas mounted to one side and a ground surface (GP) on the opposite side. A first arrangement comprises a closed array of antenna elements (63-70) electrically driven out of phase from one another to excite one or more spiral modes. A second arrangement comprises one or more antenna elements arranged on a magnetic substrate (73) which has a relative permittivity approximately equal to its relative permeability. In a third arrangement, the microstrip antenna operates in a single mode and radiation from other modes is suppressed by varying the spacing above the ground plane (GP) in the radiation zones so that only radiation in the desired zones is fostered. In a fourth arrangement, a spiral mode antenna element (21) is spaced between 1/60 and 1/2 wavelengths from the ground surface (GP) throughout a multioctave operating frequency range. The substrate (32) has  epsilon r APPROX 1.0 and the antenna is driven by a near-perfect impedance-matched feed network.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEORGIA TECH RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEORGIA TECH RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRIPP VICTOR K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG JOHNSON J H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRIPP VICTOR K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG JOHNSON J H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 - I -COMPACT BROADBAND MICROSTRIP ANTENNAThis invention was made with partial Government support under a contract from the U.S. Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.CROSS-REFERENCE TO RKT.ATrø APPLICATIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/695,686 filed May 3, 1991 for ■MULTI-OCTAVE SPIRAL-MODE MICROSTRIP ANTENNA".TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates generally to antennas, and more particularly relates to microstrip antennas.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn many antenna applications, for example such as for use with aircraft and vehicles, an antenna with a broad bandwidth is required. For such applications, the so-called "frequency-independent antenna" ("FI antenna") commonly has been employed. See for example, V. H. Rumsey, Frequency Independent Antennas. Academic Press, New York, NY, 1966. Such frequency-independent antennas typically have a radiating or driven element with spiral, or log-periodic structure that enables the frequency-independent antenna to transmit and receive signals over a wide band of frequencies, typically on the order of a 9:1 ratio or more (a bandwidth of 900%). For example, European Patent Application No. 86301175.5 of R.H. DuHamel entitled "Dual Polarized Sinuous Antennas", published October 22, 1986, publication No. 0198578 (See 

 also U.S. Patent No. 4,658,262 dated April 14, 1987), discloses frequency-independent antennas with a log-periodic structure called "sinuous."In a conventional frequency-independent antenna, a lossy cylindrical cavity is positioned to one side of the antenna element so that when transmitting, energy effectively is radiated outwardly from the antenna only from one side of the antenna element (the energy radiating from the other side of the antenna element being dissipated in the cavity) . However, high-performance aircraft, and other applications as well, require that the antenna be mounted substantially flush with its exterior surface, in this case the skin of the aircraft. This undesirably requires that the cavity portion of the frequency-independent antenna be mounted within the structure of the aircraft, necessitating that a substantial hole be formed therein to accommodate the cylindrical cavity, which typically is at least two inches deep and several inches in diameter. Also, the use of a lossy cavity to dissipate radiation causes about half of the radiated power to be lost, requiring a greater power input to effect a given level of power radiated outwardly froirT
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CIAIMS
1. A compact microstrip antenna comprising:- an array of non-resonant antenna elements arranged in a generally closed loop pattern and adapted to be driven out of phase from one another for generating at least one spiral mode; a ground surface; and a substrate positioned to one side of said antenna elements for spacing said antenna elements a selected distance from said ground surface, said selected distance being small in relation to an operating wavelength, generally between 1/60 and 1/2 wavelengths, and said substrate having a relative dielectric constant of between about 1.0 and about 2.0. 2. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 wherein each of said antenna elements comprises a metal foil and the mounting surface is conducting.
3. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 2 wherein said antenna elements comprises patches which each are closely spaced with adjacent ones of other patches.
4. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 wherein each of said antenna elements comprises a dissipative load.
5. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said closed pattern of the array is generally circular.
6. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said array of antenna elements comprises at least four elements. 7. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said array of antenna elements comprises at least six elements.
8. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said array of antenna elements comprises at least eight elements. 


 9. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising at least one more array of non-resonant antenna elements arranged concentrically with said closed loop pattern. 10. A compact microstrip antenna for mounting to one side of a surface of a structure, comprising: one or more antenna elements; and a magnetic substrate adapted for positioning the antenna elements a selected distance from the surface, said magnetic substrate having a relative permittivity and a relative permeability, said relative permittivity being roughly equal to said relative permeability.
11. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 10 further comprising a loading material positioned about a perpherial portion of said one or more antenna elements and adjacent the surface of the structure.
12. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 10 wherein said substrate comprises alternating layers of dielectric material and magnetic material so that their resultant relative permittivity and relative permeability are approximately equal.
13. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 
•
0 wherein said antenna is adapted to operate at a select J wavelength and wherein said substrate is comprised of first and second granular materials, each of said first and second granular materials having a small grain size, and wherein the combined relative permittivity and relative permeability are approximately equal.
14. A compact spiral-mode microstrip antenna for mounting to one side of a ground plane comprising: one or more antenna elements; and a substrate positioned to one side of said antenna elements for spacing said antenna elements a selected first distance above the ground plane in a first radiation zone and for positioning said antenna elements a second selected distance above the ground plane in a 


 - O - second radiation zone, said first selected distance and said second selected distance being different from one another, said first and second selected distances being chosen for suppressing radiation in one of said first and second radiation zones and for fostering radiation in the other of said first and second radiation zones.
15. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 14 wherein said first radiation zone is positioned concentrically within said second radiation zone. 16. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 14 wherein a profile of the spacing between said one or more antenna elements and the ground plane in a transition region between said first and second radiation zones is generally smoothly tapered. 17. A microstrip antenna as claimed in Claim 14 wherein a profile of the spacing between said one or more antenna elements and the ground plane in a transition region between said first and second radiation zones is generally abrupt. 18. A multioctave microstrip antenna system comprising: a spiral-mode antenna element including at least two metal foil arms formed in a geometric pattern and adapted to generate at least one spiral mode when excited; a conducting ground surface positioned to one side of said antenna element; a substrate positioned to one side of said antenna element for spacing said antenna element a selected distance from said ground surface, said selected distance being between about 1/60 and 1/2 wavelengths throughout a multioctave operating frequency range, said substrate having a relative dielectric constant of between 1.0 and 2.0; and a feed network with a near-perfecf impedance match with said spiral mode antenna element. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
