<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of and system for enhancing distorted graphical information.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T520	G06T520	G06T900	G06T900	H04B1402	H04B1406	H04N514	H04N514	H04N726	H04N726	H04N730	H04N730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H04B	H04B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T5	G06T5	G06T9	G06T9	H04B14	H04B14	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for and method of enhancing image/video signals to be 
decoded is disclosed. The system for and method of post-filtering uses, preferably, a 

temporal filter (e.g., 110) and a spatial filter (e.g., 112), both of which are adaptive 
but neither is required to be adaptive. However, the system for and method of post-filtering 

may also be used with only an adaptive spatial post-filter. In this case, the 
performance is upper-bou
nded by the performance of systems using both the 
adaptive temporal and adaptive spatial post-filter. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to digital communications, and more particularly 
to a method of, and system for, enhancing distorted graphical information, including 
video signals. A video sequence comprises a series of images. Each image in the 
series of images comprises a plurality of picture elements (e.g., pixels) conveniently 
referred to as a frame. A typical signal present in a decoder of a digital communications system 
contains distortion. Such distortion may be due to a number of different factors. For 
example, whenever a signal is quantized in a coder, quantizing distortion is 
introduced into the signal to be transmitted. Other factors may also introduce 
distortion into the signal to be decoded. Digital communications systems used for video commonly include 
filters to help mitigate the effects of distortion, particularly when low bit rate video 
coding is used. The demand for good quality, low-bit rate video coding is growing 
and will continue to grow with the use of video over existing and future networks 
including ISDN and cable video distribution systems. Noise present in the video 
sequence at the receiver and/or decoder owing to quantization error is inevitable, 
especially in low bit rate video coding (currently illustrated by systems operating at 
384 kbps or less). In order to reduce noise, post-processing of the reconstructed 
video sequence has proven useful particularly for current low bit rate algorithms. Appropriately configured spatial and temporal post-filters are known to 
help alleviate the effects of distortion. This is because the intensities or 
characteristics of the pixels are spatially and temporally correlated. A temporal post-filter is dependent upon time (e.g., the time ordered 
position of the current image or frame with respect to other images or frames in a 
sequence of images or frames) and is thus related to video, which is time dependent. 
It should be noted that "frame," "image," and "image frame" are used 
interchangeably herein. In other words, a temporal post-filter typically uses 
information from more than one frame to filter a single frame. This type of 
information makes a temporal post-filter well suited for post-filtering frames that 
have undergone interframe coding (i.e., the coding of a frame is dependent upon  
 
information in other frames). On the other hand, a spatial post-filter is dependent 
upon the location of a particular pixel or set of pixels for a particular single frame. 
Thus, spatial post-filters typically are not time dependent and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for enhancing a set of distorted image signals, the set of 
distorted image signals adapted to be transmitted over a transmission medium of a 

digital communications setup, the system comprising an adaptive spatial post-filter 
for filtering the set of distorted image signals to generate a set of enhanced image 

signals. 
The system of claim 1 wherein distortion is due to quantization error 
introduced in low bit rate coding of a coder, the coder being a portion of the digital 

communications setup. 
A system for enhancing a set of distorted image signals, the set of 
distorted image signals adapted to be transmitted over a transmission medium of a 

digital communications setup, the system comprising: 

(a) first post-filter means for filtering the set of distorted image signals 
to generate a set of first signals; and 
(b) second post-filter means for filtering the set of first signals to 
generate a set of enhanced image signals. 
The system of claim 3 wherein the first post-filtering means is 
comprised of a temporal post-filter and the second post-filter means is comprised of 

a spatial post-filter. 
The system of claim 4 wherein both the temporal post-filter and the 
spatial post-filter are adaptive. 
A method for enhancing a set of distorted image signals adapted to be 
transmitted over a transmission medium of a digital communications setup, the 

 
digital communications setup comprising a coder, a decoder, and the transmission 

medium, the method comprising the step of post-filtering the set of distorted image 
signals with an adaptive spatial post-filter to generate a set of enhanced image 

signals. 
The method of claim 6 wherein distortion is due to quantization error 
introduced in low bit rate coding of the coder. 
A method for enhancing a set of distorted image signals, the set of 
distorted image signals adapted to be transmitted over a transmission medium of a 

digital communications setup, the method comprising: 

(a) filtering the set of distorted image signals with a first post-filter to 
generate a set of first signals; and 
(b) filtering the set of first signals with a second post-filter to generate a 
set of enhanced image signals. 
The method of claim 6 or 8 further comprising the step 
of displaying the set of enhanced image signals. 
A method of enhancing a distorted video signal, the distorted video 
signal comprising a set of image matrices adapted to be transmitted over a 

transmission medium of a digital communications setup, the digital communications 

setup comprising a coder, a decoder, and the transmission medium, the method 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) filtering the set of image matrices with a first post-filter to generate a 
set of image intensity matrices; and 
(b) filtering the set of image intensity matrices with a second post-filter 
to generate a set of enhanced image signals, the filtering comprising: 


(1) classifying an image intensity matrix in the set of image intensity 
matrices into a set of edge pixels and a set of non-edge pixels; 
(2) filtering the set of edge pixels with a first sub-filter of the second 
filter to generate a first portion of an enhanced image matrix in the set 

of enhanced image signals; 
(3) classifying the non-edge pixels into a set of smooth pixels and 
non-smooth pixels; 
(4) filtering the smooth pixels with a second sub-filter of the second 
filter to generate a second portion of the enhanced image matrix; 
(5) classifying the non-smooth pixels into a set of moving pixels and 
a set of non-moving pixels, the set of non-moving pixels comprising a 

third portion of the enhanced image matrix; 
(6) filtering the set of moving pixels with a third sub-filter of the 
second filter to generate a fourth portion of the enhanced image 

matrix; 
(7) combining the first portion, the second portion, the third portion, 
and the fourth portion to form the enhanced image matrix; and 
(8) repeating steps (b)(1) through (b)(7) for other enhanced image 
matrices in the set of enhanced image signals. 
The method of claim 10 wherein the step of classifying the matrix 
comprises determining if an input image sequence is static, (di(x,j)=0). 
The method of claim 10 wherein the first sub-filter is a multi-level 
median filter, the second sub-filter is a double median filter and the third sub-filter is 

a median filter. 
The method of claim 8 or 10 wherein the first post-filter 
is comprised of a temporal post-filter and the second post-filter 

is comprised of a spatial post-filter. 
The method of claim 13 wherein both the temporal post-filter and the 
spatial post-filter are adaptive. 
The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of visually 
 

displaying the set of enhanced image matrices. 
The method of claim 10 wherein the step of filtering the set of image 
matrices with the first post-filter comprises: 


(a) classifying an image matrix in the set of image matrices into a set of 
static pixels and a set of dynamic pixels, the set of static pixels comprising a first 

portion of an image intensity matrix in the set of image intensity matrices; 
(b) filtering the set of dynamic pixels with a motion compensating 
temporal filter to generate a second portion of the image intensity matrix; 
(c) combining the first portion with the second portion to form an image 
intensity matrix; and 
(d) repeating steps (a) through (c) for other image matrices in the set of 
image matrices. 
A system for enhancing a set of distorted image signals, the set of 
distorted image signals adapted to be transmitted over a transmission medium of a 

digital communications setup, the system comprising: 

(a) first means for post-filtering the set of distorted image signals to 
generate a set of first signals, the first means for post-filtering being temporal and 

adaptive; and 
(b) second means for post-filtering the set of first signals to generate a 
set of enhanced image signals, the second means for post-filtering being spatial and 

adaptive. 
The system of claim 1, 3 or 17 further comprising 
a means for visual display, the set of enhanced image signals 

adapted to be displayed on the means for visual display. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
