<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624639</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fuel composition
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10L110	C10L110	C10L1183	C10L122	C10L1198	C10L1188	C10L123	C10L118	C10L119	C10L1223	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fuel composition comprising a major amount of a 
normally liquid fuel and a minor amount of at least one 

compound of the general formula 

wherein each Ar is independently an aromatic group having 
from 4 to about 30 carbon atoms and from 0 to 3 optional 

substituents selected from the group consisting of amino, 
hydroxy- or alkyl- polyoxyalkyl, nitro, aminoalkyl, 

carboxy or combinations of two or more of said optional 
substituents, each R is independently a hydrocarbyl 

group, R¹ is H or a hydrocarbyl group, R² and R³ are each, 
independently, H or a hydrocarbyl group, R⁴ is a 

monovalent terminating group, each m is independently 0 
or an integer ranging from 1 to about 10, x ranges from 0 

to about 8, and each Z is independently OH, lower alkoxy, 
(OR⁵)
b
OR⁶ or O⁻ wherein each R⁵ is independently a divalent 
hydrocarbyl group, R⁶ is H or hydrocarbyl and b is a 

number ranging from 1 to about 30 and c ranges from 1 to 
about 3, y is a number ranging from 1 to about 10 and 

wherein the sum m + c does not exceed the number of 
valences of the corresponding Ar available for 

substitution and at least one A is independently an amide 
or an amide-containing group. In one embodiment, (I) is 

present in an amount effective to provide total fuel 
intake system cleanliness in a port fuel injected 

internal combustion engine. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUBRIZOL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGE RICHARD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOLDT STEPHEN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, PAUL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGE, RICHARD M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOLDT, STEPHEN H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to novel fuel compositions
for internal combustion engines and to methods for using
such fuel compositions.Over the years, fuels used in internal combustion
engines have contained various kinds of additives to
improve performance of the fuel or to alleviate problems
arising during the use and combustion of fuels in internal
combustion engines. During the 1950's and 1960's, engine
designers generally focused their efforts towards the
development of high-performance engines, with little
concern about fuel economy or exhaust emissions. The fuel
delivery system for engines of this era involved the use of
carburetors to deliver an air-fuel mixture, via a manifold,
to the cylinders for combustion. Primary concerns at this
time were carburetor icing, adequate octane value, deposit
formation on carburetor surfaces, fuel stability and the
like. Additives for fuels such as anti-icing agents, lead-containing
fuel additives, detergents, and various
antioxidants generally resulted in adequate performance.
Deposits in other parts of the fuel delivery system were
not of a major concern because such engines were generally
tuned to a rich air/fuel ratio allowing for mixture 
malfunction. Greater power-weight ratios meant that the
driver was less apt to notice changes in peak power and
fuel economy, and exhaust emissions were not a serious
concern at that time.It wasn't until the energy shortages of the 1970's,
and, at about the same time, increased awareness of
environmental concerns, that changes directed to purposes
other than improving engine output began to receive
widespread attention. During this time, and up to the
early 1980's, government regulations in the United States
and in other countries throughout the world imposed
increasingly stringent limitations on exhaust emissions and
on fuel consumption. Efforts to comply with these
requirements involved various engine modifications, smaller
vehicles, smaller engines, and increasingly widespread use
of light weight materials. Only minor changes were made to
fuel handling systems during this time other than efforts
to control evaporative hydrocarbon emissions. During this
time, consumers did become aware of the importance of fuel
intake system cleanliness to maintain acceptable fuel
consumption limits.By the early 1980's, the carbureted internal
combustion engine began to give way to throttle-body fuel
injection systems. Such systems are described in United
States Patents 4,487,002 and 4,490,792 and in Bowler, SAE
Paper 800164.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fuel composition comprising a major amount of a normally
liquid fuel and a minor amount of at least one compound of the general formula



wherein each Ar is independently an aromatic group having from 5 to 30
carbon atoms and from 0 to 3 optional substituents selected from

amino, hydroxy- or alkyl- polyoxyalkyl, nitro, carboxy or
combinations of two or more of said optional substituents, each R is

independently a hydrocarbyl group containing from 4 to 750 carbon atoms, R
1
 is H or a
hydrocarbyl group, R
2
 and R
3
 are each, independently, H or a hydrocarbyl group, R
4
 is
selected from H, a hydrocarbyl group, a member of the group of optional

substituents on Ar or lower alkoxy, each m is independently an integer
in t
he range from 1 to 6, x is in the range from 0 to 8,
and each Z is independently OH, lower alkoxy, (OR
5
)
b
OR
6
 or O
-
 wherein
each R
5
 is independently a divalent hydrocarbyl group, R
6
 is H or
hydrocarbyl and b is a number in the range from 1 to 30 and c is

in the range from 1 to 3, y is a number in the range from 1 to
10 and wherein the sum m + c does not exceed the number of

valences of the corresponding Ar available for substitution and each A
is independently an amide or an amide-containing group, a carboxyl

group, an ester group, an imidazoline-containing group, an oxazoline-containing
group, an acylamino group or 

when one Z and A are taken together, a lactone group of the formula


provided at least one A is an amide or an amide-containing group.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein the compound of formula
(I) is at least one compound ofthe formula



wherein R
1
 is H or an alkyl or alkenyl group containing from 1 to 20
carbon atoms and each R is independently a hydrocarbyl group containing from

4 to 300 carbon atoms and A is an amide or an amide-containing group.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein each m is 1 or
2.
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1-3
wherein each R independently contains from 30 to 100 carbon atoms

and is derived from homopolymerized or interpolymerized C
2-10
 olefins. 
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1-3 wherein
each R independently contains from 12 to 50 carbon atoms.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein at least one Ar
is a linked aromatic group corresponding to the formula



wherein each ar is a single ring or a fused ring aromatic nucleus of 5 to
12 carbons, w is an integer in the range from 1 to 6 and each L

is independently selected from carbon to carbon single
bonds between ar nuclei, ether linkages, sulfide linkages, polysulfide linkages,

sulfinyl linkages, sulfonyl linkages, lower alkylene linkages, di(lower alkyl)
methylene linkages, lower alkylene ether linkages, lower alkylene sulfide

and/or polysulfide linkages, amino linkages and linkages having the formula


wherein each of R
1
, R
2
 and R
3
 is independently H, alkyl or alkenyl, each G is
independently an amide or an amide-containing group, a carboxyl group, an

ester group, an oxazoline-containing group, or an imidazoline containing
group, and x is an integer in the range from 0 to 8, and mixtures of

such linkages.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein at least one Ar
is a benzene nucleus, a lower alkylene

bridged benzene nucleus or a naphthalene nucleus.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein each of R
1
,
R
2
, R
3
 and R
4
 is independently hydrogen or a lower alkyl or alkenyl group, and
at least one Z is -OH. 
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein each R
5
 is
independently a lower alkylene group and each R
6
 is independently H or a
lower alkyl group.
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1, 3 and 6-8
wherein each Z is OH, m and c are each one, x is 0, and Ar has no optional

substituents, and R
1
 = H.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 wherein m is 2, and
each Ar contains one tertiary-butyl substituent and one alkyl or alkenyl

substituent containing from 4 to 100 carbon atoms.
A fuel composition according to claim 1 or 2 wherein at least
one A is selected from groups of the

general formula


wherein each Y is a group of the formula


or

-R
5
O- ,
 
each R
5
 is a divalent hydrocarbyl group and each R
7
 is independently H,
alkoxyalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, a hydrocarbyl group, an aminohydrocarbyl group

or an N-alkoxyalkyl- or hydroxyalkyl-substituted amino hydrocarbyl group,
each R
9
 is independently H or hydrocarbyl, each R
11
 is independently H,
alkoxyalkyl, hydroxyalkyl or hydrocarbyl, and B is an amide group, an imide-containing

group, an acylamino group or an amide-containing group and a is 0
or a number in the range from 1 to 100.
A fuel composition according to claim 12 wherein the group B
is selected from acylamino groups of the formula



wherein each R
7
 is independently H, alkoxyalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, hydrocarbyl,
aminohydrocarbyl or an N-alkoxyalkyl- or N-hydroxyalkyl-substituted amino

hydrocarbyl group and T is hydrocarbyl, or a group of the formula


wherein each element of formula (VII) is as defined in claim 1, or
an imide-containing group. 
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1-13 wherein
the compound (I) is present in an amount effective to provide total fuel intake

system cleanliness in a port fuel injected internal combustion engine.
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1-14 which
further comprises a fluidizer oil.
A fuel composition according to claim 15 wherein the fluidizer
oil is selected from mineral oil and synthetic oils having

a viscosity measured at 100°C of from 2cSt to 25cSt.
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1-16 which
further comprises an auxiliary dispersant selected from

Mannich dispersants, acylated nitrogen dispersants, aminophenol dispersants,
ester dispersants, aminocarbamate dispersants and amine dispersants.
A fuel composition comprising a major amount of a normally
liquid fuel and a minor amount of a composition prepared by reacting


(a) at least one reactant of the formula


wherein R is an aliphatic hydrocarbyl group containing from 4 to 750 carbon atoms, 
m
 is
in the range from 1 to 6, Ar is an aromatic group containing from 5 to 30

carbon atoms having from 0 to 3 optional substituents selected from
amino, hydroxy- or alkyl- polyoxyalkyl, nitro, carboxy or combinations

of two or more of said optional substituents, wherein s is an integer
of at le
ast 1 and c is in the range from 1 to 3, wherein the
total of s+m+c does not exceed the number of valences of Ar available

for substitution and each Z is independently OH, lower alkoxy, (OR
5
)
b
OR
6

or O
-
 wherein each R
5
 is independently a divalent hydrocarbyl group, R
6

is H or hydrocarbyl and b is a number in the range from 1 to 30
with
(b) a carboxylic reactant of the formula

R
1
CO(CR
2
R
3
)
x
COOR
10
 
wherein R
1
, R
2
 and R
3
 are independently H or a hydrocarbyl group, R
10
 is H or
an alkyl group, and x is an integer in the range from 0 to 8, and

then reacting the intermediate so formed with ammonia or an amine.
A composition according to claim 18 wherein the reaction
product is present in an amount effective to provide fuel injector and

intake valve cleanliness in a port fuel injected internal combustion
engine.
A fuel composition according to any one of claims 1-19 wherein
the normally liquid fuel comprises gasoline.
A fuel composition according to claim 20 wherein the normally
liquid fuel further comprises oxygenates.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
