<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638858</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pipeline data processing apparatus having small power consumption.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F104	G06F104	G06F132	G06F132	G06F938	G06F938	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F9	G06F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a pipeline processing apparatus including a 
plurality of serially connected stages (ST₁, ST₂,···), a 

plurality of clock signals (CLK1, CLK2,···) are supplied 
to the stages individually. The clock signals can be 

individually stopped. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAYAMA TAKASHI C O NEC CORPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAYAMA, TAKASHI, C/O NEC CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pipeline 
processing apparatus including a plurality of serially-connected 
stages, each stage having a plurality of flip-flops 
and a logic gate combination circuit. A microprocessor such as a pipeline processing 
apparatus includes a plurality of stages each having a 
plurality of flip-flops and a logic gate combination 
circuit. About half of the entire power consumption is 
dissipated in the flip-flops. Also, about half of that 
half is dissipated in a clock driving circuit for driving 
a clock signal supplied to the flip-flops, and the 
remainder of that half is dissipated in the flip-flops per 
se and their outputs. Generally, in a complementary metal oxide 
semiconductor (CMOS) large scale integrated circuit (LSI), 
power consumption is mainly dependent upon dynamic power 
consumption caused by charging and discharging operations 
performed upon a load capacity, and can be represented by 
(see Neil Weste et al, "PRJNCIPLES OF CMOS VLSI DESIGN", 
pp. 144-149, 1985)

P = CLVD D²fp   (1) 


 
where
 
P is a power consumption;
 
CL is a load capacity;
 
VD D is a power supply voltage; and
 
fp is the frequency of a signal. If the signal is a 
clock signal whose frequency is fc, then 
fp = fc 
. If 
the signal is an output signal of a flip-flop, then 
fp ≒ 
1/4 fc 
 in view of the probability of transition of the 
output signal from high to low and vice versa. In the pipeline processing apparatus, however, 
the output signals of the flip-flops are not always  
 
changed from high to low or vice versa in accordance with 
the clock signal. Each output signal of the flip-flops 
may be changed once for ten clock signals on the average, 
and in this case, 
fp ≒ 1/10 fc 
. This means about 90 % of 
the power consumption dissipated in the clock driver 
circuit can be wasted. This will be explained later in 
detail. It is an object of the present invention to 
reduce the power consumption of a pipeline processing 
apparatus including a plurality of serially-connected 
stages each having at least a plurality of flip-flops. According to the present invention, in a 
pipeline processing apparatus including a plurality of 
serially connected stages, a plurality of clock signals 
are supplied to the stages individually. The clock signals 
can be individually stopped, so that wasteful transitions 
of the clock signals are reduced. The present invention will be more clearly 
understood from the description as set forth below, in 
comparison with the prior art, with reference to the

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pipeline processing apparatus comprising: 
   a plurality of serially-connected stages 

(ST₁, ST₂, ···) ; and 
   a clock signal generating means, connected 

to said stages, for generating a plurality of clock 
signals (CLK1, CLK2,···) and transmitting them to said 

stages individually, each of the clock signals being for 
operating one of said stages. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said clock signal generating means receives a stall signal 

(STL) for stopping an operation of said apparatus to stop 
generation of said clock signals individually. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said clock generating means comprises: 

   a plurality of stall signal generating 
means for generating a plurality of stall signals (STL1, 

STL2, ···); and 
   a plurality of gate circuits (G₁, G₂,···), 

each connected to one of said stall signal generating 
means, each of said gate circuits receiving a common 

clock signal (CLK) and one of said stall signals and 
passing the common clock signal therethrough in 

accordance with one of said stall signals. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 3, wherein 
said plurality of stall signal generating means comprise a 

plurality of serially-connected delay circuits for 
receiving a main stall signal (STL) and delaying it to 

generate the plurality of stall signals. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 3, wherein 
said plurality of stall signal generating means comprises 

a plurality of serially-connected flip-flops (FF₁₀, FF₂₀, 
···) clocked by the common clock signal to generate the 

plurality of stall signals having a delay time period 
therebetween determined by the main clock signal. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
 

said clock signal generating means comprises: 
   means for generating a plurality of stall 

signals (STL1, SYTL2,···) having delay time periods in 
response to operations of said stages; and 

   means for carrying out logic operations 
between the stall signals and a common clock signal (CLK) 

to generate the clock signals in accordance with results 
of the logic operations. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein 
said s
tages are of a dynamic type, 
   said apparatus further comprising means for 

receiving a refresh signal (REF) to stop generation of 
the stall signal. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 3, wherein 
said stages are of a dynamic type, 

   said apparatus further comprising means for 
receiving a refresh signal (REF) to stop generation of 

the stall signals. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
each of said stages comprises: 

   a plurality of flip-flops (FF₁₁, FF₁₂,···, 
FF₂₁, FF₂₂,···, FF₃₁, FF₃₂,···), each clocked by one of 

the clock signals; and 
   a logic gate combination circuit (C₁, C₂,···) 

connected to outputs of said flip-flops. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein 
said logic gate combination circuit is of a dynamic type 

clocked by one of the clock signals. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
at least one of said stages includes a plurality of 

parallelly-connected sub stages (ST₁, ST₁'), 
   said apparatus further comprising a 

decoding means (G₁, G₁') for receiving a decoding signal 
(DEC) to select one of said sub stages. 
A pipeline processing apparatus comprising: 
   a plurality of serially-connected stages 

(ST₁, ST₂, ···), each including a plurality of first flip-flops 
 

(FF₁₁, FF₁₂,···, FF₂₁, FF₂₂,···, FF₃₁, FF₃₂,···), 
each clocked by one of the clock signals; and a logic 

gate combination circuit (C₁, C₂,···) connected to outputs 
of said flip-flops; 

   a plurality of serially-connected second 
flip-flops (FF₁₁, FF₂₀,···) for delaying a main stall 

signal (STL1) to generate a plurality of stall signals 
(STL2, STL3,···) having a delay time (ΔT) therebetween; 

   a gate means (G₁) for passing a common 
clock signal (CLK) therethrough in accordance with the 

main clock signal and transmitting a passed common clock 
signal to said first flip-flops of a first one of said 

stages; and 
   a plurality of gate means (G₂, G₃,···), 

each connected to one of said second flip-flops, each for 
passing the common clock signal therethrough in 

accordance with one of the stall signals and transmitting 
a passed common clock signal to said first flip-flops of 

one of said stages after the first one. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein 
said first flip-flops of said stages are of a dynamic 

type, 
   said apparatus further comprising means for 

receiving a refresh signal (REF) to stop generation of 
the main stall signal. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 13, further 
comprising selector means (SEL₁', SEL₂',···) for feeding 

back output signals of said first flip-flops of the first 
stage in response to the refresh signal. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein 
said logic gate combination circuit is of a dynamic type, 

   said logic gate combination circuit being 
connected to one of said gate means to receive the passed 

main clock signal, so that said logic gate combination 
circuit carries out a precharging operation and a logic 

operation alternatively. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein 
 

at least one of said stages includes a plurality of 
parallelly-connected sub stages (ST₁, ST₁'), 

   said apparatus further comprising a 
decoding means (G₁, G₁') for receiving a decoding signal 

(DEC) to select one of said sub stages. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
