<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616229</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetic resonance imaging apparatus and methods
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5055	G01R3354	A61B5055	G01R3354	G01R333415	G01R3334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	G01R	A61B	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Superconducting magnets (10) of a magnetic resonance 
imager create static magnetic fields through an examination 

region (12). Gradient magnetic field coils (30) under 
control of a gradient magnetic field control (42) generate 

gradient magnetic fields across the examination region 
(12), as a whole. A plurality of surface coils (36, 38) 

receive radio frequency signals from each of two distinct 
subregions within the examination region (12). The two 

receiver coils are connected with separate receivers (60₁, 
60₂) which demodulate the received magnetic resonance 

signals. The magnetic resonance signals are reconstructed 
(76) into an imager representation (80, 82) of the first 

and second subregions. In the embodiment of Figures 1 and 
2, a radio frequency transmitter (40) and a whole body coil 

(32) generate and manipulate the magnetic resonance signals 

within the first and second subregions. In other 
embodiments, a plurality of transmitters (40₁, 40₂...) 

convey RF signals to the surface coils such that the 
surface coils operate in both a transmit and receive mode. 

Regardless whether a single transmitter or a series of 
transmitters is utilized, a sequence control (44) controls 

the transmitter(s) and the gradient control (42) to conduct 
conventional magnetic resonance imaging sequences in 

coordination in both subregions. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARCONI MEDICAL SYS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARCONI MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCNALLY JAMES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATRICK JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZOU XUEMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCNALLY, JAMES M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATRICK, JOHN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZOU, XUEMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to magnetic resonance
imaging apparatus and methods. It finds particular
application in conjunction with the simultaneous imaging of
a plurality of human organs and will be described with
particular reference thereto. It is to be appreciated,
however, that the invention will also find application in
conjunction with the concurrent imaging of non-human
subjects and in conjunction with certain spectroscopic
examinations of human and non-human subjects.Conventional magnetic resonance imaging systems can
perform whole body imaging in which a large region of the
torso is examined. Diagnostic images which typically span
the large region may intersect adjacent organs. However,
the scale or detail associated with individual organs
within a small part of the large image are relatively
limited. Another disadvantage with whole body RF coils is
that the signal-to-noise ratio tends to be low.To obtain improved, more detailed images of organs,
conventional magnetic resonance imaging systems include
dedicated transmission and reception coil 
assemblies for performing diagnostic examinations of a
single organ at a time. In many instances, a separate
transmitter coil and a receiver coil are used to generate
images of the selected organ. Often, the RF coil
assemblies are dedicated to a specific part of the human
body, such as a head coil or a neck coil. Generally, a
dedicated RF coil is only used to produce images from the
corresponding organ. The magnetic resonance signal
received by the dedicated RF coil itself is sufficient to
generate a magnetic resonance image of the corresponding
organ.The dedicated RF coil assemblies can be either a
single coil or a combination of RF coils which operate
together to generate an image of the region of interest.
One type of multiple coil assembly for imaging a dedicated
region is a phased-array coil. See for example, U.S.
Patent No. 4,825,162 of Roemer, et al. or U.S. Patent
No. 4,973,907 of Bergman, et al.Using individual surface coils to image multiple
organs has drawbacks. First, the patient must be removed
from the bore of the magnetic resonance imager to swap
dedicated coils. This reduces patient throughput. Second,
the images of the two organs are taken at time displaced
intervals. In some diagnostic techniques, it would be
advantageous to image two or more organs in a known
temporal relationship. For example, it is often
advantageous to coordinate images of the heart and images
of the patient's circulatory system or other organs whose
configuration
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus comprising: means (10) for creating a static
magnetic field through an examination region (12) in which a subject having at least first and

second separate subregions is disposed; magnetic resonance excitation means (32, 40) for
exciting magnetic resonance in the subject; RF coil means (36, 38) for receiving magnetic

resonance signals from the subject; magnetic field gradient means (30) for applying magnetic
field gradients across the examination region (12) as a whole in coordination with the excitation

and detection of the magnetic resonance signals for the spatial encoding thereof; and processing
means (60, 62, 74) for processing the magnetic resonance signals received by the RF coil

means (36, 38) into an image representation, 
characterised in that
: the excitation means (32)
comprises means for exciting magnetic resonance in the at least first and second separate

subregions of the subject; the RF coil means (36, 38) comprises first (36) and second (38) RF
coils for receiving magnetic resonance signals from the first and second separate subregions

respectively, which signals have been spatially encoded by the magnetic field gradient means
(30); and said processing means (60, 62, 74) comprises means for processing the magnetic

resonance signals received by the first and second RF coils (36, 38) into first and second image
representations respectively.
An apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein the resonance excitation means (32, 40)
includes: a whole body RF coil (32) disposed around the examination region (12); and a radio

frequency transmitter (40) for transmitting radio frequency pulses to the whole body RF coil
(32).
An apparatus according to Claim 2 wherein the whole body RF coil (32) is a quadrature
coil and the apparatus further includes a quadrature divider (42) connected between the

transmitter (40) and the whole body RF coil (32) for dividing the radio frequency pulses into 
two components and shifting one of the c
omponents 90° relative to the other.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein the first radio frequency coil
(36) is a quadrature coil and the apparatus further includes a first quadrature combiner means

(50) connected between the first radio frequency coil (36) and the processing means (60, 62,
74), the first quadrature combiner means (50) imposing a 90° relative phase shift on one of two

components received from the first radio frequency coil (32) and combining the two
components together.
An apparatus according to Claim 4 wherein the second radio frequency coil (38) is a
quadrature coil and the apparatus further includes a second quadrature combiner means (52)

connected between the second radio frequency coil (38) and the processing means (60, 62, 74),
the second quadrature combiner means (52) imposing a 90° relative phase shift to one of two

components received from the second radio frequency coil (38) and combining the two
components together.
An apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 to 3 wherein at least the first radio
frequency coil (36) is a quadrature coil and wherein the processing means (60, 62, 74) includes

a first digital receiver (60
1
) connected with a first port of the first radio frequency coil (36) for
receiving one quadrature component therefrom and a second digital receiver (60
2
) connected
with a second port of the first radio frequency coil (36) for receiving a second quadrature

component therefrom.
An apparatus according to any one of Claims 4 to 6 wherein the first radio frequency
coil (36) comprises a birdcage coil. 
An apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein the
resonance excitation means (32, 40) includes at least a

first radio frequency transmitter means (40
1
) connected
with the first radio frequency coil (36
1
) and a second
radio frequency transmitter means (40
2
) connected with the
second radio frequency coil (36
2
), the first and second
radio frequency coils (36
1
, 36
2
) operating in both
transmit and receive modes.
An apparatus according to Claim 8 wherein the first
radio frequency coil (36
1
) includes a quadature coil and
the apparatus further includes a first combiner/divider

means (50
1
) connected between the first radio frequency
coil (36
1
) and the first radio frequency transmitter means
(40
1
) and the processing means (60, 62, 74); the first
combiner/divider means (50
1
) in a transmit mode divides an
RF signal received from the first RF transmitter means

(40
1
) into two transmit mode components and shifts the
relative phase of one of the transmit mode components by

90° relative to the other, the two transmit mode components
being conveyed to the first radio frequency coil (36
1
) ;
and in a receiving mode, the first combiner/divider means

(50
1
) imposes a 90° phase shift on one received resonance
signal component received from the first receiver coil

(36
1
) relative to a second received resonance signal
component and combines the two received resonance signal

components, the combined resonance signal components being
conveyed to the processing means (60,62, 74).
An apparatus according to Claim 9 wherein the second 
radio frequency coil (36
2
) includes a quadrature coil and
the apparatus further includes a second combiner/divider

means (50
2
) connected between the second radio frequency
coil (36
2
) and the second radio frequency transmitter means
(40
2
) and the processing means (60, 62, 74); the second
combiner/divider means (50
2
) in a transmit mode divides an
RF signal received from the second radio frequency

transmitter means (40
2
) into two transmit mode components
and shifts the relative phase of one of the transmit mode

components by 90°, the two transmit mode components being
conveyed to the second receiver coil (36
2
); and, in a
receiving mode, the second combiner/divider means (50
2
)
imposes a 90° phase shift on one received resonance signal

component received from the second radio frequency coil
(36
2
) relative to a second received resonance signal
component and combines the two received resonance signal

components, the combined resonance signal components being
conveyed to the processing means (60, 62, 74).
An apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein the first
and second transmitter means (40
1
, 40
2
) include digital
transmitters and the processing means (60, 62, 74) means

include digital receivers (60).
An apparatus according to any one of Claims 9 to 11
wherein the first radio frequency coil (36
1
) comprises a
birdcage coil.
An apparatus according to Claim 8 wherein at least the
first radio frequency coil (36
1
) includes a quadrature coil
having first and second ports and wherein the processing

means (60, 62, 74) includes a first digital receiver (60
1
)
connected with the first port for receiving one quadrature 

component therefrom and a second digital receiver (60
2
) connected with the second port for
receiving a second quadrature component therefrom.
A method of magnetic resonance imaging comprising: creating a static magnetic field
through an examination region (12) in which at least a portion of a subject having at least first

and second separate subregions is disposed; applying magnetic field gradients across the
examination region (12) as a whole while exciting and manipulating magnetic resonance

concurrently in at least first and second separate subregions of the subject; concurrently
receiving magnetic resonance signals from the first and second separate subregions with first

and second RF coils (36, 38) disposed adjacent the first and second separate subregions,
respectively; and processing the magnetic resonance signals received by the first and second

RF coils (36, 38) into first and second image representations, respectively.
A method according to Claim 14 wherein the step of exciting and manipulating
magnetic resonance includes applying radio frequency signals to the first and second RF coils

(36, 38) so that the first and second RF coils (36, 38) work in both transmit and receive modes.
A method according to Claim 14 wherein the step of exciting and manipulating
magnetic resonance includes applying RF signals to a common RF coil (32) which radiates RF

signals into both the first and second regions.
A method according to any one of Claims 14 to 16 wherein the excitation and reception
of magnetic resonance signals in at least one subregion is in quadrature.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
