<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SIMULTANEOUS TRANSMISSION OF AUDIO AND DATA SIGNALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03G700	H03G700	H04H2034	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03G	H03G	H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03G7	H03G7	H04H20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sound signal applied to an input (1) is digitized in a sampler (2) and floating-point-compressed in a compressor (3). The result is divided into a first signal comprising the spectral component up to a quarter of the sampling frequency and a second signal comprising the spectral component between a quarter and a half the sampling frequency by means of a filter (5) and a subtracter (6), the first signal being applied directly to an adder (8). The second signal is applied to the adder (8) after having the least significant bit of each of its constituent samples stripped in a bit stripper (9). A data signal applied to a second input (15) is encoded by means of an adder (16) and a carrier signal generator (18) into a bit stream having the form of a carrier signal modulated by the data, the carrier signal having half the sample frequency. This bit stream is also applied to the adder so that these bits effectively replace the least significant bits stripped from the second signal. More than one of the least significant bits of the second signal may be replaced in this way. The output signal of the adder constitutes the signal for transmission, the data component thereof being inaudible when the sound signal component is reproduced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SIMULTANEOUS TRANSMISSION OF AUDIO AND DATA SIGNALSThis invention relates to a method of transmitting an audio signal and data simultaneously over a single transmission channel, ir which method the data is encoded to form an auxiliary signal occupying a predetermined portion of the audible spectrum and the audio and auxiliary signals are combined for transmission. The invention also relates to a transmitter for implementing such a method and to a receiver for data transmitted by such a transmitter.Such a method is known from US-A-4238849. In this known method the data is used to modulate one or more pilot signals the frequencies of which lie within the audible range but above the frequency range of the transmitted audio signal. The spectral energy of an incoming sound signal is analysed to determine a threshold of audibility for the pilot signals and their amplitudes are continuously adjusted to lie below this threshold. The transmission rate for the data is constant except when the threshold is determined to be too low to permit satisfactory transmission at this rate; when such a situation occurs the data transmission is interrupted. It is an object of the invention to enable data to be transmitted even when the spectral energy of the incoming sound signal is substantially zero.To this end, according to one aspect of the invention a method as defined in the first paragraph is characterized in that the audio signal is derived from an incoming sound signal by digitization into a series of multi-bit samples which are compressed according to a floating point technique, in that the auxiliary signal is a bit stream having the form of a carrier signal modulated by the data, the frequency of the carrier signal being one half the sample frequency, and in that the successive bits of the bit stream are substituted for the least significant bits of the frequency component of the audio signal which lies within a frequency range extending 

 from a frequency equal to one half the sample frequency to a given lower frequency.Because the audio signal is derived from an incoming sound signal by digitization into a series of multibit samples which are compressed according to a floating point technique, for example according to the NICAM standard (see, for example, "Television" March 1988 pages 368 - 369, particularly Fig. 4 on page 368) , and the successive bits of the bit stream are substituted for the least significant bits of a frequency component of this audio signal, the effective level of the auxiliary signal is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A method of transmitting an audio signal and data simultaneously over a single transmission channel, in which method the data is encoded to form an auxiliary signal occupying a predetermined portion of the audible spectrum and the audio and auxiliary signals are combined for transmission, characterized in that the audio signal is derived from an incoming sound signal by digitization into a series of multibit samples which are compressed according to a floating point technique, in that the auxiliary signal is a bit stream having the form of a carrier signal modulated by the data, the frequency of the carrier signal being one half the sample frequency, and in that the successive bits of the bit stream are substituted for the least significant bits of the frequency component of the audio signal which lies within a frequency range extending from a frequency equal to one half the sample frequency to a given lower frequency.
2. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that further data is also transmitted simultaneously with the audio signal over the transmission path, the further data being encoded to form a second auxiliary signal, the second auxiliary signal being a second bit stream having the form of a second carrier signal modulated by the further data, the frequency of the second carrier signal being one half the sample frequency, the successive bits of the second bit stream being substituted for the second-to-least-significant bits of said frequency component of the audio signal.
3. A method as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that still further data is also transmitted simultaneously with the audio signal over the transmission path, the still further data being encoded to form a third auxiliary signal, the third auxiliary signal being a third bit stream having the form of a third carrier signal modulated by the still further data, the frequency of the third carrier signal being one half the sample frequency, the successive bits of the third bit stream 


 being substituted for the third-to-least-significant bits of said frequency component of the audio signal. 4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, characterized in that said frequency component is removed from said series of multibit samples by filtering, the successive bits of the or each bit stream are then substituted for the bits of the relevant significance of said frequency components, and the result is added back to the series of multibit samples from which said frequency component has been removed. 5. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the given lower frequency is equal to one quarter the sample frequency.
6. A transmitter for transmitting an audio signal and data simultaneously over a single transmission channel, comprising an encoder for encoding the data to form an auxiliary signal occupying a predetermined portion of the audible spectrum and a signal combiner for combining the audio and auxiliary signals for transmission, characterized in that compression means are provided for compressing an incoming digitally sampled sound signal according to a floating point technique to produce the audio signal, the encoder is arranged to generate the auxiliary signal as a bit stream having the form of a carrier signal modulated by the data, the frequency of the carrier signal being one half the sample frequency, and substitution means are provided for substituting the successive bits of the bit stream for the least significant bits of the frequency component of the audio signal which lies within a frequency range extending from a frequency equal to one half the sample frequency to a given lower frequency. 7. A receiver for data transmitted simultaneously with an audio signal over a single transmission channel by a transmitter as claimed in Claim 6, comprising a synchronous demodulator for said auxiliary signal, and means for deriving from the transmitted combined audio and auxiliary signals that frequency component thereof which lies within said frequency 


range and applying the least significant bits of the derived frequency component to said synchronous demodulator. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
