<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627638</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Elliptical diffuser.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B502	G02B502	G02F113	G02F113357	G03B2162	G03B2162	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02F	G02F	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02F1	G02F1	G03B21	G03B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display screen of a projection system embodying a 
cathode ray tube, liquid crystal light valve, laser or the 

like is formed of a plastic sheet (22,22a) that has 
embedded therein a number of microsphere diffuser particles 

(24,24a) initially having a spherical shape and distributed 
in a uniformly isotropic density. The plastic sheet and 

its embedded particles are heated and stretched in a single 
direction and allowed to cool in their elongated form so 

that the diffuser particles (24a) then have an elongated 
elliptical shape and a density that is greater along one 

axis than it is along an orthogonal axis. The particle 
elongation and decreased density in the direction of 

stretch cause the diffusing sheet to have a diffusion cone 
angle (44), as measured in a plane containing the axis of 

stretch, that is significantly decreased, but with 
increased screen gain, whereas the diffusion angle (42) in 

the orthogonal unstretched direction remains relatively 
large, and also has an increased screen gain. The 

decreased diffusion angle is oriented in a vertical 
direction in a common display because the viewer's eye, in 

looking at a display screen, is most commonly positioned 
within a relatively small vertical cone angle, although the 

horizontal angle of view may be considerably larger. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD RANDALL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD, RANDALL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to improved diffuser 
material, and more particularly concerns high efficiency 
diffuser material that can be applied to optical systems 
requiring controlled diffusion. The function of the projection screen of an optical 
projection display system is to present a visible display 
of imaging light that it receives, regardless of whether 
the light is produced by a cathode ray tube, a liquid 
crystal light valve, a laser, or other image source. The 
screen forms a visible image by diffusing and re-radiating 
light energy incident on the screen surface. The front 
projection screen includes a diffusion sheet comprising 
diffusion particles and a reflective rear face so that 
light striking the front of the screen is reflected and 
passes through the diffusing particles twice. The rear 
projection screen also includes a diffusion sheet carrying 
diffusion particles but receives light striking the rear of 
the screen, passes it through its diffusion particles only 
once, and transmits diffused light from its front face.  Whether used in a front projection or rear projection 
configuration, the screen has a major impact on image 
quality and viewability, which may be defined as the zone 
in which the image is of acceptable luminance. A high 
screen gain enhances viewability. Screen gain is the 
comparison of (a) the luminance of a projected image at 
various viewing angles, with (b) the luminance produced by 
a perfectly diffusing surface (e.g. a Lambertian surface). 
The ideal diffuser has a gain of unity, and produces the 
same luminance at all viewing angles, that is, it is 
non-directional. A Lambertian diffuser has the same 
luminance screen in all directions, which falls off as the 
cosine of viewing angle. Projection systems employing such viewing screens are 
often made with highly directional screens to increase 
screen gain so as to produce sufficient luminance. 
However, because the screen itself cannot generate light, 
any increase in luminance at a particular viewing angle 
causes a decrease in luminance at other viewing angles. 
Nevertheless, because many systems are normally viewed only 
at a small viewing angle, or because a high gain small 
viewing angle is deemed to be worth a decreased 
illumination at large viewing angles, shaping of screen 
diffusion patterns may be desirable. To provide a diffusing screen with increased screen 
gain the diffused light pattern has been shaped to change 
it from its normally circular format to an elliptical 
pattern. However,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A diffuser comprising: 
   a transparent substrate having first and second 

mutually angulated axes defining first and second 
directions, and 

   a plurality of diffuser particles carried by said 
substrate, said particles being elongated in said second 

direction. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said particles 
have a first substantially uniform density in said first 

direction, and a second substantially uniform density in 
said second direction, and wherein said first density is 

greater than said second density. 
The diffuser of Claim 2 wherein said particles 
are substantially elliptical. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said particles 
are mutually spaced from each other in said second 

direction by distances that are substantially twice the 
distances between particles in said first direction. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said particles 
are spaced further apart in a vertical direction than in a 

horizontal direction, whereby light is vertically diffused 
by said diffuser in a relatively small angle and is 

horizontally diffused by said diffuser in a relatively 
large angle. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said substrate is 
elongated in said second direction. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said particles 
are elongated microspheres embedded in said substrate. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said particles 
are plastic beads affixed to the surface of said substrate. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said substrate 
comprises a plastic sheet stretched in said second 

direction. 
The diffuser of Claim 1 wherein said substrate 
comprises a sheet of Plexiglas L having embedded 

microspheres, said sheet and microspheres being elongated 
in a second direction. 
A method of forming a diffuser having a 
controlled asymmetry of diffusion comprising the steps of: 

   providing a substrate having a plurality of 
diffusion particles substantially uniformly dispersed over 

its area, and 
   stretching said particles in a first direction, 

thereby elongating said particles in said first direction. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein said step of 
stretching includes stretching said substrate in said first 

direction. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein said substrate is 
a plastic sheet and wherein said step of stretching 

comprises heating said plastic sheet, elongating the 
plastic sheet and at least some of said particles in said 

first direction while it is heated, and cooling said 
plastic sheet and particles while maintaining their 

elongation. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein said step of 
providing a substrate comprises forming a plastic matrix 

with a plurality of evenly distributed microspheres 
therein. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein said step of 
providing a substrate comprises forming a substrate having 

a plurality of beads distributed uniformly over and secured 
to its surface. 
The method of Claim 13 including the step of 
curving said sheet to impart a surface curvature thereto. 
The method of Claim 13 including forming a 
tapered edge on said substrate and bonding said edge to a 

mating tapered edge of a similar diffuser to provide a 
diffuser of increased dimension. 
A diffuser made by the method of Claim 11. 
A diffuser made by the method of Claim 12. 
A diffuser made by the method of Claim 13. 
A diffuser screen made by the steps of: 
   providing a sheet of plastic having diffusing 

particles embedded therein and uniformly dispersed through 
said sheet, and 

   stretching said sheet in a first direction to 
increase distances between adjacent particles in said one 

direction without substantially changing distances between 
said particles in a second direction transverse to said 

first direction, and to elongate said particles in said 
first direction. 
The diffuser screen of Claim 21 wherein said step 
of stretching comprises clamping said sheet between first 

and second mutually spaced bars, heating said sheet and 
particles, moving said bars away from each other to stretch 

said particles and sheet while heated, and cooling said 
particles and sheet while they remain stretched to thereby 

set said particles and sheet in stretched condition. 
The diffuser of Claim 22 wherein said step of 
clamping comprises grasping said sheet at first and second 

edges to exert tension on said sheet while said bars are 
moved away from each other and while said sheet is cooling, 

and grasping said sheet at third and fourth edges while 
said bars are moved away from each other. 
A diffuser comprising: 
   a sheet of transparent material, 

   a plurality of diffuser particles carried by said 
sheet, said particles being elongated in a first direction 

and spaced from one another by relatively larger distances 
in said first direction and by relatively smaller distances 

in a second direction. 
The diffuser of Claim 24 wherein said particles 
are embedded within said sheet of transparent material. 
The diffuser of Claim 24 wherein said particles 
are bonded to a surface of said sheet of transparent 

material. 
The diffuser of Claim 25 wherein said sheet is 
stretched in said first direction. 
The diffuser of Claim 24 wherein said sheet of 
transparent material comprises first and second sections 

having adjoining edges extending in said first direction 
that are cut at an angle and bonded to one another. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
