<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617459</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor wafer cleaning and rinsing techniques
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21306	H01L213213	H01L21304	G03F742	G03F742	H01L2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	G03F	G03F	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	G03F7	G03F7	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a wafer fabrication process in which a photoresist stripper must be 
removed from the surface of a semiconductor wafer, the photoresist stripper is rinsed 

by inserting the wafer in a vessel (23, FIG. 3) filled with water and simultaneously 
pumping carbon dioxide and water into the vessel to cause the water to overflow the 

vessel. Preferably, the wafer is contained within the vessel for at least five minutes, 
and, during the rinsing step, the water completely fills the vessel and overflows at a 

rate of at least fifty percent of the volume of the vessel each minute. We have found 
that this method of rinsing photoresist stripper from semiconductor wafers 

significantly reduces or eliminates the incidence of corrosion pitting on aluminum 
conductors (12, FIG. 1) of the wafer (11). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to semiconductor wafer fabrication and, more 
particularly, to methods for rinsing photoresist stripper materials from wafer 
surfaces. Microelectronics chips such as integrated circuits are made from 
comparatively large wafers of semiconductor material by processes known as wafer 
fabrication. A fundamental step in wafer fabrication is photolithographic masking 
and etching which is used to define selected regions of the wafer for such processing 
as etching or impurity diffusion. The photolithography process requires a 
photoresist coating which is first selectively developed to permit selective 
processing, and which is thereafter removed by a chemical known as a photoresist 
stripper. After photoresist stripping, the photoresist stripper must in turn be removed 
from the wafer by a process known as rinsing. As described, for example, in the paper, "A Simple Model for Rinsing," 
A. Tonti, Electrochemical Society Meeting, October 1991, one method of rinsing is 
to immerse the wafers in a tank into which water and nitrogen are pumped so that the 
water overflows the tank. Another method, known as the quick dump rinse (QDR) 
method, requires water in which wafers are contained to be quickly emptied or 
dumped. A problem with the various rinsing methods using water is the tendency 
of aluminum layers on the surface of the wafer, such as are used as conductors and 
bonding pads, to corrode during the rinse cycle. Such corrosion is typically 
characterized by pits in the surface of the aluminum conductors which, with the 
progressive reduction in the size of conductors on the surface of microchips, become 
a progressively more serious problem. Our experiments show that rinsing in 
isopropyl alcohol can reduce pitting, but such use is undesirable because isopropyl 
alcohol is more expensive than water, and it constitutes a waste that may be harmful 
to the environment. Thus, there is a continued long-felt need in the industry for a 
method for rinsing photoresist stripper from wafer surfaces which does not corrode 
aluminum conductors on the wafers and which is not unduly expensive or harmful to 
the environment.  In a wafer fabrication process in which a photoresist stripper must be 
removed from the surface of a semiconductor wafer, the photoresist stripper is rinsed 
by inserting the wafer in a vessel filled with water and simultaneously pumping 
carbon dioxide and water into the vessel to cause the water to overflow the vessel. 
Preferably, the wafer is contained within the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for fabricating semiconductor devices from a semiconductor 
wafer (11, 22) containing aluminum conductors (12) on one surface thereof 

comprising the steps of: coating the wafer with a photoresist layer (15); selectively 
exposing the photoresist to actinic light; developing the photoresist; using the 

developed photoresist as a mask to permit selective processing of the wafer; 
removing the photoresist mask by exposing the wafer to a photoresist stripper; 

rinsing the photoresist stripper from the semiconductor wafer comprising the step of 
inserting the wafer in a vessel (23) filled with water (24); characterized by: 

   simultaneously pumping carbon dioxide (27) and water (26) into the 
vessel to cause the water to overflow the vessel. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 
   during the rinsing step, the water completely fills the vessel and 

overflows at a rate of at least fifty percent of the volume of the vessel each minute. 
The method of claim 2 wherein: 
   during the rinsing step, the wafer is contained within the vessel for 

between five and twenty minutes. 
The method of claim 3 wherein: 
   the volume of the vessel is approximately four gallons, and the rate of 

flow of water into the vessel is approximately 2.5 gallons per minute; 
   and a plurality of wafers are contained within the vessel during the 

rinsing step. 
The method of claim 3 wherein: 
   the aluminum conductors comprise an aluminum alloy comprising more 

than ninety percent aluminum. 
The method of claim 5 wherein: 
   the aluminum conductors comprise about ninety-five percent aluminum, 

four to five percent copper, and a trace of silicon. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 
   during the rinsing step, the wafer is contained within the vessel for at 

least five minutes. 
The method of claim 7 wherein: 
   during the rinsing step, the wafer is contained within the vessel for less 

than twenty minutes. 
the method of claim 8 wherein: 
   the wafer is contained within the vessel for approximately ten minutes. 
The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein: 
   a plurality of wafers are contained with the vessel during the rinsing 

step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
