<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615609</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPACT FLOWMETER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F120	G01F130	G01G1100	G01G1100	G01G1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01G	G01G	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	G01G11	G01G11	G01G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An impact flowmeter (10) includes a housing (12) having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region (15), an inlet chute (18) having an open end for discharging material into the interior region (15) being coupled to the inlet end of the housing (12), a load cell (40) coupled to the housing (12) for generating an output signal, and an impact plate (32) coupled to the load cell (40). The impact plate (32) is aligned with the inlet chute (18) so that the material entering the housing (12) strikes the impact plate (32). The impact plate (32) deflects the load cell (40) in a measurement direction (64) to change the signal from the load cell (40) based on the flow rate of material. The flowmeter (10) further includes a stop (56) for biasing the load cell (40) in the measurement direction (64) to establish a preload condition on the load cell (40), a load cell mounting bracket (34) located outside the interior region (15).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENDRESS 
&
 HAUSER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENDRESS 
&
 HAUSER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMPF DAVID DRIVE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCARTHY WILLIAM PATRICK SUNDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMPF DAVID DRIVE -
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCARTHY WILLIAM PATRICK SUNDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPACT FLOWMETERBackground and Summary of the InventionThis invention relates to an impact flowmeter. More particularly, the present invention relates to an impact flowmeter which provides increased accuracy and reliability compared to conventional impact flowmeters.It is known to provide an impact flowmeter situated in a flow conduit to determine the flow rate of bulk material through the conduit. Known impact flowmeters include an impact plate located in a flow stream so that bulk material passing through the flowmeter strikes the impact plate. A load cell is typically coupled to the impact plate to provide an output signal proportional to the flow rate of the bulk material through the conduit. The output signal from the load cell can be processed to determine the mass flow rate of the bulk material through the conduit.The present invention is an improvement over conventional impact flowmeters. The present invention provides an accurate, reliable design which is relatively inexpensive to manufacture and easy to install. The present invention provides a low cost impact flowmeter for measuring continuous flow of most bulk solids. The impact flowmeter of the present invention is designed to fit into existing processes and provides an economical alternative to some loss-in-weight in volumetric batching systems. The flowmeter can be used with most mechanical conveying systems including belt conveyors, air slides, rotary valves, drag conveyors, screw conveyors, and vibratory conveyors. Typical applications for the impact flowmeter of the present invention include flow rate control, batching, loading and mix ratio control. Typical industries which may be served by the present 

invention include mining, chemical, plastics, food, grain and animal feed.One problem associated with conventional impact flowmeters is that the impact flowmeters become inaccurate due to ambient system vibration or due to vibration caused by the bulk material flowing through the impact flowmeter. Another problem associated with conventional flowmeters is that temperature extremes, dust, and material build-up on the load cell itself can cause inaccuracies. This build-up problem becomes worse when corrosive or abrasive materials are processed. One object of the present invention is to reduce the effect of vibration on the accuracy of the output of the load cell. Another object of the present invention is to isolate the load cell from the process environment within a housing of the impact flowmeter to protect the load cell from process
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell coupled to the housing for generating an output signal; an impact plate coupled to the load cell, the impact plate being aligned with the inlet chute so that material entering the housing strikes the impact plate, the impact plate deflecting the load cell in a measurement direction to change the output signal from the load cell based on the flow rate of material; and means for biasing the load cell in the measurement direction to establish a preload condition on the load cell, thereby reducing the affect of vibration on the output signal from the load cell.
2. The flowmeter of claim 1, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket located outside the interior region of the housing to isolate the load cell from the interior region of the housing, the load cell mounting bracket being coupled to a wall of the housing.
3. The flowmeter of claim 2, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is insulated from the wall of the housing by gaskets located between the load cell mounting bracket and the wall of the housing to reduce the affect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
4. The flowmeter of claim 1, further comprising means for coupling the load cell to the housing so that the position of the load cell relative to 


the housing is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
5. The flowmeter of claim 4, further comprising means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell so that the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is also adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
6. The flowmeter of claim l, further comprising means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell so that the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
7. The flowmeter of claim 1, wherein the impact plate is coupled to the load cell by an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to a measurement leg of the load cell.
8. The flowmeter of claim 7, wherein the impact plate mounting bracket is formed to include an elongated slot therein, the load cell being coupled to the impact plate mounting bracket by a fastener extending through the elongated slot to permit the impact plate mounting bracket to slide relative to the load cell to adjust the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell and inlet chute.
9. The flowmeter of claim 7, wherein the impact plate mounting bracket is T-shaped.
10. The flowmeter of claim 1, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket and the biasing means includes a stop coupled to the load cell mounting bracket, the position of the stop being adjustable relative to the load cell to apply a biasing force to the load cell in the measurement direction. 


 11. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell; a load cell mounting bracket located outside the interior region of housing to isolate the load cell from the interior region of the housing, the load cell mounting bracket being coupled to a wall of the housing and to the load cell to secure the load cell to the housing; an impact plate; means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell to align the impact plate with the inlet chute so that material entering the interior region of the housing strikes the impact plate. 12. The flowmeter of claim 11, further comprising a stop coupled to load cell mounting bracket, the stop biasing the load cell in a measurement direction.
13. The flowmeter of claim 11, wherein the means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell includes an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to the impact plate and to a measurement leg of the load cell.
14. The flowmeter of claim 13, further comprising a stop coupled to the load cell mounting bracket and means coupled to the impact plate mounting bracket for engaging the stop to bias the load cell in the measurement direction.
15. The flowmeter of claim 11, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is insulated from a wall of the housing by gaskets located between the mounting 


bracket and the wall of the housing to reduce the affect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
16. The flowmeter of claim 11, wherein the position of the load cell relative to the housing is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
17. The flowmeter of claim 16, wherein the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is also adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
18. The flowmeter of claim 11, wherein the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute. 19. The flowmeter of claim 11, further comprising a cover for surrounding the load cell mounting bracket and the load cell, the cover being coupled to the housing to protect the load cell.
20. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell for generating an output signal; means for coupling the load cell to a wall of the housing; an impact plate coupled to the load cell to align the impact plate with the inlet chute so that material entering the interior region of the housing strikes the impact plate to change the output signal from the load cell; and 


 means for insulating the load cell from the housing to reduce the effect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
21. The flowmeter of claim 20, further comprising means for biasing the load cell in the measurement direction to establish a preload condition on the load cell, thereby reducing the affect of vibration on the output signal from the load cell.
22. The flowmeter of claim 21, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket and the biasing means includes a stop coupled to the load cell mounting bracket, the position of the stop being adjustable relative to the load cell to apply a biasing force to the load cell in the measurement direction.
23. The flowmeter of claim 20, wherein the insulating means includes a gasket located between the load cell coupling means and the housing.
24. The flowmeter of claim 23, wherein the gasket is made of neoprene.
25. The flowmeter of claim 20, wherein the position of the load cell relative to the housing is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate vertically relative to the inlet chute. 26. The flowmeter of claim 25, wherein the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate horizontally relative to the inlet chute.
27. The flowmeter of claim 20, wherein the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
28. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; 


 an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell coupled to the housing for generating an output signal; an impact plate coupled to the load cell, the impact plate being aligned with the inlet chute so that material entering the housing strikes the impact plate, the impact plate deflecting the load cell in a measurement direction to change the output signal from the load cell based on the flow rate of material; and means for adjusting the position of the impact plate vertically and horizontally relative to the inlet chute.
29. The flowmeter of claim 28, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket, the load cell mounting bracket being coupled to a wall of the housing, and the impact plate is coupled to the load cell by an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to a measurement leg of the load cell.
30. The flowmeter of claim 29, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is located outside the interior region of the housing to isolate the load cell from the interior region of the housing.
31. The flowmeter of claim 29, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is formed to include an elongated slot to permit the position of the load cell to be adjusted vertically relative to the housing to change the position of the impact plate vertically relative to the inlet chute.
32. The flowmeter of claim 29, wherein the impact plate mounting bracket is formed to include an elongated slot therein, the load cell being coupled to the impact plate mounting bracket by a fastener extending 


through the elongated slot to permit the impact plate mounting bracket to slide relative to the load cell to adjust the position of the impact plate horizontally relative to the load cell and the inlet chute. 33. The flowmeter of claim 28, further comprising means for insulating the load.cell from the housing to reduce the effect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
34. The flowmeter of claim 33, wherein the insulating means includes a gasket located between the load cell and the housing for reducing the affect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the output signal from the load cell.
35. The flowmeter of claim 28, further comprising means for biasing the load cell in the measurement direction to establish a preload condition on the load cell, thereby reducing the affect of vibration on the output signal from the load cell. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 21 March 1994 (21.03.94); original claims 16-18,20 and 27 deleted; original claims 2-9,12
14 and 15 unchanged; remaining claims amended; claims renumbered as claims 1-30 (8 pages)]
1. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell coupled to the housing for generating an output signal; an impact plate; an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to the impact plate and to the load cell, the impact plate being aligned with the inlet chute so that material entering the housing strikes the impact plate, the impact plate mounting bracket deflecting the load cell in a measurement direction to change the output signal from the load cell based on the flow rate of material; and a stop coupled to the housing for engaging the impact plate mounting bracket to apply a biasing force to the load cell in the measurement direction to establish a preload condition on the load cell in the measurement direction and a limit position for the load cell in a nonmeasurement direction, the stop permitting movement of the impact plate mounting bracket relative to the stop in the measurement direction, and the stop blocking movement of the impact plate mounting bracket in a nonmeasurement direction beyond the limit position, thereby reducing the affect of vibration on the output signal from the load cell.
2. The flowmeter of claim 1, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket located outside the interior region of the housing to isolate the load cell from the interior region 


 of the housing, the load cell mounting bracket being coupled to a wall of the housing.
3. The flowmeter of claim 2, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is insulated from the wall of the
'
 5 housing by gaskets located between the load cell mounting bracket and the wall of the housing to reduce the affect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
4. The flowmeter of claim 1, further comprising means for coupling the load cell to the 0 housing so that the position of the load cell relative to the housing is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
5. The flowmeter of claim 4, further comprising means for coupling the impact plate to the 5 load cell so that the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is also adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
6. The flowmeter of claim 1, further 0 comprising means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell so that the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute.
7. The flowmeter of claim 1, wherein the 5 impact plate is coupled to the load cell by an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to a measurement leg of the load cell.
8. The flowmeter of claim 7, wherein the impact plate mounting bracket is formed to include an 0 elongated slot therein, the load cell being coupled to the impact plate mounting bracket by a fastener extending through the elongated slot to permit the impact plate mounting bracket to slide relative to the load cell to adjust the position of the impact plate relative to the 5 load cell and inlet chute. 


 9. The flowmeter of claim 7, wherein the impact plate mounting bracket is T-shaped.
10. The flowmeter of claim 1, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket and the stop is coupled to the load cell mounting bracket, the position of the stop being adjustable relative to the load cell to change the biasing force applied to the load cell in the measurement direction.
11. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell; a load cell mounting bracket located outside the interior region of housing to isolate the load cell from the interior region of the housing, the load cell mounting bracket being coupled to a wall of the housing and formed to include an elongated slot therein; a fastener extending through the elongated slot of the load cell mounting bracket to couple the load cell to the load cell mounting bracket to secure the load cell to the housing, the fastener being slidable in the elongated slot of the load cell mounting bracket to adjust the vertical position of the load cell relative to the housing; an impact plate; means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell, thereby permitting the position of the impact plate relative to the housing to be adjusted vertically upon vertical movement of the fastener in the elongated slot of the load cell mounting bracket to align the impact plate with the inlet chute so that material entering the 


interior region of the housing strikes the impact plate.
12. The flowmeter of claim 11, further comprising a stop coupled to load cell mounting bracket, the stop biasing the load cell in a measurement direction.
13. The flowmeter of claim 11, wherein the means for coupling the impact plate to the load cell includes an impact plate mounting bracket formed to include an elongated slot therein, and a fastener extending through the elongated slot of the impact plate mounting bracket to secure the impact plate mounting bracket to a measurement leg of the load cell, the fastener being slidable in the elongated slot of the impact plate mounting bracket to adjust a horizontal position of the impact plate relative to the housing.
14. The flowmeter of claim 13, further comprising a stop coupled to the load cell mounting bracket and means coupled to the impact plate mounting bracket for engaging the stop to bias the load cell in the measurement direction.
15. The flowmeter of claim 11, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is insulated from a wall of the housing by gaskets located between the mounting bracket and the wall of the housing to reduce the affect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
16. The flowmeter of claim 11, further comprising a cover for surrounding the load cell mounting bracket and the load cell, the cover being coupled to the housing to protect the load cell. 17. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housin 


 a load cell for generating an output signal; a load cell mounting bracket for coupling the load cell to the housing; an impact plate; an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to a measurement leg of the load cell and to the impact plate to align the impact plate with the inlet chute so that material entering the housing strikes the impact plate, the impact plate deflecting the load cell in a measurement direction to change the output signal from the load cell based on the flow rate of material, the impact plate mounting bracket being formed to include an elongated slot therein, the load cell being coupled to the impact plate mounting bracket by a fastener extending through the elongated slot to permit the impact plate mounting bracket to slide relative to the load cell to adjust the position of the impact plate horizontally relative to the load cell and the inlet chute.
18. The flowmeter of claim 17, further comprising means for biasing the load cell in the measurement direction to establish a preload condition on the load cell, thereby reducing the affect of vibration on the output signal from the load cell.
19. The flowmeter of claim 18, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket and the biasing means includes a stop coupled to the load cell mounting bracket, the position of the stop being adjustable relative to the load cell to apply a biasing force to the load cell in the measurement direction.
20. The flowmeter of claim 17, further comprising means for insulating the load cell from the housing to reduce the effect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell, wherein the insulating means 


includes a gasket located between the load cell coupling means and the housing.
21. The flowmeter of claim 20, wherein the gasket is made of neoprene. 22. The flowmeter of claim 17, wherein the position of the load cell relative to the housing is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate vertically relative to the inlet chute.
23. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell for generating an output signal; a load cell mounting bracket for coupling the load cell to the housing; an impact plate; an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to a measurement leg of the load cell and to the impact plate to align the impact plate with the inlet chute so that material entering the housing strikes the impact plate, the impact plate mounting bracket deflecting the load cell in a measurement direction to change the output signal from the load cell based on the flow rate of material, the load cell mounting bracket being formed to include an elongated slot to permit the position of the load cell to be adjusted vertically relative to the housing to change the position of the impact plate vertically relative to the inlet chute.
24. The flowmeter of claim 23, wherein the position of the impact plate relative to the load cell is adjustable to change the position of the impact plate horizontally relative to the inlet chute. 


 25. An impact flowmeter comprising: a housing having an inlet end, an outlet end, and an interior region; an inlet chute coupled to the inlet end of the housing, the inlet chute having an open end for discharging material into the interior region of the housing; a load cell coupled to the housing for generating an output signal; an impact plate coupled to the load cell, the impact plate being aligned with the inlet chute so that material entering the housing strikes the impact plate, the impact plate deflecting the load cell in a measurement direction to change the output signal from the load cell based on the flow rate of material; means for adjusting a vertical position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute so that the impact plate is properly aligned with the inlet chute in a vertical direction; and means for adjusting a horizontal position of the impact plate relative to the inlet chute so that the impact plate is properly aligned with the inlet chute in a horizontal direction.
26. The flowmeter of claim 25, wherein the load cell is coupled to the housing by a load cell mounting bracket, the load cell mounting bracket being coupled to a wall of the housing, and the impact plate is coupled to the load cell by an impact plate mounting bracket coupled to a measurement leg of the load cell. 27. The flowmeter of claim 26, wherein the load cell mounting bracket is located outside the interior region of the housing to isolate the load cell from the interior region of the housing.
28. The flowmeter of claim 25, further comprising means for insulating the load cell from the 


housing to reduce the effect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the load cell.
29. The flowmeter of claim 28, wherein the insulating means includes a gasket located between the load cell and the housing for reducing the affect of ambient vibrations of the housing on the output signal from the load cell.
30. The flowmeter of claim 25, further comprising means for biasing the load cell in the measurement direction to establish a preload condition on the load cell, thereby reducing the affect of vibration on the output signal from the load cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
