<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659608</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mirror support bracket
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C1106	B60R102	B60R104	F16C1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	B60R	B60R	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C11	B60R1	B60R1	F16C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mirror assembly for use in vehicles has a support 
bracket which provides an adjustment mechanism to 

position the mirror under a substantially constant 
clamping pressure over a wide range of ambient 

temperature conditions. The support bracket includes a 
generally spherical socket (44) which receives a ball 

cup (122) substantially enclosing a ball member (46) 
extending from the mirror. A spring (124) forces the 

cup and ball member into the socket and causes the cup 
to compress about the ball member. The bracket may be 

used on both header- and windshield-mounted mirror 
assemblies. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DONNELLY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DONNELLY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOOK RICHARD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOOK, RICHARD R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to mirror assemblies for use
in vehicles, and more particularly to mirror support
brackets having an adjustable pivot.Vehicle interior rearview mirrors are commonly
secured to either the header area near the top of the
windshield or directly to the inside surface of the
windshield in the forward vision area of the driver.
Most have a ball member either extending from or into
the mirror body to enable pivotal adjustment of the
mirror. In one prior-known mirror having a ball member
extending out of the mirror, the ball is captured in one
end of a swaged tube. A helical compression spring is
disposed in the tube and engages a disk which, in turn,
engages the ball member. The disk has a portion which
partially conforms to the shape of the ball. Often a
similar structure is duplicated at the opposite end of
the tube to connect the mirror to a mounting member.In Conventional mirror assemblies, the clamping
pressure on the ball is fixed at the instant it is
assembled. As temperature increases or decreases, the
clamping pressure changes as a direct result of the
different coefficients of expansion and contraction of
the materials. On one day, the ball joint may be stiff
and difficult to adjust; while on other days the mirror
may be loose and not stay in place.Another disadvantage of the mirror assemblies
described above is the inability to interchange mirror
heads. When a ball pivot extends from the mirror 
mounting arm into the mirror housing, the housing must
be specifically designed to accept that ball member on a
permanent basis. Changing support arms for specific
mirror heads and vice-versa without partial destruction
of the mirror was impossible. Furthermore and related
thereto is the inability to replace one of the
components of the mirror assembly if it breaks;
consequently, the entire mirror assembly is usually
replaced. The desire to change mirror heads, stays, or
replacement parts results in a replacement of otherwise
perfectly good components and increases cost to the
consumer.It is an object of the invention to provide a
support bracket for a vehicle rearview mirror which can
be designed to overcome or mitigate these disadvantages.This object is achieved by the invention claimed in
Claim 1.A support bracket according to the
pre-characterising part of claim 1 is described in
United States Patent Specification 4,936,533. However,
it is not a single ball joint support bracket with the
socket held rigidly at the second end of the mirror stay,
nor does the mirror stay include
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A support bracket for a vehicle rearview mirror
assembly, said rearview mirror having a ball member extending therefrom, the

support bracket comprising a mirror stay (36, 206, 300)
having a second end (42, 212) terminating in a socket (90, 234,

316) having an aperture for receiving the ball member,
the socket having an at least partially spherical

interior surface; a cup (122, 236, 318) disposed
within the socket and having an opening for receiving

the ball member extending from the mirror assembly and
a side opposite the opening, the cup substantially

enclosing the ball member; and a biasing member (124,
252, 328) engaging the side of the cup opposite the

opening to force the cup against the socket and thereby
compress the cup about the ball member, characterised in that

the support bracket has a single ball joint (44) which
includes the socket (90, 234, 316), the socket being

held rigidly at the second end (42, 212) of the mirror stay (36,
206, 300), and the mirror stay further includes means

(118, 246, 332) on the second end of the mirror stay
adjacent the cup for holding the biasing member in

biasing engagement with the side of the cup opposite
the opening.
A support bracket as claimed in claim 1,
wherein the cup and biasing member include means

(140,142, 242, 326, 344) extending between the cup and 
the biasing member for locating the cup on the biasing

member to position the cup within the socket.
A support bracket as claimed in claim 1 or 2,
further including a mechanism (102, 340) adjusting the

force exerted by the biasing member on the cup.
A support bracket as claimed in claim 3,
wherein the mechanism includes an adjustable fastener

(102, 340) for moving the biasing member with respect
to the socket.
A support bracket as claimed in any preceding
claim, wherein the biasing member includes a leaf

spring (124, 252, 328).
A support bracket as claimed in any preceding
claim, wherein the mirror stay is supported at a first

end (38) remote from the socket (90) in a securing member
(28,210) attached to the vehicle and means (40, 208)

are provided for releasably coupling the first end of
the stay to the securing member to allow the stay to

release and separate from the securing member upon

impact by a force of predetermined magnitude acting on
the stay.
A support bracket as claimed in any preceding
claim, wherein the socket comprises a portion (220)

fixed to and dependent from the second end (42, 212) of the stay 
and having a face (222) on one side and a recess (226)

on a second and opposite side; and a hole (234)
extending through the fixed portion from the face to

the second side and having a dimension to freely
receive the ball member therethrough; the cup being

disposed in the recess and receiving the ball member
therein, the cup having a generally spherical outer

surface engaging the inner surface of the hole; and the
biasing member comprising a spring (226) having one end

(248) disposed in the recess, the spring engaging the
cup for forcing the cup into the hole and clamping the

cup about the ball member.
A support bracket as claimed in claim 7,
further including a cover (258) received over the

recess and concealing the spring and cup.
A support bracket as claimed in claim 7 or 8,
wherein the spring has an opposite end (336) adapted to

be adjustable with respect to the socket to adjust a
clamping force exerted by the spring on the cup.
A support bracket as claimed in any one of
claims 1 to 6, wherein the socket comprises a first

portion (70) of a generally spherical clamp carried by
the second end (42, 212) of the stay; and a second portion (84) of

a generally spherical clamp detachably coupled to the
first portion and co-operating with the first portion

to define the generally spherical clamp. 
The combination of a support bracket as claimed
in claim 1 and a rearview mirror assembly, wherein the

mirror stay has a first end (38, 208) forming a
breakaway connection with the header portion of a

vehicle above the vehicle windshield; and the rearview
mirror assembly (52) has a ball member extending

therefrom, the ball member (46) being received in the
cup to provide an adjustment for the rearview mirror.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
