<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645168</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stripping of volatiles from liquid
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1900	B01D1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D19	B01D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for stripping of a volatile 
from a liquid with a stripping gas. Feed liquid (10) is 

mixed (12) with recycled stripping gas (32). This first mixture 
is separated, and the separated liquid (20) is mixed with 

fresh stripping gas (26). The second mixture is separated 
into liquid product (28) and the gas is recycled (30,32) for 

stripping. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHENG ALAN T Y
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHENG, ALAN T.Y.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to stripping of a volatile 
from a liquid with a stripping gas. A common liquid to 
be stripped is water to be used, for example, for 
dilution of fruit juice concentrate, or in the 
production of beer. Dissolved oxygen is a volatile 
commonly stripped from the water to prevent degradation 
of the resulting product by fermentation or by 
oxidation. Components of the product that are 
responsible for taste and aroma are particularly 
sensitive to oxidation. Water that has been in contact 
with air has dissolved oxygen from the air. It is 
generally desirable to reduce the oxygen concentration 
in water intended for the above uses to less than 0.5 
ppm, which typically requires at least two stages of 
stripping. The volatile is commonly stripped by dispersing 
the stripping gas throughout the liquid and then 
separating the liquid and gas. The rate of volatile 
removal and the final concentration of volatile in the 
liquid depends on the degree of dispersion of the gas 
in the liquid, the contact time, the turbulence 
existing during the contact, and the departure of 
actual conditions from thermodynamic equilibrium 
conditions in the liquid-volatile-stripping gas system. 
The prior art has used apparatus which has been bulky, 
relatively high in initial cost and inefficient so as 
to require an undesirably high consumption of stripping 
gas.  
 DE-A-3239066 already discloses a method and an apparatus for the deaeration of water 
used for the production of CO2-containing, non-alcoholic beverages, wherein CO2 is 
added to fresh water which is saturated with air. The CO2 is partly dissolved in the water 
as a function of the respective partial pressures. Subsequently, this water is atomized 
and deaerated under vacuum whereby both air and already bonded CO2 are debonded. 
This gas mixture is exhausted, and the deaerated water still containing residual gas, 
which can not be removed by the vacuum and which consists of CO2 only, is collected 
and further processed. The known apparatus is provided with a first injection nozzle for 
injecting into the fresh water a gas mixture consisting of about 90% CO2 and the 
remainder air. The CO2-enriched water obtained thereby is sprayed into a vacuum vessel 
from which gas is evacuated by a vacuum pump. Deaerated water is pumped from the 
vacuum vessel to an equalization vessel which is connected to a finished beverage tank. 
A second injection nozzle for injecting CO2 into the deaerated water is disposed in a 
conduit leading from the vacuum pump
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for stripping a volatile component from a feed liquid with a stripping 
gas, said method comprising: 


(a) mixing said feed liquid to be stripped with stripping gas to form a first mixture; 
(b) separating at atmospheric or above atmospheric pressure said first mixture 
into a first separated liquid and a first separated gas; 
(c) mixing said first separated liquid with stripping gas to form a second mixture; 
(d) drawing a vacuum on said second mixture; 
(e) separating under vacuum said second mixture into a second separated liquid 
and a second separated gas; and 
(f) compressing and using said second separated gas as stripping gas for mixing 
with said feed liquid to form said first mixture in step (a). 
The method as in claim 1 wherein said mixing said first separated liquid with 
stripping gas to form a second mixture in step (c) comprises: 


(1) causing said first separated liquid to flow; 
(2) introducing said stripping gas into said flowing first separated liquid to form a 
flowing mixture; 
(3) accelerating said flowing mixture to at least sonic velocity; 
(4) decelerating said flowing mixture to subsonic velocity to create a sonic shock 
wave and a resultant dispersion of gas bubbles in said liquid. 
The method as in claim 1 wherein in step (c) said stripping gas is injected with at 
least sonic velocity into said first separated liquid. 
The method as in claim 1 further comprising: 

(g) pumping and pressurizing said first separated liquid before mixing with stripping 
gas to form a second mixture. 
An apparatus for carrying out the method of claim 1, said apparatus comprising: 

(a) a first gas-liquid mixing means (12) having an inlet for feed liquid to be 
stripped, an inlet for stripping gas and an exit for a first gas-liquid mixture; 
(b) a first container (14) for separating a first gas-liquid mixture, said first container 
having an inlet communicating with said first mixing means exit, a vent 

(16) for first separated gas, and an exit for first separated liquid; 
(c) a second gas-liquid mixing means (20) having an inlet for first separated 
liquid, said inlet communicating with said first-container exit for first separated 

liquid, an inlet for stripping gas, and an exit for second gas-liquid mixture; 
(d) a second container (22) for separating second gas-liquid mixture having all 
inlet communicating with said second-mixing means exit, a vent (30) for 

second separated gas, and an exit for second separated liquid; 
(e) vacuum means for removing second separated gas from said second container 
and producing a vacuum in said second container, said vacuum means having 

an inlet communicating with said second-container vent; and an exit for discharging 
second separated gas; 
(f) conduit communicating said vacuum-means exit with said first-mixing-means 
inlet for stripping gas; and 
(g) compression means in said conduit. 
An apparatus for carrying out the method of claim 1, said apparatus comprising: 

(a) an eductor (12), as first gas-liquid mixing means, having an inlet for feed 
liquid to be stripped, an inlet for stripping gas and an exit for a first gas-liquid 

mixture formed in said eductor; 
(b) a first container (14) for separating a first gas-liquid mixture, said first container 
having an inlet communicating with said eductor exit, a vent (16) for 

first separated gas, and an exit for first separated liquid; 
(c) a second gas-liquid mixing means (20) having an inlet for first separated 
liquid, said inlet communicating with said first-container exit for first 

separated liquid, an inlet for stripping gas, and an exit for second gas-liquid 
mixture; 
(d) a second container (22) for separating second gas-liquid mixture having an 
inlet communicating with said second-mixing means exit, a vent (30) for 

second separated gas, and an exit for second separated liquid; and 
(e) conduit means (32) communicating said vent (30) for second separated gas 
with said eductor inlet for stripping gas, 
  
 

said eductor 

removing through said conduit means second separated gas from said 
second container and 
producing a vacuum in said second container, and 
compressing and mixing second separated gas with feed liquid. 
The apparatus as in claim 5 or 6, wherein said second gas-liquid mixing means 
(20) further comprises a flow constriction (24) for passage therethrough of second 

gas-liquid mixture. 
The apparatus as in any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein said second gas-liquid mixing 
means (20) further comprises means (26) for injecting stripping gas into first 

separated liquid. 
The apparatus as in any one of claims 5 to 8 further comprising a pump (21) having 
an inlet communicating with said first container exit for first separated liquid 

and an exit communicating with said second-mixing means inlet for second liquid 

to be stripped. 
The apparatus as in any one of claims 5 to 9 further comprising a pump (10) having 
an exit communicating with said first-mixing-means inlet, said pump for pressurizing 

feed liquid. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
