<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620698</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for detecting the presence of a food container, such as a saucepan, dish or the like, on a glass ceramic cooking hob.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24C1510	F24C1510	H05B368	H05B374	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24C	F24C	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24C15	F24C15	H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device (K) for detecting the presence of a food container (11) 
such as a saucepan, dish or the like, placed on at least one 

heating element (3, 4) of a glass ceramic cooking hob (1) 
comprises electrical conductor means (18, 21) fed with signals 

which are identical but of opposite phase, between said means 
there being interposed detector means (19) traversed by electrical 

signals, said conductor and detector means (18, 21, 19) being 
positioned in correspondence with that cooking region (2) of the 

glass ceramic hob (1) where the heating element (3, 4) is 
positioned, the signals from the detector means (19) varying on 

the basis of the presence or absence of the food container (11) on 
the hob, control means (37) being provided to measure the 

variation in said signals and to intervene in the operation of the 
heating element (3, 4). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL EUROP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL EUROPE B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURETTA DANIELE C O WHIRIPOOL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURETTA, DANIELE, C/O WHIRIPOOL ITALIA S.R.L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a a device for detecting the presence of 
a food container such as a saucepan, dish or the like, placed on a 
cooking region of a hob of glass ceramic or similar material, 
below which there is positioned in correspondence with the cooking 
region at least one usual heating element or heat source such as a 
resistance element, a gas burner, a halogen lamp or the like. Devices are known for detecting the presence of a container on the 
cooking region of a glass ceramic hob plate, for the purpose of 
controlling the operation of the heating element. In one of these devices, two elements acting as capacitor plates 
are provided below said hob plate or silk-screen printed onto it 
in the cooking region, to define a "capacitive sensor" able to 
detect the presence of the container in said region by a variation 
in the capacitance of the capacitor on placing the container on 
said glass ceramic hob plate. However, the detecting efficiency 
of this known device varies with increasing temperature of the 
cooking region. Specifically, above 150°C the reliability of the 
device decreases, until above 300°C it becomes totally unreliable. 
This is because the conductivity of the glass ceramic hob plate 
increases with increasing temperature, this conductivity 
falsifying the data obtained from the capacitive sensor. In addition associating the plate elements of the "capacitive  
 
sensor" with the cooking hob involves a cost which negatively 
affects the cost of the finished product. An object of the present invention is to provide a device for 
detecting the presence of a food container on the cooking region 
which is reliable in use independently of the temperature reached 
by said region during food preparation. A further object is to provide a device which is of safe use for 
the user and results in a considerable energy saving during the 
use of the glass ceramic cooking hob. A further object is to provide a device of the aforestated type 
which is of simple, low-cost construction. A further object is to provide a device which, when the food 
container is placed on a given cooking region, indicates which 
knob the user must operate in order to activate the heating 
element of that particular region. A further object is to provide a device by which the power of the 
heating element is automatically reduced when the container is 
removed from the corresponding cooking region, this power being 
automatically zeroed if the container is not returned to said 
region within a given time.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for detecting the presence of a food container 
such as a saucepan, dish or the like, placed on a cooking region 

of a hob of glass ceramic or similar material, below which there 
is positioned in correspondence with this region at least one 

usual heating element or heat source such as a resistance element, 
a gas burner, a halogen lamp or the like, said device being 

characterised by comprising detection means (19) positioned in 
correspondence with said cooking region (2) below the glass 

ceramic hob (1) and interposed between conductor means (18, 21) 
through which electrical signals flow, said detection means (19) 

generating electrical signals at least one characteristic of which 
varies on the basis of the presence or absence of the container 

(11) on said region (2), said latter electrical signals being fed 
to heating element (3, 4) control means which, on the basis of the 

variation in the aforesaid characteristic, at least partly modify 
the state of activation of said element. 
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the 
detection means and conductors are elements (18, 19, 21) arranged 

side by side and associated with a support member (10) positioned 
below the cooking region (2). 
A device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the 
elements associated with the support member are concentric annular 

elements (18, 19, 21), the most outer and most inner element being 
fed electrically by feed means (30), the intermediate ring (19) 

acting as a sensor member, said outer and inner annular elements 
(18, 21) defining a flat capacitor. 
A device as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the 
feed means are an oscillating voltage generator member (30), which 

is connected to a transformer member (31) having two secondary 
windings (32, 33) connected at a common end to earth (34) and at 

each other end to electrical means (35) of high output impedance, 
these latter being connected to the outer annular element (18) and 

 
to the inner annular element (19) respectively, these latter 

elements being fed with electrical signals which are identical 
except for one characteristic. 
A device as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the 
signals fed to the outer and inner annular elements (18, 21) are 

of different amplitude. 
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the 
detection means (19) are connected to electrical means (36) of 

high input impedance, these latter being connected to rectifier 
means (48) for generating a continuous signal to be fed to the 

control means (37). 
A device as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the 
rectifier means (48) are an alternating current rectifier (48). 
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised by 
comprising conductor means (20) arranged to generate reference 

signals for the electrical signals originating from the detection 
means (19). 
A device as claimed in claims 3 and 8, characterised in 
that the conductor means (20) are an annular element interposed 

between the element (19) acting as the detection member and the 
most outer annular element acting as a plate of the flat 

capacitor. 
A device as claimed in claims 6 and 8, characterised in 
that the conductor means for generating reference signals are 

connected to a feedback branch (36A) provided in the electrical 
means (36) of high input impedance to which the detection means 

(19) are connected. 
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the 
control means (37) are a preferably microprocessor unit, said unit 

being connected to at least one display (72) which indicates 
 

activation of the heating element (3, 4) positioned at at least 
one cooking region (2), and to a power controller (5) or the like 

connected to said heating element (3, 4). 
A device as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the 
control means (37) are connected to the usual knob (73) for 

activating and adjusting said heating element (3, 4). 
A device as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the 
control means comprise a memory area for containing data relative 

to the electrical signals emitted by the detection means (19) when 
the container (11) is absent from the cooking region (2), said 

unit being connected to timer means for defining a time period 
beyond which the heating element (3, 4) is deactivated following 

the removal of the container (11) from the cooking region. 
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the 
dimensions of the detection means (19) and conductors (18, 21) are 

considerably less than those of the cooking region (2). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
