<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN ROOFING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04D134	E04D134	E04D1200	E04D1200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04D	E04D	E04D	E04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04D1	E04D1	E04D12	E04D12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rapid laying arrangement for interlocking concrete or clay roof tiles (T1, T2, T3, T4) is provided by a plurality of tile supports (2) of moulded plastics, e.g. polyethylene, on which the tiles are located in half-bond relationship. Each support (2) provides four tile modules (8, 10, 12, 14) each of which has associated snap-fit tile fixing means by which the tiles are secured thereto which means is provided by hooks (50, 52, 54, 56) for engaging associated sidelock portions of the tiles and jaw-like members (70, 72) for engaging associated headlap portions of the tiles. Each support (2) also has resilient portions adjacent the jaw-like members (70, 72) for resisting loads impacting on the tiles secured on the support (2). Carrying handles (118, 120) are provided to enable a tiler to carry the supports and tiles assembled thereon, the supports each also comprising lugs (100, 102, 104) for location, in use, in complementary recesses (106, 108, 110). To complete the laying arrangement and secure the supports (2) and thus the tiles (T1, T2, T3, T4) to a roof appropriate fasteners are inserted through apertures (112, 114, 116) into the boarding (130) of the roof structure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REDLAND TECHNOLOGY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REDLAND TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAW FRAZER WILLIAM TIMOTHY HIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAW, FRAZER, WILLIAM, TIMOTHY 52 HILLBURY ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVEMENTS IN ROOFINGThis invention is concerned with improvements in or relating to a novel tile panel, a novel support for use in a tile panel and a method of tiling a roof with such tile panels.Conventional practice for tiling a roof varies worldwide. Such practice may be like the common practice in the United Kingdom where a pitched roof is constructed of rafters fixed at the eaves and ridge of the roof and supported intermediate their lengths by horizontal purlins, and to which rafters weather-proof insulation felt and tiling battens are then affixed prior to the laying of the tiles thereon. In the United States of America, on the other hand, roofs are gener¬ ally formed as a closed board construction to which felt and shingles are thereafter affixed in known manner. Practice in the European countries also includes pitched structures which are formed predominantly of brick and concrete slabs to which pitched structures individual tiles may thereafter be affixed.The common thread in all of these methods of roof construction is the time-consuming practice of laying the roofing tiles one at a time.By tiles, where used herein, it is meant planar or contoured interlocking roofing tiles of concrete or clay which tiles are generally rectangular in plan elevation having upwardly facing and downwardly facing longitudinal grooves or channels formed in opposed sidelock portions thereof respectively, the tiles each also comprising a headlock portion at an upper end thereof which is provided with hanging nibs or a transverse nib on an underside thereof. Such tiles are conventionally fixed to a roof structure and to other adjacent tiles to form a rigid structure using nails and clips or a combination of such means which again makes roofing a time-consuming and 

costly business with the individual tiles thereof susceptible to fracture under load due to the rigid nature of the structure and the tile bodies.Roofs constructed from metal or plastics panels of multi-unit tile format have been proposed and indeed in some countries, notably South Africa, metal sheets simulating conventional roofing tiles have found favour for the lower end of the market. However, for general application in the United Kingdom, USA and Spain where clay and concrete roofing tiles find favour, the use of panels of simulated tiles is only used for a very small section of the roofing industry.The present invention seeks to overcome or mitigate the disad¬ vantages of prior art roofing methods and especially seeks to obviate the need for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
A tile panel for roofing comprising a support having fix¬ ing means for securing a plurality of tiles as herein¬ before defined on said support wherein the support further comprises resilient portions to enable, when in use, move¬ ment at right angles to a plane of the support of tiles secured thereto whereby, in use, such tiles are not suscep¬ tible to damage from loads impacting thereon.
>
 A tile panel according to Claim 1 wherein said fixing means comprises :
i) a plurality of first tile engaging means adapted for engagement with side-lock portions of associated tiles in use; and, ii) a plurality of second tile engaging means adapted for engagement with head-lock portions of associated tiles in use.
!. A tile panel according to Claim 2 wherein said second tile engaging means are each located at an associated resilient portion of said support whereby, in use, when a plurality of tiles is secured to said support, such tiles are not susceptible to loads impacting thereon as aforesaid.
t. A tile panel according to either one of Claims 2 and 3 wherein said second tile engaging means comprises mutually offset jaw-like members first ones of which jaw-like members are adapted to engage an upper surface of an asso¬ ciated tile, in use, and second ones of which aw-like members are adapted to engage, in use, an undersurface of an associated tile. 


5. A tile panel according to Claim 4 wherein the second jaw-like members are recessed to enable, in use, the reten¬ tion of a lateral rib formed on the underside of tiles secured to the support.
6. A tile panel according to any one of Claims 1 to 5 wherein line support is constituted by a planar frame-like struc¬ ture.
7. A tile panel according to any one of the Claims 1 to 6 wherein the support comprises a plurality of tile support surfaces one each of which is associated with and provides support, in use, for a tile.
8. A tile panel according to any one of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the support comprises interlocking means for engagement, in use, with interlocking means of supports of mutually adjacent tile panels.
9. A tile panel according to Claim 8 wherein the interlocking means comprises bayonet-type lugs and bayonet-shaped recesses for enabling, in use, the interlocking of mutu¬ ally adjacent tile panels.
10. A tile panel according to any one of Claims 1 to 9 wherein the support comprises handles for facilitating, in use, the handling of the panel.
11. A tile panel according to any one of Claims 6 to 10 wherein the frame-like structure is a unitary moulding.
12. A tile panel according to Claim 11 wherein the one-piece moulding is of plastics material. 


13. A tile panel according to any one of Claims 11 and 12 wherein the tile engaging means, the tile supporting surfaces, interlocking means and the handles are formed as integral parts of the frame-like structure.
14. A tile panel according to any one of the previous Claims wherein, in use, tiles supported by the support are in half-bond or full-bond relationship.
15. A support adapted for use in a tile panel said support being provided by a frame-like structure comprising:
(a) fixing means for securing, in use, a plurality of tiles as hereinbefore defined on said support;
(b) resilient portions to enable, when in use, movement at a right angle to a plane of the support of tiles secured thereto whereby, in use, such tiles are not susceptible to damage from loads impacting thereon.
16. A support according to Claim 15 comprising a plurality of tile supporting surfaces one each of which associated with and provides support, in use, for one tile.
17. A support according to either one of Claims 15 and 16 comprising interlocking means for engagement, in use, with interlocking means of mutually adjacent supports.
18. A support according to any one of Claims 15, 16 and 17 comprising handles for facilitating, in use, the handling of a tile panel constructed therewith.
19. A support according to any one of Claims 15 to 18 wherein the frame-like structure is a unitary moulding. 


20. A support according to Claim 19 wherein the fixing means, the support surfaces, the interlocking means and the handles are formed as integral parts of the frame-like material.
21. A support according to any one of Claims 15 to 20 made from plastics or like material.
22. A method of roofing comprising the steps of:
i) securing a supply of tile supports provided with snap-fit tile fixing means; ii) securing a supply of roof tiles; iii) assembling a series of tile panels by snap-fitting a plurality of tiles thereto; iv) offering a first of the assembled tile panels to a roof to be tiled using a plurality of such panels and fixing the panel in position; and, v) positioning successive tile panels seriatim to the roof by interengaging the successive panels with that or those previously affixed to the roof until the roof is covered,
wherein the tile supports each comprise resilient portions to enable, when in use, movement at right angles to a plane of the support of tiles secured thereto whereby, in use, such tiles are not susceptible to damage from loads impacting thereon.
23. A method of roofing according to Claim 22 wherein the supports each support tiles in a full-bond or half-bond relationship.
24. A method of roofing according to either one of Claims 22 and 23 wherein the tiles are conventional interlocking tiles each tile having grooved side-lock portions for mutual sideways interengagement in use. 


25. A method of roofing according to any one of Claims 22 to
24 wherein the tiles are conventional interlocking tiles each tile having headlap portions including a hanging rib provided on the undersurface of the tile at said headlap portion.
26. A method of roofing according to any one of Claims 24 and
25 wherein the snap-fit tile fixing means of each support engages associates headlap or side-lock portions of the tiles assembled therewith.
27. A tile panel substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures lb, la, 2, 4 and 5 of the accompany¬ ing drawings.
28. A support substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 1 to 5 of the accompanying drawings.
29. A method of roofing substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures lb, Id, 2, 4 and 5 of the accompanying drawings.
30. A roof tiled with the tile panels and supports of Claims 1 to 14 and 15 to 21 respectively according to the method of Claims 22 to 26. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
