<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for producing a frozen crust on a food loaf with a view to slicing of the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L131	A23L131	A23L336	A23L336	B26D300	B26D300	B26D708	B26D710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A23L3	A23L3	B26D3	B26D3	B26D7	B26D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and process are described for 
quickly freezing the surface of certain loaf-shaped 

products prior to slicing. The apparatus of the invention 
includes a heat exchanger having a shaped contact surface 

thereon. The heat exchanger (12) is positioned to hold and 
support a food loaf (18,24,26) and refrigerant is circulated 

continuously therethrough to provide the contact surface 
at a fairly constant temperature. A retractable clamp (20) 

applies pressure to the opposite side of the food loaf to 
compress the loaf against the refrigerated contact surface 

and thereby accelerate the crusting cycle. After a short 
cycle time of between about 30 and about 90 seconds, the 

clamp (20) can be retracted and the loaf can be ejected onto a 
slicer feed for subsequent slicing thereof. In a second 

embodiment, the clamp is provided as a second heat 
exchanger (120) to compress the food loaf against the contact 

surface of the first heat exchanger while simultaneously 
crusting at least one of the opposing sides of the loaf. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAYER OSKAR FOODS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OSCAR MAYER FOODS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCKE DONALD EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCKE, DONALD EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to an 
apparatus and a method for processing food products and to 
generally improve the time constraints required for 
processing such food products by providing a rapid cycle, 
low cost, controlled method which represents a substantial 
improvement over previous devices and methods. More 
specifically, the invention relates to an apparatus and a 
method for producing a frozen crust surface on a loaf or 
stick-shaped meat product using a refrigerated heat 
exchange surface for direct, pressure-controlled contact 
with the surface of the food product. The invention 
provides a rapid cycle, low cost, controlled method and an 
apparatus for producing a frozen crust condition on the 
food loaf prior to slicing. Subsequent slicing of the 
crusted food product provides a significant improvement in 
slice quality and allows a faster slicer output for many 
applications. In the preparation of sliced meat products, for 
example, the end product is often prepared by slicing a 
previously formed loaf or log. In the preparation of such 
sliced products, it has been recognized that certain 
advantages can be realized during the slicing step if the 
loaf is at least partially frozen when sliced. In 
particular, it would be desirable to form a frozen crust 
along at least a portion of the outermost surface of the  
 
loaf. It would also be advantageous to form such a frozen 
crust using freezing technology which could be efficiently 
utilized within a manufacturing line to form a frozen 
crust within seconds rather than minutes, quickly 
preparing the loaf for subsequent slicing. While cooling 
or freezing processes are known, existing technologies 
have failed to provide suitable systems or devices to 
rapidly produce frozen crust conditions on loaf products 
prior to slicing. Available devices and processes for cooling or 
freezing certain food products have generally attempted to 
provide relatively quick cooling or freezing times for 
certain foods while also preserving food quality such as 
taste, texture and the like. Cryogenic freezing and 
cooling has employed the use of heat exchangers, utilizing 
a circulating coolant such as carbon dioxide, liquid 
nitrogen, ammonia or the like to maintain a maximum 
temperature differential between the unfrozen food product 
and the heat exchange surface. Yet, the utility of heat 
transfer technology in the preparation of sliced products 
has been limited by excessively lengthy freeze time 
requirements and the need for bulky and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for producing a frozen crust on at least 
a portion of the surface of a loaf-shaped food 

product, the apparatus comprising: 
   a heat exchanger having a first contact surface 

thereon; and 
   clamping means associated with said heat 

exchanger for applying pressure to a food product to 
thereby hold said food product against said first 

contact surface to facilitate freezing thereof; 
   whereby, at least one surface of said food 

product is provided with a frozen crust to thereby 
improve the quality of food slices obtained 

therefrom. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said heat 
exchanger includes circulating means for circulating 

coolant therethrough, said circulating means 
associated with said first contact surface to 

maintain said surface at a temperature sufficient to 
freeze a surface of said food product. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said 
first contact surface is L-shaped to provide a frozen 

crust condition on at least two sides of a squared 
food product. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said 
pressure means includes a retractable clamp member 

with a second contact surface thereon, and 
positioning means to position said clamp member 

between a first position wherein said second contact 
surface is free from any contact with a food product 

and a second position wherein said second contact 
surface is in direct contact with said food product 

to hold said food product firmly against said first 
contact surface. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said 
pressure means includes a second heat exchanger 

having a second contact surface thereon, said 
pressure means including positioning means for 

positioning said second heat exchanger in a first 
position free from any contact with a food product 

and a second position wherein said second contact 
surface is in direct contact with said food product 

to firmly hold said food product against said first 
contact surface. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said 
second heat exchanger includes second circulating 

means for circulating a coolant therethrough, said 
second circulating means associated with said second 

contact surface to maintain said surface at 
 

temperatures sufficient to freeze a surface of said 
food product. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said 
first and second contact surfaces are configured 

complementarily to impart a frozen crust condition to 
opposing sides of a food product placed therebetween. 
An apparatus for producing a frozen crust condition 
on at least a portion of the surface of a loaf-shaped 

food product, the apparatus comprising: 
   a first heat exchanger having a first contact 

surface for supporting a food product thereon; 
   a clamp member in operative association with 

said first heat exchanger, said clamp member 
configured to apply pressure to said food product on 

said first contact surface, said clamp member holding 
said food product against said first contact surface 

to facilitate freezing thereof; and 
   means for positioning said clamp member between 

a first position free from any contact with said food 
product on said first contact surface and a second 

position wherein said clamp is maintained in direct 
contact with said food product; 

   whereby at least one surface of said food 
product is provided with a frozen crust to thereby 

improve the quality of food slices obtained 
therefrom. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said 
first heat exchanger includes circulating means for 

circulating coolant therethrough, said circulating 
means associated with said first contact surface to 

maintain said contact surface at cryogenic 
temperatures. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said 
clamp member includes a second heat exchanger with a 

second contact surface thereon, said second heat 
exchanger including second circulating means for 

circulating coolant therethrough and associated with 
said second contact surface to maintain said second 

contact surface at cryogenic temperatures. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein said 
first contact surface and said second contact surface 

are similarly configured to retain a shaped food 
product therebetween, said first and said second 

contact surfaces coacting to provide a frozen crust 
condition to opposing surfaces of said food product. 
A process for preparing food slices from a loaf-shaped 
food product, the process comprising: 

   providing a heat exchanger having a first 
contact surface thereon for contacting a loaf-shaped 

food product;
 

   positioning a loaf-shaped food product to 
contact said first contact surface; 

   maintaining said first contact surface at a 
temperature sufficient to freeze a surface of said 

loaf-shaped food product; 
   applying a clamping pressure to said food 

product to press said food product against said first 
contact surface to facilitate freezing thereof within 

a preset period of time; and 
   slicing said food product after said product is 

at least partially frozen. 
The process as defined in claim 12 wherein said 
maintaining of said first contact surface at a 

temperature sufficient to freeze a surface of said 
food product includes circulating a coolant through 

said heat exchanger. 
The process as defined in claim 12 wherein said 
applying of a clamping pressure is accomplished by 

applying a clamp against a surface of said food 
product, said clamp moving from a first position free 

from contact with said food product to a second 
position in direct contact with a surface of said 

food product to thereby press said food product 
against said first contact surface. 
The process as defined in claim 14 wherein said clamp 
is maintained in said second position for a period of 

between about 30 seconds and about 90 seconds. 
The process as defined in claim 12 wherein said 
applying of a clamping pressure is accomplished by 

providing a second heat exchanger having a second 
contact surface thereon, said second heat exchanger 

moving from a first position free from any contact 
with a food product to a second position maintaining 

said second contact surface in direct contact with 
said food product. 
The process as defined in claim 16 wherein said 
providing of a second heat exchanger includes 

providing second circulating means for circulating a 
coolant therethrough, said coolant maintaining said 

second contact surface at temperatures sufficient to 
freeze a surface of said food product. 
The process as defined in claims 16 wherein said 
second contact surface is maintained in direct 

contact with said food product for a period of 
between about 30 seconds and about 90 seconds. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
