<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649529</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ultrasonic transducer for testing its integrity and/or measuring property of a material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2922	G01F23296	G01N2902	G01F2500	G01N2922	G01N29024	G01F23296	G01F2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01F	G01N	G01F	G01N	G01N	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N29	G01F23	G01N29	G01F25	G01N29	G01N29	G01F23	G01F25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A controller (16) adapted for coupling a plurality of ultrasonic transducers (12, 14) includes a multiplexer (62) for selecting a transducer (12, 14), signal processing means (50) for processing an output of the selected transducer (12, 14), and controller means (64) for providing operational parameters corresponding to the selected transducer (12, 14). The controller (16) couples to a two wire 4-20 mA communication loop (18) to periodically excite the selected transducer (12, 14). The controller (16) stores power received from the communication loop (18) and excites the transducer (12, 14) by using the stored power to exceed the power available directly from the communication loop (18). The controller (16) provides a wet self-test of the transducer (12, 14) whereby the output level of the transducer (12, 14) is monitored while the strength of the excitation signal provided to the transducer (12, 14) is decreased. The amount of decrease required for the output signal to pass a threshold level is an indication of the usefulness of the sensor (18A, 18B-18N).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to ultrasonic sensors for measuring
physical properties of materials. More particularly, the present invention relates
to a controller for an ultrasonic sensor used in a 4-20 mA communication loop.Various ultrasonic distance and level measuring and level
measuring systems are known. For example, Ellinger et al. U.S. Patent No.
4,815,323 teaches an "echo ranging" ultrasonic transducer transmitting an
ultrasonic signal which is reflected from a liquid surface in an aircraft fuel
container and then sensed. The round-trip time from sensing to receiving is
measured and the fuel quantity and density are computed in a central processing
unit as a function of the round trip time and stored data.In another type of ultrasonic sensor as taught by U.S. Patent No.
4,299,114 to Silvermetz et al., an ultrasonic transmission between transmit and
receive transducers closes a feedback loop of a circuit which oscillates when
feedback increases to a predetermined amount. When a material level in a
container rises to a level where the transmit and receive transducers are
mounted, the increased feedback through the material causes the circuit to
oscillate. This type of sensor requires a relatively large difference between the
amount of feedback when sensing a liquid and the amount of feedback when
sensing a gas for stable operation. Undesired feedback through a sensor body
can reduce stability, as well. If air is entrapped in the material, feedback can
be reduced and sensing fails. In this type of sensor, misalignment of the
transducers can reduce feedback through the materials so that sensing fails.Ultrasonic transducers require a controller to control their
operation. The controller operates the transducer elements, performs sensor test
functions and provides a sensor output signal. There is a continual need for
improvements in controllers used with ultrasonic sensors. The present invention provides an ultrasonic
transducer for testing its integrity and/or measuring
property of a material, comprising an ultrasonic
transducing element; means for exciting the ultrasonic
transducing element; means for receiving a transducer
output signal from the ultrasonic transducing element;
comparator means for comparing strength of the
transducer output signal with a threshold level and
producing an output based upon the comparison which is
related to a wet self-test, i.e. a self-test of the
transducer in the presence of said material; and means
for decreasing strength of an excitation signal
provided to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasonic transducer for testing its
integrity and/or measuring property of a material,

comprising:

an ultrasonic transducing element (12,14);
means (18) for exciting the ultrasonic transducing
element;
means (50) for receiving a transducer output signal
from the ultrasonic transducing element;
comparator means (68) for comparing strength of the
transducer output signal with a threshold level

and producing an output based upon the comparison
which is related to a wet self-test, i.e. a self-test

of the transducer in the presence of said
material; and
means (64) for decreasing strength of an excitation
signal provided to the ultrasonic transducing

element by the means for exciting until said
transducer output signal drops below said

threshold level.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 1 wherein the
means for decreasing strength operates in incremental

steps.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 2 including
means for counting a number of steps required to

decrease strength of the excitation signal before the
transducer output signal achieves the threshold level.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 3 including
means for storing a specified number of steps related

to a sensor specification.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 1, including:

a multiplexer adapted for coupling to a plurality
of ultrasonic transducer element and having

a multiplexer output and a selection input 
for selecting which of the plurality of

ultrasonic transducer elements are coupled
to the multiplexer output;
signal processing means for processing the
multiplexer output based upon signal

processing parameters received from a
parameter input and providing a processed

output; and
controller means for receiving an input related
to a selected transducer, providing a signal

to the selection input of the multiplexer
whereby the selected transducer element is

coupled to the multiplexer output, and
providing a signal processing parameters

related to the selected transducer element
to the signal processing means.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 5 wherein the
signal processing means includes an amplifier and one

of the signal processing parameters provided by the
controller means relates to amplifier gain.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 5 wherein the
signal processing means includes time gate circuitry

and one of the signal processing parameters provided
by the controller means relates to a time gate window.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 5 wherein the
controller means includes an interface for coupling to

a two wire communication loop and wherein the input
related to a selected transducer element is received

over the two wire communication loop.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 1, and
including:


interface means for receiving power from a two
wire communication loop and transmitting the

processed output over the two wire
communication loop; 
means for periodically exciting the selected
ultrasonic transducer element; and
means, coupled to the interface means, for
storing power received from the two wire

communication loop and providing stored
power to the means for periodically

exciting.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 9 wherein the
means for storing power comprises a capacitor.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 9 wherein the
interface means comprises:


a current regulator for receiving current from
the two wire communication lop and providing

a regulated current output to the means for
storing power; and
an adjustable current regulator for regulating
current through the two wire current loop

whereby the current through the two wire
communication loop is related to a sensor

measurement.
The ultrasonic transducer of claim 9 wherein the
means for periodically exciting the ultrasonic

transducing element includes a switch coupled between
the means for storing power and the ultrasonic

transducing element.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
