<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627038</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOOR CHECKS FOR VEHICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05C1900	E05C1906	E05C1722	E05C1700	E05B1516	E05B1500	E05C1720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05C	E05C	E05C	E05C	E05B	E05B	E05C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05C19	E05C19	E05C17	E05C17	E05B15	E05B15	E05C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A door check for vehicles comprises a housing (1) which houses a restraining mechanism (7) for applying a frictional restraining force to a strap (4) acting as the check. The housing (1) comprises a first component (10) for attachment to a door (2), a second component (11) in the form of a block, and locking means for securing the two components together. One of the components, preferably of metal, is of channel section having side flanges (17), and the other component, which is preferably of synthetic plastics, has side edges received between the flanges.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLOXWICH ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLOXWICH ENGINEERING LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORRIS BARRY STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORRIS, BARRY STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to door checks for vehicles 
of the kind in which an arm in the form of a strap 
adapted to be pivotally connected at one end to a door 
frame is withdrawn through a housing adapted to be mounted on a 
complementary part of the door against a restraining 
force applied to the strap by the frictional 
engagement with the strap of a restraining mechanism 
housed within the housing, the housing comprising a 
first component in the form of a metal base plate for 
attachment to the door, a second component in the 
form of a block provided with a cavity facing the base 
plate and in which the restraining mechanism is housed. Hitherto in known door checks of the kind set 
forth the housings are of metal construction. They are 
therefore relatively heavy and relatively expensive to 
produce. EP-A-0 338 888 describes a door check for vehicles 
of the kind set forth in which the housing comprises a 
base plate and a cover plate, the base plate having 
lugs which co-operate with the base plate to lock the 
base and cover together. EP-A-0 418 783 describes a door check for a 
vehicle door of the kind set forth, having a cover 
plate adapted to be fixed to the door of a vehicle in 
order to house the restraining mechanism, the cover 
plate being moulded from a strong resin such as 
glass-reinforced nylon. According to one aspect of our invention in a door 
check of the kind set forth in the preamble of Claim 1, 
one of the components is of generally channel  
 
section having side flanges in which side edges of the 
other component are received, which side flanges are 
formed with axially spaced apertures, and opposite 
sides of the block are provided with lugs which are 
complementary to the apertures and are received within 
the apertures to define locking means which secure the 
two components together against separation. By constructing the base plate from metal, to 
provide a firm mounting, and the block from synthetic 
plastics material, the major portion of the housing is 
therefore constructed from plastics material which 
reduces weight without any significant loss of 
strength. In addition manufacture and assembly is 
facilitated since the block may comprise a one-piece 
plastics moulding which is cheap to produce in large  
 
quantities and in which tolerances can be maintained 
within close limits. The side flanges may extend between opposite ends 
of the component. When the side flanges are provided in the metal 
plate, the plate may also be provided with end flanges 
which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A door check for vehicles in which an arm in the 
form of a strap (4) adapted to be pivotally connected 

at one end to a door frame (3) is withdrawn through a 
housing (1) adapted to be mounted on a complementary 

part of a door (2) against a restraining force applied 

to the strap by the frictional engagement with the 
strap of a restraining mechanism (7) housed within the 

housing, the housing (1) comprising a first component 
in the form of a base plate (10) for attachment to the 

door (2), a second component in the form of a 
block (11) provided with a cavity (12) facing the base 

plate and in which the restraining mechanism is housed, 
characterised in that one of the components is of 

generally channel section having side flanges (17) in 
which side edges of the other component are received, 

which side flanges (17) are formed with axially spaced 
apertures (20), and opposite sides of the block (11) 

are provided with lugs (22) which are complementary to 
the apertures and are received within the apertures to 

define locking means which secure the two components 
together against separation. 
A door check according to claim 1, in which the 
base plate (10) is constructed from metal, and the 

block (11) is constructed from a synthetic plastics 
material. 
A door check according to claim 2, in which the 
block comprises a one-piece plastics moulding. 
A door check according to any preceding claim, in 
which the side flanges (17) extend between opposite 

ends of the components.  
 
A door check according to any of claims 2-4, in 
which the base plate (10) is also provided with end 

flanges (18) which co-operate with the ends of the 
block (11). 
A door check according to any preceding claim, in 
which the side flanges (17) are adapted to be defined 

inwardly from an inclined position and into a position 
generally normal to the base plate to receive the 

lugs (22) in locking engagement in the apertures (20). 
A door check according to any preceding claim, in 
which each side wall of the block (11) is provided with 

three lugs (22), corresponding in number to the 
apertures (20) in the adjacent flange (17). 
A door check for vehicles in which an arm in the 
form of a strap (4) adapted to be pivotally connected 

at one end to a door frame (3) is withdrawn through a 
housing (1) adapted to be mounted on a complementary 

part of a door (2) against a restraining force applied 
to the strap by the frictional engagement with the 

strap of a restraining mechanism (7) housed within the 
housing, the housing (1) comprising a first component 

in the form of a base plate (10) for attachment to the 
door (2), a second component in the form of a 

block (11) provided with a cavity (12) facing the base 
plate and in which the restraining mechanism is housed, 

characterised in that the first component is of 
generally channel section having side flanges (17) in 

which side edges of the block (11) are received in the 
channel, and the components (10,11) are provided with 

external longitudinally extending undercut ribs (60,61) 
which are juxtaposed when the block is received in the 

channel, each pair of ribs being  
 

received within a clip (62) which defines the locking 
means. 
A door check according to claim 8, in which the 
base plate (10) is constructed from metal, and the 

block (11) is constructed from a synthetic plastics 
material. 
A door check according to claim 9, in which the 
block comprises a one-piece plastics moulding. 
A door check according to any of claims 8-10, in 
which the side flanges (17) extend between opposite 

ends of the components. 
A door check according to any of claims 9-11, in 
which the base plate (10) is also provided with end 

flanges (18) which co-operate with the ends of the 
block (11). 
A door check according to any of claims 8-12, in 
which the ribs (60, 61) extend between opposite ends of 

the components (10, 11), and each pair of ribs is 
adapted to receive one or more clips (62). 
A door check according to any of claims 8-12, in 
which the ribs (60,61) comprise superimposed discrete 

projections, and a separate clip (62) co-operates with 
each superimposed pair of projections. 
A door check according to any preceding claim, in 
which at least one headed fixing stud (21) projects 

from the first component, and the head of the stud is 
clamped firmly between the two components (10, 11). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
