<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629598</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for composting and treating waste, particularly dung.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C05F300	C05F306	C05F1700	C05F1700	C05F1702	C05F1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C05F	C05F	C05F	C05F	C05F	C05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C05F3	C05F3	C05F17	C05F17	C05F17	C05F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The apparatus transforms animal waste produced during 
husbandry activities into useful materials such as organic-based 

manure and/or fertilizer to thereby mitigate the pollution 
problems associated with such husbandry activities. A base part 

of the apparatus includes an endless conveyor having a filter in 
the form of an endless loop of flexible material. A liquid-collection 

receptacle is interposed between the upper and lower 
runs of the filter so as to collect liquid filtrate from the 

waste material. A first hopper is located beneath one end of the 
endless loop so as to collect the solid content of the waste 

conveyed along the upper run of the filter. A second hopper is 
provided to accommodate material to be added to the solid content 

of the waste. The materials are fed from the respective hoppers 
into a mixing chamber whereupon they are mixed by a mixer 

provided in the mixing chamber. The base part of the apparatus 
is connected to a closed system of treatment tanks via piping 

leading from the liquid-collection receptacle and from the mixing 
chamber. In the tank for treating the liquid content of the 

waste material, there is provided a filtration layer at the 
bottom of the tank, a motor-driven carriage, and stirring bars 

extending from the motor-driven carriage toward the filtration 
layer. A desired quantity of soil is added into the tank and the 

tank is closed. The liquid content of the waste is introduced 
into the tank and when the motor-driven carriage is actuated, the 

stirring bars are rotated and moved across the tank to mix the 
liquid content of the waste with the soil to thereby produce high 

quality fertilizer. The tank for treating the solid materials is 
substantially identical with the exception that no filtration 

layer is provided at the bottom of the tank. In this way, high 
quality organic-based manure is produced. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAO PIN CHANG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAO-PIN, CHANG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAO-PIN CHANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAO-PIN, CHANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus for composting 
waste material having solid and liquid contents, and in 
particularly for composting the dung of farm animals. In many countries and localities, husbandry activities are 
carried out without concern for the environment. However, in 
recent years, due to the protective measures now instituted for 
the environment, limits on animal husbandry have been imposed. 
Of course, an ideal solution to the conflict between animal 
husbandry and the environment would not sacrifice the growth in 
animal husbandry activities for the sake of the environment or 
vice versa. That is, an ideal solution would address both 
concerns simultaneously. In conventional hog farms, hog excretion is collected in a 
pond and allowed to decompose until it is useful as a fertilizer. 
The decomposition process results in noxious odors and the pond 
proves to be a significant breeding ground for insects and 
mosquitoes. The so-called dung pond is, therefore, quite 
unsanitary. Even worse, some hog farmers directly discharge the 
excretion of the hogs directly into a river. This creates 
serious detrimental effects on the environment. In this case, 
local authorities must place restrictions on the number of hogs 
allowed per farm and must also take anti-pollution 
countermeasures. Other localities restrict hog husbandry 
activities to areas where there is less concern regarding 
environmental pollution. None of these measures satisfactorily 
address the above-mentioned conflict between animal husbandry 
activities and the growing concern for the environment.  An object of the present invention is to solve the 
above-described problems by providing apparatus which converts 
the excretion of hogs into valuable organic manure and/or natural 
fertilizer which can replace chemical fertilizers. The apparatus 
includes a base unit which not only separates the solid and the 
liquid contents of the animal waste but also facilitates the 
composting of the separated solid contents, e.g. the mixing of 
the solid contents of the waste with suitable additional 
materials for making high quality organic manure. Both the 
filtered liquid contents and the mixed solid contents may be 
further processed in respective waste treatment tanks. The basic 
apparatus is characterized in that it includes an endless 
conveyor in which the belt of the conveyor is a filter of 
flexible mesh material. The waste is introduced onto the upper 
run of the circulating filter via a U-shaped chute. A cover is 
dispose
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for composting waste having solid and liquid 
contents, said apparatus comprising: 

   a framework; 
   an endless conveyor supported by said framework, said 

endless conveyor including a filter of flexible material in the 
form of an endless loop having upper and lower runs; 

   a liquid-collection receptacle interposed between said 
upper and said lower runs of t
he filter so as to collect liquid 
filtrate from waste material conveyed along the upper run of the 

filter; 
   a first hopper located beneath one end of said endless 

loop at a transition between said upper and said lower runs of 
the filter so as to collect solid content of the waste material 

conveyed along the upper run of said filter; 
   a second hopper for accommodating material to be added 

to the solid convent of the waste material; 
   a mixing chamber communicating with said first and said 

second hoppers so as to receive therein both the solid content of 
the waste material and the material to be added to the solid 

content; and 
   a mixer disposed in said mixing chamber so as to mix 

the materials received in the mixing chamber from said first and 
said second hoppers. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
and further comprising a cover disposed over and covering an 

intermediate portion of the upper run of said filter, a blower 
located within said cover above the upper run of said filter so 

as to direct an air stream onto the waste material conveyed along 
the upper run of said filter beneath said cover, and an absorber 

 
located within said cover above the upper run of said filter so 

as to absorb liquid at the upper surface of the waste material. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein said endless conveyor further includes a drive roller and 

an idle roller about which said filter is wrapped, a pair of 
ropes each in the form of an endless loop and located to 

respective sides of said filter, a series of connectors 
connecting each of said ropes to said filter, and a plurality of 

toothed wheels rotatably supported by said framework and located 
between said filter and each of said ropes, said toothed wheels 

engaging said series of connectors. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein said first and said second hoppers are supported 

side-by-side by said framework, said mixing chamber includes a 
receiving portion extending beneath and open to said hoppers, and 

a mixing portion, and said mixer includes a rotary shaft 
extending axially through said mixing chamber, a thread on one 

portion of said rotary shaft located in said receiving portion so 
that materials received in said receiving portion are conveyed 

from said hoppers to said mixing portion when said rotary shaft 
is rotated, and mixing bars extending from another portion of 

said rotary shaft located in the mixing portion of said mixing 
chamber so as to stir and mix together materials conveyed into 

said mixing portion by the threaded portion of said rotary shaft, 
said mixing bars extending obliquely from said rotary shaft in a 

direction away from the receiving portion of said mixing chamber. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
and further comprising a blower located between said upper and 

said lower runs of the filter directly above said first hopper, 
said blower being oriented to direct an airstream onto said lower 

run so as to clean said lower run of waste material adhering thereto. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 5, 
and further comprising a pair of rolls adjacent said blower, the 

lower run of said filter located between and retained to travel 
at a position close to said blower by said rolls. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein said endless conveyor further includes a tension 

maintaining device including an arm pivotably mounted to said 
framework at a location intermediate opposite ends of said arm, a 

roller rotatably supported on one end of said arm, said roller 
disposed in contact with the lower run of said filter, and a 

weight mounted to the other end of said arm and biasing said 
roller against the lower run of said filter so that said tension 

maintaining device tensions said filter of flexible material. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 7, 
wherein said endless conveyor further includes a drive roller and 

an idle roller about which said filter is wrapped, a tension 
adjusting device including a housing rotatably supporting one of 

said rollers of the conveyor, and means for adjusting the 
position of said one of the rollers relative to said housing such 

that the tension of the filter wrapped around said rollers of the 
conveyor is adjustable. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
and further comprising a waste water treatment tank, and piping 

extending between and connected to said liquid-collection 
receptacle and said waste water treatment tank so as to deliver 

the liquid filtrate to said waste water treatment tank, said 
waste water treatment tank having at least one tank body, a 

filtration layer at the bottom of each said tank body and 
extending up to a level below a location at which said piping 

opens into said tank body, a motor-driven carriage disposed in 
each said tank body at a level above said location at which said 

 
piping opens into said tank body, a plurality of stirring bars 

supported by said carriage and extending toward the filtration 
layer at the bottom of said tank body, a guide which guides said 

motor-driven carriage between opposite ends of said tank body, 
and an outlet open to the tank body at the bottom thereof where 

said filtration layer is disposed. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 9, 
wherein said filtration layer includes a bottom layer of coarse 

aggregate, a first filtration net disposed over said aggregate, a 
fine aggregate of particles smaller than those of said coarse 

aggregate disposed over said first filtration net, and a second 
filtration net disposed over said fine aggregate. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 9, 
wherein said motor-driven carriage includes a carriage body on 

which said stirring bars are rotatably supported, a motor mounted 
to said carriage body, a driven member which propels said 

carriage body across said tank body, and gearing connecting said 
motor to said driven member and to said stirring bars such that 

output of said motor is used to both drive said driven member and 
rotate said stirring bars relative to said carriage body. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 11, 
wherein each of said stirring bars comprises a rotary shaft, and 

a thread extending helically along said shaft. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 1, 
and further comprising a solid waste treatment tank connected to 

said mixing chamber so as to receive the material mixed therein, 
said solid waste treatment tank having at least one tank body, a 

motor-driven carriage disposed in each said tank body, a 
plurality of stirring bars supported by said carriage and 

extending toward the bottom of said tank body, and a guide which 
 

guides said motor-driven carriage between opposite ends of said 
tank body. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 13, 
wherein said motor-driven carriage includes a carriage body on 

which said stirring bars are rotatably supported, a motor mounted 
to said carriage body, a driven member which propels said 

carriage body across said tank body, and gearing connecting said 
motor to said driven member and to said stirring bars such that 

output of said motor is used to both drive said driven member and 
rotate said stirring bars relative to said carriage body. 
Apparatus for composting waste as claimed in claim 14, 
wherein each of said stirring ba
rs comprises a rotary shaft, and 
a thread extending helically along said shaft. 
A waste treatment tank comprising: at least one tank 
body, a motor-driven carriage disposed in each said tank body, a 

plurality of stirring bars rotatably supported by said carriage 
and extending therefrom toward the bottom of the tank body, and a 

guide which guides said motor-driven carriage between opposite 
ends of said tank body, said motor-driven carriage including a 

carriage body on which said stirring bars are rotatably 
supported, a motor mounted to said carriage body, a driven member 

which propels said carriage body across said tank body, and 
gearing connecting said motor to said driven member and to said 

stirring bars such that output of said motor is used to both 
drive said driven member and rotate said stirring bars relative 

to said carriage body. 
A waste treatment tank as claimed in claim 16, wherein 
each of said stirring bars comprises a rotary shaft, and a thread 

extending helically along said shaft. 
A waste treatment tank as claimed in claim 16, wherein 
said carriage body is a casing, said driven member is a wheel 

 
rotatably supported by said casing, said stirring bars have 

parallel shafts rotatably supported by said casing, and said 
gearing comprises a set of bevel gears one of which bevel gears 

is mounted to an output shaft of the motor and the other of which 
bevel gears is connected to said wheel, a pinion mounted to the 

output shaft of said motor and disposed within said casing, and a 
set of meshing gears fixed to said shafts of said stirring bars, 

one of said meshing gears also meshing with said pinion. 
A waste treatment tank as claimed in claim 16, and 
further comprising a filtration layer at the bottom of the tank 

body, said filtration layer including a bottom layer of coarse 
aggregate, a first filtration net disposed over said aggregate, a 

fine aggregate of particles smaller than those of said coarse 
aggregate disposed over said first filtration net, and a second 

filtration net disposed over said fine aggregate. 
A waste treatment tank as claimed in claim 18, and 
further comprising a filtration layer at the bottom of the tank 

body, said filtration layer including a bottom layer of coarse 
aggregate, a first filtration net disposed over said aggregate, a 

fine aggregate of particles smaller than those of said coarse 
aggregate disposed over said first filtration net, and a second 

filtration net disposed over said fine aggregate. 
A method of transforming husbandry dung into fertilizing 
materials, said method comprising 

   feeding the dung unto a moving belt (9) made from a net-like 
material so as to separate liquid dung material (3) from 

solid dung material (3'), 
   transferring the solid dung material to a location where 

it is left for decomposition, and 
   transferring the liquid dung material to one or more 

tanks (15) for further treatment. 
A method according to claim 21, wherein the net-like 
material is in the form of an endless conveyor belt (9), the 

husbandry dung being fed to one end portion and solid dung 
material (3') being discharged from the opposite end portion 

of the upper run of the endless belt, while liquid dung 
material (3') is collected in an upwardly open container (4) 

located between the upper and lower runs of the endless belt. 
An apparatus for transforming husbandry dung into 
fertilizing materials, said apparatus comprising 

   a movable belt (9) made from a net-like material for 
separating liquid dung material (3) from solid dung material 

(3'), 
   means for feeding husbandry dung to one end portion of 

the moving belt (9), 
   means (21, 23) for transferring solid dung material from 

an opposite end portion of the moving belt to a location for 
decomposition, 

   one or more tanks or containers (11-13) for treating 
liquid dung material, and 

   means (6) for transferring liquid dung material separated 
by the moving belt (9) to the tanks or containers. 
An apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the net-like 
material is in the form of an endless conveyor belt (9), an 

upwardly open container (4) for collecting liquid dung being 
located between the upper and lower runs of the endless belt. 
An apparatus according to claim 24, further comprising 
first air blowing means (10) positioned between the upper and 

lower runs of the endless belt (9) for directing an air flow 
downwardly through the lower run of the endless belt so as to 

clean the same, and/or second air blowing means (6) 
positioned above the moving belt (9) for directing an air 

flow downwardly unto the husbandry dung supported by the 
moving belt so as to promote removal of liquid from the dung. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 23-25, 
wherein the bottom of the tank or tanks (11, 12, 13) for 

treating liquid dung is covered by a layer of particulate 
filtration material (22, 23), a liquid outlet (21) for 

withdrawing liquid from the tank or tanks being positioned 
below the upper surface of the filtration material, said 

layer of filtration material preferably comprising a lower 
layer (22) of coarse particulate material and an upper layer 

(23) of fine particulate material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
