<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646038</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PASSIVATED AND STABILIZED POROUS SUPPORTS AND METHODS FOR THE PREPARATION AND USE OF SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J2032	B01J20283	B01J2028	B01J20281	B01J2022	G01N3088	B01J3916	B01J3900	B01J2028	G01N3000	B01D1508	B01D1508	B01J2030	B01J20281	B01J20284	B01J2026	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	G01N	B01J	B01J	B01J	G01N	B01D	B01D	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	G01N30	B01J39	B01J39	B01J20	G01N30	B01D15	B01D15	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates generally to modified porous solid supports and processes for the preparation and use of same. In particular, passivated porous mineral oxide, polymeric, or polymer-coated mineral oxide supports are disclosed which are characterized by a reversible high sorptive capacity substantially unaccompanied by non-specific adsorption of or interaction with biomolecules. Passivation is achieved by use of a passivation mixture comprising a main monomer, a passivating monomer and a crosslinking agent, which mixture upon polymerization results in the substantial elimination of the undesirable non-specific interaction with biomolecules.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIFE TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIFE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSCHETTI EGISTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIROT PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSCHETTI, EGISTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIROT, PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to modified
porous solid supports and processes for the
preparation and use of same. In particular,
passivated porous supports are disclosed which are
characterized by a reversible high sorptive capacity
substantially unaccompanied by non-specific adsorption
of or interaction with biomolecules such as proteins,
polysaccharides or oligo- or polynucleotides.
Moreover, the passivated porous supports of the
present invention exhibit other characteristics highly
desirable in chromatographic applications, such as
high porosity, physical rigidity, high charge density,
and chemical stability under a variety of extreme
conditions. The passivated porous supports of the
present invention may also be used advantageously in a
high flow, high efficiency mass transfer
chromatographic technique which may be carried out in
a fluidized-bed, packed-bed, or other mode of
operation.Polyfunctional macromolecules, such as
proteins, can be purified by a variety of techniques.
One of these techniques is known as ion-exchange
chromatography. In ion-exchange chromatography,
proteins are separated on the basis of their net
charge. For instance, if a protein has a net positive
charge at pH 7 it will bind to a negatively charged
ion-exchange resin packed in a chromatography column.
The protein can be released, for example, by 
decreasing the pH or adding cations that compete for
binding to the column with the positively charged
groups on the protein. Thus, proteins that have a low
density of net positive charge, and thus a lower
affinity for the negatively charged groups of the
column, will tend to emerge first, followed by those
having a higher charge density.Generally, the ion-exchange resins which are
used in these procedures are solids possessing
ionizable chemical groups. Two types exist: cation-exchangers,
which contain acidic functional groups
such as sulfate, sulfonate, phosphate or carboxylate,
and a second type, anion-exchangers, which contain
functional groups such as tertiary and quaternary
amines. These ionizable functional groups may be
inherently present in the resin or they may be the
result of the chemical modification of the organic or
mineral solid support.Organic ionic-exchangers which are made from
polysaccharide derivatives, e.g., derivatives of
agarose, dextran and cellulose, etc., have been used
for both laboratory and industrial scale ion-exchange
chromatography. However, these ion-exchangers have
many disadvantages. First, polysaccharide-derived
ion-exchangers are not very
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A passivated porous support comprising (i) a porous mineral oxide or
polymeric matrix having interior and exterior surfaces and innate groups that render said

matrix susceptible to undesirable non-specific interaction with biological molecules, and (ii)
a three-dimensional pore-filling polymer network derived from a passivation mixture

comprising an optional main monomer, a neutralizing or passivating monomer different
from said main monomer, and a crosslinking agent, said mixture having been allowed to

come into intimate contact with said surfaces of said matrix such that on polymerization of
said mixture said innate groups of said matrix become deactivated, resulting in the

substantial elimination of said undesirable non-specific interaction.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 1 in which said matrix
comprises silica and said innate groups are silanol groups.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 1 in which said matrix
comprises alumina.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claims 1, 2 or 3 comprising (i) a
porous mineral oxide matrix having interior and exterior surfaces substantially covered by a

thin, protective polymer surface coating characterized by innate hydrophobic groups that
render said coating susceptible to undesirable non-specific interaction with one or more

biological molecules, and (ii) a three-dimensional pore-filling polymer network derived
from a passivation mixture comprising an optional main monomer, a passivating monomer

different from said main monomer, and a crosslinking agent, said mixture having been
allowed to come into intimate contact with said surfaces of said coating such that on

polymerization of said mixture said innate groups of said coating become deactivated,
resulting in the substantial elimination of said undesirable non-specific interaction.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 1 in which said matrix
comprises a polymeric material and said innate groups are hydrophobic groups. 
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 5, in which said polymeric
material is polystyrene.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
which is further characterized by reversible high sorptive capacity.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
which is further characterized by chemical stability on exposure to a strong acidic or

alkaline medium.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
which is further characterized by chemical stability on exposure to a strong oxidizing

medium.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said matrix has an initial average particle size ranging from 5 to 1000 µm

(microns).
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 10 in which said matrix has
an initial average particle size ranging from 10 to 100 µm (microns).
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said matrix has an initial porous volume ranging from 0.2 to 2 cm
3
/gram.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said matrix has an initial surface area ranging from 1 to 800 m
2
/gram.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said matrix has an initial pore size ranging from 5 to 600 nm (50 to 6000

angstroms). 
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
which is further characterized as having a size exclusion limit ranging from 500 to

2,000,000 u (daltons).
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 7 in which said reversible
sorptive capacity for said biological molecule ranges from 1 to 300 milligrams per milliter

of passivated porous support bed.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected in the presence of a

pore inducer.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 17 in which said pore inducer
is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol, polyoxyethylene, and

polysaccharide.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected in the presence of a

polar solvent.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 19 in which said polar
solvent is selected from the group consisting of an alcohol, a cyclic ether, a ketone, a

tertiary amide, a dialkyl sulfoxide, and mixtures thereof.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 20 in which said polar
solvent is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, propanol,

tetrahydrofuran, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide, acetone, dioxane, and mixtures
thereof.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected in the presence of a

polymerization initiator. 
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 22 in which said
polymerization initiator is selected from the group consisting of persulfate/tertiary amine,

nitriles, transition metals, and photochemical initiators.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claims 22 or 23 in which said
polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected by radiant energy.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said optional main monomer comprises a vinyl monomer having at least one polar

substituent.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 25 in which said polar
substituent is nonionic.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 25 in which said polar
substituent is ionic or ionizable.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claims 25, 26 or 27 in which said
vinyl monomer has at least two polar substituents that may be ionic, nonionic, ionizable or

a combination thereof.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said optional main monomer is selected to provide a polymer network that has an

affinity for a preselected biological molecule.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said neutralizing monomer comprises a vinyl monomer having at least one polar

ionic or ionizable substituent.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 30 in which said
substituent is positively charged. 
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said neutralizing monomer is selected to provide a polymer network that is

effective to deactivate hydroxyl groups on the surfaces of said matrix.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said neutralizing monomer is selected from the group consisting of

diethylaminoethyl acrylamide, diethylaminoethyl methacrylamide, dimethylaminoethyl
methacrylate, methacrylamido propyltrimethyl ammonium halide, triethylaminoethyl

acrylamide, trimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, polyethyleneglycol dimethacrylate, and
polyethyleneglycol diacrylate.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said crosslinking agent comprises a vinyl monomer having at least one other

polymerizable group.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 34 in which said
polymerizable group is selected from the group consisting of a double bond, a triple bond,

an allylic group, an epoxide, an azetidine, and a strained carbocyclic ring.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said crosslinking agent is selected from group consisting of N,N'-methylenebis(acrylamide),

N,N'-methylenebis(methacrylamide), diallyl tartradiamide, allyl
methacrylate, diallyl amine, diallyl ether, diallyl carbonate, divinyl ether, 1,4-butanedioldivinylether,

polyethyleneglycol divinyl ether, and 1,3-diallyloxy-2-propanol.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said innate groups can participate in hydrogen bonding or electrostatic

interactions.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 25 in which said polar
substituent is positively charged. 
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 25 in which said polar
substituent is negatively charged.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 4 in which said coating
comprises a linear polymer capable of being dissolved in a suitable solvent to form a

coating solution, said linear polymer being selected from the group consisting of
polystyrene, polysulfone, polyethersulfone, cellulose acetate, cellulose nitrate,

polyvinylacetate, polyacrylates, polyvinylidine fluoride, polyacrylonitrile, polyamides, and
polyimides.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 40 in which said polymeric
coating comprises polystyrene.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 23 in which said
polymerization initiator is azo-bis-amidino-propane.
A passivated porous support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
in which said polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected by thermal energy.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 4 in which said passivating
monomer comprises a vinyl monomer having at least one hydrophobic substituent.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 44 in which said
hydrophobic substituent on said passivating monomer contains from 1 to 20 carbon atoms

and is selected from the group consisting of straight-chain alkyl groups, branched-chain
alkyl groups, aromatic groups, and arylaromatic groups.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 4 in which said passivating
monomer is selected to deactivate hydrophobic groups on said surface coating.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 46 in which said
passivating monomer is selected from the group consisting of N-alkylacrylamides, N-arylacrylamides,

and derivatives thereof. 
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 47 in which said
passivating monomer is selected from the group consisting of N-tert-octylacrylamide, N-(1-methylundecyl)-acrylamide,

N-(1,1,3,5-tetramethyl)octylacrylamide, Triton-X-1OO-methacrylate,
and polyethyleneglycol-dimethacrylate.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 4 in which said innate
hydrophobic groups present in said polymer surface coating can participate in

hydrophobic-hydrophobic bonding interactions with a hydrophobic substituent present in
said passivating monomer.
A passivated porous support as claimed in claim 5 in which said matrix
comprises a hydrophobic polymer selected from the group consisting of polystyrene,

polysulfone, polyethersulfone, cellulose acetate, cellulose nitrate, polyethylene,
polypropylene, polyvinylacetate, polyacrylates, polyvinylidine fluoride, polyacrylonitrile,

polyamides, and polyimides.
A method of passivating a porous mineral oxide or polymeric matrix having
interior and exterior surfaces and innate groups that render said matrix susceptible to

undesirable non-specific interaction with biological molecules, comprising:

(a) contacting said surfaces of said matrix with a passivation mixture
comprising effective amounts of an optional main monomer, a neutralizing or passivating

monomer different from said main monomer, and a crosslinking agent;
(b) effecting the polymerization of said mixture to form a three-dimensional
pore-filling polymer network within and substantially filling the pores of said matrix, such

that said innate groups of said matrix become deactivated, resulting in the substantial
elimination of said undesirable nonspecific interaction.
A method as claimed in claim 51, wherein said porous matrix is a mineral
oxide matrix having interior and exterior surfaces substantially covered by a thin, protective

polymer surface coating characterized by innate hydrophobic groups that render said
coating susceptible to undesirable non-specific interaction with one or more biological

molecules, said method comprising: 

(a) contacting said surfaces of said polymer-coated matrix with a
passivation mixture comprising effective amounts of an optional main monomer, a

passivating monomer different from said main monomer, and a crosslinking agent;
(b) effecting the polymerization of said mixture to form a three-dimensional
pore-filling polymer network within and substantially filling the pores of said

polymer-coated matrix, such that said innate hydrophobic groups of said coating polymer
become substantially covered and thereby deactivated, resulting in a significant reduction of

the strength and extent of said undesirable non-specific interaction.
A method as claimed in claim 51, wherein the matrix comprises a polymeric
material having interior and exterior surfaces and innate hydrophobic groups that render

said matrix susceptible to undesirable non-specific interaction with one or more biological
molecules, said method comprising:


(a) contacting said surfaces of said matrix with a passivation mixture
comprising effective amounts of an optional main monomer, a passivating monomer

different from said main monomer, and a crosslinking agent;
(b) effecting the polymerization of said mixture to form a thee-dimensional
pore-filling polymer network within and substantially filling the pores of said

matrix, such that said innate hydrophobic groups of said matrix become substantially
covered and thereby deactivated, resulting in a significant reduction of the strength and

extent of said undesirable non-specific interaction.
A method as claimed in claims 51, 52 or 53 in which the amount of
neutralizing or passivating monomer is sufficient to deactivate or cover the innate groups

present on the surfaces of said matrix.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 51-54 in which said surfaces of
said matrix are contacted with a solution of said passivation mixture.
A method as claimed in claim 55 in which the volume of a solution of said
passivation mixture in ml is approximately equal to the weight of said matrix in grains. 
A method as claimed in claim 55 in which the volume of a solution of said
passivation mixture is approximately equal to the porous volume of said matrix.
A method as claimed in claims 55, 56 or 57 in which said solution is
aqueous.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 51-58 in which said
polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected in the presence of a pore inducer.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 51-59 in which said polymerization
of said passivation mixture is effected in the presence of a polymerization initiator.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 51-60 in which said
polymerization of said passivation mixture is effected by radiant or thermal energy.
A method of separating a preselected biological molecule from a sample
containing the same comprising:


(a) loading a column packed with a passivated porous support as
claimed in claim 29 with a sample containing a preselected biological molecule to be

separated from a mixture;
(b) passing an eluent solution through said loaded column to effect the
separation of said biological molecule.
A method as claimed in claim 62 in which said biological molecule is a
protein.
A method as claimed in claim 62 in which said biological molecule is a
carbohydrate.
A method as claimed in claim 62 in which said biological molecule is a
polynucleotide. 
A chromatographic method for the separation of biological molecules
comprising passing a sample containing a mixture of biological molecules through a

column packed with a passivated porous support as claimed in any one of claims 1-50.
A chromatographic method as claimed in claim 66 wherein said column is
selected from the group consisting of a packed column and a fluidized-bed column.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
