<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air separation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25J304	F25J304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25J	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25J3	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A first stream of cooled and purified air is introduced into a higher pressure 
rectification column 12 through an inlet 14 and is separated into oxygen-enriched 

liquid and nitrogen vapour. A stream of the oxygen-enriched liquid is 
flashed through a pressure reducing valve 40 into an intermediate rectification 

column 22 in which it is separated into further-enriched liquid and an 
intermediate nitrogen vapour. A stream of the further-enriched liquid is reboiled 

in condenser-reboiler 46 and is introduced into a lower pressure rectifier 34 
comprising an upper stage 58 and a lower stage 60. The lower pressure 

rectifier 34 has a bottom condenser-reboiler 16 which is heated by a second 
stream of cooled and purified air. The second stream is itself condensed in the 

reboiler 16 and is introduced into the higher pressure column 12. The lower 
pressure rectifier also has an intermediate condenser-reboiler 22 which is 

employed to form liquid nitrogen reflux for the rectification by condensing 
nitrogen vapour separated in the higher pressure rectification column. In 

alternative examples of the process, the liquid that is flashed through the valve 
40 is subjected to phase separation rather than rectification. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHBONE THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHBONE, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for separating air.The most important method commercially of separating air is by rectification. The most frequently used air
separation cycles include the steps of compressing a stream of air, purifying the resulting stream of compressed air
by removing water vapour and carbon dioxide, and pre-cooling the stream of compressed air by heat exchange with
returning product streams to a temperature suitable for its rectification. The rectification is performed in a so-called
"double rectification column" comprising a higher pressure and a lower pressure rectification column i.e. one of the
two columns operates at higher pressure than the other. Most if not all of the air is introduced into the higher pressure
column and is separated into oxygen-enriched liquid air and liquid nitrogen vapour. The nitrogen vapour is condensed.
A part of the condensate is used as liquid reflux in the higher pressure column. Oxygen-enriched liquid is withdrawn
from the bottom of the higher pressure column, is sub-cooled, and is introduced into an intermediate region of the lower
pressure column through a throttling or pressure reduction valve. The oxygen-enriched liquid is separated into substantially
pure oxygen and nitrogen products in the lower pressure column. These products are withdrawn in the vapour
state from the lower pressure column and form the returning streams against which the incoming air stream is heat
exchanged. Liquid reflux for the lower pressure column is provided by taking the remainder of the condensate from
the higher pressure column, sub-cooling it, and passing it into the top of the lower pressure column through a throttling
or pressure reduction valve.Conventionally, the lower pressure column is operated at pressures in the range of 1 to 1.5 atmospheres
absolute. Liquid oxygen at the bottom of the lower pressure column is used to meet the condensation duty at the top
of the higher pressure column. Accordingly, nitrogen vapour from the top of higher pressure column is heat exchanged
with liquid oxygen in the bottom of the lower pressure column. Sufficient liquid oxygen is able to be evaporated thereby
to meet the requirements of the lower pressure column for reboil and to enable a good yield of gaseous oxygen product
to be achieved. The pressure at the top of the higher pressure column and hence the pressure to which the incoming
air is compressed are arranged to be such that the temperature of the condensing nitrogen is a degree or two Kelvin
higher than
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating air, comprising the steps of:

a) separating pre-cooled and purified air in a higher pressure rectifier into oxygen-onriched liquid and nitrogen
vapour:
b) separating a stream of the oxygen-enriched liquid at a pressure between the pressure at the top of the
higher pressure rectifier and that at the bottom of a lower pressure rectifier so as to form a liquid further enriched

in oxygen and an intermediate vapour;
c) separating a stream of the further-enriched liquid in the lower pressure rectifier into oxygen and nitrogen; and
d) providing liquid nitrogen reflux for the higher and lower pressure rectifiers;

wherein a part of the liquid nitrogen reflux is formed by condensing a stream of said nitrogen vapour
from the higher pressure rectifier by indirect heat exchange with liquid from an intermediate mass transfer region

of the lower pressure rectifier, wherein
the intermediate vapour is condensed by indirect heat exchange with a

stream of said further-enriched liquid which has been reduced in pressure upstream of the heat exchange; and
the stream of further-enriched liquid is partially vaporised by the neat exchange with the intermediate vapour and

the partially vaporised further-enriched liquid is introduced into the lower pressure rectifier, or wherein
the intermediate vapour is condensed by indirect heat exchange with

liquid taken from an intermediate mass transfer region of the lower pressure rectifier.
A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the separation in the step (b) is performed by rectification
in a further rectifier.
A method as claimed in claim 2, in which the stream of oxygen-enriched liquid is introduced below all vapour-liquid

mass exchange means in the further rectifier and the intermediate vapour produced in the further rectifier is nitrogen.
A method as claimed in claim 3, in which a part of the intermediate vapour is condensed and used as reflux in the
further rectifier, and another part of the condensed intermediate vapour is used as reflux in the lower pressure

rectifier.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, in which a portion of liquid in the bottom of the further rectifier or
a portion of the feed to the further rectifier is reboiled.
A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the said step (b) is performed by flashing the stream of
oxygen-enriched liquid to form a liquid-vapour mixture at said pressure between the pressure at the top of the

higher pressure rectifier and that at the bottom of the lower pressure rectifier, and separating the resulting liquid-vapour
mixture into liquid and vapour phases so as to form the further-enriched liquid and the intermediate vapour,

and a part of the further-enriched liquid is reboiled so as to enhance the rate of formation of the intermediate vapour.
A method as claimed in claim 6, in which the intermediate vapour is condensed and the resulting condensate is
returned to the higher pressure rectifier.
A method as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7, in which a part of the further-enriched liquid is reboiled so as to enhance
the rate of formation of the intermediate vapour.
A method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 8, in which the reboiling is performed by indirect heat exchange with a
stream of nitrogen vapour from the higher pressure rectifier, the stream of nitrogen vapour thereby being condensed.
A method as claimed in claim 9, in which the condensed nitrogen vapour formed in the reboiling of the further 
enriched liquid is employed as reflux in the higher pressure rectification column.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which reboil tor the lower pressure rectifier is provided
by indirect heat exchange with a stream of pre-cooled and purified teed air, whereby the feed air stream is at least

partially condensed.
Apparatus for separating air, comprising:

a) a higher pressure rectifier (12) for separating pre-cooled and purified air into oxygen-enriched liquid and
nitrogen vapour;
b) a lower pressure rectifier (34) for producing oxygen and nitrogen;
c) means (42, 40, 28, 90; 142, 40, 28, 90; 170) for separating a stream of the oxygen-enriched liquid at a
pressure between tho pressure at the top of the higher pressure rectifier (12) and that at the bottom of the

lower pressure rectifier (34) so as to form a liquid further enriched in oxygen and an intermediate vapour;
d) means for introducing a stream of the further-enriched liquid into the lower pressure rectifier (34) for separation
into oxygen and nitrogen; and
e) means for providing liquid nitrogen reflux for the higher and lower pressure rectifiers wherein
the means for providing liquid nitrogen reflux includes a condenser (22) for indirectly heat exchanging a stream

of said nitrogen vapour from the higher pressure rectifier (12) with liquid from an intermediate mass transfer
region of the lower pressure rectifier (34).

wherein the separating means has a condenser (46; 144; 160);
associated therewith, the condenser being arranged such that, in use, either (i) the

intermediate vapour is condensed by indirect heat exchange with a stream of said
further-enriched liquid which has been reduced in pressure upstream of the heat

exchange, and the stream of further enriched liquid is partially vaporised by the heat
exchange with the intermediate vapour, and the partially vaporised further-enriched

liquid is introduced into the lower pressure rectifier, or (ii) the intermediate vapour is
condensed by indirect heat exchange with liquid taken from an intermediate mass

transfer region of the lower pressure rectifier.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, in which said separating means comprises a further rectifier (42; 142; 170);
Apparatus as claimed in claimed in claim 12, in which said separating means comprises a pressure reduction valve
(40) and a phase separator (90) on the downstream side of the pressure reduction valve (40).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, in which the further rectifier (42; 142; 170) has a
reboiler (28; 150) associated therewith.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, additionally including a reboiler (28) upstream of or in the phase separator (90).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
