<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659929</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Textile sizes containing ultrafine sized aqueous polymeric dispersions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06M1521	D06M15227	D06M15233	D06M15248	D06M15263	D06M15285	D06M1531	D06M15333	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06M15	D06M15	D06M15	D06M15	D06M15	D06M15	D06M15	D06M15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A textile sizing composition comprising one or more aqueous-based 
dispersions containing between about 15 and about 50 

percent by weight solids wherein said solids comprise one or 
more polymers derived from one or more ethylenically 

unsaturated monomers, said solids having an average particle 
size of less than 100 nanometers is disclosed. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RHONE POULENC SPEC CHIM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RHONE-POULENC SPECIALTY CHEMICALS CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BINKLEY JESSIE ALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BINKLEY, JESSIE ALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the use of extremely fine-sized 
aqueous polymeric dispersions, and particularly acrylic-based 
dispersions having a mean particle size of less than 60 nanometers 
as textile sizes. More specifically, the invention comprises the 
use of two or more fine-size aqueous dispersions which when 
combined together, optimizes the benefits of each dispersion to 
yield a final product which may be directly applied to natural and 
synthetic fibers. Heretofore, numerous emulsion latexes have existed. However, the 
particle sizes of such latexes have generally been large, for 
example 120 nanometers or larger. Moreover, the use of ultrafine 
sized latexes as textile sizing agents has not been appreciated. U.S. Patent No. 4,177,177 to Vanderhoff et al relates to various 
methods for making polymeric emulsions which can be utilized to 
produce latexes. The latexes generally have a particle size 
greater than 100 nanometers. U.S. Patent No. 4,228,047 to Pippin et al relates to an aqueous 
coating composition comprising a copolymer of at least 95 percent 
by weight of vinyl acetate and at least 0.1 percent by weight of  
 
maleic anhydride which allegedly has been found to have improved 
starch binder compatibility. Japanese Disclosure No. 52103588 to Asahi Dow relates to a carpet-backing 
composition containing 100 parts by weight (as solids 
content) of a copolymer latex: 200 to 350 parts by weight of 
inorganic filler and thickener consisting of 30-60 weight percent 
of a) butadiene: 20-70 weight percent of b) styrene 5-30 weight 
percent of c) methyl methacrylate: and 1 to 5 weight percent of d) 
ethylene series of unsaturated carboxylic acid and has an average 
particle diameter of 60 to 120 nm. By using the latex of small 
particle diameter for the carpet backing, blistering is prevented. Belgian Patent No. 812139 to DeSoto, Inc. relates to opaque 
coatings obtained from a latex comprised of an aqueous suspension 
of small and large resin particles, the large particles having a Tg 
less than the small ones and having an average diameter which is 
greater than twice that of the small particles, the latter forming 
20 to 65 weight percent of the total particles. The particles are 
such that neither the large nor the small ones can, on their own, 
coalesce when the latex is dried, to form a non-cellular film. The 
small particles actually give a powder under such conditions. The 
small particles are preferably polystyrene and the large ones a 
copolymer of vinyl acetate and an ester
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A textile sizing composition comprising one or more aqueous-based 
dispersions containing between about 15 and about 50 percent 

by weight solids wherein said solids comprise one or more polymers 
derived from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers, said 

solids having an average particle size of less than 100 nanometers. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 1 wherein 
said one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers are selected 

from the group consisting of (meth)acrylic based acids and esters, 
acrylonitrile, styrene, divinylbenzene, vinyl acetate, 

ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids, butadiene, acrylamide, 
methacrylamide, vinylidene chloride, vinyl chloride and mixtures 

thereof. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 2 wherein 
said one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers comprise a 

mixture of styrene, butyl acrylate and methacrylic acid. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 2 wherein 
said composition comprises a mixture of two aqueous-based 

dispersions wherein the glass transition temperature of the first 
dispersion is less than -25째C and the the glass transition 

temperature of the second dispersion is greater than -10째C. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 4 comprising 
between about 30 and about 90 percent of the first dispersion and 

between about 10 and about 70 percent of the second dispersion. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 5 wherein the 
solids of said first dispersion are derived from butyl acrylate and 

acrylic acid. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 5 wherein the 
 

solids of said second dispersion are derived from methyl 
methacrylate and methacrylic acid. 
The textile sizing composition according to claim 2 wherein 
said one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers comprise 

at least one acidic monomer which comprises at least 25% by weight 
of all ethylenically unsaturated monomers. 
A process for sizing textile fibers comprising the step of 
applying one or more aqueous-based dispersions containing between 

about 15 and about 50 percent by weight solids wherein said solids 
comprise one or more polymers derived from one or more 

ethylenically unsaturated monomers, said solids having an average 
particle size of less than 100 nanometers to one or more textile 

fibers. 
The process according to claim 9 wherein said textile fibers 
are selected from the group consisting of natural and synthetic 

fibers and mixtures thereof. 
The process according to claim 10 wherein said textile fibers 
are selected from the group consisting of polyamide fibers, 

polyester fibers, acrylic fibers, modacrylic fibers, polyolefinic 
fibers, cellulose ester fibers, polyvinyl alcohol fibers, cotton 

fibers, wool fibers, cellulosic fibers and mixtures thereof. 
The process according to claim 9 which takes place in the 
absence of an acid neutralization step. 
The process according to claim 11 wherein said one or more 
ethylenically unsaturated monomers comprise a mixture of styrene, 

butyl acrylate and methacrylic acid. 
The process according to claim 11 wherein said composition 
 

comprises a mixture of two aqueous-based dispersions wherein the 
glass transition temperature of the first dispersion is less than 

-25째C and the the glass transition temperature of the second 
dispersion is greater than -10째C. 
The process according to claim 14 wherein said composition 
comprises between about 30 and about 90 percent of said first 

dispersion and between about 10 and about 70 percent of said second 
dispersion. 
The process according to claim 15 wherein the solids of said 
first dispersion are derived from butyl acrylate and acrylic acid 

and wherein the solids of said second dispersion are derived from 
methyl methacrylate and methacrylic acid. 
A process for producing an aqueous-based dispersion which 
functions as a textile sizing composition containing between about 

15 and about 50 percent by weight solids comprising the steps of: 

(a) incrementally adding one or more ethylenically unsaturated 
monomers capable of polymerizing in an aqueous environment to 

a reaction vessel containing water and up to 6.3 parts per 100 
parts of said monomers of one or more surfactants; 
(b) incrementally adding one or more polymerization initiators 
to said reaction vessel; and 
(c) allowing said one or more ethylenically unsaturated 
monomers to polymerize such that the average particle size of 

said polymerized monomers is less than 100 nanometers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
