<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625958</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OZONE GENERATOR HAVING AN ELECTRODE FORMED OF A MASS OF HELICAL WINDINGS AND ASSOCIATED METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B1311	C01B1311	C02F132	C02F132	C02F140	C02F140	C02F178	C02F178	C02F900	C02F900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B13	C01B13	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F9	C02F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for producing a high concentration of ozone gas using an electrical corona discharge in the presence of an oxygen containing gas. The generator includes a first and second electrode separated by a dielectric tube, each electrode being adapted to be connected to a high voltage AC power supply. The first electrode preferably has a lattice structure and surrounds the dielectric tube. The second electrode is formed of a mass of helical windings with a series of curved surfaces thereon. The second electrode is positioned within the dielectric tube underlying the first electrode. The curved surfaces of the helical windings create a corona therefrom. In one embodiment of the ozone generator, the mass of helical windings is provided by at least one milled sponge having a plurality of layers of a continuous helical winding extending in a generally spiral direction about a central axis of the milled sponge. The mass of helical windings also facilitates the intermixing of the oxygen containing gas passing therethrough. The generator produces a high concentration of ozone and a small amount of waste heat, yet has a simple, reliable and rugged construction.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
O THREE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
O-THREE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAUSGROVER ROBERT H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCEACHERN DENNIS HAROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAUSGROVER, ROBERT, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCEACHERN, DENNIS, HAROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OZONE GENERATOR HAVING AN ELECTRODEFORMED OF A MASS OF HELICAL WINDINGSAND ASSOCIATED METHODField of the InventionThis invention relates to the field of ozone generators, and more particularly, to an ozone generator for producing a high concentration of ozone gas from an electrical corona discharge and associated method.Background ofthe InventionOzone is one of the most powerful oxidizers and disinfectants available. Ozone not only kills bacteria, but also inactivates many viruses, cysts and spores. In addition, ozone oxidizes many organic chemical compounds, including chloramines, soaps, oils and other wastes thereby rendering them harmless to the environment. Accordingly, ozone may be used for a number of purposes including: drinking water purification, waste water treatment, air purification and sterilization, and a variety of medical uses.Ozone is typically generated by one of two methods. Ultraviolet lamps operating at a wavelength of between 180-190 nanometers may be used to produce ozone in ambient air. Ozone may also be generated by creating an electrical corona discharge between two energized electrodes in ambient air or in another oxygen containing gas. The electrodes are typically 

separated by a dielectric material, such as a glass or an air gap separation may be provided. The corona discharge is an ionization of the air and is visually indicated by the presence of a pale violet or bluish color in the area between and surrounding the electrodes.Because ozone has a half-life of only about 22 minutes in ambient air before dissociating back to oxygen, a process requiring ozone must have an ozone generator in close proximity to the desired point of application of the ozone. Thus, an ideal ozone generator is desirably compact, relatively simple in construction, consumes little electricity, and produces little waste heat while producing a high concentration of ozone.The prior art has developed a number of ozone generators based on the electrical corona discharge process for producing ozone. A wide assortment of electrode configurations have been developed to try to improve the performance of the basic corona discharge ozone generator. For example, an ozone generator electrode formed from a planar wire mesh or screen is known in the art. For example, U.S. Patent No. 2,658,868 to Collison discloses a cylindrical ozone generator wherein both the inner and outer electrodes are preferably constituted of concentrically disposed wire screens separated by a dielectric tube. Similarly, U.S. Patent No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS:
1. An apparatus for generating ozone from an electrical corona in an oxygen containing gas, said apparatus comprising: a dielectric tube; an outer electrode overlying a portion of said dielectric tube; and an inner electrode positioned in the interior of said dielectric tube and occupying a lengthwise portion thereof underlying said outer electrode, said inner electrode being formed of a mass of helical windings of electrically conductive material, said mass being permeable to a flow of gas therethrough, said helical windings having a series of curved surfaces thereon for creating an electrical corona therefrom so as to produce a high concentration of ozone from an oxygen containing gas passing through said mass of helical windings.
2. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said inner electrode fills the interior cross- section of said dielectric tube.
3. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said inner electrode substantially fills the interior lengthwise extent of said dielectric tube.
4. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said helical windings are randomly arranged in said mass thereof, and wherein said helical windings and the random arrangement thereof facilitate the intermixing of gas flowing therethrough.
5. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said mass of helical windings is formed by at least one layer of helical windings extending in a 


generally spiral direction about the longitudinal axis of said dielectric tube.
6. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said mass of helical windings comprises at least one milled sponge having a plurality of layers of at least one continuous helical winding extending in a generally spiral direction about a central axis of said milled sponge.
7. The apparatus according to Claim 1 further comprising an elongate electrical conductor extending through substantially the entire length of said inner electrode and positioned in electrical contact with adjacent portions of said helical windings.
8. The apparatus according to Claim 7 wherein said dielectric tube has opposing open ends defining an inlet end and an outlet end thereof; wherein said inlet end permits the inflow of an oxygen containing gas into said dielectric tube; and wherein said outlet end permits the outflow of ozone gas from said dielectric tube.
9. The apparatus according to Claim 8 further comprising a pair of end collars positioned on respective ends of said dielectric tube; and means carried by said end collars for supporting said elongate electrical conductor in the interior of said dielectric tube.
10. The apparatus according to Claim 9 wherein said means for supporting said elongate electrical conductor comprises a respective rod transversely connected to each end collar on said dielectric tube. 


 11. The apparatus according to Claim 1 further comprising a housing surrounding said outer electrode for collecting ozone gas generated by said outer electrode.
12. The apparatus according to Claim 1 further comprising a housing surrounding said outer electrode and communicating with said dielectric tube for collecting ozone gas generated by said outer electrode and said inner electrode.
13. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said helical windings are formed of strip material.
14. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein the radius of curvature of each of said helical windings is not more than about one quarter of an inch.
15. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said dielectric tube comprises borosilicate glass.
16. The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said outer electrode has an open lattice structure.
17. An apparatus for generating ozone from an electrical corona in an oxygen containing gas, said apparatus comprising: a dielectric tube; an outer electrode overlying a portion of said dielectric tube; a hollow spacer extending longitudinally in the interior of said dielectric tube and underlying said outer electrode, said spacer having an inlet to permit a flow of gas into the interior of said spacer, 


said spacer being permeable to a flow of gas therethrough; and an inner electrode positioned in the interior of said dielectric tube occupying the portion thereof between said dielectric tube and said spacer, said inner electrode being formed of a mass of helical windings of electrically conductive material, said mass being permeable to a flow of gas therethrough, said helical windings having a series of curved surfaces thereon for creating an electrical corona therefrom so as to produce a high concentration of ozone from an oxygen containing gas passing through said mass of helical windings.
18. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said spacer comprises an electrically conductive material positioned in electrical contact with adjacent portions of said mass of helical windings.
19. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said spacer is tubularly shaped.
20. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said spacer has an open lattice structure.
21. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said helical windings are randomly arranged in said mass thereof; and wherein said helical windings and the random arrangement thereof facilitate the intermixing of gas flowing therethrough.
22. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said mass of helical windings is formed by at least one layer of helical windings extending in a generally spiral direction around said spacer. 


 23. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said mass of helical windings comprises at least one milled sponge having a plurality of layers of at least one continuous helical winding extending in a generally spiral direction about a central axis of said milled sponge.
24. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said helical windings are formed of strip material.
25. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein the radius of curvature of each of said helical windings is not more than about one quarter of an inch.
26. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said dielectric tube has opposing open ends defining an inlet end and an outlet end thereof; wherein said inlet end permits the inflow of an oxygen containing gas into said dielectric tube; and wherein said outlet end permits the outflow of ozone gas from said dielectric tube.
27. The apparatus according to Claim 26 further comprising a pair of end collars positioned on respective ends of said dielectric tube; and means carried by said end collars for supporting said spacer in the interior of said dielectric tube.
28. The apparatus according to Claim 27 wherein said means for supporting said spacer comprises a respective rod transversely connected to each end collar on said dielectric tube.
29. The apparatus according to Claim 17 further comprising a housing surrounding said outer 


electrode for collecting ozone gas generated by said outer electrode.
30. The apparatus according to Claim 17 further comprising a housing surrounding said outer electrode and communicating with said dielectric tube for collecting ozone gas generated by said outer electrode and said inner electrode.
31. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said dielectric tube comprises borosilicate glass.
32. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said outer electrode has an open lattice structure.
33. An apparatus for generating ozone from an electrical corona in an oxygen containing gas, said apparatus comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode positioned opposite and in a spaced apart relation from said first electrode; and dielectric material positioned between said first and second electrodes; said second electrode being formed of a mass of helical windings of electrically conductive material, said mass being permeable to a flow of gas therethrough, said helical windings having a series of curved surfaces thereon for creating an electrical corona therefrom so as to produce a high concentration of ozone from an oxygen containing gas.
34. The apparatus according to Claim 33 wherein said dielectric material comprises borosilicate glass. 


 35. The apparatus according to Claim 33 wherein said helical windings are randomly arranged in said mass thereof, and wherein said helical windings and the random arrangement thereof facilitate the intermixing of gas flowing therethrough.
36. The apparatus according to Claim 33 wherein said mass of helical windings comprises at least one milled sponge having a plurality of layers of at least one continuous helical winding extending in a generally spiral direction about a central axis of said milled sponge.
37. The apparatus according to Claim 33 wherein said helical windings are formed of strip material.
38. The apparatus according to Claim 33 wherein the radius of curvature of each of said helical windings is not more than about one quarter of an inch.
39. The apparatus according to Claim 33 wherein said first electrode has an open lattice structure.
40. A method for generating ozone from an oxygen containing gas comprising the steps of: providing a first electrode and a second electrode separated by a dielectric material, the second electrode being formed of a mass of helical windings having a series of curved surfaces thereon, the mass of helical windings being permeable to a flow of gas therethrough; energizing the first and second electrodes with high voltage electrical power to generate an electrical corona from the series of curved surfaces of 


the mass of helical windings of the second electrode; and passing an input flow of an oxygen containing gas into the mass of helical windings of the second electrode so as to generate an output gas flow therefrom containing ozone.
41. The method according to Claim 40 further comprising the step of maintaining the temperature of the output gas flow at a temperature of not greater than about 80°F to thereby reduce the dissociation of ozone in the output gas flow.
42. The method according to Claim 40 further comprising the step of maintaining the temperature of the input flow of the oxygen containing gas at a temperature of not greater than about 50°F to thereby reduce the dissociation of ozone in the output gas flow.
43. The method according to Claim 40 further comprising the step of maintaining the humidity of the output gas flow at a relative humidity of not greater than about 25 percent.
44. The method according to Claim 40 further comprising the step of passing a portion of the input flow of oxygen containing gas over the first electrode to generate ozone gas therefrom.
45. A method for making an ozone generator including a dielectric tube, an outer electrode surrounding the dielectric tube, and an inner electrode in the interior of the dielectric tube, said method comprising the step of positioning a mass of helical windings of electrically conductive material in the 


interior of the dielectric tube to form the inner electrode.
46. The method according to Claim 45 wherein the step of positioning a mass of helical windings in the interior of the dielectric tube comprises the steps of positioning in the interior of the dielectric tube at least one milled sponge having a plurality of layers of at least one continuous helical winding extending in a generally spiral direction about a central axis of the milled sponge.
47. The method according to Claim 46 further comprising the step of positioning a hollow tubular spacer longitudinally extending in the interior of the dielectric tube; and wherein the step of positioning the at least one milled sponge in the interior of the dielectric tube comprises the step of expanding the at least one milled sponge to form an opening along the central axis thereof and positioning the hollow tubular spacer within the thus formed opening of the milled sponge. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
