<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637988</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PURIFICATION OF WASTE GASES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5334	B01D5334	B01D5346	B01D5350	B01D5350	B01D5354	B01D5358	B01D5368	B01D5368	B01D5372	B01D5381	B01D5381	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for purification of waste gases by adding reagent and/or absorbent, which reacts with the pollutants, to the gases and by introducing the gases into a wetting reactor (10) for activating the reagent or absorbent contained in the gases. The gases are conveyed to the lower section of the wetting reactor and further upwards to wetting zone (30). The reagent or absorbent which has reacted completely or partly is separated from the gas by a filter (22) disposed in the upper section of the reactor. Preferably a high density of particles is maintained in the wetting zone. So thick an ash layer is maintained below the gas inlet level in the lower section of the wetting reactor that the ash layer, formed of particles separated from the gas, is capable of homogenizing the wet particles and water drops falling downwards from the wetting zone.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AHLSTROEM OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
A. AHLSTROM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUIVALAINEN REIJO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUIVALAINEN, REIJO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Method for purification of waste gasesThe present invention relates to a method of purification of waste gases which are produced in, for example, com- bustion, gasification, or some chemical or metallurgical processes. Sulfur dioxides, ammonia, chlorine and fluor¬ ine compounds and condensing hydrocarbon compounds are typical pollutants contained in these gases. The present invention especially relates to a method in which reagent and/or absorbent which reacts with pollutants contained in the gases is activated by leading the gases into a wetting reactor. The reagent and/or absorbent is added to the process itself or to the gases discharged from the process. The gases are introduced into the wetting reac- tor for wetting them with water or steam in order to activate the reagent contained in the gases. The gases are first fed to the lower section of the wetting reactor and then further upwards to the wetting zone of thereof, where a suspension formed of the gas and the reagent is wetted with water or steam. The reagent and/or absorbent particles which have reacted either completely or par¬ tially are separated from the gases by a filter in the upper part of the wetting reactor before the gases are discharged from the reactor. Carbonates, oxides or hydr- oxides of, e.g., either alkali metals or alkaline earth metals are used as reagents or absorbents.As known, combustion of fossile fuels produces flue gases which contain sulfur oxide and cause environmental acidi- fication. The sulfur content of the flue gases varies depending on the sulfur content of the fuel. Efforts are made to find means for employing fuels which contain more and more sulfur even though the restrictions on sulfur emissions become tighter and tighter. Waste incineration plants, the number of which is continuously increasing, also produce sulfur-containing flue gases which have to be purified so as to be within the set limits. The flue 

 gases produced in waste incineration plants when, e.g., plastic compounds are burnt contain, besides S02 and S03 emissions, also hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids and other harmful gaseous and solid compounds.Process gases produced in various gasification processes may also contain harmful amounts of sulfuric or other compounds which have to be separated from the gases prior to further treatment thereof.Several methods have been developed for cutting down sulfur emissions of combustion plants. The most common method used so far is wet scrubbing in which method the gases are scrubbed with a water
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A method of purification of gases produced e.g. in combustion, gasification or chemical processes, said gases containing pollutants such as sulfur oxides, chlor¬ ine or fluorine compounds
- by adding to the gases, in or after the process, reagent and/or absorbent reacting with pollutants con¬ tained in the gases, - by introducing the gases into a wetting reactor for wetting the gases by water or steam in order to activate the reagent and/or absorbent contained the gases, com¬ prising introduction of the gases into the wetting reac¬ tor to the lower section thereof and further upwards into the wetting zone of the wetting reactor, where the sus¬ pension produced of gas and reagent and/or absorbent is wetted with water and/or steam, and
- by separating the completely or partly reacted reagent and/or absorbent particles in a filter disposed in the upper section of the wetting reactor prior to discharging the gases from the wetting reactor, characterized in that
- so thick an ash layer is maintained below the gas inlet level in the lower section of the wetting reactor that the ash layer, formed of particles separated from the gas, is capable of homogenizing the wet ash particles and water drops falling downwards from the upper section of the wetting reactor.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that solid particles are separated from the gases discharged from the wetting reactor in a filter disposed in the upper section of the wetting reactor, from which filter particles are detached intermittently and then allowed to drop to the wetting zone and/or to the lower section of the wetting reactor. 


 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the inlet gas is brought into contact with and to dry wet particles flowing downwardly from the wetting zone.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the gas fed into the space below the wetting zone is caused to recycle part of the particles accumulated in the lower section of the wetting reactor into the upper section thereof.
5. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that in the ash layer is disposed a mixer for mixing wet par¬ ticles and water drops with the ash layer.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that the mixer also serves as a grinder breaking big lumps of particles.
7. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the gas fed into the space below the wetting zone is fed as one or more sprays which are at least partly directed downwardly so that the gas spray breaks lumps of par¬ ticles accumulated in the lower section of the reactor and mixes particles.
8. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that particles are discharged from the lower section of the wetting reactor.
9. A method as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that part of the particles discharged from the lower section of the wetting reactor are recycled into the wetting reactor.
10. A method as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that particles are wetted outside the wetting reactor prior to recycling them. 


 11. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the gases are cooled in the wetting reactor to a tempera¬ ture of about 0-20°C from the dew point.
12. A method as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that the gases are cooled to a temperature of 0-10°C from the dew point.
13. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the volume of the ash layer is at least 50 kg per m
3
/s of inlet gas.
14. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the thickness of the ash layer is at least 25 cm.
15. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the ash layer extends at least to the level of the mixer shaft.
16. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that at least a part of the gas to be introduced into the wetting zone is fed into the wetting reactor as jacket flow so that the gas flows into the wetting zone through ducts disposed in the walls of the wetting reactor and/or along the walls of the wetting reactor as a downwardly flowing spray, whereby the jacket flow prevents the walls from cooling and layers of solids from depositing on the walls.
17. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that at least a part of the gas to be introduced into the drying zone is conducted into the wetting reactor as jacket flow so that the gas flows into the drying zone via ducts disposed in the walls of the wetting reactor, whereby cooling of the walls is prevented. 


18. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that water or steam is fed as downwardly directed sprays into the wetting zone.
19. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that water or steam is fed into a plurality of zones in the wetting reactor.
20. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that recycling or internal particle circulation in the wetting reactor is controlled by adjusting the flow of ash to be discharged. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
