<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657828</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An apparatus and a method for retrieving image objects.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for retrieving image objects in 
accordance with a natural language sentence according to 

the present invention includes: an input section for receiving 
a natural language sentence; a language processing 

section for parsing the natural language sentence 
by referring to a dictionary for language analysis so as 

to obtain a syntactic structure of the natural language 
sentence; a situation element division section for converting 

the syntactic structure of the natural language 
sentence into a semantic structure of the natural language 

sentence and for dividing a situation represented 
by the semantic structure of the natural language sentence 

into at least one situation element by referring to 
a situation element division knowledge base; an image 

database for storing at least one image object corresponding 
to the at least one situation element; and a 

retrieval section for retrieving at least one image 
object from the image database by using the situation 

element as an image retrieval key. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAMOTO SHUSAKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAMOTO, SHUSAKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus and 
a method for retrieving image objects stored in an image 
database by using a natural language. In particular, the 
present invention relates to an apparatus and a method 
for easily retrieving images that are related to the 
content of a document, such as a pamphlet or a manual, 
created by using a document creation device such as a 
wordprocessor or a DTP (Desk Top Publishing) device. Since an image can carry a great deal of information 
which is concrete relative to that carried by words, 
images are used in many aspects of our daily life, e.g., 
pamphlets, magazines, TV news, etc. Therefore, there has 
been an increasing demand for a system that allows any 
person to easily retrieve a desired image from a database 
in which a large amount of images are stored. Conventional 
methods for retrieving images include the following: 
(1) Methods in which keywords are used: 
According to methods in this category, several 
keywords are previously assigned to each image stored in 
a database. When a user inputs several keywords related 
to a desired image, the similarity between the input 
keywords and the keywords assigned to each image is 
calculated by using the distances between keyword vectors, 
for example, so that images are presented to the 
user in descending order of similarity. The use of 
keyword vectors is disclosed in SHIBATA, INOUE, "Associative  
 
Retrieval Method for Image Database", THE THESIS 
JOURNAL OF THE INSTITUTE OF ELECTRONICS, INFORMATION AND 
COMMUNICATION ENGINEERS, D-II, Vol. J73-D-II, No. 4, 
pp. 526-534, 1990, for example. (2) Methods in which similar images are traced: 
According to methods in this category, several 
images which will serve as clues for retrieval are displayed 
for a user. As in the methods described in (1) 
above, several keywords are previously assigned to each 
image stored in a database. When the user selects one 
that seems most similar to a desired image out of the 
group of displayed images, the apparatus calculates 
images that are similar to the selected image by using 
the distances between keyword vectors as in (1) above, 
for example, and displays images similar to the selected 
image in descending order of similarity. The user 
arrives at the desired image through a repetition of this 
cycle. (3) Methods in which hand-drawn sketches are 
used: 
According to methods in this category, a user 
draws a sketch by hand or with the use of a drawing tool, 
etc. to the best of his/her memory. Then, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for retrieving image objects in accordance 
with a natural language sentence, comprising: 

   input means for receiving a natural language 
sentence; 

   language processing means for parsing the natural 
language sentence by referring to a dictionary for language 

analysis so as to obtain a syntactic structure of 
the natural language sentence; 

   situation element division means for converting 
the syntactic structure of the natural language sentence 

into a semantic structure of the natural language sentence 
and for dividing a situation represented by the 

semantic structure of the natural language sentence into 
at least one situation element by referring to a situation 

element division knowledge base; 
   an image database for storing at least one image 

object corresponding to the at least one situation element; 
and 

   retrieval means for retrieving at least one image 
object from the image database by using the situation 

element as an image retrieval key. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of the 
image objects includes image attribute data relating to 

at least one region included in an image, and the retrieval 
means subjects the image objects obtained from 

the image database in accordance with the image attribute 
data to a further screening. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the image 
attribute data includes region data defining at least one 

 
region included in the image and information representing 

the meaning of the at least one region. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the information 
is represented by the natural language sentence. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the retrieval 
means comprises means for calculating a similarity 

between each of the image retrieval key and each of 
the image attribute data, and means for providing region 

availability information defining whether the image 
attribute data is available or not available in accordance 

with the similarity. 
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the apparatus 
further comprises display means for displaying at 

least a portion of the image object retrieved by the retrieval 
means in accordance with the region availability 

information. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the situation 
element division knowledge base comprises a plurality 

of case frames for defining a meaning of the natural 
language sentence, and wherein each of the plurality of 

the case frames comprises: 
   a word defining a predicate in the natural language 

sentence; 
   a slot describing a pair consisting of a name of 

a case element related to the word and a constraint for 
the case element to satisfy; and 

   situation element data describing knowledge for 
dividing the situation into the at least one situation 

element. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the situation 
element division means classifies the at least one 

situation element into a group related to a background 
and a group related to a foreground based on the situation 

element division data of the case frames. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the dictionary 
for language analysis comprises a rule for deleting 

words that are unnecessary for retrieving images from 
the natural language sentence, and the language processing 

means comprises image retrieval preprocessing means 
for deleting words from the natural language sentence in 

accordance with the rule. 
An apparatus for retrieving image objects in accordance 
with a natural language sentence, comprising: 

   an image database for storing a plurality of 
image objects, each of the plurality of image objects 

comprising image attribute data representing a meaning of 
a region included in an image and pixel data corresponding 

to the region; 
   input means for receiving a natural language 

sentence; 
   parsing means for parsing the natural language 

sentence so as to obtain an analysis frame representing 
a meaning of the natural language sentence, the analysis 

frame including at least one element; 
   correlating means for correlating the at least 

one element of the analysis frame with one another so as 
to define an image retrieval key representing a partial 

meaning of the natural language sentence; and 
   retrieval means for retrieving at least one image 

object from the image database based on a semantic similarity 
 

between the image retrieval key and the image 
attribute data. 
An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the 
analysis frame includes a predicate, a case element 

related to the predicate, and a value of the case element. 
An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the 
correlating means defines either an image retrieval key 

related to a background or an image retrieval key related 
to a foreground in accordance with the partial meaning of 

the natural language sentence. 
A method for retrieving image objects from an image 
database in accordance with a natural language sentence, 

the image database storing a plurality of image objects, 
each of the plurality of image objects including image 

attribute data representing a meaning of a region included 
in an image and pixel data corresponding to the 

region, wherein the method comprises the steps of: 

a) receiving a natural language sentence; 
b) parsing the natural language sentence so as to 
obtain an analysis frame representing a meaning of the 

natural language sentence, the analysis frame including 
at least one element; 
c) correlating the at least one element of the 
analysis frame with one another so as to define an image 

retrieval key representing a partial meaning of the 
natural language sentence; and 
d) retrieving at least one image object from the 
image database based on a semantic similarity between the 

image retrieval key and the image attribute data. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein the analysis 
frame includes a predicate, a case element related to the 

predicate, and a value of the case element. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein the step c) 
comprises a step for defining either an image retrieval 

key related to a background or an image retrieval key 
related to a foreground in accordance with the partial 

meaning of the natural language sentence. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
