<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658428</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control system for a printing press
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F3300	B41F3300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F33	B41F33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control system (10) for a four-color printing press (11) 
having a device (21) for detecting the energy reflected from a 

paper surface in both the visible region and the infrared region 
of the electromagnetic spectrum, a device (23) for converting the 

output of the detecting device (21) to a set of variables which 
represent the amount of ink presented on the paper for any of 

the cyan, magenta, yellow, and black inks, and a device (25) 
responsive to the converting device (23) for adjusting the 

four-color printing press (11) to maintain the color consistency 
with or without an additional color control target. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOSS GRAPHIC SYST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOSS GRAPHIC SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG XINXIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, XINXIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to control systems for
a printing press.In the past, four process inks (cyan, magenta, yellow and
black) have been used on a printing press to produce copies with
a gamut of colors. To improve trapping and reduce ink cost,
various undercolor removal techniques (UCR) and grey component
replacement (GCR) techniques have been used in the color
separation processing. The UCR and GCR techniques remove a
certain amount of the cyan, magenta and yellow ink from some
printing area and replace them with a certain amount of the black
ink Thus, the black ink has been used to generate not only the
text but also the color image. Different color separation
equipment manufacturers offer different UCR and GCR techniques
to determine when this black ink substitution will take place
and what amount of inks will be substituted.In the past, the press room color reproduction quality
control system cart be divided into the following two categories:
one is a "control by target" system, and the other is a "control
by image" system.In the "control by target" system, a set of color control
targets is printed in a margin. Instruments, such as
densitometers, are used to monitor the color attributes, such as
the optical density, of these targets. The printing press is
then adjusted based on the deviation of these control targets
from a predefined attribute value. The application of this 
"control by target" system is restricted in that an additional
process is required to cut off this target from the final
product. This system also requires a tight material control for
paper, ink, and other printing parameters.In the "control by image" system, the print image on a
live copy is compared with the printed image on a reference
copy, called a proof. The press is then adjusted based on the
difference between the live image and the reference image.
This system is more versatile because it does not require an
additional target. This system is also more accurate than the
"control by target" system, because in some situations although
the measured attributes of control targets on the live and
reference images are the same, those two images still look
different. Conventionally, both the image comparing task and
the press adjusting task are done by a press operator. To
improve the productivity and the color consistency, several
automatic printing quality inspection systems have been
reported recently. These systems use opto-electronic sensor
devices, such as a spectrophotometer, or CCD color cameras, to
measure the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control system for a printing press, said printing press using
cyan, magenta, yellow and black inks to produce a colour image on a

paper surface, the control system comprising:

means for detecting energy reflected from a paper surface in
both a visible region and an infrared region of the electromagnetic

spectrum, the detecting means having an output;
means for converting the output of the detecting means to a
data set representative of an ink volume, an average ink film

thickness, or an ink dot size for the cyan, magenta, yellow and black
inks present on the paper in a given area; and
means for comparing a first data set and a second data set
generated by the converting means and for adjusting the four-colour

printing press to maintain colour consistency in response to a
difference between the first and second data sets, the first data set

being representative of ink volume, average ink film thickness, or ink
dot size for each of the cyan, magenta, yellow and black inks present

in a given area of a reference copy and the second data set being
representative of ink volume, average ink film thickness, or ink dot

size for each of the cyan, magenta, yellow and black inks present in
an area on a production copy corresponding to the given area on the

reference copy.
The system of claim 1 wherein the detecting means senses at
least four separate channels, at least three of said channels being

operable in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum, and at
least one of said channels being operable in the infrared region of the

electromagnetic spectrum.
The system of claim 2 wherein the bandwidth of the infrared
channel is between 800nm and 1100nm.
The system of claim 2 wherein the working wavelength
of the infrared channel is longer than 1100nm or within the 700-800nm

transition region.
The system of claim 1 wherein the energy reflected in
the visible region comprises the attributes of the colours red, green,

and blue.
The system of claim 1 wherein the energy reflected in
the visible region comprises the attributes of the colours cyan,

magenta, and yellow.
The system of claim 2 wherein the output from the
detecting means comprises a plurality of elements comprising vectors

in a sensor space.
The system of claim 7 wherein the elements in the
sensor space include vectors designating an image from the reference 

copy and the production copy.
The system of claim 1 wherein the comparing means
compares a third data set corresponding to an image from the reference

copy with a fourth data set corresponding to an image from the production
copy, the third data set and the fourth data set comprising the output of

the detecting means.
The system of claim 9 wherein the comparing means accepts
the production copy if a difference between the third and fourth data sets

is within a predetermined limit.
The system of claim 7 wherein the vectors in the sensor
space are at least four dimensional.
The system of claim 1 wherein the first and second data sets
comprise a plurality of four dimensional vectors.
The system of claim 9 wherein the converting means
converts the third data set into the first data set and the fourth data set into

the second data set.
The system of claim 1 in which the paper comprises a web
of the press.
A method of controlling the operation of a printing press, the
printing press using cyan, magenta, yellow and black inks to produce a

colour image on a paper surface, the method comprising the 
steps of:


providing a reference copy of an image to be printed;
measuring reference red, green, blue and infrared (RGBI) reflection
values from the reference copy;
converting the reference RGBI reflection values into reference cyan,
magenta, yellow and black (CMYK) ink values representative of the

amount of ink present on the reference copy;
providing a production copy of the image as printed by the printing
press;
measuring production RGBI reflection values from the production
copy;
comparing the production RGBI reflection values to the reference
RGBI reflection values;
if the comparison reveals a difference between the production RGBI
reflection values and the reference RGBI reflection values which is greater

than a predetermined threshold amount, converting the production RGBI
reflection values into production CMYK ink values representative of the

amount of ink present on the production copy, developing a difference
between the production CMYK ink values and the reference CMYK ink

values at corresponding locations, and adjusting the printing press to
correct the difference between the production and reference RGBI

reflection values based on the difference between the production and 
reference CMYK ink values; and
if the difference between the production RGBI reflection values
and the reference RGBI reflection values is less than the

predetermined threshold amount, accepting the production copy
without converting the production RGBI reflection values into

production CMYK ink values and without adjusting the printing press.
A method as defined in claim 15 wherein the reference
and production CMYK ink values are representative of ink volume,

average ink thickness, or ink dot size.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
