<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617628</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTELLIGENT INHALER PROVIDING FEEDBACK TO BOTH PATIENT AND MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1106	A61J700	A61M1600	A61J704	A61M1600	A61M1108	A61M1500	A61M1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61J	A61M	A61J	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M11	A61J7	A61M16	A61J7	A61M16	A61M11	A61M15	A61M15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An inhaler device for aerosol delivery of medication employs a microprocessor and electronic sensors for measuring parameters indicative of a patient's inhalation of airborne medication. The sensors produce output signals representative of parameters which determine the proper delivery of medication to receptor sites in the patient's lungs, such as, the rate of flow of air through the inhaler device to the patient's lungs, the duration of inspiration of the medication, and the volume of medication inhaled. The microprocessor is responsive to the output signals of the sensors and stores a record of inhalation events which can be retrieved remotely or by connecting the microprocessor to a display terminal. The microprocessor makes possible a display of data indicative of the delivery of medication for each inhalation event over a course of treatment, thus providing compliance feedback to both the patient and the medical professional. The microprocessor is programmable for dispensing medication in a predetermined amount and at selected times. The microprocessor also performs logical operations and interpretative calculations on the inspiration data to evaluate the effectiveness of the medication and the patient's compliance with a course of treatment. The microprocessor is programmable for varying dosages and times for dispensing the medication as a function of the measured parameters in order to maximize delivery of medication to the patient.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIRCADIAN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIRCADIAN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANPHER GREGORY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANPHER TED W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISHELEVICH DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANPHER, GREGORY, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANPHER, TED, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISHELEVICH, DAVID, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The field of the present invention relates
generally to an inhaler device for aerosol delivery
of medicine. More particularly, the present invention
is directed to a device for improving medication
compliance by providing feedback regarding
correct and consistent usage of medicine inhalers to
a patient and/or professional such as a physician,
pharmacist, or therapist. The present invention is
further directed to a method by which such
professionals can track the usage of medicine
inhalers between visits, and modify medicinal
therapy based on downloading of this information to
a clinical workstation allowing display and
analysis.Getting patients to correctly use medicine
inhalers is a major problem. Estimates indicate as
few as one quarter of patients using inhalers do so
correctly [Orehek, J., "Patient Error in Use of
Bronchodilator Metered Aerosols," British Medical
Journal, 1:76 (1976); Paterson, I.C. and
G.K. Crompton, "Use of Pressurized Aerosols by
Asthmatic Patients," British Medical Journal, 1:7677
(1976); Saunders, K.B., "Misuse of Inhaled Bronchodilator
Agents," British Medical Journal, 
1:1037-1038 (1965); Shim, C., and M.H. Williams,
"The Adequacy of Inhalation of Aerosol from Canister
Nebulizers;" The American Journal of Medicine,
69:891-894 (1980)]. In addition to unnecessary
patient morbidity and mortality, an unfortunate
consequence is that patients may stop taking their
medications because they are not seeing any or
enough benefit. Conversely, having failed to obtain
expected benefits through prescribed usage, some
patients will overuse medications and thereby
increase the risk of side effects caused by higher
than normal dosages (e.g., fungal infections in the
mouth and throat or nervous system effects caused by
medication absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract).These problems are especially evident in the
case of aerosol pharmaceuticals delivered by hand-held
inhalers. Hand-held metered dose inhalers
(MDIs) are a preferred method of treatment for
common respiratory ailments, since the delivery of
medication directly to its intended site of action
in the lungs allows a reduction in dosage by an
order of magnitude or greater. However, certain of
these compounds, such as anti-inflammatory corticosteroids,
may take many weeks of administration
before having a significant effect. Moreover, the
inhalation and breath-holding maneuver required for
successful delivery of aerosol to the lower airways
is counterintuitive and poorly understood by most
patients. Thus, a patient may be compliant in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hand-held inhaler device, comprising:

delivery means for delivering a desired unit
dose of aerosolized medication from an associated

canister (102);
electronic sensor means (240) for measurement,
preferably continuous measurement, of air flow through

said medication delivery means;
means for storage of data including relative

time of device actuation of said delivery means, and
data representative of duration of inspiration through

said medication delivery means;
means for performing logical operations or
interpretive calculations upon said data;
signaling means (106, 108), responsive to said
means for performing, for providing feedback to a user,

   wherein said feedback expresses to a user
whether the medicine delivery means has been used

correctly; characterised in that said means for
performing logical operations further comprises a

motion sensor means (500) for detecting if said
canister (102) is shaken prior to each actuation.
A device as claimed in claim 1 characterised in
that said means for delivering includes a mouthpiece

(114) having a mouthpiece cover which upon rotation or
removal activates the electronic functions.
A device as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 which
further comprises:


a housing (100) adapted to be hand-held by a
user;
the canister (102) being received within the
housing (100); 
the delivery means being incorporated in said
housing (100);
the electronic sensor means (240) being
incorporated in said housing (100);
a microprocessor means incorporated in said
housing (100) comprising said storage means;
said microprocessor means also comprising the
means for performing logical operations or interpretive

calculations upon said data; and
said signaling means (106, 108) being responsive
to said microprocessor means.
A device as claimed in claim 3, characterized in
that the microprocessor means further comprises means

for storing a target envelope pattern representing the
time course of an effective inspiration for comparison

to measured inspiration patterns, whereby said
comparison is used to govern feedback provided to the

user.
A device as claimed in claim 4, characterized in
that said feedback further comprises means for

displaying a target inspiration pattern as a function
of time.
A device as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5,
characterized in that said feedback further comprises

means for displaying a comparison of a patient's actual
inhalation pattern with a prescribed target pattern.
A device as claimed in any of claims 3-6,
further characterized by:


computer monitoring means communicating
electronically with said microprocessor means for 

retrieving and processing said stored data
representative of duration and pattern of inspiration,

said computer monitoring means further comprising a
means for displaying (106) said stored activation data

for compliance review by a healthcare
professional.
A device as claimed in claim 7, characterized in
that said computer monitoring means further comprises

means for processing data input from at least one of
the following sources: diagnostic instruments,

diagnostic tests, clinical records, clinical
observations, and professional opinions.
A device as claimed in any of claims 3-8,
characterized in that the microprocessor means further

comprises means for reprogramming said signaling means
to vary the desired unit dose of medication delivered

from said canister (102) in response to said logical
operations or interpretive calculations upon said data.
A device as claimed in claim 9, further
characterized by means for reprogramming the signaling

means to vary the time of delivery of medication.
A device as claimed in any of claims 3-10,
characterized in that said microprocessor further

comprises wireless transmission means for transmitting
output signals representative of said stored data to a

remotely located computer means for compliance
monitoring.
A device as claimed in claim 11, characterized
in that said wireless transmission means comprises 

input means responsive to remotely generated signals
for reprogramming said microprocessor means to vary the

time interval for delivering a desired unit dose of
said medication.
A device as claimed in claim 12 responsive to a
remotely generated input signal indicative of the times

prescribed for delivery of said dosage of medicine,
characterized in that said means for indicating

comprises at least one of the following: indicator
lights (106), auditory tones and vibration.
A device as claimed in any of claims 3-13,
characterized in that said microprocessor comprises

data communication means for transmitting said data
along a communication path to a spatially remote

control means for compliance monitoring and said data
communication means includes means for receiving

remotely generated signals from said remote control
means for reprogramming said microprocessor to vary the

desired dose of said inhaled medication.
A device as claimed in any of claims 3-14,
characterized in that said signaling means further

comprises interactive feedback means for interrogating
a patient regarding exposure to an event affecting

inhalation such as exposure to allergens and breathing
irritants, and further comprising switch means adapted

to receive a yes or no answer from said patient in
response to said means for interrogating and for

recording said answer as data to be stored in said
microprocessor. 
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-15,
characterized in that said signaling means further

comprises interactive feedback means for providing
immediate feedback to the patient as to success or

failure of an inhalation action, including a message as
to what correction is appropriate.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-16,
characterized in that said interactive feedback message

comprises a message such as at least one of the
following:


"clean inhaler", "rinse mouth" "avoid pets",
and "avoid cold".
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-17,
characterized in that said canister (102) comprises a

reservoir integral with said housing and adapted for
storing quantity of airborne medication.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-18,
characterized in that said canister (102) comprises a

reservoir of airborne medication disposed externally
from said device, including conduit means for

communicating said airborne medication with said
delivery means.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-19,
characterized in that said delivery means comprises a

spacer having a first end integral with said device and
having a second end adapted for delivering said

medication into a user's mouth.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-19,
characterized in that said delivery means further 

comprises a spacer separated from said hand-held
inhaler and interposed between said device and said

user, said spacer having a first end communicating with
said device through a conduit, and having a second end

adapted for delivering a desired dose of inhaled
medication into a user's mouth.
A device as claimed in any of claims 3-21,
characterized in that said microprocessor further

comprises output means (221) communicating
electronically along a communication pat
h with a
remotely located digital computer for transmitting

signals representative of said stored data for remote
compliance monitoring; and

   said microprocessor further comprising input
means (221) for receiving input signals from said

remotely located digital computer for reprogramming
said microprocessor means to vary the desired unit dose

of inhaled medication.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-22,
characterized by at least one of auditory, visual and

vibratory alarm means for notifying a user when to take
said medication.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-23,
characterized in that said means for performing logical

operations or interpretive calculations upon data
comprise means for processing selected spirometric

measured values such as peak flow to provide feedback
of a user's therapeutic response.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-24,
further characterized by said motion sensor means (500) 

has means for providing a signal to said microprocessor
means for storage as data for each activation event.
A device as claimed in any of claims 1-25,
further characterized by a sensor means responsive to a

user's shaking of the device for turning on said
delivery means for subsequent activation by a user.
A method for
controlling and programming the administration of

a medication through
a device as claimed in any of claims 1-26 characterized

by the steps of:

measuring the values of at least the time, date
and inspiration pattern for each use of said inhaler by

a patient;
storing said measured values in a microprocessor
means incorporated in said portable inhaler;
displaying said measured values in a display
unit (108) incorporated in said inhaler for providing

interactive feedback with the patient;
retrieving said measured values into a remotely
located computer for providing remote compliance

monitoring;
visually displaying said measured values on a
display unit of said remotely located computer to

permit evaluation of a therapeutic effect of said
medication upon the patient;
reprogramming said microprocessor means
incorporated in said inhaler from said remotely located

computer for optimizing a patient's medication
compliance;
detecting if the device is shaken prior to each
actvation.
A method as claimed in claim 27, characterized
in that the step of visually displaying said measured

values includes the step of further processing of 
selected spirometric measured values in said remotely

located computer means to provide feedback of a
patient's therapeutic response.
A method as claimed in claim 28, characterized
in that said step of further processing comprises the

step of displaying a target inspiration pattern on said
display unit (108) as a function of time.
A method as claimed in claim 28 or claim 29,
characterized in that said step of further processing

comprises the step of displaying a comparison of a
patient's actual inhalation pattern with a prescribed

target pattern.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
