<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620119</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Detection of type of dye donor element in a thermal printing system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J1736	B41J1736	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J17	B41J17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a thermal printing system 
equipped with at least 3 light sources and 3 photodetectors 

positioned opposite thereto for detecting the type of dye donor 
element. One of said light source illuminates a dye frame whereas 

the other illuminate detection marks in a margin of the dye donor 
element. The thermal printing system according to the invention 

allows to distinguish between a dye donor element for color printing 
and black and white printing and according to an embodiment is also 

capable to detect further variants. The present invention further 
provides a dye donor element for use in such thermal printing system 

and to a method for detecting the type of dye donor element. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA GEVAERT NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA-GEVAERT NAAMLOZE VENNOOTSCHAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWIJSEN JAN C O AGFA-GEVAERT N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWIJSEN, JAN, C/O AGFA-GEVAERT N.V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a thermal printing system for 
printing black and white or color images using a dye donor element 
containing heat transferable dyes. More particularly, this 
invention relates to the detection of the type of dye donor element 
e.g. black and white or color, and the type of dye frame when a 
series of different dye frames is used. In one type of thermal printer which prints colored images, a 
dye donor element may contain a repeating series of dye frames of 
differently colored heat transferable dyes or alternatively the 
thermal printer may be used for printing black and white images 
using a dye donor element containing a continuous dye frame 
comprising a mixture of heat tranferable dyes of different color so 
as to obtain black. In such a thermal printer the dye donor element and a suitable 
image receiving material, e.g. a coated paper or coated polyester 
substrate, are contacted with each other and an image is formed on 
the image receiving material by heating the back of the dye donor 
element with a thermal head formed of, for example a plurality of 
individual heating elements. When a particular heating element is 
energized it is heated and causes dye from the dye donor element to 
transfer to the image receiving material. The density or darkness 
of the printed image is a function of the energy delivered from the 
heating element to the dye donor element. Alternatively heating of the dye donor element may be carried 
out with a laser. Such heating method is known as laser induced dye 
transfer. Thermal dye transfer printers offer the advantage that they can 
yield true "continuous tone" dye density tranfer. This result is 
obtained by varying the energy applied to each heating element, 
yielding a variable dye density image pixel on the receiver 
material. However, several factors play a role in this process and 
may influence the quality of the transferred image and the 
continuous tone obtained. Such factors are e.g. the type of dyes or 
mixture thereof used, type of binder used in the dye layer, type of  
 
image receiving material etc... As a consequence thereof it may be necessary to use dye donor 
elements that vary in constitution from one application to another. 
For example, a different type of dye donor element might be used 
with an opaque image receiving material than with a transparent 
receiving material. Furthermore, it will generally be necessary to apply corrections 
to the image data before these data are used to obtain an image of 
high
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal printing system including a printer which uses a dye 
donor element having one or more dye frames and a receiver which 

receives dyes from said dye frames, said printer including a print 
head, means for moving said dye donor element and receiver along 

respective paths so as to move a dye frame and the receiver relative 
to the print head such that as the print head is activated, dye from 

a dye frame is transferred to the receiver to form an image thereon 
characterized in that detecting means are provided for indentifying 

type of dye donor element and type of dye frame, said detecting 
means comprising: 


a first light source disposed adjacent to the path of the dye 
donor element for illuminating a dye frame of the dye donor element 
two further light sources positioned in sequence and disposed 
adjacent to the path of the dye donor element for illuminating 

repetitive detection areas occurring at a regular distance in a 
margin of the dye donor element, said detection areas being 

transparent or opaque for one or both light sources 
a first photodetector disposed adjacent to the path of the dye 
donor element and opposite to said first light source said first 

photodetector producing an electrical signal in response to the 
intensity of light emitted by said first light source and passing 

through said dye frame 
two further photodetectors positioned in sequence, disposed 
adjacent to the path of the dye donor element and each being 

opposite to one of said two further light sources, each of said two 
further photodetectors producing an electrical signal in response to 

the intensity of light emitted by the light source being opposite to 
it and passing through said detection areas 
each of said photodectors producing a logical signal when an 
intensity is detected above or below a threshold value set for said 

photodetector and 
means responsive to said logical signals of said photodetectors 
for identifying the type of dye frame and type of dye donor element. 
A thermal printing system according to claim 1 wherein said 
detecting means further comprises: 


a fourth light source for illuminating said detection areas 
disposed adjacent to path of the dye donor element and positioned in 

sequence with the two other light sources for illuminating the 
 

detection areas 
a fourth photodetector disposed adjacent to the path of the dye 
donor element and positioned opposite to said fourth light source, 

said fourth photodetector producing an electrical signal in response 
to the intensity of light emitted by the fourth light source being 

opposite to it and passing through said detection areas 
said fourth photodector producing a logical signal when an 
intensity is detected above or below a threshold value set for said 

fourth photodetector and 
 
wherein means are provided responsive to the logical signals of all 

four photodetectors for identifying the type of dye donor element 
and type of dye frame. 
A thermal printing system according to claim 1 wherein one of 
said two light sources for illuminating said detection areas emit 

light of different frequency. 
A thermal printing system according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein 
said print head includes a plurality of selectively energizable 

heating elements. 
A method for printing an image using a printing system as defined 
in claim 1 comprising
 the steps of: 

advancing the dye donor element until the logical signals provided 
by the photodetectors being opposite to the light sources for 

illuminating the detection areas are the same and match a 
predetermined logical signal, 
subsequently using the logical signal provided by the 
photodetector opposite to the light source for illuminating the dye 

frame for detecting the type of dye donor element and 
printing an image taking into account the detected type of dye 
donor element. 
A method for printing an image using a thermal printing system as 
defined in claim 2 comprising the steps of: 


advancing the dye donor element until the same logical signals 
matching a predetermined logical are provided by the two 

photodetectors being opposite to the light sources illuminating the 
detection areas and which photodetectors are not adjacent to each 

other, 
subsequently using the logical signal of the photodetector 
 

inbetween said two photodetectors and the logical signal provided by 
the photodetector being opposite to the light source for 

illuminating a dye frame to detect the type of dye donor element and 
printing an image taking into account the detected type of dye 
donor element. 
A method for printing an image using a thermal printing systems 
as defined in claim 3 comprising the steps of: 


advancing the dye donor element until one of the photodetectors 
opposite to the light sources for illuminating the detection areas 

yields a logical signal that matches a predetermined logical signal, 
using the logical signals of the other two photodetectors to 
determine the type of dye donor element and 
printing an image taking into account the detected type of dye 
donor element. 
A dye donor element for use in a thermal printing system using 
light sources for detecting said dye donor element, comprising one 

or more dye frames and at least two repetitive detection areas 
occurring at a regular distance and being either transparent or 

opaque to light emitted by said light sources . 
A dye donor element according to claim 8 containing three 
detection areas. 
A dye donor element according to claim 8 wherein said dye donor 
element contains two repetitive detection areas one of said 

detection areas being transparent or opaque to light emitted by said 
light sources and the other detection area being transparent, opaque 

or only opaque to light emitted by one light source but not to light 
emitted by another light source. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
