<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649478</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PRODUCING STEEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C21C500	C21C528	C21C528	C21C530	C21C535	C21C552	C21C556	C21C700	C21C700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C21C	C21C	C21C	C21C	C21C	C21C	C21C	C21C	C21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C21C5	C21C5	C21C5	C21C5	C21C5	C21C5	C21C5	C21C7	C21C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A steel making process is disclosed that utilizes solid ferrous metallic material as a substantial part of the metallic charge and uses heat released by combustion of two different types of carbonaceous materials and steel scrap (4) that have been strategically charged inside of at least a partially refractory lined steel making vessel (1). One of the carbonaceous materials contains a high content of volatile hydrocarbons and is primarily responsible for early preheating and partial melting of the solid ferrous material. The second carbonaceous material contains a low content of volatile hydrocarbons and is primarily responsible for providing a reducing capability to the slag, for carburizing the melt and for providing additional heat generated by combustion which is used to enhance heating and melting of solid ferrous materials.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAPTECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAPTECH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AIZATULOV RAFIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALPERIN GRIGORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GITMAN GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRENADER IAKOV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSTOV BORIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AIZATULOV, RAFIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALPERIN, GRIGORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GITMAN, GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRENADER, IAKOV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSTOV, BORIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR PRODUCING STEELThis application is a continuation-in-part of application serial No. 07/889,018, filed May 26, 1992.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to a method of steelmaking in a furnace having at least partially refractory lined walls, particularly in basic oxygen and electric arc furnaces processing a metallic charge. The invention can be used to produce steel from an entire solid ferrous metallic charge or when liquid ferrous metallic material is also charged as a part of ferrous metallic material. The solid metallic charge can be comprised of different types of ferrous materials such as steel scrap, pig iron, direct reduced iron in form of pellets, lumps or briquettes, etc.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONKnown steelmaking processes for processing a solid ferrous charge consist of certain generic steps such as: charging solid ferrous metallic materials, directing heat toward the surface of charged metallic pieces, charging slag-forming material, superheating and refining the molten pool and discharging the molten metal and slag.The different steelmaking processes are distinct due to essential differences in the techniques of conducting one or more of these steps. The known steelmaking processes are also distinct due to essential cross- dependence and cross-influences of these steps. In many cases, to maintain the competitiveness of a steelmaking process, these steps are carefully optimized with respect to each other, so that an innovation in one process step or parameter may require a substantial alteration of traditional engineering philosophy that has been previously used to design one or more of the basic steelmaking steps. 

 The processes of metallic scrap melting that are used to produce molten steel are varied based on the source or sources of heat which are used to accomplish the melting. Modern electric arc furnaces are capable of transferring, in a very short time, more than 250 kwh/ton of thermal energy into the scrap to be melted. But the high cost of electricity and low thermal efficiency of these furnaces (less than 50%) continuously motivates the steelmaking industry to develop new steelmaking processes which utilizes less expensive heat from the combustion of fuel to preheat and melt scrap.For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,622,007 and 4,642,047 teach how to melt steel by using a plurality of burners as an energy source to preheat scrap and then to direct multiple oxidizing flames toward the preheated scrap to melt it down by partial oxidation. This method is utilized
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS :
1. A method of preheating a solid ferrous metallic material wherein the solid ferrous metallic material may be more efficiently used in steelmaking, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) tapping an initial molten ferrous metallic product;
(b) adding additional materials to the tapped product to deoxidize the tapped product and to increase the content of at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component, thereby converting the tapped product into an intermediate liquid ferrous metallic semi-product; (c) introducing the solid ferrous metallic material into a steelmaking furnace;
(d) introducing the liquid ferrous metallic semi¬ product into the steelmaking furnace to partially preheat the solid ferrous metallic material; and
(e) introducing into the steelmaking furnace and combusting a fuel material and oxidizing and combusting the fuel material with the oxidizing gas to add additional heat to preheat the solid ferrous metallic material.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component is selected from the group consisting of silicon, manganese, carbon, aluminum, and combinations thereof.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the fuel material is a carbonaceous material.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the fuel material is a carbonaceous material. 


5. A method of creating an intermediate liquid ferrous metallic semi-product useful for providing hot iron to be used in a steel making process comprising the following steps: (a) introducing a first basic slag forming material into the furnace;
(b) then charging a first solid carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons;
(c) then charging a first solid ferrous metallic material into the furnace;
(d) preheating at least a part of the first solid ferrous metallic material to produce a first preheated solid ferrous metallic material by a process comprising the substeps of: i. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward the charged solid ferrous metallic material with a lancing means having a tip for directing the flow of oxidizing gas, wherein the tip is positioned above the first solid ferrous metallic material; and ii. essentially simultaneously with the blowing substep, charging continually on top of the first solid ferrous metallic material a controllable amount of a second solid carbonaceous fuel material including a higher average concentration of volatile hydrocarbons than the first solid carbonaceous material; wherein the second solid carbonaceous fuel material is at least partially combusted to preheat the first solid ferrous metallic material;
(e) then burning a first portion of the first preheated ferrous metallic material in a central zone of the furnace to release additional heat to melt at least a second portion of the first preheated solid ferrous metallic material 


 located in an area remote from the central zone, while protecting the second portion of the first preheated solid ferrous metallic material from oxidation; (f) accumulating a first molten ferrous metal at the bottom of the furnace; (g) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating the accumulated first molten ferrous material above the melting point by a process including the substeps of: i. charging additional basic slag forming material into the furnace; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with the lancing means; (h) tapping off the first molten ferrous metal and at least a part of the resulting slag material after the desired tap temperature is reached; (i) adding first intermediate liquid metal additions to the first molten ferrous metal to deoxidize the first molten ferrous metal and to increase the silicon and carbon content thereof, thereby creating the intermediate liquid ferrous metallic semi-product.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the first molten ferrous metallic material is tapped essentially separately from the resulting slag.
7. A method of creating a secondary intermediate liquid ferrous metallic semi-product useful for providing hot iron to be used in a steel making process, the method comprising the following steps: (a) adding a second solid ferrous metallic charge to the intermediate liquid ferrous metallic semi- product of claim 5 to produce a second molten ferrous metal; 


 (b) tapping at least a portion of the second molten ferrous metal; and
(c) adding second intermediate liquid metal additions to the tapped portion of the second molten ferrous metal adding additional materials to the tapped product to deoxidize the tapped product and to increase the concentration of at least one element selected from the group consisting of silicon, carbon, manganese, and aluminum, thereby forming the secondary intermediate liquid ferrous metallic semi¬ product.
8. A method of steelmaking, conducted in an at least partially refractory-lined furnace, comprising the steps of:
(a) charging a charge of solid ferrous metallic material into the furnace;
(b) preheating said solid ferrous metallic material by a process comprising the substeps of: i. charging into the furnace a hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product comprising molten product tapped from a previous heat to which additives have been added to deoxidize the tapped product and to increase the content of at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component; ii. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward said solid ferrous metallic material with a lancing means having a tip for directing the flow of oxidizing gas, wherein the tip is positioned above said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the previous step; and iii. essentially simultaneously with said blowing substep, charging continually on top of said solid ferrous metallic material 



 a controllable amount of a solid carbonaceous material comprising volatile hydrocarbons, wherein said solid carbonaceous material is at least partially combusted to preheat the said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the previous step;
(c) then burning a first portion of the preheated ferrous metallic material in a central zone of the furnace to release additional heat to melt at least a second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material while protecting said second portion from oxidation, thereby creating a second molten ferrous metallic material and wherein the burning step further comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; and ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace;
(d) accumulating a mixture comprising partially oxidized first hot molten ferrous metallic material and the second molten metallic material at the bottom of the furnace; (e) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating said accumulated mixture up to a predetermined tap temperature by a process including the substeps of: i. charging a first charge of basic slag- forming material, thereby forming a slag; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with said lancing means to produce a partially refined molten ferrous product; and
(f) tapping off the at least partially refined molten ferrous product and at least a part of 


 the slag after the desired tap temperature is reached.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component is selected from the group consisting of silicon, manganese, carbon, aluminum, and combinations thereof.
10. The method of claim 8 wherein, in the preheating step, the substeps of blowing and of charging the carbonaceous material precede the substep of charging the hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product.
11. The method of claim 8 wherein, in the preheating step, the substep of charging the hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product precedes the substeps of blowing and of charging the carbonaceous material.
12. The method of claim 9 wherein, in the preheating step, the substeps of blowing and of charging the carbonaceous material precede the substep of charging the hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein, in the preheating step, the substep of charging the hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product precedes the substeps of blowing and of charging the carbonaceous material.
14. A method of steelmaking, conducted in an at least partially refractory-lined furnace, comprising the steps of:
(a) introducing a first basic slag forming material into the furnace;
(b) then charging a first solid carbonaceous material including volatile hydrocarbons; 


(c) then charging on top of previously charged materials at least a fraction of a solid ferrous metallic material;
(d) then preheating at least a part of said fraction of the metallic material charged in the preceding step by a process comprising the substeps of: i. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward said charged solid ferrous metallic material with a lancing means having a tip for directing the flow of oxidizing gas, wherein the tip is positioned above said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the preceding step; and ii. essentially simultaneously with said blowing substep, charging continually on top of said solid ferrous metallic material a controllable amount of at least a second solid carbonaceous fuel material including a higher average concentration of volatile hydrocarbons than said first solid carbonaceous material; wherein said second solid carbonaceous fuel material is at least partially combusted to preheat the fraction of said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the preceding step;
(e) then burning a first portion of the preheated ferrous metallic material in a central zone of the furnace to release additional heat to melt at least a second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material located in an area remote from the central zone, while protecting said second portion from oxidation; (f) accumulating molten ferrous metal at the bottom of the furnace; 


 (g) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating said accumulated molten ferrous material above the melting point by a process including the substeps of: i. charging additional basic slag forming material into the furnace; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with said lancing means; (h) charging into the furnace a hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product comprising molten product tapped from a previous heat to which additives have been added to deoxidize the tapped product and to increase the content of at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component, wherein the first hot molten ferrous metallic material is charged earlier than the step of charging the additional basic slag-forming materials but later than the first charging of at least a portion of the solid ferrous material; and
(i) tapping off said molten ferrous metal and at least a part of a resulting slag material after the desired tap temperature is reached.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component is selected from the group consisting of silicon, manganese, carbon, aluminum, and combinations thereof.
16. A method of steelmaking, conducted in an at least partially refractory-lined furnace equipped with an electrical heating means, comprising the steps of: (a) charging a charge of solid ferrous metallic material into the furnace; (b) preheating said solid ferrous metallic material by a process comprising the substeps of: 


 i. charging into the f rnace a hot molten ferrous metallic semi-product comprising molten product tapped from a previous heat to which additives have been added to deoxidize the tapped product and to increase the content of at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component; ii. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward said solid ferrous metallic material with the lancing means; and iii. essentially simultaneously with said blowing substep, charging continually on top of said solid ferrous metallic material a controllable amount of a solid carbonaceous material comprising volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the volatile hydrocarbons are at least partially combusted to preheat said solid ferrous metallic material charged in said step of charging solid ferrous metallic material;
(c) melting the solid ferrous metallic material by introducing heat energy from the electrical heating means;
(d) accumulating molten ferrous metallic material at the bottom of the furnace;
(e) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating said accumulated molten ferrous metallic material up to a predetermined tap temperature by a process including the substeps of: i. charging a first charge of basic slag- forming materials, thereby forming a slag; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with said lancing means to produce a partially refined molten ferrous product, wherein the lancing means has a tip for directing the 


 oxidizing gas and said tip is positioned above the accumulated molten ferrous metallic material; and (f) tapping off the partially refined molten ferrous product and at least a part of the slag after the desired tap temperature is reached.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the at least one oxidizable non-ferrous component is selected from the group consisting of silicon, manganese, carbon, aluminum, and combinations thereof.
18. A method of steelmaking, conducted in an at least partially refractory-lined furnace, comprising the steps of:
(a) introducing a first basic slag forming material into the furnace;
(b) then charging a first solid carbonaceous material including volatile hydrocarbons;
(c) then charging on top of previously charged materials at least a fraction of a solid ferrous metallic material;
(d) then preheating at least a part of said fraction of the metallic material charged in the preceding step by a process comprising the substeps of: i. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward said charged solid ferrous metallic material with a lancing means having a tip for directing the flow of oxidizing gas, wherein the tip is positioned above said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the preceding step; and ii. essentially simultaneously with said blowing substep, charging continually on 


 top of said solid ferrous metallic material a controllable amount of at least a second solid carbonaceous fuel material including a higher average concentration of volatile hydrocarbons than said first solid carbonaceous material; wherein said second solid carbonaceous fuel material is at least partially combusted to preheat the fraction of said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the preceding step;
(e) then burning a first portion of the preheated ferrous metallic material in a central zone of the furnace to release additional heat to melt at least a second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material located in an area remote from the central zone, while protecting said second portion from oxidation;
(f) accumulating molten ferrous metal at the bottom of the furnace; (g) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating said accumulated molten ferrous material above the melting point by a process including the substeps of: i. charging additional basic slag forming material into the furnace; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with said lancing means; and (h) tapping off said molten ferrous metal and at least a part of a resulting slag material after the desired tap temperature is reached.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein steps (c) and (d) are repeated in sequence a plurality of times prior to performing step (e). 


20. The method of claim 20, wherein steps (c), (d), and (e) are repeated a plurality of times in sequence prior to performing step (f).
21. The method of claim 18 wherein the first basic slag forming material is introduced in solid form on the top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
22. The method of claim 19 wherein the first basic slag forming material is introduced in solid form on the top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
23. The method of claim 20 wherein the first basic slag forming material is introduced in solid form on the top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
24. The method of claim 18 wherein said solid ferrous metallic material comprises more than one batch and wherein at least one of said batches has a different material characteristic than the other batch and wherein the material characteristic is selected from the group consisting of bulk density, carbon content, silicon content, manganese content and combinations thereof.
25. The method of claim 19 wherein said solid ferrous metallic material comprises more than one batch and wherein at least one of said batches has a different material characteristic than the other batch and wherein the material characteristic is selected from the group consisting of bulk density, carbon content, silicon content, manganese content and combinations thereof. 


26. The method of claim 20 wherein said solid ferrous metallic material comprises more than one batch and wherein at least one of said batches has a different material characteristic than the other batch and wherein the material characteristic is selected from the group consisting of bulk density, carbon content, silicon content, manganese content and combinations thereof.
27. The method of claim 18 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material.
28. The method of claim 19 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material.
29. The method of claim 20 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: 


 i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material.
30. The method of claim 21 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher
^
average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material.
31. The method of claim 22 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material. 


32. The method of claim 23 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material.
33. The method of claim 24 wherein the burning step comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace; and iii. continually charging additional controlled amounts of at least a third carbonaceous fuel material including volatile hydrocarbons in a higher average concentration than in said first solid carbonaceous material.
34. The method of claim 18 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
35. The method of claim 19 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials. 


36. The method of claim 20 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
37. The method of claim 27 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
38. The method of claim 28 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
39. The method of claim 29 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
40. The method of claim 30 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
41. The method of claim 31 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials. 


42. The method of claim 32 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
43. The method of claim 33 wherein an intermediate slag is formed, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the additional basic slag-forming materials.
44. The method of claim 18 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of oxidizing gas.
45. The method of claim 19 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of oxidizing gas.
46. The method of claim 20 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of oxidizing gas.
47. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
48. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
49. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating. 


50. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
51. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
52. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
53. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of charging a molten ferrous material earlier than the step of charging the additional basic slag-forming materials but later than the first charging of at least a portion of the solid ferrous material.
54. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of charging a molten ferrous material earlier than the step of charging the additional basic slag-forming materials but later than the first charging of at least a portion of the solid ferrous material.
55. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of charging a molten ferrous material earlier than the step of charging the additional basic slag-forming materials but later than the first charging of at least a portion of the solid ferrous material.
56. The method of any one of claims 18, 19, 20 or 21 wherein products of incomplete combustion generated by substoichiometric oxidation of carbonaceous material charged outside the central zone of the 


 furnace protect the second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material from oxidation.
57. The method of any one of claims 18, 19, 20 or 21 wherein additional carbonaceous material is added continually into the furnace to regulate slag oxidation and slag level in the furnace.
58. The method of any one of claims 18, 19, 20 or 21 wherein additional carbonaceous material is added continually into the furnace to regulate slag oxidation and slag level in the furnace and wherein products of incomplete combustion generated by substoichiometric oxidation of carbonaceous material charged outside the central zone of the furnace protect the second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material from oxidation.
59. A method of steelmaking, conducted in an at least partially refractory-lined furnace, comprising the steps of:
(a) charging a charge of solid ferrous metallic material into the furnace;
(b) preheating said solid ferrous metallic material by a process comprising the substeps of: i. charging a first hot molten ferrous metallic material into the furnace; ii. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward said solid ferrous metallic material with a lancing means having a tip for directing the flow of oxidizing gas, wherein the tip is positioned above said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the previous step; and iii. essentially simultaneously with said blowing substep, charging continually on top of said solid ferrous metallic material 


 a controllable amount of a solid carbonaceous material comprising volatile hydrocarbons, wherein said solid carbonaceous material is at least partially combusted to preheat the said solid ferrous metallic material charged in the previous step;
(c) then burning a first portion of the preheated ferrous metallic material in a central zone of the furnace to release additional heat to melt at least a second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material while protecting said second portion from oxidation, thereby creating a second molten ferrous metallic material and wherein the burning step further comprises the substeps of: i. directing the flow of oxidizing gas towards a central zone of the furnace; and ii. moving the tip of the lancing means closer to the bottom of the furnace;
(d) accumulating a mixture comprising partially oxidized first hot molten ferrous metallic material and the second molten metallic material at the bottom of the furnace; (e) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating said accumulated mixture up to a predetermined tap temperature by a process including the substeps of: i. charging a first charge of basic slag- forming material, thereby forming a slag; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with said lancing means to produce a partially refined molten ferrous product; and
(f) tapping off the at least partially refined molten ferrous product and at least a part of 


 the slag after the desired tap temperature is reached.
60. The method of claim 59 wherein, in the preheating step, the substeps of blowing and of charging the carbonaceous material precede the substep of charging the first hot molten ferrous metallic material.
61. The method of claim 59 wherein, in the preheating step, the substep of charging the first hot molten ferrous metallic material precedes the substeps of blowing and of charging the carbonaceous material.
62. The method of claim 59 wherein steps (a) and (b) are repeated in sequence a plurality of times prior to performing step (c).
63. The method of claim 60 wherein steps (a) and (b) are repeated in sequence a plurality of times prior to performing step (c).
64. The method of claim 61 wherein steps (a) and (b) are repeated in sequence a plurality of times prior to performing step (c).
65. The method of claim 60 wherein steps (a), (b), and (c) are repeated in sequence a plurality of times prior to performing step (d) .
66. The method of claim 61 wherein steps (a), (b), and (c) are repeated in sequence a plurality of times prior to performing step (d).
67. The method of claim 60 further comprising the step of charging a second slag-forming material prior to the charging of the solid ferrous metallic material. 


68. The method of claim 61 further comprising the step of charging a second slag-forming material prior to the charging of the solid ferrous metallic material.
69. The method of claim 63 further comprising the step of charging a second slag-forming material prior to the charging of the solid ferrous metallic material.
70. The method of claim 64 further comprising the step of charging a second slag-forming material prior to the charging of the solid ferrous metallic material.
71. The method of claim 65 further comprising the step of charging a second slag-forming material prior to the charging of the solid ferrous metallic material.
72. The method of claim 66 further comprising the step of charging a second slag-forming material prior to the charging of the solid ferrous metallic material.
73. The method of claim 60 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
74. The method of claim 61 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts 


 of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
75. The method of claim 63 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged voatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
76. The method of claim 64 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
77. The method of claim 65 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
78. The method of claim 66 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged 


 volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
79. The method of claim 67 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
80. The method of claim 68 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
81. The method of claim 69 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material of materials being charged. 


82. The method of claim 70 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
83. The method of claim 71 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
84. The method of claim 72 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the preheating step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
85. The method of claim 60 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of 


 the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
86. The method of claim 61 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
87. The method of claim 63 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
88. The method of claim 64 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
89. The method of claim 65 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged 


 volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
90. The method of claim 66 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
91. The method of claim 67 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
92. The method of claim 68 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged. 


93. The method of claim 69 wherein the
*
carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material of materials being charged.
94. The method of claim 70 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
95. The method of claim 71 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
96. The method of claim 72 wherein the carbonaceous material comprises controllable amounts of two types of substances containing different concentrations of volatile hydrocarbons, wherein the ratio of charged volatile hydrocarbons to solid carbon provided with the carbonaceous material is controlled during the burning step by controlling the relative amounts of 


 the two types of substances comprising the carbonaceous material being charged.
97. The method of claim 67 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
98. The method of claim 68 wherein the second slag- forming is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
99. The method of claim 69 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
100. The method of claim 70 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
101. The method of claim 71 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
102. The method of claim 72 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
103. The method of claim 79 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top 


 of hot residual slag that has been
"
at least partially retained from a previous heat.
104. The method of claim 80 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
105. The method of claim 81 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
106. The method of claim 82 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
107. The method of claim 83 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
108. The method of claim 84 wherein the second slag- forming material is introduced in solid form on top of hot residual slag that has been at least partially retained from a previous heat.
109. The method of claim 60 wherein an intermediate slag is formed with the addition of the first charge of basic slag-forming materials, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the first basic slag-forming material. 


110. The method of claim 61 wherein an intermediate slag is formed with the addition of the first charge of basic slag-forming materials, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the first basic slag-forming material.
111. The method of claim 63 wherein an intermediate slag is formed with the addition of the first charge of basic slag-forming materials, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the first basic slag-forming material.
112. The method of claim 64 wherein an intermediate slag is formed with the addition of the first charge of basic slag-forming materials, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the first basic slag-forming material.
113. The method of claim 65 wherein an intermediate slag is formed with the addition of the first charge of basic slag-forming materials, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the introduction of the first basic slag-forming material.
114. The method of claim 66 wherein an intermediate slag is formed with the addition of the first charge of basic slag-forming materials, and the method further comprises a step of partially discharging the intermediate slag prior to the completion of the 


 introduction of the first basic slag-forming material.
115. The method of claim 60 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
116. The method of claim 61 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
117. The method of claim 73 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
118. The method of claim 74 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
119. The method of claim 85 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
120. The method of claim 86 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
121. The method of claim 97 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas.
122. The method of claim 98 wherein an extra ferrous material is charged essentially simultaneously with the blowing of the oxidizing gas. 


123. The method of claim 60 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
124. The method of claim 61 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
125.. The method of claim 73 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
126. The method of claim 74 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
127. The method of claim 85 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
128. The method of claim 86 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
129. The method of claim 97 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
130. The method of claim 98 further comprising a step of charging an additional material containing manganese during the step of refining and superheating.
131. The method of claim 60 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials. 


132. The method of claim 61 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
133. The method of claim 73 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
134. The method of claim 74 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
135. The method of claim 85 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
136. The method of claim 86 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
137. The method of claim 97 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
138. The method of claim 98 further comprising a step of introducing electrical energy at least during the step of refining and superheating to add additional heat to the ferrous materials.
139. The method of any one of claims 60, 61, 73, 74, 85, 86, 97, 98, 131, or 132 wherein products of 


 incomplete combustion generated by" substoichiometric oxidation of carbonaceous material charged outside the central zone of the furnace protect the second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material from oxidation.
140. The method of any one of claims 60 or 61 wherein additional carbonaceous material is added continually into the furnace to regulate slag oxidation and slag level in the furnace.
141. The method of any one of claims 60, 61, 73, 74, 85, 86, 97, 98, 131, or 132 wherein additional carbonaceous material is added continually into the furnace to regulate slag oxidation and slag level in the furnace and wherein products of incomplete combustion generated by substoichiometric oxidation of carbonaceous material charged outside the central zone of the furnace protect the second portion of the preheated solid ferrous metallic material from oxidation.
142. A method of steelmaking, conducted in an at least partially refractory-lined furnace equipped with an electrical heating means, comprising the steps of:
(a) charging a charge of solid ferrous metallic material into the furnace;
(b) preheating said solid ferrous metallic material by a process comprising the substeps of: i. blowing a controllable flow of oxidizing gas toward said solid ferrous metallic material with the lancing means; and ii. essentially simultaneously with said blowing substep, charging continually on top of said solid ferrous metallic material a controllable amount of a solid carbonaceous material comprising volatile 


 hydrocarbons, wherein the volatile hydrocarbons are at least partially combusted to preheat said solid ferrous metallic material charged in said step of charging solid ferrous metallic material;
(c) melting the solid ferrous metallic material by introducing heat energy from the electrical heating means;
(d) accumulating molten ferrous metallic material at the bottom of the furnace;
(e) at least partially refining and at least partially superheating said accumulated molten ferrous metallic material up to a predetermined tap temperature by a process including the substeps of: i. charging a first charge of basic slag- forming materials, thereby forming a slag; and ii. blowing additional oxidizing gas with said lancing means to produce a partially refined molten ferrous product, wherein the lancing means has a tip for directing the oxidizing gas and said tip is positioned above the accumulated molten ferrous metallic material; and
(f) tapping off the partially refined molten ferrous product and at least a part of the slag after the desired tap temperature is reached.
143. The method of claim 142 and further comprising an additional step of charging hot molten iron prior to the completion of the melting step. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
