<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615788</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Retroreflective article clear coats.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05D506	B05D506	B60R1300	B60R1310	C09D17504	C09D17504	G02B110	G02B110	G02B512	G02B5124	G02B5128	G09F302	G09F302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05D	B05D	B60R	B60R	C09D	C09D	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05D5	B05D5	B60R13	B60R13	C09D175	C09D175	G02B1	G02B1	G02B5	G02B5	G02B5	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for forming clear coats on retroreflective 
articles utilizing an aqueous coating composition 

comprising water, water-borne dispersion of polyurethane, 
and cross-linker, and optionally acrylic emulsion. Also 

retroreflective articles formed according to the method and 
a preferred liquid coating composition for use in the 

method and in making the articles. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORENSTEEN BRUCE D C O MINNESOT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATKINS ROBERT F C O MINNESOTA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWACK JOSEPH R C O MINNESOTA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORENSTEEN, BRUCE D., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATKINS, ROBERT F., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWACK, JOSEPH R., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for 
forming a protective clear coat on retroreflective 
articles such as license plates, signs, etc. The 
invention also relates to articles produced by the 
method. The invention also relates to a class of 
coating compositions useful in forming protective clear 
coats on retroreflective articles. Coating compositions for formation of 
transparent clear coats on retroreflective sheetings 
have been used for some time. For example, liquid 
coating compositions have been used to form a clear 
coat on license plates after graphics have been applied 
to the face of the plate and to form a clear coat on 
retroreflective sheetings prior to application of 
graphics thereto. The clear coats are sometimes used 
to complete the optical relationships desired for 
optimal retroreflective efficiency. They are also 
sometimes used to protect underlying elements of the 
construction from environmental degradation by blocking 
ultraviolet radiation and sealing out moisture. It is 
typically desirable that the clear coat resist abrasion 
during shipping and handling (e.g., during plate or 
sign manufacture), resist abrasion due to sand and 
gravel, protect the article from degradation due to 
cleaning agents, withstand degradation due to insect 
and dirt accumulation, and resist yellowing upon aging 
and/or exposure to ambient conditions, e.g., weather 
and ultraviolet exposure. Many previously known coating compositions 
contain substantial quantities of organic solvents, 
e.g., xylene and butanol. Because these solvents are 
released to the ambient atmosphere during coating and 
drying operations, thereby presenting a pollution 
source and environmental hazard, complex and expensive  
 
environmental control systems must often be used. 
Their odor is considered objectionable and they also 
present a fire hazard. In some instances such as validation stickers, 
it is desirable to provide the clear coat over the 
individual or vehicle specific information to protect 
the information. Thus, many issuing authorities would 
prefer to have the clear coat applied after the 
individual information is printed on the base sheet. 
Some liquid compositions, however, contain solvents 
that can undesirably degrade a retroreflective base 
sheet, e.g., causing it to wrinkle or warp, lose 
structural integrity or strength, or exhibit reduced 
dimensional stability. This problem can be exacerbated 
because many validation stickers are made in flimsy, 
readily tearable form so as to inhibit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for forming a retroreflective article 
with a clear coat, said method characterized in that it 

comprises: 

a) providing a base sheet comprising reflecting elements; 
b) providing a clear coat formed from an aqueous coating 
composition comprising a water-borne dispersion of 

polyurethane, said clear coat being at least 10 
microns thick; and 
c) adhering said clear coat to said base sheet. 
The method of claim 1 further characterized in 
one of the following: 


a) said base sheet and said clear coat are first formed 
and then are laminated together; or 
b) said clear coat is first formed and then said base 
sheet is formed thereon; or 
c) said base sheet is first formed and then said clear 
coat is formed thereon. 
The method of claim 1 or 2 further characterized in 
that said coating composition further comprises an acrylic 

emulsion. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 further characterized in 
that said coating composition further comprises 

crosslinker. 
The method of claim 4 further characterized in 
that said crosslinker comprises at least one of melamine or 

aziridine. 
The method of claim 4 further characterized in 
at least one of the following: 


a) said crosslinker is melamine and said composition 
comprises between about 9 and about 11 weight percent 

melamine, based on resin solids; or 
b) said crosslinker is aziridine and said composition 
comprises between about 3 and about 9 weight percent 

aziridine, based on resin solids. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said coating 
composition consists essentially of water, a water-borne 

dispersion of polyurethane, and crosslinker. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 7 further characterized in 
at least one of the following: 


a) said clear coat is at least about 25 microns thick; or 
b) said clear coat is at least about 50 microns thick. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 8 further characterized in 
at least one of the following: 


a) said coating composition as applied has a volatile 
organics content of less than about 420 grams/liter; 

or 
b) said coating composition as applied has a volatile 
organics content of less than about 180 grams/liter; 

or 
c) said coating composition has a flash point of at least 
140°F; or 
d) said coating composition has a flash point of at least 
200°F. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 9 further characterized in 
that said coating composition further comprises at least 

one of the following: catalyst, ultraviolet absorber, 
ultraviolet stabilizer, mar agent, surfactant, antifoamant, 

rheology modifier, anti-skinning agent, leveling agent, 
coloring agent, rust inhibitor, thickener, flow agent, or 

biocide. 
The method of claim 1 further characterized in 
that said coating composition is free of catalyst. 
The method of claim 1 further characterized in 
that said coating composition comprises, in parts by 

 
weight: 


a) from about 20 to 98 parts of an aqueous dispersion of 
polyurethane that comprises between about 48.6 and 

53.5 parts of water, between about 33 and 36 parts of 
aliphatic polyurethane, between about 8.5 and 16.8 

parts of N-methylpyrrolidone, between about 1.6 and 
2.0 parts of triethylamine; 
b) up to 20 parts of an aqueous solution of melamine 
crosslinker or up to 4 parts of an aqueous aziridine 

crosslinker; 
c) up to 4.0 more parts of N-methyl pyrrolidone; 
d) up to 2.0 parts of ultraviolet stabilizer; 
e) up to 3.0 of ultraviolet absorber; 
f) up to 0.2 part of surfactant; 
g) up to 1.0 part of antifoamant; and 
h) water. 
The method of claim 12 further characterized in 
that said coating composition further comprises up to 80 

parts by weight of acrylic emulsion. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 13 further characterized in 
at least one of the following: 


a) further comprises applying a graphic to said base 
sheet prior to applying said coating composition 

thereto; or 
b) said method further comprises applying a graphic 
pattern to the external surface of said clear coat 

after said clear coat is formed; or 
c) said base sheet is embossed prior to applying said 
coating composition thereto; or 
d) said base sheet is embossed after applying said 
coating composition thereto. 
A retroreflective article comprising a clear 
coat formed according to the method of any of claims 1 to 14. 
The article of claim 15 further characterized 
in at least one of the following: 
a) said article is a sign; or 
b) said article is a license plate; or 
c) said article is a sticker. 
A retroreflective article characterized in that 
it comprises: 


a) a base sheet comprising a monolayer of reflective 
elements; and 
b) a clear coat formed from a water-borne dispersion of 
polyurethane, said clear coat being in the optical 

path of the retroreflective article, said clear coat 
being at least 10 microns thick. 
The article of claim 17 further characterized 
in that said article exhibits higher retroreflective 

brightness than did said base sheet without said clear coat 
in place. 
The article of claim 17 or 18 further characterized 
in at least one of the following: 


a) said clear coat is at least 25 microns thick; or 
b) said clear coat is at least 50 microns thick. 
The article of any of claims 17 to 19 further characterized 
in that said clear coat was formed from a coating 

composition comprising water, a water-borne dispersion of 
polyurethane, and crosslinker. 
The article of claim 20 further characterized 
in at least one of the following: 


a) said coating composition further comprised at least 
one of melamine crosslinker or aziridine crosslinker; 

or 
b) said clear coat further comprised an acrylic emulsion. 
A liquid composition for forming clear coats on 
retroreflective articles characterized in that said coating 

 
comprises a water-borne dispersion of polyurethane, 

crosslinker, acrylic emulsion; and ultraviolet absorber. 
The composition of claim 22 further 
characterized in that said composition comprises, in parts 

by weight: 

a) between about 20 and about 98 parts of aqueous 
polyurethane dispersion; 
b) up to about 20 parts of aqueous melamine crosslinker 
or up to about 4 parts of aqueous aziridine 

crosslinker; 
c) up to about 4.0 parts of N-methylpyrrolidone; 
d) between about 1 and about 80 parts of acrylic 
emulsion; 
e) up to about 2.0 parts of ultraviolet stabilizer; 
f) up to about 3.0 parts of ultraviolet absorber; 
g) up to about 2.0 parts of surfactant; 
h) up to about 1.0 part of antifoamant; and 
i) water. 
The composition of claim 23 further 
characterized in that said composition further comprises at 

least one of the following: catalyst, ultraviolet 
stabilizer, surfactant, mar agent, antifoamant, rheology 

modifier, anti-skinning agent, leveling agent, coloring 
agent, rust inhibitor, thickener, flow agent, or biocide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
