<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629329</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TELEPHONE NETWORK APPLICATION PLATFORM FOR SUPPORTING FACSIMILE APPLICATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M350	H04M353	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04N100	H04N100	H04N132	H04N132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04M11	H04M11	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A voice Telephone Network Application Platform (NAP) (10) is enhanced to manage facsimile messages, as well as voice messages, by the addition of facsimile functionality (103, 104) to the platform actuatable by high-level facsimile commands (160) from applications supported on the platform. The commands include sending and receiving facsimile messages. A PC facsimile processor (FP) (104), interfacing between the platform and the telephone network (12), stores facsimile messages received from the network and facsimile messages for transmission to the network on hard disk (181). A facsimile command (160) from an application is expanded into NAP commands (162) for controlling the platform and FP commands (161) for controlling the facsimile processor so as to perform the facsimile functionality associated with the facsimile command. A recovery process utilizing a Recovery Token prevents facsimile messages from becoming lost between receipt at the FP and storage in the platform.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNISYS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNISYS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDHAGEN BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEILEMAN DAVID W JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUESI FREDERICK C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RECANT MICHAEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDHAGEN, BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEILEMAN, DAVID, W., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUESI, FREDERICK, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RECANT, MICHAEL, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TELEPHONE NETWORK APPLICATION PLATFORM FOR SUPPORTING FACSIMILE APPLICATIONSPREFACEReferences in this Description to S.N. 521,210 are published in U.S. Patent 5,133,004 issued July 21, 1992. References in this Description to S.N. 514,783 are published in U.S. Patent 5,138,710 issued August 11, 1992.References in this Description to S.N. 503,195 are attached hereto as APPENDIX I.BACKGROUND OF INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe invention relates to providing facsimile (fax) services over the telephone network via application software for such services and involves a telephone network digital computer platform for supporting such application software. 

2. Description of the Prior ArtThe facsimile machine has become ubiquitous in present day communication for transmission of documents. Facsimile transmission over the Public Switched Telecommunications Network (PSTN) annually generates billions of dollars in toll revenues. A variety of facsimile related services and enhanced services are currently available, such as Call Answer, Fax Store and Forward, Fax Mailbox, and the like. Generally, such services are provided by dedicated systems specifically designed for the service and for the hardware environment in which the system will be deployed. Such systems tend to lack flexibility, in that desired changes in functionality often require extensive, and hence expensive, modifications to the application software. Additionally, application software for providing such services are not portable in that a change in hardware environment usually requires substantial application software re-writing. Although such systems are usually computer based, such systems can only perform the functions for which they were designed and, thus, cannot also be utilized to perform general purpose data processing. Also, such systems generally do not have access to data bases stored on general purpose computers. Additionally, if it is desired to provide a wide variety of services, utilization of a large number of dedicated systems tends to be prohibitively expensive.Since the divestiture, the Bell Operating Companies (BOCs) and Independent Telephone Companies (Telcos) have been seeking ways to increase the return on their primary asset; viz, the installed network. One source of increased revenue would be to offer new facsimile related services that integrate into, or interface with the existing network, resulting in greater utilization thereof. It is generally difficult for BOCs and Telcos to provide new services because network
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS 1. A telephone network application platform for interfacing between a telephone network and at least one facsimile application program, said platform comprising: digital computer means programmed to be operative to perform telephone network facsimile functionality in response to facsimile commands issued by said facsimile application program, said telephone network facsimile functionality residing in said computer means independent of said facsimile application program and actuatable in response to said facsimile commands, said facsimile commands including a Send Fax command and a Receive Fax 
*
 command, said telephone network facsimile functionality including sending a facsimile message to said network and receiving a facsimile message from said network in response to said Send Fax command and said Receive Fax command, respectively, application interface means coupled to receive said facsimile commands from said facsimile application program and responsive to said facsimile commands for actuating said telephone network facsimile functionality in response to and in accordance with said facsimile commands, said application interface means being responsive to said Send Fax command and said Receive Fax command from said facsimile application program for activating said telephone network facsimile functionality by causing a facsimile message to be sent to said network and causing a facsimile message to be received from said network in response to said Send Fax command and said Receive Fax command, respectively, and facsimile interface means coupled between said network and said computer means for conveying said facsimile messages therebetween. 


2. The platform of Claim 1 wherein said facsimile commands include a Poll and Recei Fax command, and said telephone network facsimile functionality includes sending a poll to a facsimile machine through said network and, in response to said poll, receiving a facsimile message from said facsimile machine through said nei rk in response to said Poll and Receive Fax command.
3. The platform of Claim 1 wherein said facsimile commands include a Send Fax after Poll command, and said telephone network facsimile functionality includes receiving a poll from a facsimile machine throu said network and, in response to said poll, sending a facsimile rr 3sage to said facsimile machine through said network in response to said Send Fax after Poll command.
4. The platform of Claim 1 further including platfo data storage means coupled to said computer means for storing said facsimile messages.
5. The platform of Claim 4 wherein said facsimile commands include a Create Fax command, and said telephone network facsimile functionality includes creating a facsimile message for storage in said platform data storage means in response to said Create Fax Message command by copying a message residing in a file of said facsimile application program into said platform data storage means. 


6. The platform of Claim 4 wherein said facsimile commands include a Get Fax command, and said telephone network facsimile functionality includes getting a facsimile message from said platform data storage means into a file of said facsimile application program in response to said Get Fax command by copying a message residing" in said platform data storage means into a file of said facsimile application program.
7. The platform of Claim 4 wherein said facsimile commands include a Send Fax from File command, and said telephone network facsimile functionality includes sending a facsimile message from a file external to said platform data storage means to said network in response to said Send Fax from File command.
8. The platform of Claim 4 wherein said facsimile interface means comprises facsimile processor (FP) means including FP storage means for storing said facsimile messages to be sent to said networ and said facsimile messages received from said network, said facsimile processor means being programmed to be operative to perform FP functionality in response to FP commands, said FP functionality including transmitting a facsimile message stored in said FP storage means to said network and storing a facsimile message received from said network in said FP storage means. 


9. The platform of Claim 8 wherein said application interface means includes facsimile server (FS) means responsive to said facsimile commands and operative to expand said facsimile commands into said FP commands and to issue said FP commands to said facsimile processor means for execution of said FP functionality in accordance therewith.
10. The platform of Claim 9 wherein said FP functionality includes answering an incoming call to said facsimile processor means and originating an outgoing call from said facsimile process means.
11. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include an AnswerRcv command, and said F
»
 functionality includes, in response to said AnswerRcv command, answering an incoming call to said facsimile processor means, receiving an incoming facsimile message over said incoming call and storing said incoming facsimile message in said FP storage means
12. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include an OriginateRcv command and said FP functionality includes, in response to said OriginateRcv command, originating a call to a specified phone number, polling over said originated call for a facsimile message, receiving a facsimile message over said originated call and storing said received facsimile message in said FP storage means. 


13. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include an OriginateXmit command, and said FP functionality includes, in response to said OriginateXmit command, originating a call to a specified phone number and transmitting a facsimile message from said FP storage means over said originated call.
14. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include an AnswerXmit command, and said FP functionality includes, in response to said AnswerXmit command, answering an incoming call and transmitting a facsimile message over said incoming call from said FP storage means when a poll is received over said incoming call.
15. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include a RemoveFile command, and said FP functionality includes deleting a specified facsimile message from said FP storage means in response to said RemoveFile command.
16. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include a SendFile command, and ' said FP functionality includes transferring a specified facsimile message from said facsimile server means to said FP storage means in response to said SendFile command. 


17. The platform of Claim 10 wherein said FP commands include a ReceiveFile command, and said FP functionality includes transferring a specified facsimile message from said FP storage means to said facsimile server means in response to said ReceiveFile command.
18. The platform of Claim 9 wherein said facsimile processor means comprises a personal computer, and said FP storage means comprises a personal computer hard disk drive.
19. The pJ tform of Claim 10 wherein said facsimile processor means includes FP ports through which said facsimile messages conveyed etween said FP storage means and said network are transmitted. 

20. The platform of Claim 19 further including network interface means (NIU) having NIU ports coupled to said network, to said computer means and to said FP ports, and wherein said platform interfaces between said telephone network and one or more application programs requiring voice functionality, facsimile functionality and call connectivity functionality, said digital computer means is programmed to be operative to perform telephone network functionality in response to commands issued by said application programs, said telephone network functionality residing in said computer means independent of said application programs and actuatable in response to said commands, said application interface means is coupled between said application programs and said computer means and responsive to said commands from said application programs for actuating said telephone network functionality in response to and in accordance with said commands, said commands include NAP cail connectivity commands, NAP voice commands and said facsimile commands, said telephone network functionality comprises NAP telephone network call connectivity functionality, NAP telephone network voice functionality and said telephone network facsimile functionality actuatable in response to said NAP call connectivity commands, said NAP voice commands and said facsimile commands, respectively, said NAP call connectivity commands and said NAP voice commands comprises NAP commands, said NAP telephone network call connectivity functionality and said NAP telephone network voice functionality comprising NAP functionality, and said NAP telephone network call connectivity functionality is operative to activate and interconnect said NIU ports. 


21. The platform of Claim 20 wherein said application interface means includes said facsimile server means for actuating said facsimile functionality in response to said facsimile commands and further includes an AIM portion for actuating said NAP functionality in response to said NAP commands.
22. The platform of Claim' 21 wherein said facsimile server means is further operative to expand said facsimile commands into said FP commands and said NAP commands and to issue said NAP commands to said AIM portion for actuation of said NAP functionality in accordance with said NAP commands. •
23. The platform of Claim 22 further including communication means (COMS) interposed between said applications and said application interface means for directing said facsimile commands to said facsimile serve means and said NAP commands to said AIM portion.
24. The platform of Claim 23 wherein said facsimile server means is further operative to issue said NAP commands to said AIM portion through said COMS. 

25. The platform of Claim 22 wherein said application interface means is operative to provide Responses to said application program, said Responses including an Incoming Call response engendered by said platform receiving a telephone call from said network, said NAP commands include a CONNECT CALL command and said NAP functionality includes switching said NIU ports in response to said CONNECT CALL command, said NAP commands include an INITIATE CALL command and said NAP functionality includes initiating a telephone call to said network in response to said INITIATE CALL command, said NAP commands include a CREATE VOICE MESSAGE command and said NAP functionality includes creating. a message for storage in said platform data storage means in response to said CREATE VOICE MESSAGE command by copying a message residing in a file external to said platform data storage means into said platform data storage means, and said NAP commands include a GET VOICE MESSAGE command and said NAP functionality includes getting a message from said platform data storage means into a file external to said platform data storage means in response to said GET VOICE MESSAGE command by copying a message residing in said platform data storage means into a file external to said platform data storage means.
26. The platform of Claim 25 wherein said facsimile server means is further operative to expand said facsimile commands to include said CONNECT CALL command for switching said NIU ports so as to connect an NIU port with an FP port. 


27. The platform of Claim 25 further including FS storage means, said facsimile server means being operative to temporarily store facsimile messages in said FS storage means.
28. The platform of Claim 27 wherein said facsimile commands include facsimile sending commands for sending facsimile messages to said network and facsimile receiving commands for receiving facsimile messages from said network, said Send Fax command and said Receive Fax command being a facsimile sending comman and a facsimile receiving command, respectively, said facsimile server means is operative to expan a facsimile sending commari into said GET VOICE MESSAGE command for transferring facsimile message from said platform data storage ι_ιea».j to said FS storage means and into an FP command for transferring said facsimile message from said FS storage means to said FP storage means, and said facsimile server means is operative to expan a facsimile receiving command into an FP command for transferring a facsimile message from said FP storage means to said FS storage means and into said CREATE VOICE MESSAGE command for transferring said facsimile message from said FS storage means to said platform data storage means. 

29. The platform of Claim 20 wherein said application interface means communicates with said application program in dialogs, voice messages and facsimile messages are conveyed through said NIU over a common connection currently established during a dialog,
NIU ports are switched between voice ports and facsimile ports, and voice messages and facsimile messages are commonly stored in said platform data storage means.
30. The platform of Claim 9 wherein said facsimile commands include at least one command operative to transfer a facsimile message from said FP storage means to said platform data storage means, said facsimile message having been received from said network, said application program is operative to assign a unique Recovery Token to a facsimile message to be received from said network pursuant to a facsimile command, said application program having an application Recovery Token table for storing said Recovery Tokens, said Recovery Token being passed to said facsimile server means as part of a facsimile command issued thereto, said facsimile server means includes an FS Recovery Token table for storing said Recovery Tokens passed thereto from said application program, and said facsimile server means is operative to notify said application program of a successful transfer of a facsimile message from said FP storage means to said platform data storage means and further operative to remove from said FS Recovery Token table, a Recovery Token associated with a facsimile message successfully transferred from said FP storage means to said platform data storage means. 


31. The platform of Claim 30 wherein said FS is operative to remove said Recovery
Token from said FS Recovery Token table upon receipt by said platform from said application program of a next command following notification of said application program by said facsimile server means of said successful transfer of a facsimile message.
32. The platform of Claim 30 wherein said facsimile commands include a Recover Fax command, said Recover Fax command conveying a Recovery
Token therewith, and said telephone network facsimile functionality includes transferring a facsimile message identified by said Recovery Token from said FP storage means to said platform data storage means and notifying said application program of said transfer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
