<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656119</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MONITORING METHODS, DEVICES AND TEST KITS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3352	G01N33493	A61B1000	G01N3374	G01N3353	G01N3350	G01N3376	G01N3353	A61B1000	G01N3352	G01N33487	G01N3374	G01N3350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	A61B10	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	A61B10	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of monitoring the status of a current ovulation cycle of an individual human female subject, involving testing of the body fluid concentration of an analyte of significance in relation to the status of the ovulation cycle, such as urinary E3G, during at least part of the pre-ovulation phase of the current ovulation cycle of the individual subject, and identification from the results of such testing of an analyte concentration change indicative of imminent ovulation, relative to an analyte concentration reference value that has been adapted to the individual human subject on the basis of analyte concentration test data obtained from the individual human subject during one or more previous ovulation cycles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIPATH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIPATH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLEY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS PAUL JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATT, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLEY, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, PAUL, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods, devices and test 
kits for use in monitoring the ovulation cycle in female 
mammals, especially humans. The invention is particularly, although not solely, 
concerned with the provision of reliable information 
concerning fertitity status as an aid to contraception by 
the use of simple practical procedures that can readily be 
applied by unskilled persons, e.g. in the home. Throughout this specification, the expression "fertile 
phase" is used to mean that interval in a female menstrual 
cycle, spanning the event of ovulation, during which it is 
most likely that intercourse will result in fertilization, 
because of the normal viability of spermatozoa and ova. There is a wealth of scientific literature on the 
urinary hormone profiles during the ovulation cycle. The 
relative usefulness of estradiol derivatives, especially 
estrone-3-glucuronide (E3G), lutenising hormone (LH), and 
progesterone derivatives, especially pregnanediol-3-glucuronide 
(P3G), as indicators of the status of the 
cycle, has been studied extensively. Procedures are already available commercially to 
enable LH to be used to enhance the likelihood of 
conception. Bischof et al, Human Reproduction, Vol.6 No.4 (1991) 
p515-18 is an academic study to evaluate a rapid automated 
assay for LH. Cekan et al, Conraception, Vol 33 No. 4 (1991) p327-45 
compares a range of urinary analytes of possible use in the 
prediction of ovulation or fertile period, in experiments  
 
involving the collection of daily urine samples during a 
complete cycle. Cekan et al conclude that although for the 
prediction of ovulation or fertile period, the best index 
of urinary steroids appears to be the sustained rise in the 
ratio of E1G to C, this "best" method is still not good 
enough in terms of overall reliability and practicability. The article "A prospective multicentre study to develop 
universal tests for predicting the female phase in women" 
(WHO, Int J Fertil 30(3) 1985 p 18-30) discusses the 
prediction of the fertile phase in an ovulation cycle by 
measuring the daily levels of the hormones E3G and Pd-3-G 
(ie. P3G) in early morning urine. Although the primary 
purpose of this study is to analyse for differences in  
 
fertile phase calculation in different races of women, this 
paper does suggest that the relative levels of E3G and Pd-3-G 
may be used in predicting the start and end of the 
fertile phase. If the start of the fertile phase is 
defined by the sustained rise in the level of urinary E3G, 
then
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of monitoring the status of a current 
ovulation cycle of an individual mammalian female subject 

by detecting, in the pre-ovulation phase, a body fluid 
concentration change of an analyte of significance in 

relation to the status of the ovulation cycle, wherein the 
concentration change is determined by reference to an 

analyte concentration reference value that has been adapted 
to the individual subject on the basis of analyte 

concentration test data obtained from the individual 
subject during one or more previous ovulation cycles. 
A method according to claim 1, involving testing 
during at least part of the pre-ovulation phase of the 

current ovulation cycle of the individual subject the body 
fluid concentration of said analyte and identifying from 

the results of such testing an analyte concentration change 
indicative of imminent ovulation, relative to said analyte 

concentration reference value. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 which relies 
solely on the results of body fluid tests. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, which does 
not involve the measurement of basal body temperature. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein the analyte is estradiol or a metabolite thereof, 

such as estrone-3-glucuronide (E3G). 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, 
wherein the body fluid is urine. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, 
applied to the human ovulation cycle.  

 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, 
wherein ratiometric analysis of analyte concentration test 

data is employed. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the analyte 
concentration reference value is a threshold concentration 

determined for the individual subject from measurements of 
the analyte concentration in the body fluid during the pre-ovulation 

phase of at least one previous ovulation cycle. 
A method according to claim 1 for predicting the 
fertile period during a current human ovulation cycle by 

detecting an elevated urinary E3G concentration in the pre-ovulation 
phase, wherein the elevated urinary E3G 

concentration is determined by reference to a threshold 
concentration determined for an individual human female 

from measurements of the E3G concentration in her urine 
during the pre-ovulation phase of at least one previous 

ovulation cycle. 
A method according to claim 10, wherein the urinary 
E3G threshold concentration adopted for the current cycle 

is the concentration that is, in a previous ovulation 
cycle, exceeded more frequently during the total number of 

days constituting the transition phase of that previous 
cycle than during the same number of days in the infertile 

phase immediately preceding said transition phase. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein the urinary 
E3G threshold concentration is the concentration that is 

exceeded on not more than 30% of the days in the infertile 
phase but is exceeded on not fewer than 60% of the days in 

the transition phase. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein the threshold 
concentration is the concentration that is exceeded on not 

more than 20% of the days in the infertile phase but is  
 

exceeded on not fewer than 80% of the days in the 
transition phase. 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 13, 
wherein urinary LH and/or P3G concentration is measured to 

provide an indication of the end of the fertile phase. 
A method according to any one of claims 10 to 14, 
which does not involve the measurement of basal body 

temperature. 
Electronic means for use in a method of monitoring the 
status of a current mammalian ovulation cycle, programmed 

to process analyte concentration test data obtained from 
testing of a body fluid conducted during at least part of 

the pre-ovulation phase of the current cycle, and to 
identify via said processing an analyte concentration 

change indicative of imminent ovulation, relative to an 
analyte concentration reference value that is adapted to an 

individual subject on the basis of analyte concentration 
test data obtained from the individual subject during one 

or more previous ovulation cycles. 
Electronic means according to claim 16, which does not 
rely on basal body temperature measurements. 
Electronic means according to claim 16 or claim 17, 
wherein the analyte is estradiol or a metabolite thereof, 

such as estrone-3-glucuronide. 
Electronic means according to any one of claims 16 to 
18, wherein the body fluid is urine. 
Electronic means according to any one of the claims 16 
to 19, for use in a method of monitoring the status of the 

human ovulation cycle.  
 
Electronic means according to any one of claims 16 to 
20, which identifies the urinary E3G concentration rise by 

reference to a threshold concentration determined for the 

individual user from measurements of the E3G concentration 
in her urine during the pre-ovulation phase of at least one 

previous ovulation cycle. 
Electronic means according to claim 21, wherein the 
urinary E3G threshold concentration adopted for the current 

cycle is the concentration that, in a previous cycle, is 
exceeded on not more than 30% of the days in the infertile 

phase but is exceeded on not fewer than 60% of the days in 
the transition phase. 
Electronic means according to claim 22, wherein the 
urinary E3G threshold concentration is the concentration 

that is exceeded on not more than 20% of the days in the 
infertile phase but is exceeded on not fewer than 80% of 

the days in the transition phase. 
A monitoring device for monitoring the mammalian 
ovulation cycle in an individual subject, comprising means 

for initiating the recording of a cycle, means for 
measuring the concentration in a body fluid of an analyte 

of significance in relation to the status of the ovulation 
cycle, if necessary in conjunction with one or more body 

fluid testing devices readable by the monitoring device, 
means for recording measured concentrations of said 

analyte, means for determining or adapting a reference 
concentration for said analyte from test data obtained 

during one or more previous cycles in the same individual 
subject, and means for alerting a user if during the pre-fertile 

phase of the current cycle a measured concentration 
of said analyte exceeds said reference concentration by an 

amount indicative of imminent ovulation. 
A monitoring device according to claim 24, relying  
 

solely on data obtained from body fluid tests. 
A monitoring device according to claim 24, which does 
not include means for measuring basal body temperature. 
A monitoring device according to any one of claims 24 
to 26, wherein the analyte is estradiol or a metabolite 

thereof, such as estrone-3-glucuronide. 
A monitoring device according to any one of claims 24 
to 27, wherein the body fluid is urine. 
A monitoring device according to any one of claims 24 
to 28, for use in providing awareness of the status of the 

human ovulation cycle. 
A monitoring device according to any one of claims 24 
to 29, having means to display information concerning the 

status of the current cycle. 
A monitoring device according to any one of claims 24 
to 30, having locating means to receive a body fluid 

testing device readable by said recording device. 
A monitoring device according to any one of claims 24 
to 31, embodying electronic means according to any one of 

claims 16 to 23. 
A test kit comprising a monitoring device according to 
any one of claims 24 to 32, together with at least one body 

fluid testing device readable by said monitoring device to 
provide a concentration value for said analyte. 
A test kit according to claim 33, comprising a 
plurality of disposable body fluid testing devices. 
A test kit according to claim 34, wherein each testing  
 

device comprises a body fluid sample collecting means and 
an immunochromatographic testing means which provides the 

test result in a form readable by the test result measuring 
means of the recording device. 
A test kit according to claim 34 or claim 35, wherein 
each testing device tests for urinary E3G and urinary LH. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
