<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632288</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Frequency diversity transponder arrangement
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1375	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of communicating between a transponder and an interrogator. 
The interrogator (10) transmits a wireless RF interrogation which is received 

by the transponder (12). The transponder (12) then transmits a wireless RF 
response. The wireless RF response has a first channel response centered 

at frequency 

FDX1=RF+SC 
 
, a second channel response centered at 

frequency 

FDX2=RF-SC 
 
, and a third channel response centered at 

frequency 

FDX3=SC 
 
. The third channel response is a spurious signal 

resulting from using a non-linear element (32) as the transponder 
modulator (32,34). The interrogator (10) receives this wireless RF response. 

The response is received in the three channels with a first circuit (82) 
operable to receive said first channel response, a second circuit (86) is 

operable to receive said second channel response, and a third circuit (86,88) 
is operable to receive said third channel response. A controller (102) then 

selects the response from one of said first, second, or third 
circuits (82,86,88) for demodulating. A demodulator (100) may then 

demodulate one the selected channel responses. Other arrangements, 
systems, and methods are disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS DEUTSCHLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUERMANN JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUERMANN, JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The following coassigned patent applications are hereby
referred to:
Pat No./Appl. No.Filing DateTI Case No.5,053,77410/1/91TI-12797A08/065,2865/21/93TI-16981The invention generally relates to the field of Radio Frequency
Identification (RFID). More specifically, the invention relates to a method
and arrangement for communicating between a transponder and an
interrogator, the method and arrangement employing frequency diversity.There is a great need for devices or apparatuses that make it possible
to identify or detect regarding their presence at a predetermined location,
objects that are provided with such devices or apparatuses in contactless
manner and over a certain distance.It is, for example, desirable to request contactless and over a certain
distance, identifications that are uniquely assigned to a object and are
stored in the device or apparatus so that, for example, the object may be
identified. A determination may also be made whether a particular object 
exists within a given reading range. An example is also the case in which
physical parameters such as the temperature and the pressure are to be
interrogated directly at or within the object, without direct access to the
object being possible. A device or apparatus of the type desired can, for
example, be attached to an animal that can then always be identified at an
interrogation point without direct contact. There is also a need for a device,
which when carried by a person, permits access checking by which only
persons whose responder unit returns certain identification data to the
interrogation unit are allowed access to a specific area. A further example
of a case in which such a device is needed is the computer controlled
industrial production in which, without the intervention of operating
personnel, components are taken from a store, transported to a production
location and there assembled to give a finished product. In this case a
device is required which can be attached to the individual components so
that the components can be specifically detected in the spares store and
taken therefrom. Yet another example of a case in which such a device is
needed is in the field of Automatic Vehicle Identification (AVI) in which a
stationary interrogator unit sends inquiries to a vehicle-born transponder for
purposes of toll collection, identification, or other purposes.It is advantageous to accomplish these applications and others with
the least possible number of transmission errors between the interrogator
and the transponder. Error
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interrogator/transponder system, said system comprising:

a) a transponder operable to receive a wireless RF interrogation; and
to transmit a wireless RF response, said response comprising a first channel

response centered at frequency

FDX1=RF+SC

and a second channel
response centered at frequency


FDX2=RF-SC

where SC is a subcarrier frequency ; and
b) an interrogator, said interrogator having

i. a transmit antenna for transmitting said wireless RF
interrogation,
ii. a receive antenna for receiving said wireless RF response,
iii. a first circuit in electrical communication with said receive
antenna and operable to receive said first channel response,
iv. a second circuit in electrical communication with said receive
antenna and operable to receive said second channel response,
v. a controller in electrical communication with said first and
second circuits and operable to select one of said responses therefrom, and
vi. a demodulator for receiving said selected response and for
demodulating an uplink message therefrom.
The system of claim 1 wherein said transponder generates said
wireless RF response by modulating a carrier using a non-linear element

such that said first and second channels are the mirror image signals 
associated with an ideal modulator and a third channel response is a

spurious signal centered at frequency FDX3 and formed as a result of using
said non-linear element modulator.
The system of claim 2 and further comprising a third circuit in electrical
communication with said receive antenna and operable to receive said third

channel response.
The system of claim 3 wherein said transponder comprises:

a) an antenna for receiving a wireless RF interrogation of frequency
RF;
b) an antenna resonant circuit for deriving a carrier of frequency RF
from the power in said wireless RF interrogation;
c) a controller for receiving said carrier of frequency RF and for
deriving therefrom the sub-carrier of frequency SC by dividing said carrier;

said controller further for generating a response message, said response
message being generated at said sub-carrier frequency, SC; and
d) a modulator for modulating said response message upon said
carrier to form a wireless response, said modulator being a non-linear circuit

element such that said modulated response message has a first channel
response centered at frequency


FDX1=RF+SC

, a second channel response
centered at frequency


FDX2=RF-SC

, and a third channel response centered
at frequency


FDX3=SC

.
The system of claim 4 wherein said modulator is a series combination
of a switch and a damping element connected in parallel to said antenna

resonant circuit.
The system of claim 5 wherein said damping element is a short circuit
such that the closing of the switch forms a low impedance path across the

antenna resonant circuit.
The system of claim 1 wherein said first and second channels are full-duplex
channels whereby said RF interrogation may be made simultaneously

to said RF response.
The system of clam 7 wherein said interrogator is further operable to
send a half-duplex powering burst followed by a quiet time during which the

exciter of the interrogator is no longer active and the interrogator waits for
a half-duplex RF response.
The system of claim 1 wherein said interrogator further comprises
additional circuits in electrical communication with said receive antenna and

operable to receive additional channel responses which are formed as a
result of the non-linearity of said transponder modulator.
The system of claim 1 wherein said controller is further operable to
analyze each of said first, second and third channel responses to determine 

which of said responses has the greatest opportunity for error-free signal
reception and demodulation.
The system of claim 1 wherein said controller selects each of said
channels individually for demodulation of an uplink message by said

demodulator and checks each of said demodulated messages for errors.
The system of claim 1 wherein said controller uses parity bits to check
for said errors.
The system of claim 1 wherein said receive antenna and said transmit
antenna are the same antenna.
The system of claim 1 wherein said RF interrogation comprises a
downlink message.
The system of claim 1 wherein said second circuit is a parallel resonant
circuit and said third circuit is said second circuit in electrical communication

with a tuning circuit.
An interrogator/transponder system, said system comprising:

a) a transponder, said transponder having

i. an antenna for receiving a wireless RF interrogation of

frequency RF, 
ii. an antenna resonant circuit for deriving a carrier of frequency
RF from the power in said wireless RF interrogation,
iii. a divider for deriving a sub-carrier of frequency SC from said
carrier of frequency RF,
iv. a demodulator for receiving said wireless RF interrogation from
said antenna resonant circuit and for providing a demodulated interrogation

message at an output,
v. a controller for receiving said demodulated RF interrogation
message at its input and for generating a response message at its output,

said response message being generated at said sub-carrier frequency, SC,
vi. a modulator for modulating said response message upon said
carrier to form a wireless response, said modulator being a non-linear circuit

element such that said modulated response message has a first channel
response centered at frequency


FDX1=RF+SC

, a second channel response
centered at frequency


FDX2=RF-SC

, and a third channel response centered
at frequency


FDX3=SC

; and
b) an interrogator, said interrogator having

i. a transmit antenna for transmitting said wireless RF
interrogation,
ii. a receive antenna for receiving said wireless RF response,
iii. an RF oscillator for generating an uplink RF carrier,
iv. a modulator which receives said uplink RF carrier and which
passes this modulated carrier to said transmit antenna for transmitting said

wireless RF interrogation, 
v. a first transformer having a first and a second winding, said
first transformer for receiving said wireless RF response from said receive

antenna, said first winding of said first transformer being connected to said
receive antenna,
vi. a second transformer having a first and a second winding, said
second transformer also for receiving said wireless RF response from said

receive antenna, said first winding of said second transformer being connected
to said receive antenna,
vii. a first capacitor in parallel with said second winding of said
first transformer, the parallel combination thereof forming a first resonant

circuit having a resonant frequency of approximately

FDX3=SC

whereby
said third channel response of frequency FDX3 can be received thereby,
viii. a second capacitor in parallel with said second winding of said
second transformer, the parallel combination thereof forming a second

resonant circuit having a resonant frequency of approximately

FDX1=RF+SC

whereby said first channel response of frequency FDX1 can be received
thereby,
ix. a tuning circuit in parallel with said second resonant circuit,
said tuning circuit comprising the series combination of a third capacitor and

a switch whereby when said switch is closed, the parallel combination of
said second winding of said second transformer and said second and third

capacitors lowers the frequency of said second resonant circuit to have a
resonant frequency of approximately


FDX2=RF-SC

whereby said second
channel response of frequency FDX2 can be received thereby, 
x. a local oscillator, said local oscillator being enabled to oscillate
at frequency RF when the first and second channel responses are to be

demodulated and being not enabled when said third channel response is to
be demodulated,
xi. a mixer for receiving the signals from said first and second
resonant circuits, and from said local oscillator, said mixer for shifting the

frequency of said signals to a common baseband,
xii. a filter for receiving the output of said demodulator and
providing a filtered output signal,
xiii. a limiter for receiving said filtered output signal and for
amplitude limiting said filtered output to form a filtered, limited signal,
xiv. a demodulator receiving said filtered, limited signal and
demodulating therefrom an uplink message, and
xv. a controller operable to provide data to said modulator for
modulation a of said uplink RF carrier, said controller further operable to

receive said uplink message from said demodulator and to enable the
operation of said local oscillator.
A method of communicating between a transponder and an interrogator,
said method comprising the steps of:


a) transmitting by said interrogator a wireless RF interrogation;
b) receiving in a transponder a wireless RF interrogation;
c) transmitting by said transponder a wireless RF response, said
response comprising a first channel response centered at frequency


FDX1=RF+SC

, a second channel response centered at frequency

FDX2=RF-SC

, and a third channel response centered at frequency

FDX3=SC

; where SC is a subcarrier frequency ;
d) receiving by said interrogator said wireless RF response, wherein
a first circuit is operable to receive said first channel response, a second

circuit is operable to receive said second channel response, and a third
circuit is operable to receive said third channel response,
e) selecting by a controller the response from one of said first,
second, or third circuits, and
f) demodulating an uplink message from said selected response by
a demodulator.
The method of claim 17 wherein said controller further analyzes each
of said first, second and third channel responses to determine which of said

responses has the greatest opportunity for error-free signal reception and
demodulation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
