<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615759</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drainage device for use with suction or gravity flow
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M100	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drainage apparatus for connection to a patient to 
drain fluids from the patient's body, particularly from the 

pleural or cardiac cavities, into a collection chamber has a 
diaphragm pressure gauge (158) provided on the chamber to 

directly measure the working pressure therein. The 
diaphragm is flexible but impervious to the fluids, 

including air, and in use a pressure differential between 
the atmosphere and interior of the chamber causes the 

diaphragm to flex and this motion is translated to display 
device (166) to indicate the pressure in the chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEKNATEL TECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEKNATEL TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAKE LARRY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARVEL ERVIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASON DUANE R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT GEORGE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAKE, LARRY W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARVEL, ERVIN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASON, DUANE R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT, GEORGE M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with a drainage apparatus 
for extracting fluids from the body, particularly from the 
pleural cavity in the human body. Artificial drainage of excess fluids from the body is 
necessary for the well being of the patient in a variety 
of medical procedures during and after operations and when 
the body cannot dispose of such fluids naturally. Fluids 
to be drained include blood, water and air. A wide variety of drainage devices have been developed 
to drain wounds and larger body cavities. These devices 
comprise, in general, a chamber for collection of the 
fluids and a inlet tube for connection between the patient 
and the chamber. In use, the fluids are drained from the 
patient via the inlet tube into the collection chamber 
which is placed well below the patient to avoid syphoning 
the fluids back to the patient. Drainage may be caused by 
gravity, since the chamber is below the patient or, more 
efficiently, by applying suction to an outlet from the 
collection chamber to draw the fluid into the chamber. Various thoracic or cardiac surgical procedures as 
well as trauma wounds, such as bullet or stab wounds 
accumulate fluids, such as blood, water or air, in the 
pleural or thoracic cavities. In the pleural cavity, 
between the lungs and surrounding chest wall, this 
accumulation can interfere with breathing and can cause 
death by inhibiting the normal pressure changes in the 
pleural cavity which support normal lung function. In the 
thoracic cavity, accumulation of fluid such as blood can 
inhibit healing and patient recovery. In the case of a persistent leakage of air into the 
pleural cavity, such as from a ruptured bleb - a blister 
on the lung - the pressure builds up in the cavity until a 
tension pneumothorax is caused. Then the affected lung;  
 
or even both lungs, collapse and the patient can suffocate 
unless the air is drained from the pleural cavity. The design of a drainage apparatus for the pleural or 
thoracic cavities presents special problems. To be 
effective, the drainage apparatus must remove the fluids 
promptly and efficiently and prevent their return. It is 
essential to have one way flow not only to isolate the 
patient from the atmosphere, so as to avoid infection, but 
also to prevent fluid, particularly air, from collecting 
in the pleural cavity and allowing the lungs to collapse. The apparatus should also allow relief of over-positive 
pressure caused, for example, by the patient 
coughing or by fluid displacement in the collection 
chamber
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for collecting fluid drained from a body 
cavity of a patient, comprising:
 
   a chamber (9) for receiving said fluid; a chamber 

inlet (11) far connection to said body cavity; said 
chamber inlet including a fluid trap (24,85) located in 

an inlet compartment having means (25, Fig. 3; 39, Fig. 4; 
56, Fig.5; 86, Fig.7) for conducting said fluid from said 

body cavity upwardly before said fluid is received in 
said chamber (9); and characterised by:
 
   means (11, Figs.3,5,7; 45, Fig.4) for selectively 

removing said upward conducting means from the path of 
said fluid in said chamber inlet, movable from one 

position, in which a bottom of said trap (24,85) is 
closed to said chamber (9) and the fluid is directed 

through said trap upwardly over said upward conducting 
means to said chamber (9); to another position, in which 

the fluid is directed to pass into the chamber (9) 
without passing upwardly. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 1, wherein the 
selectively removing means is constituted by the inlet 

compartment (11) being movable from the one position to 
the other position relative to the chamber; such that, 

in the said other position, the bottom of the trap is 
open to the chamber (9) to allow the fluid to pass 

through without passing upwardly. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 2, in which the upward 
conducting means comprises a wall of the trap, and in 

which the bottom of said trap is sealed so that the fluid 
passes upwardly over said wall to said chamber (9), with 

the inlet compartment as its said one position; and in 
which the bottom of said trap is open to said chamber (9) 

so that the fluid passes through the bottom of said trap 
into said chamber (9) without passing upwardly, with the 

inlet compartment at its other position.  
 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 2 or 3, wherein said 
inlet compartment (25, Fig.3; 55, Fig.5) is movable from 

said one position to said another position by rotation. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said inlet 
compartment comprises an outer perimeter wall (13) 

extending upwardly from the top of said chamber, said 
wall having an outwardly projecting, circular flange (19) 

at its bottom and wherein said chamber includes an 
aperture (30) through the top of said chamber, a 

retaining ring (22) attached to said top and around said 
aperture, said ring having an outwardly projecting flange 

(20,21) surrounding and overhanging said inlet 
compartment flange to retain said compartment on the top 

of said chamber, said inlet compartment being movable by 
rotation within said retaining ring between the said one 

and other positions, to close or open said trap (24) to 
said aperture (30). 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 2 or 3, wherein said 
inlet compartment (86, Fig. 7) is movable from said one 

position to said another position by sliding. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 6, wherein said inlet 
compartment comprises an outer perimeter wall (72,73) 

extending upwardly from the top (4) of said chamber, said 
wall having outwardly extending, parallel flanges at the 

bottom of at least two opposite sides of said outer wall, 
said chamber including an aperture (92) through the top 

of said chamber and parallel guide rails (78) attached to 
said top, said flange, overhanging one of said 

compartment flanges to retain said inlet compartment on 
the top of said chamber, so that said inlet compartment 

is movable by sliding along said rails, said apparatus 
further comprising stops between said rails which limit 

the extent of travel of said inlet compartment so that 
said trap is selectively closed or opened to said 

aperture (92).  
 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, wherein 
said inlet compartment is movable without cutting off the 

supply of the fluid into said chamber (9). 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 1, wherein said inlet 
compartment has a first inlet (43, Fig.4), positioned to 

supply said fluid to said trap (37), and a second inlet 
(44), positioned to cause said fluid to bypass said trap 

and to flow directly into said chamber (9), said 
selecti
vely removing means comprising means (45) for 
switching the flow of fluid from said first inlet to said 

second inlet, and vice versa. 
An apparatus as defined in Claim 9, wherein said 
selectively removing means operates without cutting off 

the supply of the fluid into said chamber. 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
additionally comprising sampling access means 

(27,46,62,89) to permit withdrawal of drained fluid from 
said inlet compartment. 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
additionally comprising an outlet (93) to said chamber 

(9), said outlet comprising a one-way valve (95) which 
allows air to escape from said chamber, but prevents air 

from entering said chamber through said outlet. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 12, wherein said 
outlet additionally comprises means (101) for connection 

to a source of suction and means (102-106) for limiting 
the level of suction applied to said chamber by venting 

said outlet to the atmosphere. 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding claim, in 
which the chamber has an aperture (176, Fig.9) between 

the chamber interior and the atmosphere; and a gauge 
(158), comprising a flexible membrane (173) positioned 

across said aperture and sealed to the perimeter of said 
aperture, said membrane impervious to said fluid and to 

air, and providing a seal for said aperture, said 
membrane deflecting in response to pressure differentials  

 
between the interior of said chamber and the atmosphere, 

and an indicator (166) connected to said membrane to move 
in response to deflections of said membrane for providing 

a measurement of said pressure differentials. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 14, wherein said 
membrane is stretched across said aperture. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 14 or 15, further 
comprising a follower (171) mounted on said chamber for 

movement relative thereto in response to deflection of 
said membrane, said indicator being responsive to said 

movement of said follower for providing said pressure 
differential measurement. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 16, wherein said 
follower comprises a threaded shaft (17) rotatably 

connected to said membrane and reciprocally mounted on 
said chamber, and wherein said indicator includes a gear 

(169) engaging and rotatable by said shaft. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 17, wherein said shaft 
(170) terminates at its end (180) opposite said membrane 

in a fitting for receiving a tool for rotating said shaft 
and thereby calibrating said gauge. 
Apparatus as defined in any of Claims 14 to 18, 
further comprising an outlet (93) to said chamber for 

connection to a source of suction wherein said outlet 
comprises means (102-106) for venting the outlet to the 

atmosphere at a predetermined level of vacuum applied to 
said chamber. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 19, wherein said 
venting means comprises a seal (106) over an opening 

(104) to the atmosphere communicable with said outlet, a 
spring (107) biasing said seal to close said opening, and 

a screw (110) which is adjustable to vary the compression 
of said spring and thereby the biasing force of said 

spring on said seal and consequently the degree of 
suction required to overcome said force to open said 

seal.  
 
Apparatus as defined in any of Claims 1 to 11, 
comprising an outlet (93) from said chamber (9) having an 

outlet tube (101) for connection to a source of suction, 
said outlet having means (110;152) for limiting the level 

of suction applied to said chamber; means (182) for 
suspending said chamber; and means (190) for stabilising 

said chamber on a support surface, said stabilising means 
comprising a stand rotatably mounted on the base of said 

chamber between a first position in which said stand lies 
within the boundary of said base and a second position in 

which said stand extends beyond the boundary of, and 
thereby stabilises, said base. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 21, wherein said 
suction limiting means comprises: a fluid-impervious 

diaphragm (135) having a first side exposed to the 
atmosphere and a second side exposed to the vacuum within 

said chamber (9); wherein said outlet tube (101) 
terminates adjacent to said second side of said diaphragm 

to permit said diaphragm to intermittently close the end 
(140) of said tube. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 22, additionally 
comprising: a spring (151) biasing said diaphragm 

relative said tube, and means for adjusting the biasing 
force of said spring to adjust the vacuum level of said 

chamber at which said diaphragm closes said end of said 
tube. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 21, 22 or 23, wherein 
said suspending means are foldable against said chamber 

for storage and extendable to form a carrying handle for 
said chamber. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 24, wherein said 
suspending means comprises a pair of hangers, each 

comprising a central, elongate portion (183) terminating 
at one end in an open hook (184) for suspending said 

chamber and terminating at the other end in a a closed 
hook (185), and wherein said chamber comprises a pair of  

 
eyelets (187) attached to said closed hooks, said hangers 

being sized so that they can alternatively (a) be nested 
upon each other between said eyelets or (b) engage each 

other by means of the open hooks to form a carrying 
handle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
