<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618598</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved electrode interface for high-dielectric-constant materials
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27115	H01L2704	H01G430	H01G433	H01L21822	H01G706	H01L2102	H01L2102	H01G433	H01G700	H01L2704	H01G430	H01L2170	H01L27115	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01G	H01G	H01L	H01G	H01L	H01L	H01G	H01G	H01L	H01G	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01G4	H01G4	H01L21	H01G7	H01L21	H01L21	H01G4	H01G7	H01L27	H01G4	H01L21	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A preferred embodiment of this invention comprises a first thin dielectric 
buffer layer of a first leakage-current-density material (e.g. strontium 

titanate 
32
) with a first moderate-dielectric-constant, a high-dielectric-constant 
layer of a second leakage-current-density material (e.g. barium 

strontium titanate 
34
) overlaying the first thin dielectric buffer layer, and a 
second thin dielectric buffer layer of a third leakage-current-density material 

(e.g. strontium titanate 
36
) with a second moderate-dielectric-constant 
overlaying the high-dielectric-constant layer, wherein the first and third 

leakage-current-density materials have substantially lower leakage-current-densities 
than the second leakage-current-density material. The first and 

second thin moderate-dielectric-constant buffer layers (e.g. strontium 
titanate 
32
, 
36
) substantially limit the leakage-current-density of the 
structure, with only modest degradation of the dielectric constant of the 

structure. The possibly lower dielectric constant of the structure is generally 
compensated for by the reduced leakage current of the structure. The 

additional layers generally require only minor modifications of existing 
processes, since the same processes that are used for the high-dielectric-constant 

oxide can generally be used for the low leakage-current-density 
dielectric. These structures may also be used for multilayer capacitors and 

other thin-film ferroelectric devices such as pyroelectric materials, non-volatile 
memories, thin-film piezoelectric and thin-film electro-optic oxides. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERATAN HOWARD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMMERFELT SCOTT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERATAN, HOWARD R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMMERFELT, SCOTT R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to improving the electrode interface 
for materials with high-dielectric-constants, such as in the construction of 
capacitors. EP-A-0 114 228 discloses a method of forming a capacitor on 
a substrate. Particularly, for forming the capacitor, an 
amorphous thin film layer of a ferroelectric forming 
material is deposited on a bottom electrode. A leakage 
current preventing dielectric layer is deposited on the 
said amorphous thin film layer and laser annealed to a 
crystalline ferroelectric. It is an object of this 
document to reduce an undesired leakage current coming 
along with a high-dielectric-constant material used in said 
subject matter capacitor. However, the leakage current 
preventing layer proposed in this document is of a material 
such as SiO2 or Si3N4, i.e. of a material having a low 
dielectric constant. Therefore, the overall dielectric 
constant of the resulting structure is significantly 
degraded. Without limiting the scope of the invention, its background is 
described in connection with current methods of forming electrical 
connections to high-dielectric-constant materials, as an example. The increasing density of integrated circuits (e.g. DRAMs) is 
increasing the need for materials with high-dielectric-constants to be used in 
electrical devices such as capacitors. The current method generally utilized 
to achieve higher capacitance per unit area is to increase the surface 
area/unit area by increasing the topography, such as in trench and stack 
capacitors using SiO2 or SiO2/Si3N4 as the dielectric. This approach becomes 
very difficult in terms of manufacturability for devices such as the 256 Mbit 
and 1 Gbit DRAMs. An alternative approach is to use a high permittivity dielectric 
material. Many perovskite, ferroelectric, or high-dielectric-constant 
(hereafter abbreviated HDC) oxides such as (Ba,Sr)TiO3 (BST) usually have 
much larger capacitance densities than standard SiO2-Si3N4-SiO2 capacitors. 
Many different materials, such as RuO2 and Pt, have been proposed for the 
electrodes for HDC materials. To be useful in electronic devices, the 
electrode/HDC material interface should generally form a connection with 
good overall electrical characteristics.  
  
 As used herein the term moderate-dielectric-constant (hereafter 
abbreviated MDC) means having a dielectric constant greater than about 
150. HDC materials (i.e. having a dielectric constant of greater than about 
300) are useful for the fabrication of many electrical devices, such as 
c
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a microelectronic structure, said 
method comprising: 


a) forming a first dielectric buffer layer (32; 38) of a 
first leakage-current-density material with a first 

moderate dielectric-constant of at least 150; 
b) forming a high-dielectric-constant layer (34) of a 
second leakage-current-density material with a dielectric constant of at least 300 on said first 

dielectric buffer layer (32; 38); and 
c) forming a second dielectric buffer layer (36; 38) of a 
third leakage-current-density material with a second 

moderate dielectric-constant of at least 150 on said high-dielectric-constant 
layer (34), 
 
wherein said first and third leakage-current-density 

materials have leakage-current-densities less than 1/5 of 
said second leakage-current-density material, and 

whereby said first and second dielectric buffer layers (32, 
36; 38) substantially limit the leakage-current density of 

the structure, with only a modest degradation of the 
dielectric constant of the structure. 
The method according to claim 1, further comprising 
forming said first and second thin dielectric buffer layers 

(32, 36; 38) having substantially similar compositions.  
 
The method according to claim 1 and claim 2, further 
comprising forming said first and second thin dielectric 

buffer layers (38) completely surrounding said high-dielectric-constant 
material layer (34). 
The method according to any of claims 1 to 3, said method 
further comprising forming said first dielectric buffer 

layer (32, 38) on an electrically conductive layer (30). 
The method according to any preceding claim, said method 
further comprising forming an other electrically conductive 

layer (46) on said second dielectric buffer layer (36). 
The method according to clalm 4 or claim 5, further 
comprising forming said electrically conductive layers (30, 

46) selected from material selected from the group 
consisting of: platinum, palladium, rhodium, gold, iridium, 

silver, titanium nitride, tin nitride, ruthenium nitride, 
zirconium nitride, ruthenium dioxide, tin oxide, titanium 

monoxide, and combinations thereof. 
The method according to any preceding claim, further 
comprising forming said first and second dielectric buffer 

layer (34, 36; 38) from material selected from the group 
consisting of: perovskites, ferroelectrics, high-dielectric-constant 

oxides, acceptor doped perovskites, acceptor doped 
ferroelectrics, acceptor doped high-dielectric-constant 

oxides, donor doped perovskites, donor doped ferroelectrics, 
donor doped high-dielectric-constant oxides, combinations 

thereof, (Sr,Ca,Mg)(Ti,Zr,Hf)O
3
, (K,Cr,Mn,Co,Ni,Cu,Zn,Li,Mg 
Na,Al,Ca) doped (Sr,Ca,Mg)(Ti,Zr,Hf)O
3
, 
(Cl,V,Mo,Ce,Pr,Nd,Sm,Eu,Gd,Tb,Dy,Ho,Er,Ta,W,La,Nb,F) doped 

(Sr,Ca,Mg) (Ti,Zr,Hf)O
3
 or combinations thereof. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said 
high-dielectric-constant layer (34) is selected from the 

group consisting of:
  
 

perovskites, ferroelectrics, high-dielectric-constant 
oxides, acceptor doped perovskites, acceptor doped 

ferroelectrics, acceptor doped high-dielectric-constant 
oxides, donor doped perovskites, donor doped ferroelectrics, 

donor doped high-dielectric-constant oxides, and 
combinations thereof, (Ba,Sr,Pb,La) (Ti,Zr)O
3
, bismuth 
titanate, potassium tantalate, lead niobate, lead zinc 

niobate, potassium niobate, lead magnesium niobate, and 
combinations therof, or Na,Al,Mn,Ca,La,Nb,F,K,Cr,Mn,Co, 

Ni,Cu,Zn,Li,Mg,Cl,V,Mo,Ce,Pr,Nd,Sm,Eu,Gd,Tb,Dy,Ho,Er,Ta,W, 
and combinations thereof. 
A microelectronic structure comprising: 

a) a first dielectric buffer layer (32; 38) of a first 
leakage-current-density material with a first moderate 

dielectric-constant of at least 150; 
b) a high-dielectric-constant layer (34) of a second 
leakage-current-density material with a dielectric constant of at least 300 on said first dielectric 

buffer layer (32; 38); and 
c) a second dielectric buffer layer (36; 38) of a third 
leakage-current-density material with a second moderate 

dielectric-constant of at least 150 on said high-dielectric-constant 
layer (34), 
 
wherein said first and third leakage-current-density 

materials have leakage-current-densities less than 1/5 of 
said second leakage-current-density material, and 

whereby said first and second dielectric buffer layers (32, 
36; 38) substantially limit the leakage-current density of 

the structure, with only a modest degradation of the 
dielectric constant of the structure. 
The structure of claim 9, wherein said first and second 
thin dielectric buffer layers (32, 36; 38) have substantially 

similar compositions.  
 
The structure of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein said first 
and second dielectric buffer layers (38) completely surround 

said high-dielectric-constant material layer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
