<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612538</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Metallized, implantable cardiac electrode.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N105	A61N105	A61N1362	A61N1362	A61N1372	A61N1378	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implantable cardiac electrode includes a flexible 
polymeric substrate (4), a metallized surface layer (6) of the polymeric 

substrate forming one or more electrically conductive regions on 
the surface of the polymeric substrate, and one or more insulated 

conductors (14,15) connecting the 
electrically conductive regions (6) to leads, 

the leads being connected to a cardiac monitoring and pulse 
generating system. In one embodiment, the electrically conductive 

region forms a band on the outer surface of a polymeric tube and is 
electrically connected to a conductor embedded in the tube. In 

another embodiment, the electrically conductive region forms a 
desired configuration on a planar surface of the polymeric 

substrate, such as a concentric ring or spiral patch configuration. 
In these and other embodiments, the metallized surface layer 

includes a surface layer of the polymeric substrate that is 
impregnated with a metal such that a conductive region is formed in 

the surface of the otherwise insulative polymeric substrate. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIAC PACEMAKERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIAC PACEMAKERS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAHL ROGER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPSON DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAHL ROGER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPSON DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to an electrode, and 
more particularly to a biologically compatible implantable 
electrode for applications such as a cardiac pacemaking or 
cardioversion, including heart stimulation and monitoring. Electrodes implanted in the body for electrical 
cardioversion or pacing of the heart are well known. More 
specifically, electrodes implanted in or about the heart have been 
used to reverse (i.e., defibrillate or cardiovert) certain life 
threatening arrhythmias, or to stimulate contraction (pacing) of 
the heart, where electrical energy is applied to the heart via the 
electrodes to return the heart to normal rhythm. See, for example, 
commonly assigned U.S. Patents No. 5,063,932 to Dahl et al., 
relating to defibrillation discharge electrode configurations and 
particularly to fixed planar discharged configurations, and No. 
4,559,951 to Dahl et al., relating to intravascular tubular 
electrodes, both of which are incorporated herein by reference. U.S. Patent No. 5,063,932 specifically discloses an 
implantable cardiac electrode comprised of a planar conductive 
material, typically imbedded in an insulated material. Various 
geometric configurations of the conductive material are disclosed, 
taking advantage of the "edge effect" to more efficiently discharge 
energy. U.S. Patent No. 4,559,951 discloses a flexible tubular 
catheter assembly in which conductive coils are imbedded in the 
walls of the tube and connected to conductive surfaces (i.e.,  
 
surface electrodes) on the tip of the catheter assembly or on the 
tubular surface. A catheter assembly is thus provided which allows 
for the use of a plurality of separate electrode surfaces without 
necessitating the increase in overall diameter of the catheter as 
additional groups of conductor coils are added. Historically, implantable electrodes have been 
constructed using discrete metal parts such as rings, helically 
wound coils, or screens. As pacer and cardioverting devices have 
become more sophisticated, the electrodes therewith have also 
increased in complexity, and often in overall size. With each 
sensor system requiring a dedicated electrode, a set of 
electrically isolated conductors is necessary to insure sensor 
isolation. Where these electrodes and leads are threaded through 
the body's vascular system, it is important that the overall 
diameter of the lead and its stiffness be minimized. Also, in 
order to minimize trauma to the tissue adjacent to the electrode, 
it is desirable to reduce the surface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrode adapted for implantation on or about a 
heart and for connection to a system for monitoring or stimulating 

cardiac activity, the electrode comprising: 
   a flexible polymeric substrate having an exposed surface 

layer; 
   a metal impregnated predetermined region of the exposed 

surface layer such that the impregnated region forms an electrical 
conducting surface; 

   an electrical conductor adapted for being electrically 
connected to the system; and 

   a connector conductively joining the conducting surface 
to the electrical conductor. 
The electrode of claim 1 further comprising a strain 
relief encapsulating the connector and partially encapsulating the 

electrical conducting surface. 
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the metal 
impregnated predetermined region comprises a silicone rubber 

substrate impregnated with platinum. 
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the flexible 
polymeric substrate is a silicone rubber tube. 
The electrode of claim 4 wherein the connector is a 
conductive adhesive adapted for joining the conductor to the 

conducting surface. 
The electrode of claim 5 further comprising a strain 
relief surrounding the connector and conductive adhesive and 

 
partially surrounding the conductive surface, and an outer tubing 

coaxially disposed around the silicone rubber tube having a distal 
end terminating within the strain relief, and wherein the conductor 

is insulatively disposed between the silicone rubber tube and the 
outer tubing. 
The electrode of claim 5 further comprising a second 
conducting surface at a distal end of the tube, and a second 

electrical conductor conductively connected to the second 
conducting surface at one end and the system at another end. 
The electrode of claim 1 wherein a part of the 
impregnated region is the connector, such that the impregnated 

region conductively adjoins the electrical conductor. 
The electrode of claim 8 wherein the flexible 
polymeric substrate is a silicone rubber tube, and the conductor is 

insulatively surrounded by the tube. 
The electrode of claim 9 further comprising an inner 
tubing surrounded by the silicone rubber tube, a second conductor 

insulatively surrounded by the inner tubing and connected to the 
system, and an electrically conducting tip disposed at the distal 

end of the electrode and conductively connected to the second 
conductor. 
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the electrical 
conducting surface is a substantially planar surface configuration. 
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the connector 
comprises a termination ring conductively connected to the 

 
conductor, and a conductive adhesive joining the termination ring 

and the electrical conducting surface. 
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the connector 
comprises a terminal block and a second polymeric substrate having 

a metal impregnated region across the width thereof, which region 
of the second polymeric substrate conductively connects the 

terminal block to the electrical conducting surface. 
A biocompatible implantable electrode adapted for 
connection to a system for monitoring or stimulating electric 

activity, the electrode comprising: 
   a flexible polymeric substrate having an outer surface; 

   a metallized film impregnating a predetermined region of 

the outer surface such that the impregnated region forms an 
electrical conducting surface; and 

   an electrical conductor electrically connecting the 
electrical conducting surface to the system. 
An implantable cardiac electrode adapted for 
connection to a cardiac monitoring and pulse generating system, the 

electrode comprising: 
   an elongated cardiac catheter having a distal active 

portion and a proximal lead portion, such proximal lead portion 
adapted for being electrically connected to the system; 

   a discharge surface region having a predetermined surface 
configuration on the distal active portion;

 
   a metallized film impregnating the discharge surface 

region such that the impregnated region forms an electrical 
conducting surface; and 

   a conductor electrically connecting the electrical 
conducting surface to the proximal lead portion. 
A method for making an implantable electrode 
comprising: 

   forming a flexible polymeric electrode substrate having 
an outer surface layer; 

   depositing a metallized film on a predetermined region of 
the outer surface layer such that the metallized film impregnates 

the outer surface layer and forms an electrical conducting surface; 
and 

   connecting a conductor lead to the electrical conducting 
surface. 
The method of claim 16 wherein the metallized film 
is deposited by ion impregnation. 
The method of claim 16 wherein the metallized film 
is deposited by ion-enhanced metallization. 
The method of claim 16 further comprising depositing 
an additional metallized film such that a metallic surface coating 

is formed on the impregnated outer surface layer. 
The method of claim 16 wherein the steps of 
depositing the metallized film to form the electrical conducting 

surface and of connecting the conductive lead to the electrical 
conducting surface are the same step. 
The method of claim 20 further comprising the step 
of impregnating the flexible polymeric substrate with the 

metallized film such that a conductive path is formed in the 
substrate that is insulatively surrounded by the substrate, the 

conductive path being a distal portion of the conductor lead and 
having a distal end capable of being connected to the electrical 

conducting surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
