<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643198</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Video logging system having remote power source
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B4700	G02B644	E21B4700	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	G02B	E21B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B47	G02B6	E21B47	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An instrument probe (12) contains a camera (38) and light 
source (28) which is positioned in front of the camera for illuminating 

the passage (14) being inspected, such as a bore or a casing. 
The power source for the instrument probe is located at the surface. 

A support cable (16) contains an optical fiber (50) for conducting 
camera signals to the surface and electrical conductors (54, 

60) for conducting power from the surface to the instrument probe. 
Outer electrical conductors (60) in the cable are alternating with 

and in electrical contact with strength member strands (58). The 
cable is enclosed in a stainless steel outer sheath (62). The support 

cable is coupled to the instrument probe by three fluid seals (64, 
73, 76). The first (64) seals the outer sheath in the probe. The second 

(73) seals at the breakaway connection and the third (76) seals 
at the probe bulkhead (74). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DHV INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DHV INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIORDAN MATHEW B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIORDAN, MATHEW B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is related generally to the remote viewing of well
bores and other limited access areas, and more particularly, to an
apparatus having a camera for remotely viewing the condition of such
limited access areas.There has long been a need in the field of well boring to
visually examine the bore hole to examine geological formations or
for other reasons. Where those well bores have casings and fittings,
there is a continuing need to inspect the casings and fittings for
corrosion and other conditions. By means of visual inspection, the
locations of leaks and points of infiltration can be more easily
identified.One existing method of accomplishing this is to insert an
instrument probe containing a camera, such as a closed circuit
television camera, in the bore hole and move it through the area to
be inspected. Typically, a compact, rugged instrument containing the
camera and a light source is provided as an instrument probe. A
cable is attached between the instrument probe and the surface
station to communicate camera signals to the surface from the
instrument probe. In one technique, the communication link
comprises optical fibers. Where the bore is vertical, gravity can be
used to pull the instrument probe through the bore hole. The
support cable contains strength members which preserve the integrity 
of the cable as it and the instrument probe are being pulled from the
bore hole.Optical fibers offer certain advantages in communication
systems. They are relatively immune to electromagnetic interference,
they have relatively low cable weight, they have a large bandwidth,
high frequency video signals can be transmitted over long lengths of
cable with minimum attenuation and they have lower cost. Thus
they are desirable in a remote logging instrument probe such as that
used to view bore holes. However, optical fibers are sensitive to
point stresses and bending. The fiber may impart significant
attenuation to its conducted signal when bent. The cable system of
a well logging instrument is repeatably pulled around at least one
sheave and wound on and off a winch drum as it is lowered into and
lifted out of bore holes. The cable must withstand repeated bending
and tensions of thousands of pounds. Stretching the cable can stretch
the optical fibers thereby increasing their stress and aggravating their
attenuation. High pressures and high temperatures in the well holes
may assist moisture in invading the cable and the optical fibers.
Moisture invading the optical fiber through micro-cracks can

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A down-hole well bore inspection system (10)
for the remove visual inspection of the condition of a

well bore (14), the well bore of a kind oriented other
than horizontal to the earth's surface and possibly

containing harsh conditions including high temperatures
and high pressures, comprising a down-hole instrument

(12) for placement in the well bore for performing the
visual inspection of said well bore, said instrument

comprising a first end and a non-articulated body being
sealed against the entry of pressurized external fluid

into the instrument and configured so that gravitational
forces are required to move the instrument downwardly

through the well bore, a support cable (16) having a
first end and a second end, the first and connected to

the first end of the down-hole instrument so as to
support the entire weight of the instrument, and surface

equipment (20, 22, 23, 24) located outside the well bore,
a television camera (38) for rendering the visual

imagery of the well bore into corresponding electrical
image signals representative of that visual imagery, the

camera being of the type configured to withstand harsh
conditions of a well bore; characterised in that

said surface equipment includes a
controllable actuator (20) coupled to the

second and of the support cable to control the position
of the support cable and to oppose the gravitational

forces acting on the instrument thereby controlling the
position of the instrument in the well bore; and wherein

the instrument
body comprises: 


an electrical-to-optical transducer (34) for
converting the electrical image signals into optical

image signals;
the support cable (16) comprises an

optical fiber (50) and electrical
conductors (54), the optical fibre (50) being

located substantially at the centre
of the support cable (16) and being

operative to receive the optical
image signals from the electrical-to-optical

transducer (34) and
conduct said optical image signals

to the surface equipment, the
electrical conductors (54) forming

a layer connected between a
power source in the surface

equipment and the downhole
instrument (12), a second layer of electrical

conductors (60) separated from the first
layer, and strength members (58)

which are in electrical contact with and
are alternating with the electrical conductors

(60) of the second layer, the second
layer of conductors (60) and the strength

members (58) also being connected between the surface equipment
and the down hole instrument; and
a process (22) coupled to the optical
fiber at the surface equipment to receive the optical image signals,

the processor having an optical-to-electrical transducer for converting
the optical image signals from the optical fiber into corresponding

electrical image signals.
The system of claim 1, characterized in that
the surface equipment further comprises a display device

for receiving the electrical image signals provided by
the optical-to-electrical transducer and converting them

into a visual display for presentation to an operator.
The system of claim 1 or 2, characterized in
that the surface equipment further comprises a recording

device for receiving the electrical image signals
provided by the optical-to-electrical transducer and

recording those signals.
The system of claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in
that the surface equipment further comprises a video tape

recorder for receiving the electrical image signals
provided by the optical-to-electrical transducer and

recording the video imagery represented by those signals
for later analysis and inspection.
The system of any preceding claim,
characterized in that the surface equipment further

comprises a printing device for receiving the electrical
image signals provided by the optical-to-electrical

transducer and printing the images represented.
The system of any preceding claim, 
characterized in that the television camera (38)

comprises a charge coupled device television camera which
is capable of providing high speed, high resolution

images in relatively dim light.
The system of any preceding claim,
characterized by a light source (28) positioned so as to

illuminate the field of view of the television camera.
The system of claim 7, characterized in that
the light source (28) is positioned within the field of

view of the camera.
The system of any preceding claim,
characterized in that the light source (28) and the

television camera (38) are held in relation to each other
by means of at least one leg (30) mounted on the unitary

body of the down-hole instrument.
The system of claim 9, characterized in that
the length of the at least one leg (30) is selected in

dependence on the portion of the field of view of the
camera (38) to be illuminated.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
