<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635279</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Procedure for flushing a catheter and catheter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M514	A61M2500	A61M514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M5	A61M25	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a procedure for flushing a catheter, connected to an 
apparatus, implanted in a patient for infusing liquid 

medication, in particular insulin, through the catheter, the 
infusion channel (1) in the catheter is isolated from the 

patient and connected from a circuit (1,10,6,12,2) 
separated from the patient. Cleaning fluid is then flushed 

through the circuit. In a device for flushing a catheter, 
connected to an apparatus, implanted in a patient for infusing fluid 

medication, in particular insulin, through the catheter, the 
catheter is at least of a double-lumen type. One channel (1) 

is intended for the infusion of the medication through an 
outlet valve (4) in the catheter, and a second valve (6) is 

arranged in the tip of the catheter to interconnect the two 
channels (1,2). The second valve is openable, and the 

outlet valve is closable, so the catheter's two channels 
form a circuit, isolated from the patient, for flushing the 

infusion channel. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS ELEMA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS-ELEMA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSSON ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSSON, ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a procedure for
flushing a catheter and to a catheter comprising two channels, the first
channel being provided with at least one outlet to the
surroundings and the second channel running parallel with
said first channel being a flushing channel provided with a
an aperture so that the channels at the distal end section
of the catheter can be interconnected.A device of the above mentioned type for flushing a drainage
or suction catheter is known from EP-A-321,648. In the
flushing procedure flushing liquid is led through the
flushing channel through the aperture and thereafter through
said first channel at such a pressure that the flushing
liquid dissolves possible encrustments or deposits formed in
the drainage channel of the catheter. It is not possible
here to prevent flushing liquid, possibly together with said
deposits from reaching the patient via the outlet of the
drainage channel, which can be dangerous to the patient.Blockage of catheters in implanted apparatuses for infusion
of liquid medication, e.g. insulin pumps, is a major
problem. The blockage is caused by deposition of insulin
inside the catheter.The problem of such catheter blockage has hitherto been
solved by simply flushing some suitable liquid through the
catheter, this flushing liquid and any residual medication
ending up in the patient. This procedure has obvious
disadvantages. Thus, the choice of flushing liquids is
limited. A phenol solution is often employed, but it is not 
totally clear whether allowing this solution to enter the
body is safe. In addition, insulin residue, which can
contain altered insulin, enters the patient's body. This
could provoke immunity against insulin.If this flushing is unsuccessful, explantation of the
catheter is the only option remaining.The object of the present invention is to achieve catheter
flushing without flushing liquid coming into contact with
patient fluids or tissue, thereby eliminating the aforesaid
shortcomings.This object is achieved with a procedure and a device of the
initially described kind with the features set forth in
claims 1 and 6.As the outlet of the infusion channel is closed at the same
time as the two channels are interconnected for flushing,
flushing liquid does not come into contact with the
patient's body tissue or fluids, and no deposits in the
infusion channel are flushed into the patient's body.
Flushing liquids, flows and quantities which are efficient
for the cleaning can thus be freely chosen without any risk
for the patient, and cleaning
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Procedure for flushing a catheter, comprising two
channels, the first channel (1, 31, 61) being provided with

at least one outlet (4, 58, 88) to the surroundings and the
second channel (2, 32, 62) running parallel with said first

channel (1, 31, 61) being a flushing channel provided with
an aperture (6, 51, 81), so that the channels (1, 2; 31, 32;

61, 62) at the distal end section of the catheter can be
interconnected, 
characterized
 in that the outlet (4,
58, 88) in said first channel (1, 31, 61) is closed at the

same time as the channels (1, 2; 31, 32; 61, 62) are
interconnected for flushing.
The procedure of claim 1, 
characterized
 in that
said first channel (1, 31, 61) is an infusion channel

connected to an apparatus implanted in a patient for
infusion of liquid medication, in particular insulin.
The procedure of claim 2, 
characterized
 in that
cleaning fluid, after concluded flushing, is sucked back

into the second, for flushing intended channel (2, 32, 62),
at least partially, in a direction opposite to the flushing

direction in order to reduce the pressure in the flushing
channel (2, 32, 62).
The procedure of claim 3, characterized in that, after
the pressure reduction in the flushing channel (2), gas is

introduced into the flushing channel at a suitable pressure,
said pressure causing an outlet valve (4) in the infusion

channel (1) to close, the pressure in the flushing channel
being adapted so the outlet valve is opened by the pressure

generated by the medication pumping pump at a pump stroke.
The procedure of any of claims 2-4, characterized in that
the infusion channel (1, 31), after it has been flushed, is

filled with the medication through the flushing channel (2,
32), whereupon the flushing channel at the tip of the

catheter is coupled to a third, purging channel (3, 33) in 
the catheter, medication in the flushing channel then being

drained away through the purging channel.
Catheter comprising two channels,
the first channel (1, 31, 61) being provided with at least

one outlet (4, 58, 88) to the surroundings and the second
channel (2, 32, 62) running parallel with said first channel

(1, 31, 61) being a flushing channel provided with an
aperture (6, 51, 81), so that the channels (1, 2; 31, 32;

61, 62) at the distal end section of the catheter can be
interconnected, 
characterized
 in that the aperture
(6, 51, 81) and the outlet (4, 58, 88) are designed as

valves that are adjusted so that one valve is opened at the
same time as the other valve is closed.
The device of claim 6, characterized in that the valves
(4, 6) are pressure-regulated, said outlet valve (4) closing

when the difference between the pressure in the infusion
channel (1) and the pressure in the second, for flushing

intended channel (2) reaches a first threshold value, and
said valve (6) in the catheter's end area being a pressure

relief valve which opens when the diffence between the
pressure in the infusion channel and the pressure in the

flushing channel reaches a second threshold value which is
higher than the first threshold value.
The device of claim 6 or 7, 
characterized
 in that
the outlet valve (4) is a membrane valve, the catheter's

channels (1, 2) being connected to spaces (10, 12) in the
outlet valve on either side of the membrane (8).
The device of claim 6 or 7, 
characterized
 in that
the outlet and pressure relief valves are arranged in a

common valve housing in the catheter's end area, a membrane

(8) being axially arranged inside the valve housing in order
to open and close the outlet to the patient with its inner

part, viewed from the tip of the catheter, and open and
close a connection between the flushing and infusion

channels with its outer part. 
The device of claim 9, characterized in that the outer
part of the membrane (8) is pretensioned with a valve

spring, preferably a plate spring (24).
The device of any of claims 6-9, characterized in that
the membrane (8) is made of an elastic material and devised

so its shape gives the membrane the requisite spring
pretension after the membrane has been installed.
The device of claim 6, characterized in that the valves
(34, 36) are magnetically controlled.
The device of claim 12, characterized in that the
opening and closing of the valves (34, 36) are controlled by

at least one reed element (38, 68, 45, 75) made of a
magnetic material which can be operated by the application

of an external magnetic field.
The device of claim 12 or 13, characterized in that one
reed element (38, 68) is movable between a normal position,

in which it closes the orifice (51, 81) of the flushing
channel (32, 62), and an activated position, in which it

closes the outlet (58, 88) of the infusion channel (31, 61)
to the patient and opens the flushing channel's orifice, so

the flushing channel and the infusion channel are
interconnected in a closed circuit separated from the

patient.
The device of claim 14, characterized in that one fixed
reed element (45) and one movable reed element (38) are

arranged with their free end sections overlapping and at a
distance from one another when the valve is in the normal

position, the end parts of the reed elements being
magnetized with opposite polarity when the external magnetic

field is applied, so the movable reed element is attracted
to the fixed reed element in order to assume the activated

position. 
The device of claim 14, characterized in that one fixed
reed element (75) and one moving reed element (68) are

arranged with their free end sections overlapping, the end
sections of the reed elements being magnetized with the same

polarity when an external magnetic field is applied, so the
moving reed element is repelled from the fixed reed element

in order to assume the activated position.
The device of claim 15 or 16, characterized in that the
moving reed element (38, 68) has a coating (41, 43, 71, 73)

on either side, made of a material suitable for sealing, for
closing the orifice (51, 81) of the flushing channel (32,

62) and the outlet (58, 88) of the infusion channel (31, 61)
respectively to the patient.
The device of any of claims 6-17, characterized in that
the catheter contains a third purging channel (3, 33) which

is connectable at the catheter's end area to the flushing
channel (2, 32).
The device of any of claims 6-18, characterized in that
all surfaces in the valves (4, 6) requiring tight

tolerances, such as sealing surfaces between the channels
(1, 31, 61, 2, 32, 62) and out to the patient, valve seats

etc., are formed in one and the same plane.
The device of any of claims 6-19, the catheter being of
a multi-lumen type, characterized in that a plurality of

outlet valves are connected in series and/or parallel for
infusion of a plurality of medications.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
