<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639999</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TOY PROJECTILE LAUNCHING DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63H1700	A63H1700	A63H1800	A63H1802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63H17	A63H17	A63H18	A63H18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Projectile launching toys include a surface (13, 17, 17') suitably configured to support and guide a projectile (20, 20'), a lever (30, 30') pivotally mounted so as to traverse a portion of the surface in the direction the projectile is being guided, a manual actuator (40) coupled to the lever to manually move the lever from an initial position to a second pivoted position to launch the projectile, and a return member (60) coupled with the lever to automatically return the lever to its original position after being manually moved and released.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TYCO IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TYCO IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSCH WARREN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSCH WARREN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TOY PROJECTILE LAUNCHING DEVICESField of the InventionThe present invention relates to toys and, in particular, to devices for launching toy projectiles.Background of the InventionToy projectile launching devices are well known. Toy mechanical projectile launching mechanisms tend to be actuated by one or more springs or other, similarly resilient, energy storing member(s). Typically, at least one spring is provided which is compressed, extended or twisted by the user to store energy. At the end of the energy storing step the spring is suddenly released, thereby permitting the spring to return to its original condition and, at the same time, propel a projectile. One drawback of such toy projectile launching mechanisms with energy storing devices is that often they are configured in a way which permits them to be accidentally fired or may become sufficiently worn or broken to fire on their own accord. These toy mechanisms are viewed as being so potentially hazardous that they are covered by their own safety requirement. See ASTM Standard F963 (section 4.20), incorporated by reference herein.Toy manufacturers and designers are constantly looking for or developing novel mechanisms to provide unusual play action in toys to entertain their users. Toys which accomplish known results but which employ unusual actions and therefore provide a new challenge or a fresh appearance to the user, are extremely valuable in the toy industry. It is believed that toy projectile launching devices without energy storing components and with unusual actions could be even more valuable. 

Summary of the InventionIn general, the invention is a toy projectile launching device comprising: a surface configured to support and guide a toy projectile along a path from an initial position of the projectile on the surface to an exit from the surface; a lever having opposing longitudinal first and second ends and a pivot between the first and second ends, the lever being supported at the pivot such that the first end of the lever traverses the surface along the path in a direction from the initial position towards the exit from the surface when the lever is rotated on the pivot between opposing, extreme first and second positions; an actuator coupled with the second end of the lever, at least a portion of the actuator being configured and exposed sufficiently to be manually grasped and moved to rotate the lever from the first position to the second position; anda return member positioned so as to automatically return the lever from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 I /WE CLAIM:
1. A toy projectile launching device comprising: a surface configured with both a horizontal aspect and a vertical aspect to support and guide a toy projectile along a path from an initial position of the projectile on the surface to an exit from the surface; a lever having opposing longitudinal first and second ends and a pivot between the first and second ends, the lever being supported at the pivot such that the first end of the lever traverses the surface along the path in a direction from the initial position towards the exit from the surface when the lever is rotated on the pivot between opposing, extreme first and second positions; an actuator coupled with the second end of the lever, at least a portion of the actuator being configured and exposed sufficiently to be manually grasped and moved to rotate the lever from the first position to the second position; and a return member positioned so as to automatically return the lever from the second position to the first position after manual movement of the lever by the actuator.
2. The device of claim 1 wherein the second end of the lever is located closer to the pivot than is the first end of the lever.
3. The device of claim 2 wherein the return member is resiliently flexible.
4. The device of claim 3 wherein the lever is generally vertically oriented and wherein the surface is generally symmetric with respect to a generally vertical plane of movement of the lever.
5. The device of claim 4 wherein the surface is provided by an interior of a hollow tube. 


 6. The device of claim 3, wherein the actuator comprises a lanyard coupled with the second end of the lever, the lanyard being mounted in the device to move the lever only in a direction from the first pivot position to the second pivot position when tensioned.
7. The device of claim 6 wherein the lever is supported at the pivot for movement in a generally horizontal plane over a generally horizontally oriented portion of the surface.
8. The device of claim 7 wherein at least a portion of the path and the surface at the initial position is at least generally radiused with respect to the pivot.
9. The device of claim 8 wherein the lever further includes a plurality of teeth at the extreme second end of the lever.
10. The mechanism of claim 9 further comprising a base defining at least a portion of the surface and wherein the actuator comprises a trigger movably coupled with the base and coupled with the second end of the lever, a portion of the trigger being configured and exposed to permit the trigger to be manually grasped and to be moved to rotate the lever from the first position to the second position.
11. The mechanism of claim 10 wherein the trigger is mounted to slide across the base.
12. The device of claim 11 further comprising a second lever symmetrically supported with respect to the lever and the actuator.
13. The device of claim 1 wherein the return member is resiliently flexible.
14. The device of claim 1 wherein the lever is generally vertically oriented and wherein the surface is generally symmetric with respect to a generally vertical plane of movement of the lever.
15. The device of claim 1 wherein the support is provided by a hollow tube. 


 16. The device of claim 1 wherein the lever is supported at the pivot for movement in a generally horizontal plane over a generally horizontally oriented portion of the surface.
17. The device of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the path and the surface at the second end of the surface is radiused with respect to the pivot.
18. The device of claim 1 wherein the lever further includes a plurality of teeth at the extreme second end of the lever.
19. The mechanism of claim 10 wherein the trigger is mounted to slide across the base.
20. The device of claim 19 further comprising a second lever symmetrically supported with respect to the lever and the actuator.
21. A toy cannon comprised of: a launch tube with a hollow interior and an open end; a lever extending through a side of the tube, the lever including a first portion with first longitudinal end at least partially spanning the hollow interior in a generally radial direction and a second portion with second longitudinal end projecting outside the tube; an actuator coupled with the second end of the lever, at least a portion of the actuator being configured to be manually grasped and moved to move the first end of the lever from an initial position towards the open end of the tube; a pivot rotatably supporting the lever with respect to the tube, the first end of the lever within the hollow interior of the tube being spaced farther from the pivot than is the coupling of the actuator with the second end of the lever; and a return member coupled with the lever so as to automatically return the lever to the initial position after manual movement of the lever with the actuator. 


 22. A toy vehicle launcher comprising: a base with a surface generally configured to support and guide a wheeled toy vehicle along a path on the base; a lever having opposing, longitudinal first and second ends, the lever being supported on a pivot such that the first end of the lever traverses the surface along the path when the lever is rotated on the pivot between opposing, extreme first and second positions; a trigger moveably secured with the base and coupled with the second end of the lever, the first end of the lever is sufficiently long to contact a wheeled toy vehicle on the surface and is spaced farther from the pivot than is the coupling of the trigger with the second end of the lever, at least a portion of the trigger being configured and exposed sufficiently to be manually grasped and moved to rotate the lever from the first position to the second position; and a return member coupled with the lever to automatically return the lever to the extreme first position when the trigger is manually released after being manually moved toward the second extreme position of the lever. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
