<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PRODUCING A CAST ALUMINUM VEHICLE WHEEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60B300	B60B306	C21D934	C21D934	C21D1100	C21D1100	C22F100	C22F100	C22F104	C22F104	C22F1043	C22F1043	G05D2319	G05D2319	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60B	B60B	C21D	C21D	C21D	C21D	C22F	C22F	C22F	C22F	C22F	C22F	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60B3	B60B3	C21D9	C21D9	C21D11	C21D11	C22F1	C22F1	C22F1	C22F1	C22F1	C22F1	G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for producing a cast aluminum vehicle wheel (10) uses a high intensity electric infrared heating system (44) to heat treat the wheel (10). The infrared heating system (44) is an indexing-type system which includes a plurality of individual heating stations (stations n DEG 1-n DEG 12). A first group of heating stations (stations n DEG 2-n DEG 6) effects solution heat treating of the wheel (10), while a second group (stations n DEG 8-n DEG 12) effects artificial aging. The infrared system (44) enables the solution heat treating and aging to be completed in less than 15 minutes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYES WHEEL INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYES WHEEL INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI DANIEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI, DANIEL C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLEMETHOD FOR PRODUCING A CAST ALUMINUM VEHICLE WHEELBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates in general to the manufacture of cast aluminum products and, in particular, to an improved method for producing a cast aluminum vehicle wheel.In producing cast aluminum alloy products , such as vehicle wheels, it is generally necessary, after the initial casting operation, to subject the casting to a series of metal treatment steps in order to produce a casting having the desired tensile strength, yield strength, elongation, and fatigue strength properties. These steps include: (1) a "solution heat treatment" (SHT) process and (2) an "aging" (i.e., precipitation hardening) process. In the SHT process, an aluminum alloy casting is first heated to a "solution" temperature of about 1000°F for a predetermined time such that certain soluble constituents contained in the alloy (such as age hardening constituent magnesium suicide Mg_Si) are dissolved into "solid solution". The casting is then immediately and rapidly cooled (such as by quenching in a water bath) to retain the constituents in solid solution.. This prevents rapid precipitation of the associated constituents which would otherwise occur if the casting were allowed to slowly cool through a certain temperature range. Next, during the "aging" process, the hardening constituents are precipitated out of the solution in a controlled manner to produce a casting having the desired mechanical properties. The aging is effected either "naturally" at room temperature over a period of at least 10-12 hours, or it can be "accelerated" by heating the casting to an elevated temperature for a shorter period of time (e.g. 450° F for 30 minutes) .The conventional method of producing gravity-cast aluminum wheels includes initially pouring a suitable 

molten aluminum alloy, such as A356 aluminum, into a mold through its gate channel until the molten alloy flows upwardly through one or more mold risers. After the molten alloy has completely solidified, the casting is removed from the mold, at which time it can be degated (i.e. , the portion of the casting which solidified in the gate channel is cut off) and quenched in water to cool the casting to room temperature. The casting is then derisered (i.e., the riser portions of the casting are removed) and subjected to fluoroscope inspection to locate any obvious casting defects.Next, a group of wheels (typically between about 70 and 350) , are loaded onto racks and subjected to a "batch" solution heat treatment
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for producing a cast aluminum vehicle wheel comprising the steps of:
(a) casting a vehicle wheel in a mold from a selected aluminum alloy;
(b) removing the wheel from the mold;
(c) supplying heat energy to the wheel at a predetermined level to rapidly heat the wheel to a predetermined temperature within a solution heat treatment temperature range corresponding to the selected aluminum alloy;
(d) reducing the heat energy supplied to the wheel to less than said predetermined level and maintaining the wheel temperature within said solution heat treatment range for a predetermined solution heat treatment time period;
(e) immediately following said solution heat treatment time period, quenching the wheel; and
(f) aging the wheel.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein step (c) includes, simultaneously with supplying the heat energy, monitoring the wheel temperature and step (d) includes reducing the level of heat energy applied to the wheel when the wheel temperature reaches said predetermined temperature included within the solution heat treatment temperature range.
3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the solution heat treatment temperature range in steps (c) and (d) includes a predetermined upper temperature value and a predetermined lower temperature value and step (c) includes measuring an initial wheel temperature prior to supplying the heat energy to the wheel and determining a temperature check time based upon the initial wheel temperature, the temperature check time occurring subsequent to the reduction of the heat energy in step (d) , and wherein step 


 (d) includes measuring the wheel temperature at the temperature check time and further reducing the heat energy supplied to the wheel if the wheel temperature is one of greater than and equal to a predetermined maximum temperature which is greater than the upper temperature value for the solution heat treatment temperature range.
4. The method according to claim 3 wherein step (d) includes monitoring the wheel temperature beginning at the temperature check time and continuing to the end of the predetermined solution heat treatment time period and further reducing the heat energy supplied to the wheel if the wheel temperature is one of greater than and equal to the predetermined maximum temperature.
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein step (c) includes measuring the wheel temperature prior to supplying the heat energy to the wheel and determining an initial wheel heating time period based upon the wheel temperature and further wherein step (c) includes supplying the predetermined level of heat energy to the wheel for the initial wheel heating time period to raise the temperature of the wheel, and step (d) includes reducing the heat energy supplied to the wheel upon the expiration of the initial wheel heating time period.
6. The method according to claim 5 wherein step (c) includes weighing the wheel prior to supplying the heat energy to the wheel and further wherein the determination of the initial wheel heating time period is based upon the wheel weight.
7. The method according to claim 5 wherein the solution heat treatment temperature range in steps (c) and (d) includes a predetermined upper temperature value and a predetermined lower temperature value and step (d) 


includes, beginning when the heat energy supplied to the wheel is reduced and continuing to the end of the predetermined solution heat treatment time period, monitoring the wheel temperature and further reducing the heat energy supplied to the wheel if the wheel temperature is one of greater than and equal to a predetermined maximum temperature which is greater than the upper temperature value for the solution heat treatment temperature range.
8. The method according to claim 1 wherein step (d) includes, simultaneously with supplying the reduced heat energy, monitoring the temperature of the wheel and further wherein step (d) includes supplying means for controlling the level of heat energy supplied to the wheel, the control means being responsive to the wheel temperature to maintain the wheel temperature within said solution heat treatment range.
9. The method according to Claim 1 wherein at least one of steps (c) or (d) or (f) is performed by an infrared heating unit.
10. The method according to Claim 1 including, during the solution heat treatment process of steps (c) and (d) , sensing the temperature of the wheel and controlling the heating of the wheel in response to the sensed temperature of the wheel.
11. The method according to claim 10 including the step of using one or more optical pyrometers to sense the wheel temperature.
12. The method according to claim 10 including the step of sensing the wheel temperature prior to step (c) , and thereafter controlling the heat energy supplied in step 


(c) in response to the temperature sensed prior to step (c) .
13. The method according to claim 10 and further including the step of continuously sensing the wheel temperature during the entire solution heat treat time period.
14. The method according to claim 10 including the step of recording the specific time/temperature profile of the wheel during the solution heat treat process of steps (c) and (d) .
15. The method according to Claim 1 and including the step of rotating the wheel during at least one of steps (c) and (d) .
16. The method according to Claim 1 wherein steps (c) and (d) are performed by sequentially indexing the wheel through a plurality of heating stations, the wheel being retained at each station for a predetermined time period.
17. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the predetermined solution heat treat time period is included in a range of from two to ten minutes.
18. The method according to Claim 1 wherein step (b) is completed, and step (c) is initiated, prior to the wheel temperature falling below about 400° F.
19. The method according to Claim 1 wherein step (f) is performed for a predetermined aging time period in a range of from two to ten minutes.
20. The method, according to claim 1 including the step of sensing the wheel weight prior to step (c) , and 


thereafter controlling the heat energy supplied in step (c) in response to the weight sensed prior to step (c) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
