<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610269</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PAVING ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28B734	B28B734	B28B2300	B28B2300	E01C506	E01C506	E01C508	E01C900	E01C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	E01C	E01C	E01C	E01C	E01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28B7	B28B7	B28B23	B28B23	E01C5	E01C5	E01C5	E01C9	E01C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A paving assembly (1) comprises a plurality of paving elements (2) interconnected by a reinforcing and interconnecting mesh (5) of plastics material. Adjacent paving elements (2) are joined by frangible links (15) which assist in spacing the elements (2) to define interstices (9) to receive bedding sand. The links (15) have fault line (16) along which the links (15) may be broken to accomodate articulation between adjacent paving elements (2), on fitting. A mechanical interlock is formed when the paving is in place and the faces of the link posts (15) re-engage. In some cases a paving assembly (100) may comprise paving elements (101) which do not have a joining mesh.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORFAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORFAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARKE CAMERON JOHN ROSS THE R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARKE, CAMERON, JOHN, ROSS THE ROUND HOUSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "A paving assembly"The invention relates to paving, including any surface covering of any suitable material such as brick, concrete'_ or the like.In one type of paving system which is widely used, large 5 preformed paving slabs are laid side by side to pave an area. The advantage of such large slabs is that a regular shaped area may be paved relatively quickly. There are also considerable disadvantages, however, as there are difficulties in handling and laying the slabs because of 10 their size and weight. Further, the slabs are generally relatively easily damaged and broken.In a second type of paving system, a large number of small paving bricks or tiles are laid to fill an area and while such tiles are much lighter, easy to handle, and less 15 likely to break than large paving slabs, the time taken to lay a particular area with such small tiles is generally much greater than with larger slabs.This invention is directed towards providing a new paving system which will overcome the disadvantages with known 20 paving systems.According to the invention there is provided a paving assembly for paving an area comprising:-a plurality of paving elements, each element having an * upper face, a lower face and sidewall means extending j 25 between the upper and lower faces; anda joining mesh extending between at least groups of adjacent paving elements; 

 the joining mesh extending between the elements intermediate the upper and lower faces thereof.In a preferred embodiment of the invention the assembly includes frangible link means between adjacent paving elements. Preferably, the link means is integrally formed with the paving elements. Preferably, the link means includes fault means along which the link means may be broken.In one embodiment of the invention the sidewall means includes an inwardly converging lower sidewall portion for bedding in a paving-receiving bed.Preferably, the sidewall means includes an upper portion adjacent to the upper face of the paving element.In one embodiment the upper sidewall portion diverges outwardly from the upper face of the paving element.In one arrangement the joining mesh is located substantially at a transition between the upper and lower portions of the sidewall means.Preferably, the joining mesh comprises a plurality of intersecting longitudinal and transverse joining mesh elements. Ideally, the joining mesh is at least partially flexible to permit restricted relative movement between the paving elements during paving. Typically, the joining mesh is of a plastics
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CIAIMS
1. A paving assembly for paving an area comprising:-
a plurality of paving elements, each element having an upper face, a lower face and sidewall means extending between the upper and lower faces; and
a joining mesh extending between at least groups of adjacent paving elements;
the joining mesh extending between the elements intermediate the upper and lower faces thereof.
2. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim including frangible link means between adjacent paving elements.
3. A paving assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein the link means is integrally formed with the paving elements.
4. A paving assembly as claimed in claim 2 or 3 wherein the link means includes fault means along which the link means may be broken.
5. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the sidewall means includes an inwardly converging lower sidewall portion for bedding in a paving-receiving bed.
6. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the sidewall means includes an upper portion adjacent to the upper face of the paving element. 


 7. A paving assembly as claimed in claim 6 wherein the upper sidewall portion diverges outwardly from the upper face of the paving element.
8. A paving assembly as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the joining mesh is located substantially at a transition between the upper and lower portions of the sidewall means.
9. A paving assembly claimed in any preceding claim wherein the joining mesh comprises a plurality of intersecting longitudinal and transverse joining mesh elements.
10. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the joining mesh is at least partially flexible to permit restricted relative movement between the paving elements during paving.
11. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the joining mesh is of a plastics material.
12. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the paving elements are of a settable material.
13. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the paving elements are of a cementitious material.
14. A paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein each paving element is substantially rectilinear in transverse cross-section. 


15. A paving assembly substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
16. A method of forming a paving assembly as claimed in any of claims 1 to 15 comprising the steps of:-
filling a mould box with a mould-forming material;
inserting a first former tool into the mould- forming material to form a grid of lower paving element shapes;
laying a joining mesh across the lower paving element grid;
pouring settable material into the grid to a level above the joining mesh;
prior to setting, inserting a second former tool into the settable material to form the upper portion of the paving elements; and
when set, discharging the paving assembly thus formed from the mould box.
17. A method as claimed in claim 16 wherein the mould- forming material comprises sand.
18. A method of forming a paving assembly as claimed in any preceding claim comprising the steps of:-
moulding a first lower part of a plurality of paving elements in a mould; 


 laying a joining mesh at least between adjacent paving elements; and
moulding a second upper part of the paving elements over the joining means and the lower part of the paving elements to form, when set, a paving assembly comprising a plurality of paving elements interconnected by joining mesh.
19. A method of forming a paving assembly substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
20. A paving assembly whenever formed using a method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 19.
21. A paving assembly for paving an area comprising:-
a plurality of paving elements; and
frangible link means between adjacent paving elements.
22. A paving assembly as claimed in claim 21 wherein the link means is integrally formed with the paving elements.
23. A paving assembly as claimed in claim 21 or 22 wherein the link means includes fault means along which the link means may be broken.
24. A paving assembly as claimed in any of claims 21 to 23 wherein the paving elements are of a settable material. 


25. A paving assembly as claimed in any of claims 21 to 24 wherein the paving elements are of a cementitious material.
26. A paving assembly as claimed in any of claims 21 to 25 wherein each paving element is substantially rectilinear in transverse cross-section.
27. A paving assembly substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figs. 27 to 29 of the accompanying drawings.
28. A paving element of the assembly of any of claims 21 to 27. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
