<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Synchronous pulse generator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L700	H04L700	H04L704	H04L704	H04L708	H04L708	H04N506	H04N506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A synchronous pulse generator (100) for producing 
synchronization pulses that are synchronized with a preamble 

pattern contained in an input digital data signal. The 
generator contains a correlator circuit (102), a pulse 

generator circuit (106) and a flywheel circuit (104). The 
correlator circuit is an M out of N preamble correlator 

which periodically generates timing pulses whenever M-bits 
in a received preamble match M-bits an N-bit preamble 

pattern. The pulse generator circuit periodically generates 
a synchronization pulse at a rate equivalent to an expected 

rate of occurrence of the preambles. The flywheel circuit 
monitors the occurrence of the timing pulses from the 

correlator circuit relative to the synchronization pulse 
occurrences from the pulse generator circuit. Furthermore, 

the flywheel circuit resets the pulse generator circuit when 
the timing pulses are not synchronized with the 

synchronization pulses for a pre-defined period of time. As 
such, when necessary, the flywheel circuit facilitates 

re-synchronization of the synchronization pulses to the 
timing pulses. Additionally, during transient losses of 

timing pulses, the flywheel circuit facilitates production 
of a continuous stream of synchronization pulses. The 

flywheel circuit and correlator circuit are programmable 
such that their operational parameters can be set and then 

dynamically altered during operation of the synchronous 
pulse generator. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARPA CARL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARPA, CARL G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to pulse generation circuits 
and, more particularly, to pulse generation circuits having 
output pulses that are synchronized to a reference signal. There are many applications for pulse generation 
circuits that generate output pulses that are synchronized 
to a reference signal. Typical applications for such 
circuits include digital data communications systems and 
digital data recording systems. For example, many digital 
communications systems transmit digital data in discrete 
"packets" or "bursts" that are serially arranged in groups 
to form transmission frames. Use of such frames allows for 
utilization of conventional time division multiple access 
(TDMA) techniques to transmit the bursts between users of 
the communications system. Examples of such communications 
systems include satellite communications systems, packet 
radio systems, local area network (LAN) systems and the 
like. A receiver of such burst transmissions must 
periodically receive an accurate timing synchronization 
pulse to indicate the beginning of each frame of bursts. 
Using this synchronization pulse, a receiver can 
de-multiplex and demodulate the bursts within each frame. Additionally, many digital communication systems, 
such as high definition television (HDTV) broadcasts, 
transmit interleaved data to promote robust transmission  
 
characteristics. To permit the interleaved data to be 
de-interleaved within an HDTV receiver, the receiver 
generates periodic timing synchronization pulses from the 
data. Such timing synchronization pulses mark the beginning 
of an interleaved data set, i.e., a block of digital data 
having its bits interleaved with one another. Each 
synchronization pulse provides a reference location within 
the transmission from which the interleaved data is 
de-interleaved in a conventional manner. Also, there are many systems other than 
communications systems, e.g., digital video tape recorders 
and digital audio tape recorders, that record data using 
interleaving techniques. Consequently, to facilitate de-interleaving 
of the recorded data, these recorders generate, 
during playback, timing synchronization pulses from the 
recorded data. As with the communications system, the 
synchronization pulses indicate the beginning of each 
interleaved data set. The pulse generation circuits used to generate 
synchronization pulses in both communication systems and 
non-communication systems are substantially similar. 
Therefore, for simplicity, the remaining discussion will 
addre
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for generating periodic synchronization pulses 
from a pre-defined preamble bit pattern contained in a 

digital data signal, said apparatus comprising: 
   correlation means for correlating a pre-defined 

number of bits in a preamble bit pattern within a digital 
data signal to an expected preamble pattern and for 

producing a correlation signal when said pre-defined number 
of bits in said preamble bit pattern match is said expected 

preamble pattern; 
   pulse generator means, connected to said 

correlation means, for producing periodic synchronization 
pulses having a period equivalent to a period of occurrence 

of said preamble pattern; 
   flywheel means, connected to said pulse generator 

means and said correlation means, for synchronizing said 
periodic synchronization pulses to said correlation signal, 

wherein said flywheel means further comprises counter means 
for producing a count that increases when a pulse in said 

periodic synchronization pulses occurs simultaneously with a 
pulse in said correlation signal and decreases when a pulse 

in the periodic synchronization pulses occurs and a pulse in 
the correlation signal does not occur simultaneously 

therewith, wherein said flywheel means resets said pulse 
generator means when a pulse in the correlation signal is 

produced by said correlation means and the count of the 
counter has attained a pre-determined count value. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pre-determined 
count value is zero. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pre-defined number 
of bits in said preamble bit pattern is less than a number 

of bits in said expected preamble bit pattern. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pre-defined number 
of bits in said preamble bit pattern is equivalent to a 

number of bits in said expected preamble bit pattern. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said flywheel means 
further comprises means, connected to said counter means, 

for loading an initial count value into said counter means 
upon resetting said pulse generator means. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said counter means 
counts, after resetting said pulse generator means, up from 

said initial count value whenever said periodic 
synchronizati
on pulses occur simultaneously with said 
correlation signal and counts, after resetting said pulse 

generator means, down from said initial count value whenever 
said periodic synchronization pulses do not occur 

simultaneously with said correlation signal. 
The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising means for 
establishing and altering said initial count value. 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said establishing and 
altering means is a look-up table containing a plurality of 

initial count values, each of which is individually 
selectable using a digital address. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pulse generator 
means further comprises a modulo N counter for counting 

clock cycles of a clock signal from zero to N where N is the 
number of bits in said preamble pattern plus a number of 

bits in said data signal located between said preamble 
patterns, and a zero count detector, connected to said 

modulo N counter, for producing said periodic 
synchronization pulses whenever said modulo N counter has a 

count of zero. 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said modulo N counter 
is reset to a count of zero whenever said counter means has 

a count of zero and a correlation signal is produced by said 
correlation means. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said pulse generator 
means further comprises a pulse stretcher, connected to said 

zero count detector, for producing, in response to said 
periodic synchronization pulses, elongated synchronization 

pulses having a pre-defined duration that is longer than a 
duration of an individual periodic synchronization pulse. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said duration of said 
elongated synchronization pulses is equivalent to a duration 

of said preamble pattern. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said correlation means 
further comprises: 

   a shift register for temporarily storing P-bits of 
the digital data signal; 

   pattern matching means, connected to said shift 
register, for matching said P-bits to said expected preamble 

pattern and for producing an indicating signal indicative of 
each bit out of said P-bits that matches said expected 

preamble pattern; 
   summation means, connected to said pattern 

matching means, for summing said indicating signals; and 
   comparison means, connected to said summation 

means, for comparing said summed indicating signal to a 
pre-defined threshold signal and for producing said 

correlation signal when said summed indicating signal 
exceeds said threshold signal. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein a value of said 
summed indicating signal is indicative of a number of bits 

 
in said P-bits that match bits forming said expected 

preamble pattern. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said threshold signal 
represents a number of bits out of said P-bits that must 

match said bits of said expected preamble pattern before 
said correlation signal is generated. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for 
establishing and altering a maximum count value for said 

counter means. 
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said establishing and 
altering means is a look-up table containing a plurality of 

maximum count values, each of which is individually 
selectable using a digital address. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pre-defined 
number of bits in said preamble bit pattern that must 

correlate with said expected preamble pattern before 
producing said correlation signal is a correlation threshold 

value and further comprising means for establishing and 
altering said correlation threshold value. 
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said establishing and 
altering means is a look-up table containing a plurality of 

correlation threshold values, each of which is individually 
selectable using a digital address. 
A method for producing periodic synchronization pulses 
that are derived from a preamble bit pattern contained in a 

digital data signal, said method comprising the steps of: 
   correlating a pre-defined number of bits in a 

preamble bit pattern within a digital data signal with an 
expected preamble pattern;

 
   generating a correlation signal when said 

pre-defined number of bits in said preamble bit pattern 
matches said expected preamble pattern; 

   producing said periodic synchronization pulses 
having a period equivalent to a period of occurrence of said 

preamble pattern; 
   synchronizing said periodic synchronization pulses 

to said correlation signal by providing a counter for 
producing a count that increases when a pulse in said 

periodic synchronization pulses occurs simultaneously with a 
pulse in said correlation signal and decreases when a pulse 

in the periodic synchronization pulses occurs and a pulse in 
the correlation signal does not occur simultaneously 

therewith, and by re-starting said production of said 
periodic synchronization pulses when a pulse in the 

correlation signal is produced and a count value of the 
counter has attained a pre-determined count value. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said pre-determined 
count value is zero. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said pre-defined number 
of bits in said preamble bit pattern is less than a number 

of bits in said expected preamble bit pattern. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said pre-defined number 
of bits in said preamble bit pattern is equivalent to a 

number of bits in said expected preamble bit pattern. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said synchronizing step 
further comprises the step of loading an initial count value 

into said counter upon restarting said production of said 
periodic synchronization pulses. 
The method of claim 24 wherein said counter counts, 
after restarting said production of said periodic 

synchronization pulses, up from said initial count value 
whenever said periodic synchronization pulses occur 

simultaneously with said correlation signal and counts, 
after restarting said production of said periodic 

synchronization pulses, down from said initial count value 
whenever said periodic synchronization pulses do not occur 

simultaneously with said correlation signal. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said producing step 
further comprises the steps of counting clock cycles of a 

clock signal from zero to N where N is the number of bits in 
said preamble pattern plus a number of bits in said data 

signal located between said preamble patterns, and producing 
a periodic synchronization pulse whenever said clock cycle 

count attains a count of zero. 
The method of claim 26 wherein said clock cycle 
counting step further comprises the step of resetting said 

count to zero whenever said counter has a count of zero and 
a correlation signal is produced. 
The method of claim 27 wherein said producing step 
further comprises the step of producing, in response to each 

periodic synchronization pulse, an elongated synchronization 
pulse having a pre-defined duration that is longer than a 

duration of said periodic synchronization pulse. 
The method of claim 28 wherein said duration of said 
elongated synchroniz
ation pulse is equivalent to a duration 
of said preamble pattern. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said correlating step 
further comprises the steps of:

 
   temporarily storing P-bits of the digital data 

signal; 
   matching said P-bits to said expected preamble 

pattern and producing an indicating signal indicative of 
each bit out of said P-bits that matches said expected 

preamble pattern; 
   summing said indicating signals; and 

   comparing said summed indicating signal to a 
pre-defined threshold signal; and 

   producing said correlation signal when said summed 
indicating signal exceeds said threshold signal. 
The method of claim 30 wherein a value of said summed 
indicating signal is indicative of a number of bits in said 

P-bits that match bits forming said expected preamble 
pattern. 
The method of claim 31 wherein said threshold signal 
represents a number of bits out of said P-bits that must 

match before generating said correlation signal. 
The method of claim 24 wherein said synchronizing step 
further comprises the step of establishing said initial 

count value. 
The method of claim 33 wherein said establishing step 
further comprises the steps of storing in a look-up table a 

plurality of initial count values and selecting an initial 
count value from said plurality of initial count values 

using a digital address. 
The method of claim 20 further comprising the steps of 
establishing a maximum count value for said counter. 
The method of claim 35 wherein said establishing step 
further comprises the steps of storing a look-up table a 

plurality of maximum count values and selecting a maximum 
count value from said plurality of maximum count values 

using a digital address. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said pre-defined number 
of bits in said preamble bit pattern that must correlate 

with said expected preamble pattern before producing said 
correlation signal is a correlation threshold value and 

further comprising the step of establishing said correlation 
threshold value. 
The method of claim 37 wherein said establishing step 
further comprises the steps of storing in a look-up table a 

plurality of correlation threshold values and selecting a 
correlation threshold value from said plurality of 

correlation threshold values using a digital address. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
