<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614308</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for controlling access to selected image components in an image storage and retrieval system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F906	G06F906	G06F1208	G06F1208	G06F1210	G06F1210	G06T100	G06T100	H04N144	H04N144	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06T1	G06T1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing technique is described in 
the context of a hierarchical image storage and 

retrieval system. The method allows for the 
restriction of access to selected high resolution image 

components in the hierarchy from unauthorized use. The 
technique employs a key encryption of selected image 

components during storage, and decryption with a 
special key, or password during authorized retrieval. 

This technique allows users of a distributed system the 
convenience of providing the entire image hierarchy on 

a single storage medium. Access to the low resolution 
components is permitted without restriction for 

browsing and proofing. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELNYCHUCK PAUL WALTER C O EAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELNYCHUCK, PAUL WALTER, C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is related to the field 
of digital image processing and more particularly to 
methods and associated apparatuses for preventing the 
unauthorized use of stored digital image components. An image hierarchy is constructed in the context 
of a multiresolution environment whereby the user has 
the option of selecting the type of display medium and 
the desired resolution of this display medium. In 
particular, two types of display media are considered: 
video monitors and color hard copies, through 
photographic, thermal imaging, and other types are also 
of interest. In Fig. 1 a prior art technique for 
decomposing, storing, recomposing, and displaying, a 
digital image using a hierarchical process is shown. 
An original digital image is decomposed to provide 
image versions at various resolutions to allow for the 
display of an HDTV quality image on video, an NTSC 
quality image with PAL/SECAM compatibility on video, 
one or more sub-NTSC quality images on video for 
overviews and browsing, and a very high quality image 
on color hard copy. Intermediate the decomposition and 
recomposition steps, generally are inserted an encoding 
step, to compress the data for storage which in turn 
requires a decoding step prior to further usage.  The present invention uses encryption of 
selected image components of the image hierarchy to 
prevent use of the selected components for the 
generation of unauthorized high quality color hard 
copy. Encryption is a form of scrambling of the 
digital data to prevent use of the data by an 
unauthorized receiver of the data. In a distributed 
image system it is common to deliver an image of 
compromised image quality for purposes of browsing or 
proofing. A compromised rendition of the image is 
commonly distributed to prevent full utility or 
fulfillment of the image without proper consideration 
for the service that generated the image. The term 
browsing refers to the process of image selection from 
a plurality of images based on some user-defined 
criterion. Such is the case when a user may select an 
image from a catalog of images depicting a particular 
object. The term proofing refers to the process of 
image selection based on the degree of desirability of 
a given image from a plurality of images. Such is the 
case when a professional portrait photographer 
distributes a plurality of images to the client for 
selection and approval. The terms browsing and 
proofing described herein are not limited to the 
examples described above. It is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A storage medium having stored therein at 
least one low resolution digital image and at least one 

high resolution digital image, with said low resolution 
digital image being accessible without the use of a key 

and with said high resolution digital image being 
accessible only with a key. 
The storage medium according to claim 1 
wherein said at least one high resolution digital image 

is encrypted and the key permits decryption of said at 
least one high resolution digital image. 
A storage medium having stored therein at 
least one low resolution digital image and at least one 

high resolution digital image in the form of a BASE 
image and residual image components, with said low 

resolution digital image and said BASE image being 
accessible without the use of a key and with said high 

resolution digital image being accessible only by 
combining the BASE image with said residual image 

components under control of the key. 
The storage medium according to claim 3 
wherein the key controls access to one or more of the 

residual image components. 
A system for controlling the 
reconstruction of a high resolution digital image 

stored on a storage medium as BASE and residual 
components, comprising: 

   means for encrypting the residual components 
stored on said storage medium using a code key; 

   means for accessing the BASE and encrypted 
residual components; 

   means requiring the code key to decrypt the 
encrypted residual components; and 

   means for combining the accessed BASE and 
decrypted residual components to reconstruct the high 

resolution digital image. 
A system for encrypting and decrypting a 
high resolution digital image comprising: 

   means for forming a hierarchy of lower 
resolution digital images from the high resolution 

digital image; 
   means for forming residual images that are a 

function of differences between adjacent images in the 
hierarchy of lower resolution digital images; 

   encryption means for encrypting at least one 
of the formed residual images; 

   storage means for storing the formed 
hierarchy of lower resolution images and the at least 

one encrypted residual images; 
   means for reconstructing high resolution 

images by accessing and combining a lower resolution 
image with a residual image; 

   means for controlling the decryption of the 
at least one encrypted residual image to in turn 

control the reconstruction of the high resolution 
image. 
A recording medium having stored thereon a 
plurality of digital images with each of the digital 

images being comprised of low resolution digital image 
components and key encrypted residual digital image 

components which are combinable with low resolution 
digital image components to form a higher resolution 

digital image when accessed with a decryption key. 
A method for controlling the access to a 
digital image stored on a storage medium in a 

hierarchical form comprised of a BASE image and at 
least one residual image component, comprising the 

steps of: 

a) encrypting said at least one residual 
image component with a code key; 
b) permitting access to the BASE image for 
low resolution viewing of the digital image; 
c) controllably providing a decode key to an 
authorized viewer to enable accessing of the at least 

one residual image component; and 
d) combining the BASE image with the at least 
one residual component to form the digital image for 

viewing, printing and/or storing. 
A hierarchical image storage and 
encryption method comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming a digital representation of an image; 
(b) decomposing said digital representation 
according to the following steps: 


i. lowpass filtering and subsampling said 
digital representation to form a lower resolution 

image; 
ii. interpolating said lower resolution image 
to the dimensions of the digital representation to form 

a prediction image; 
iii. subtracting said prediction image from 
the digital representation to form a residual image; 
iv. key encoding and storing said residual 
image; and 
v. creating a plurality of key encoded, and 
stored residual images of different resolutions by 

iterating steps i, ii, iii, and iv where the input to 
the lowpass filtering and subsampling operation of step 

i is the lower resolution image formed in the previous 
iteration step i and storing at least one of the formed 

lower resolution images. 
A method for reforming the digital image 
representations encrypted according to the method of 

claim 9. 

A) accessing and interpolating at least one 
of the formed and stored lower resolution images to the 

dimensions of a next higher resolution level to form a 
prediction image; 
B) retrieving and key decoding at least one 
of said stored key encoded residual images; 
C) adding said key decoded residual image to 
said prediction image to form a higher resolution image 

for further use; and 
D) iterating steps A through C for each user 
selected remaining residual image of step (b.iv). 
A hierarchical image storage and 
encryption method comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming a digital representation of an 
image; 
(b) decomposing said digital representation 
according to the following steps: 
i. filtering and subsampling said digital 
representation to form a lower resolution image of said 

digital representation; 
ii. forming a prediction image of said 
digital representation from said lower resolution 

image; 
iii. subtracting said prediction image from 
said digital representation to form a residual image; 
iv. key encrypting, and storing said residual 
image; and 
v. creating a plurality of key encrypted and 
stored residual images of different resolutions by 

iterating steps i, ii, iii, and iv where the input to 
the operation of step i is the lower resolution image 

formed in the previous iteration step i and wherein 
each lower resolution image is stored; and 
vi.controlling the formation of a higher 
resolution image by requiring the use of a key 

decryptor for accessing the stored residual images. 
A hierarchical retrieval and decryption 

method according to claim 11 wherein step vi is 
comprised of the steps of: 


a) retrieving at least one of said key 
encrypted and stored residual images and one of said 

lower resolution images; 
b) decrypting said at least one of the 
retrieved key encrypted residual images; and 
c) combining the decrypted residual image 
with said at least one lower resolution image to form a 

higher resolution image. 
A hierarchical retrieval and decryption 
method according to claim 12 and further comprising the 

steps of: 

a) interpolating said at least one lower 
resolution image to the dimensions of the next higher 

resolution level image to form a prediction image; 
b) retrieving and decrypting with an 
encryption key the residual image corresponding to said 

next higher resolution level image; and 
c) adding the decrypted residual image to 
said prediction image to form a higher resolution image 

for further use. 
A hierarchical storage and encryption 
method comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming a digital representation of an 
image; 
(b) decomposing said digital representation 
according to the following steps: 


1. lowpass filtering and subsampling said 
digital representation to form a lower resolution 

image; 
2. interpolating said lower resolution image 
to the dimensions of the higher resolution image to 

form a prediction image; 
3. subtracting said prediction image from the 
higher resolution image to form a residual image; 
4. compressing, and storing said residual 
image; 
5. creating a second residual image by 
iterating steps 1, 2, and 3 where the input to the 

lowpass filtering and subsampled operation of step 1 is 
the lower resolution image formed in the previous 

iteration step 1; 
6. key encrypting, compressing and storing 
said second residual image; and 
7. creating a plurality of key encrypted, 
compressed, and stored residual images of different 

resolutions by iterating steps 1, 2, 3, and 4 where the 
input to the lowpass filtering and subsampling 

operation of step 1 is the lower resolution image 
formed in the previous iteration step 1. 
A method for reforming the digital 
representation of an image stored and encrypted 

according to the method of claim 14 compressing the 
steps of: 


1. interpolating a retrieved lower resolution 
image to the dimensions of the next higher resolution 

level image to form a prediction image; 
2. retrieving and decrypting with a key, the 
residual image corresponding to said next higher 

resolution level; 
3. adding decryptor residual image to said 
prediction image to form a higher resolution image for 

further use; 
4. iterating steps 1-3 for each remaining 
residual image of step (b). 
A hierarchical storage and encryption 
method comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming a digital representation of an 
image; 
(b) decomposing said digital representation 
according to the following steps: 


1. lowpass filtering and subsampling said 
digital representation to form a lower resolution 

image; 
2. interpolating or replicating said lower 
resolution image to the dimensions of the higher 

resolution image to form a prediction image; 
3. subtracting said prediction image from the 
higher resolution image to form a residual image; 
4. key encrypting, compressing and storing 
said residual image; and 
5. creating a second residual image by 
iterating steps 1, 2, and 3 where the input to the 

lowpass filtering and subsampled operation of step 1 is 
the lower resolution image formed in the previous 

iteration step 1; 
6. key encrypting, compressing and storing 
said residual image; and 
7. creating a plurality of key encrypted, 
compressed and stored residual images of different 

resolutions by iterating steps 1, 2, 3, and 4 where the 
input to the lowpass filtering and subsampling 

operation of step 1 is the lower resolution image 
formed in the previous iteration step 1; 
(c) further decomposing the lowest resolution 
image formed in (b) into a plurality of lower 

resolution images according to the following steps: 

1. iteratively lowpass filtering and 
subsampling said image to create one or more lower 

resolution images; and 
2. storing said lower resolution images. 
A method for controllably reforming 
higher resolution images encrypted according to the 

method of claim 16 comprising the steps of: 

1. replicating said retrieved image to the 
dimensions of the next higher resolution level to form 

a prediction image; 
2. retrieving, decrypting with a controlled 
distribution key, and decompressing the residual image 

corresponding to said next higher resolution level; 
3. adding the decrypted, residual image 
decompressed to said prediction image to form a higher 

resolution image for further use 
4. iterating these steps 1-3 for each 
selected key encrypted, compressed residual image of 

(b). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
