<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638129</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MERCURY CONTAMINATED MUD TREATMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F900	A62D300	A62D10143	A62D10124	B09C102	C21C546	C21C500	C22B4300	C21C552	C04B724	C21C546	C02F900	C04B700	C22B4300	B09C100	A62D300	A62D338	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	A62D	A62D	A62D	B09C	C21C	C21C	C22B	C21C	C04B	C21C	C02F	C04B	C22B	B09C	A62D	A62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F9	A62D3	A62D101	A62D101	B09C1	C21C5	C21C5	C22B43	C21C5	C04B7	C21C5	C02F9	C04B7	C22B43	B09C1	A62D3	A62D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a hydrometallurgical 
process for the treatment of low mercury content wastes and 
mercury contaminated materials. In one aspect, this 
process pertains to a hydrometallurgical process for the 
treatment of Environmental Protection Agency designated 
K106 muds discharged from a mercury chlor-alkali plant. Mercury has become recognized as a non-benign 
environmental pollutant. Materials and wastes can be 
contaminated by mercury from a number of sources including 
chemical spills and decommissioned chlor-alkali plants. A significant but decreasing percentage of the 
world's chlorine and caustic soda comes from mercury 
amalgam cell chlor-alkali plants. These plants produce 
contaminated wastewater and sediments which must be treated 
to remove the contaminants before disposal to the environment. 
A common practice is to treat the wastewater with a 
combination of acidification and sulfidation to remove 
soluble mercury as mercuric sulfide. The wastewater is 
clarified prior to disposal while the solids containing 
mercuric and mercurous compounds as well as metallic 
mercury have in the past been disposed of in a hazardous 
landfill. The mercury content of the solids can vary 
significantly but is typically 1-6% wt. total mercury. Recently, the United States Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) has enacted a number of new rules which 
regulate the disposal of industrial waste streams. The 
rule making procedure has identified special hazardous 
waste streams such as the chlor-alkali plant mercury 
contaminated wastewater treatment filter cake designated as 
K-106. The K-106 material is classified as a high mercury 
sub-category waste and will in the future be banned from 
land fill disposal. The EPA has designated retort/roasting as the 
standard treatment technology (Best Demonstrated Available  
 
Technology - BDAT) for treating K-106 material. The 
technology is well established, having been used extensively 
for the recovery of mercury from cinnabar ores and 
for the purification of contaminated mercury (triple 
distillation). There are, however, numerous problems 
associated with retorting of low concentration K-106 filter 
cakes. The most significant are: 
1. The condenser recovery of mercury vapour from the 
low concentration retorter off-gas is poor. 2. The condensed mercury is contaminated with sulfur 
and carbonaceous material thereby making further 
refining to triple distilled quality difficult. 3. The high temperature chloride containing off-gas 
is highly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydrometallurgical process for the removal of 
mercury and mercury compounds from solid materials containing 

mercury and mercury compounds comprising: 

(a) treating the solid materials in a first leach 
with acid, sodium chloride and sodium hypochlorite for a 

sufficient length of time to produce a first leached 
product having a reduced mercury and mercury compound 

content and a by-product having an elevated mercury and 
mercury compound content; 
(b) transferring the leached product from the 
leach to a first wash thickener and thickening the leached 

product from the leach to generate a thickened product and 
a first overflow product; 
(c) transferring the overflow product from the 
wash thickener to an electrolytic cell to yield elemental 

mercury and an overflow which is recycled to the leach; 
(d) transferring the thickened product from the 
wash thickener to a second leach and treating the thickened 

product with acid and sodium hypochlorite for a sufficient 
length of time to produce a second leached product having 

a reduced mercury and mercury compound content and a second 
by-product having an elevated mercury and mercury compound 

content; 
(e) transferring the second leached product to a 
second wash thickener and thickening the second leached 

product from the second leach to generate a second 
thickened product and a second overflow product; and 
(f) transferring the second thickened product 
from the second wash thickener to a final dewatering 

process to yield a low mercury content residue. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the solid 
materials are thickened before being directed to the first 

leach.  
 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
liquid product from the first leach is treated with iron to 

form a cementation product and the cementation product is 
washed in a filter to yield a cement and an overflow 

product which is recycled to the leach. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
liquid product from the first leach is treated with iron to 

form a cementation product and the cementation produce is 
passed through an electrolytic cell to yield elemental 

mercury and an overflow product which is recycled to the 
leach. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first 
overflow product from the thickener is transferred to a 

treat tank before being transferred to an electrolyte cell. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
second overflow product from the second thickener is 

recycled to the first thickener. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the solid 
materials containing mercury and mercury compounds are 

first passed through a preliminary thickener before being 
transferred to the first leach and an initial overflow 

product is produced which is recycled to the preliminary 
thickener. 
A process as claimed in claim 7 wherein the 
initial overflow product from the preliminary thickener is 

filtered and backflushed to produce a filtered product 
which is recycled to the preliminary thickener. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first 
leach has a retention time of at least about 15 minutes, 

said leach being conducted at a pH of about 6, and a 
solution potential of at least about 900 mv, the first  

 
leach comprising at least about 5 percent by weight sodium 

chloride. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first 
leach has a retention time of at least about 15 minutes, 

said leach being conducted at a pH of about 6, and a 
solution potential of at least about 900 mv, the leach 

comprising at least about 5 percent by weight sodium 
chloride therein, the second leach has a retention time of 

at least about 15 minutes, said second leach being conducted 
at a pH of about 2, and a solution potential of at 

least about 700 mv. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the solid 
materials are first treated in a sulfide reactor 

with acid and sodium sulfide to produce a reaction product, 
the reaction product from the sulfide reactor is transferred 

to a preliminary thickener to produce a thickened 
product, and the thickened product is transferred from the 

preliminary thickener to the first leach. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the acid 
is selected from the group consisting of hydrochloric acid 

and sulfuric acid. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein sodium 
chloride is added to the first leach to maintain a sodium 

chloride level in the leach of between about 5 to 27 
percent by weight. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein sodium 
chloride is added to the second leach to maintain a sodium 

chloride level in the second leach of between about 5 to 27 
percent by weight.  

 
A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the leach 
has a temperature between about 20 to 100°C and the leach 

comprises at least about 5 percent by weight sodium chloride. 
A process as claimed in claim 15 wherein the 
second leach has a temperature of between about 20 to 100°C 

and the second leach comprises at least about 5 percent by 
weight sodium chloride. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein sodium 
chloride is added to both the first leach and the second 

leach to maintain the sodium chloride concentration of the 
first leach and the second leach at about 10 percent by 

weight. 
A process as claimed in claim 17 wherein the 
temperature of the first leach and the second leach is 

about 50°C. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
