<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631488</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RELIEVING EXCESS INSUFFLATION PRESSURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1300	A61M1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M13	A61M13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for relieving insufflation pressure in a body cavity (18) in excess of a predetermined value are provided. A conduit assembly (24) extends from the body cavity (18) through the surface (61) of a fluid reservoir and has a port (63) positioned beneath the fluid surface (61). The relief pressure is selected by setting the relative positioning of the open end (63) and fluid surface (61). The apparatus avoids insufflation gas leakage problems associated with known insufflation pressure relief devices.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIRTCHER MED SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIRTCHER MED SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLEENOR RICHARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE ALAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLEENOR RICHARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE ALAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RELIEVING EXCESS INSUFFLATION PRESSUREFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention pertains to an improved apparatus for relieving insufflation pressure in excess of a predetermined value during surgical procedures wherein a body cavity is insufflated.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Certain surgical procedures involve insufflation, i.e., introducing a gas such as certain inert gases or air into a body cavity. One such procedure is laparoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic surgery is a minimally invasive type of surgical procedure wherein surgical instruments and imaging equipment are inserted into a body cavity through an access cannula, thereby avoiding the need for large incisions. In such procedures, it is common to introduce a gas into the body cavity to separate a wall of the body cavity or other tissue from the surgical site. Sufficient clearance is thus provided to facilitate insertion and manipulation of the surgical instruments and viewing equipment.It is important to monitor the introduction of the insufflation gas and the insufflation pressure in the body cavity during surgery. For example, a reduction in patient vital signs may result if the insufflation pressure is too high. It is thus desirable to maintain the insufflation pressure within a range where adequate insufflation is provided substantially without affecting 

the patient's vital signs. In addition, pressurized insufflation gas may spread from the surgical site into the patient's body resulting in post-surgery pain. Moreover, a high insufflation gas delivery rate can result in rapid depletion of the gas source, i.e., a gas canister, necessitating changing or replenishing of the source and prolonging surgery. For these and other reasons, it is useful to account for the insufflation gas and monitor the insufflation pressure. Heretofore, the insufflation pressure has commonly been regulated by using a mechanical pressure relief valve which opens, thereby partially venting the body cavity, when the insufflation pressure reaches a predetermined limit. One such type of mechanical valve involves the use of a biasing device such as a spring to provide a back pressure such that the valve remains closed until the insufflation pressure is sufficient to overcome the back pressure. Thus, in theory, the insufflation pressure can be maintained below a desired limit in such devices by selecting an appropriate biasing device or device setting. However, it has been found that such mechanical pressure relief valves may leak under normal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed:
1. An apparatus for relieving insufflation pressure in a body cavity in excess of a predetermined value, comprising: a receptacle containing a fluid; and insufflation gas exhaust means, extending from said body cavity into said fluid contained in said receptacle, for allowing one-way insufflation gas communication from said body cavity into said fluid contained in said receptacle when an insufflation pressure in said body cavity exceeds a predetermined value, the exhaust means having a first end positioned a predetermined distance beneath a top surface of said fluid contained in said receptacle wherein insufflation gas is exhausted from said body cavity via said first end when said insufflation pressure exceeds said predetermined value.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said receptacle has an opening therein above said top surface of said fluid contained in said receptacle for passage of an insufflation gas.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said receptacle comprises a flexible bag.
4. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said bag is adapted to be hung above said body cavity from a hanger assembly.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said receptacle is at least partly transparent. 


 6. The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising means for setting said predetermined distance between said top surface and said first end.
7. The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein said means for setting comprises means for adjusting a level of said top surface.
8. The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein said means for setting comprises an opening for adding fluid to said receptacle or for subtracting fluid therefrom. 9. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said exhaust means comprises a first conduit extending from a point above said top surface of said fluid contained in said receptacle to said first end.
10. The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein said exhaust means further comprises a second conduit extending upwardly from a bottom edge of said receptacle and having an open end positioned within said first conduit, wherein said second conduit has a width less than a width of the first conduit. 11. The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein said first conduit comprises a compartment of said receptacle formed by sealing a portion of a front wall of said receptacle to a portion of a back wall thereof.
12. The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein said first conduit is positioned substantially along a vertical centerline of said receptacle.
13. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said receptacle comprises a first compartment and a second 


compartment, the compartments separated by a substantially fluid impermeable partition, communication between said first and second compartments provided by a passageway located a predetermined distance D beneath said top surface of said fluid contained in said receptacle, wherein the distance D is selected such that insufflation gas passes through said passageway when said insufflation pressure exceeds said predetermined value.
14. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said receptacle includes calibration markings to assist in setting a level of said top surface of said fluid contained in said receptacle.
15. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said receptacle contains a substantially sterile fluid. 16. The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising: an insufflation gas source; and insufflation gas delivery means for delivering insufflation gas from said source to said body cavity. 

17. An insufflation system, comprising: a source of insufflation gas; inlet means, extending from said source to a body cavity, for one-way delivery of said gas to the body cavity; a receptacle containing a fluid; and outlet means extending from said body cavity to said receptacle, for one-way venting of insufflation gas from said body cavity into said receptacle when the pressure in said body cavity exceeds a predetermined value, said outlet means including a first end submerged a predetermined distance beneath a surface of said fluid contained in said receptacle.
18. The system of Claim 17, wherein said receptacle contains sterile saline solution. 

19. A method for relieving excess insufflation pressure in a body cavity, comprising the steps of: providing an insufflation gas exhaust assembly including a receptacle containing a fluid and an exhaust line extending from a body cavity into said fluid; and establishing one-way insufflation fluidcommunication from said body cavity to said receptacle via said exhaust line.
20. The method of Claim 19, wherein said step of establishing comprises pressurizing the body cavity such that insufflation fluid flows therefrom.
21. The method of Claim 19, wherein said step of establishing comprises opening a valve to allow flow of insufflation fluid through said exhaust line. 

22. A method for venting a body cavity comprising the steps of: setting the relative positioning between a first end of an exhaust line extending from a body cavity and the top surface of a fluid contained in a receptacle so that the first end is positioned a preselected distance beneath the surface; and . establishing one-way insufflation fluid communication from said body cavity to said receptacle via said exhaust line.
23. The method of Claim 22, further comprising the step of: flowing insufflation fluid from a fluid source to said body cavity. 24. The method of Claim 22, wherein said step of setting comprises adding fluid to said receptacle. 

25 A disposable apparatus for relieving insufflation pressure in a body cavity in excess of a predetermined value, comprising: a disposable fluid receptacle for containing a predetermined level of fluid; and disposable conduit means for establishing one-way insufflation gas communication from a body cavity to said fluid receptacle having a first end disposed at a predetermined position within said fluid receptacle and a second end selectively connectable to an exhaust port from the body cavity wherein, during use, the first end is submerged within a predetermined level of fluid contained in said fluid receptacle and insufflation gas is permitted to pass from the body cavity through the conduit means and into said fluid receptacle when pressure in the body cavity exceeds a predetermined value.
26 The apparatus of Claim 25, wherein said disposable fluid receptacle comprises a flexible bag.
27. The apparatus of Claim 25, wherein said disposable conduit means comprises a compartment of said disposable fluid receptacle formed by sealing a portion of a front wall of said disposable fluid receptacle to a portion of a backwall thereof. 


 28. A pressure relief apparatus for use in an insufflation system including an insufflation gas source, an insufflation gas supply line extending from the source to a body cavity inlet interface for delivering insufflation gas to a body cavity, and a body cavity outlet interface separate from the body cavity inlet interface for allowing insufflation gas to be exhausted from the body cavity, the pressure relief apparatus comprising: a fluid receptacle for containing a predetermined level of fluid; and conduit means for establishing one-way insufflation gas communication between said fluid receptacle and a body cavity outlet interface, said conduit means having a first end disposed at a predetermined position within said fluid receptacle wherein, during use, said first end is submerged within a predetermined level of fluid contained in said fluid receptacle and insufflation gas is permitted to pass from said body cavity through said conduit means and into said fluid receptacle when pressure in said body cavity exceeds a predetermined value. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
