<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Utility cart and latch assembly therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60P104	B60P128	B62D6300	B62D6306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60P	B60P	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60P1	B60P1	B62D63	B62D63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A utility cart (10) for hauling up to at least 
1000 pounds includes a plastic carriage (11) having 

reinforcement ribs (47) extending from and across the 
bottom thereof to strengthen the carriage (11), an 

elongated drawbar member (12) to pull the carriage (11), an 
axle assembly (15) engaging the carriage (11) and one end 

of the drawbar member (12) to pivot the carriage (11) with 
respect to the drawbar member (12), a latch assembly (16) 

connected to the drawbar member (12) and engaging the 
carriage (11) to restrain the pivotal movement of the 

carriage (11) with respect to the drawbar member (12), and 
at least two wheels (13, 14) attached to the axle assembly 

(15). The latch assembly (16) includes a body member (53) 
pivotally connected to the drawbar member (12) and has a 

gripping portion (56) extending between a first leg portion 
(57) and a second leg portion (58). A rod (54) attached to 

the carriage (11) is received by slots (67) in the leg 
portions (57, 58) to releasably engage the carriage (11) to 

the drawbar member (12). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUBBERMAID COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUBBERMAID COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDELL JONATHAN N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMBLIN GLEN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDELL, JONATHAN N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMBLIN, GLEN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to utility carts. More 
particularly, this invention relates to a two-wheeled 
utility cart of the type which may be pulled by a drawbar 
attached to a tractor or the like. Specifically, the 
present invention relates to a utility cart having a 
specially designed plastic undercarriage and plastic tub 
for holding up to at least 1000 pounds. A unique latch 
mechanism with a safety bail secures the tub and 
undercarriage to the drawbar and remains flush with or 
recessed within the undercarriage when the tub is in the 
closed or locked position. Utility carts have long been used to haul 
equipment and other articles from one place to another. 
Generally, such carts include a tub in which the articles 
to be carried are placed, a drawbar or handle for pulling 
the cart, a latch mechanism for securing the tub to the 
drawbar or handle, and at least two wheels attached to an 
axle positioned below the tub. Commonly, these carts are 
moved by pulling them with a vehicle, such as a tractor, or 
by less powerful methods such as man power. Most utility carts have been made of wood, metal 
or plastic. Wood carts are generally less sturdy than 
metal or plastic carts, and are more susceptible to 
cracking, chipping, or otherwise being damaged during use. 
Moreover, the roughness of the wood may cause splinters and 
other injuries not found with carts of other materials. While metal carts have long been used for their 
strength and heavy duty load capacity, they also have 
disadvantages. For instance, these carts are susceptible 
to corrosion, may be dented easily, and usually are more 
expensive than other carts. Plastic carts have recently gained acceptance in  
 
replacing these metal and wood carts. They are easily 
cleaned, do not corrode or rot like metal or wood, 
respectively, and are lighter and less expensive than other 
carts. However, one disadvantage of these type of carts 
has been that they cannot carry a great deal of weight. It 
is desirable for heavy duty utility carts to be able to 
carry up to at least 1000 pounds. When this much weight is 
added to plastic utility carts of the prior art, they are 
susceptible to breaking down and may crack under the 
strain, or the latch may disengage as discussed 
hereinbelow. One practical aspect of these carts is that the 
tub may be pivoted around the axle of the cart so as to 
provide a dumping capability. This is commonly done by 
manipulating a latch such that the tub may be disengaged 
from the drawbar and rotated vertically to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A utility cart comprising a plastic carriage having 
reinforcement rib means extending along the bottom 

thereof to strengthen said carriage, an elongated 
drawbar member, axle means engaging said carriage and 

one end of said drawbar member so that said carriage 
may pivot with respect to said drawbar member, latch 

means connected to said drawbar member and engaging 
said carriage to restrain the pivotal movement of said 

carriage with respect to said drawbar member, and at 
least two wheels attached to said axle means. 
A utility cart according to claim 1 wherein said 
carriage includes a tub having sidewalls and a bottom 

and an undercarriage connected to said carriage 
bottom, said axle means extending through said 

undercarriage, and said reinforcing rib means 
extending along the bottom of said tub behind said 

undercarriage. 
A utility cart according to claim 2 wherein said 
undercarriage includes a plurality of walls and a 

recess in one of said sidewalls, said latch means 
positioned within said recess when said utility cart 

is in its latched position. 
A utility cart according to claim 1 further comprising 
hitch means positioned at the other end of said 

drawbar member to attach said utility cart to means to 
pull said utility cart. 
A utility cart according to claim 1 wherein said latch 
means includes a body member having a gripping portion 

extending between a first leg portion and a second leg 
 

portion, means to engage said carriage, and means to 
connect said first and second leg portions of said 

body member to said drawbar member and to pivot said 
body member with respect to the drawbar member. 
A utility cart according to claim 5 wherein said means 
to engage said carriage includes rod means secured 

within a recess formed in a front wall of said 
carriage to engage said body member, and slot means 

positioned within said body member to receive said rod 
means. 
A utility cart according to claim 6 wherein said slot 
means forms a downwardly curved arc and is positioned 

within said first and second leg portions such that as 
weight is added into said carriage, said latch means 

more forcefully restrains the pivotal movement of said 
carriage with respect to said drawbar member. 
A utility cart comprising a plastic tub and 
undercarriage, said undercarriage having walls 

extending upwardly and engaging said tub, a recess in 
one of said walls, an elongated drawbar member, axle 

means received by said undercarriage and one end of 
said drawbar member so that said tub and undercarriage 

may pivot with respect to said drawbar member, latch 
means connected to said drawbar member and positioned 

within said recess when engaged with said 
undercarriage to restrain the pivotal movement of said 

tub and undercarriage with respect to said drawbar 
member, and at least two wheels attached to said axle 

means. 
A utility cart according to claim 8 wherein said tub 
includes a bottom, and further comprising reinforcing 

rib means extending downwardly therefrom to strengthen 
said tub. 
A utility cart according to claim 8 wherein said latch 
means includes a body member having a gripping portion 

extending between a first leg portion and a second leg 
portion, means to engage said undercarriage, and means 

to connect said first and second leg portions of said 
body member to the drawbar member and to pivot said 

body member with respect to the drawbar member. 
A utility cart according to claim 10 wherein said 
means to engage said undercarriage includes rod means 

secured within a recess formed in a front wall of said 
undercarriage to engage said body member, and slot 

means positioned within said body member to receive 
said rod means. 
A utility cart according to claim 11 wherein said slot 
means forms a downwardly curved arc and is positioned 

within said first and second leg portions such that as 
weight is added into said tub, said latch means more 

forcefully restrains the pivotal movement of said tub 
and
 undercarriage with respect to said drawbar member. 
A utility cart according to claim 8 further comprising 
hitch means positioned at the other end of said 

drawbar member to attach said utility cart to means to 
pull said utility cart. 
A latch assembly for securing a carriage to a drawbar 
member comprising a body member having a gripping 

portion extending between a first leg portion and a 
second leg portion, means to engage the carriage 

formed in said first and second leg portions, and 
means to connect said first and second leg portions of 

said body member to the drawbar member and to pivot 
said body member with respect to the drawbar member. 
A latch assembly according to claim 14 further 
 

comprising safety bail means attached to said drawbar 
member to prevent the pivotal movement of body member. 
A latch assembly according to claim 14 wherein said 
means to engage includes rod means positioned within a 

recess formed in a wall of the carriage to engage said 
body member, and slot means positioned within said 

first and second leg portions of said body member to 
receive said rod means. 
A latch assembly according to claim 14 wherein said 
means to connect includes a pin positioned through 

aligned bores in the drawbar member and said body 
member. 
A latch assembly according to claim 17 further 
including spring means on said pin to permit the 

return of said body member to an upright position, and 
pin means positioned toward the carriage with respect 

to said spring means to oppose said spring means and 
prevent said spring means from forcing said body 

member from its upright position in the opposed 
direction. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
