<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645029</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC VENTING SYSTEM FOR A VEHICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J100	B60J100	B60J704	B60J7057	E05F1510	E05F1510	H02H300	H02H300	H02H7085	H02H7085	H02P706	H02P706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	B60J	B60J	B60J	E05F	E05F	H02H	H02H	H02H	H02H	H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J1	B60J1	B60J7	B60J7	E05F15	E05F15	H02H3	H02H3	H02H7	H02H7	H02P7	H02P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A motor control system (10a) for controlling operation of a vehicle. The system monitors and stores data relating to the operating current and detects occurrences of abnormal loads applied to the vent by determining whether the monitored operating current exceeds one of several predetermined thresholds. The predetermined thresholds are dynamically modified in accordance with monitored condition variations of the operating current. The dynamically modified thresholds are initially based on either a value associated wih the stall current of the vent motor (16a, 16b, 16c) or the start spike current of the vent motor (16a, 16b, 16c). In addition, an embodiment is provided for monitoring and storing data relating to ripple current waves associated with the operating current, so that occurrences of abnormal loads may be detected by determining whether the frequency of the monitored ripple current waves is less than a predetermined value.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROSPECTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROSPECTS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUANG CLIFF L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LU MICHAEL Y
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAN PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUANG, CLIFF, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LU, MICHAEL, Y.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAN, PETER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
AUTOMATIC VENTING SYSTEM FOR A VEHICLEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Several attempts have been made in the prior art to automatically ventilate a vehicle or an enclosed space. One such system is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,852,469 for an "Automatic Venting System" issued to Chuang, and incorporated herein by reference. The system accomplishes ventilation by opening one or more of the vehicle vents, eg. the windows, sun roof or convertible top, when the temperature inside the vehicle is higher than a desired level. In addition, if precipitation is sensed, the system automatically shuts the open vents. U.S. Patent No. 5,054,686 for an "Automobile Environment Management System" also issued to Chuang, and incorporated herein by reference, discloses further improvements to the automatic venting system, and includes safety features such as passive infra-red living being detection. Unfortunately, the prior art systems operate so as to close the open vents of the vehicle in response to a predetermined condition, such as precipitation detection, regardless of whether or not the vehicle is occupied. Accordingly, if a child, pet or other living being remains in the vehicle and accidently places their fingers, arm or other objects in the vents opening space during the closing operation, unacceptable injury or damage may occur. 

 Conventional vent closing systems provide various approaches to solving safety problems during vehicle ventilation closing operations. However, due to the technology limitations, the conventional systems are either not adequate to provide safety security or too cumbersome and expensive to be installed and operated, or both.Typically, this is due to the use of a system involving the comparison of operating currents to fixed thresholds or simply detecting an occurrence of a motor stall current level.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is therefore an object of the invention to provide obstruction detection capabilities for an automatic venting system in a vehicle by utilizing dynamically modified thresholds.It is another object of the invention to provide obstruction detection for an automatic venting system by monitoring the conditions of ripple currents present in the operating current of the vent motor. Accordingly, a first preferred embodiment of the present invention is motor control system for controlling operation of an electric motor associated with a motor- operated vent in a vehicle. The system includes means for providing an operating current to the motor, means for monitoring and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A motor control system for controlling operation of an electric motor associated with a motor- operated vent in a vehicle, said system comprising: means for providing an operating current to said motor; means for monitoring and storing data relating to said operating current; means for detecting the occurrence of abnormal loads applied to said vent by determining whether the monitored operating current exceeds at least one predetermined threshold; means for dynamically modifying said at least one predetermined threshold in accordance with monitored condition variations of said operating current; and means for altering said operating current provided to said motor in response to the detection of an abnormal load detection.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one predetermined threshold comprises a first threshold.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one predetermined threshold comprises a second threshold which corresponds to a predetermined percentage of said first threshold. 


 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said first threshold corresponds to a motor stall current value.
5. The system of claim 3 wherein said first threshold corresponds to a start motor spike current value.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one predetermined threshold comprises the sum of an average operating current value monitored and stored by said monitoring means and a current offset value which corresponds to a predetermined percentage of said first threshold.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein said at least one predetermined threshold comprises the sum of an average operating current value monitored and stored by said monitoring means and a current offset value which corresponds to a predetermined percentage of said second threshold.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein said first threshold is modified in response to the monitoring of a subsequent motor stall current of lesser value than said first threshold or determining that an operating current exceeds said second threshold and is less than said first threshold. 


 9. The system of claim 5, wherein said first threshold is modified in responr-e to the monitoring of a subsequent start motor spike current of lesser value than said first threshold or determining that an operating current exceeds said second threshold and is less than said first threshold.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one predetermined threshold comprises the sum of a value of said operating current previously occurring at a predetermined time period being monitored and stored by said monitoring means, and a current offset value which corresponds to a predetermined percentage of said first threshold.
11. The system of claim 3, wherein said at least one predetermined threshold comprises the sum of a value of said operating current previously occurring at a predetermined time period being monitored and stored by said monitoring means, and a current offset value which corresponds to a predetermined percentage of said second threshold.
12. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for determining the operational position of said vent.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said operating 


current altering means is disabled in response to determining that said operational position of said vent is within a predetermined limit.
14. A method of controlling operation of an electric motor associated with a motor-operated vent in a vehicle, said method comprising the steps of: providing an operating current to said motor; monitoring and storing data relating to said operating current; detecting the occurrence of abnormal loads applied to said vent by determining whether the monitored operating current exceeds at least one predetermined threshold; dynamically modifying said at least one predetermined threshold in accordance with monitored condition variations of said operating current; and altering said operating current provided to said motor in response to the detection of an abnormal load detection.
15. A motor control system for controlling operation of an electric motor associated with a motor- operated vent in a vehicle, said system comprising: means for providing an operating current to said motor; means for monitoring and storing data relating to said operating current; 



 means for monitoring and storing data relating to ripple current waves associated with said operating current; means for detecting the occurrence of abnormal loads applied to said vent by determining whether the frequency of the monitored ripple current waves is less than a predetermined value; and means for altering said operating current provided to said motor in response to the detection of an abnormal load detection.
16. A method of controlling operation of an electric motor associated with a motor-operated vent in a vehicle, said method comprising the steps of: providing an operating current to said motor; monitoring and storing data relating to said operating current; monitoring and storing data relating to ripple current waves associated with said operating current; detecting the occurrence of abnormal loads applied to said vent by determining whether the frequency of the monitored ripple current waves is less than a predetermined value; and altering said operating current provided to said motor in response to the detection of an abnormal load detection. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
