<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644938</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCTION OF STREPTAVIDIN FROM -i(BACILLUS SUBTILIS).
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14195	C07K1436	C12N121	C12N121	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1531	C12N1531	C12N1574	C12N1575	C12P2102	C12P2102	C12R107	C12R1125	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	C12R	C12R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C12N1	C12N1	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C12P21	C12R1	C12R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for producing biologically active streptavidin and streptavidin fusion proteins by cloning the sav gene from Streptomyces avidinii into Bacillus subtilis and purifying the secreted streptavidin proteins from the growth medium.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGARAJAN VASANTHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGARAJAN, VASANTHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ΣU E PRODUCTION OF STREPTAVIDIN FROM BACILLUS SUBTILIS FIE P OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a method for cloning the streptavidin gene into B. subtilis and the secretion of tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin protein into the growth medium.BaCKSRQUNP OF THE INVENTION Streptavidin is a tetrameric protein isolated from the actinobacterium Streptomyces avidinii and is remarkable for its ability to bind up to four molecules of d-biotin with unusually high affinity (1) . Streptavidin is a nearly neutral 60,000 dalton protein consisting of four identical subunits each having a molecular weight of 15,000 daltons (2). The ability of streptavidin to bind derivitized forms of biotin has led to its widespread use in diagnostic assays where high affinity protein-ligand interactions are important. Some of the current applications include streptavidin coated liposomes used for drug delivery and diagnostic tests to detect human antibodies or pathogens using streptavidin linked to enzymes such as alkaline or phosphatase or horseradish peroxidase. Streptavidin is currently produced in commercial quantities byS. avidinii . S. avidinii naturally secretes relatively low amounts of streptavidin into the growth media. Recombinant E. coll produce streptavidin in relatively high amounts, but only intercellularly and generally in * insoluble form. Streptavidin is available commercially from several manufacturers, however, the commercial reagent exhibits considerable variation in molecular weight and purity between suppliers and between lots from the same supplier. Furthermore, the reagent is expensive and its cost prohibits broader applications. 

 The primary cause for the lack of homogeneity in the streptavidin currently produced is the presence of protease susceptible sites in the protein which exist outside of the biotin binding domain. Another factor contributing to the low purity of streptavidin is the presence of trace amounts of biotin in the growth medium from which the streptavidin is purified. This results in biotin-bound streptavidin and contributes to the molecular weight variations mentioned above. Argarana and Meade (2) and (3) describe the cloning of the streptavidin gene from a genomic library of" Streptomyces avidinii as well as the DNA sequence of the coding region of the gene.Meade also reports secretion of 250 mg/liter of streptavidin from S. llvidans. This process is time- consuming as the fermentation time alone is 4 to 7 days. Cantor (4) describes the isolation of the DNA which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 37 What is claimed is: 
~~~
1. A method for producing tetrameric,
5 biologically active streptavidin by secretion from
Bacillus subtilis, comprising: a. transforming BacHlus subtilis with a gene construct comprising a sequence encoding streptavidin operably linked to a sequence encoding a signal peptide 10 and an expression element, wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide is isolated from DNA encoding an exoprotein of bacteria and said expression element is isolated from DNA encoding a gram positive bacterial protein; 15 b. growing the transformed Bacillus subtilis in suitable growth medium whereby streptavidin is secreted into the growth medium; and c. purifying the streptavidin from the growth medium. 20
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide and said expression element are each independently selected from the group consisting of apr, npr, lvs and bar derived from
25 Bacillus amyloliquefaciens .
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide and said expression element are derived from npr from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens .
30
4. The method of Claim 1 wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide and said expression element are derived from lvs from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens. 


 5. The method of Claim 1 wherein said expression element is comprised of a promoter sequence and a ribosomal binding site sequence.
6. The method of Claim 5 wherein said promoter sequence is inducible. _
7. A transformed Bacillus subtilis bacterium capable of secreting tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin having a gene construct comprising a sequence encoding streptavidin operably linked to a sequence encoding a signal peptide and an expression element, wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide is isolated from DNA encoding an exoprotein of bacteria and said expression element is isolated from DNA encoding a gram positive bacterial protein.
8. A bacterium of Claim 7 wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide and said expression element are each independently selected from the group consisting of apr, npr, lvs and bar genes derived from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens .
9. A method for producing a fused gene product comprised of tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin fused to a second desired protein, by secretion from Bacillus subtilis, comprising: a. transforming Bacillus subtilis with a fused gene construct comprising a sequence encoding streptavidin fused to a sequence encoding a second desired protein, wherein said fused sequence is operably linked to a sequence encoding a signal peptide and an expression element, and wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide is isolated from DNA encoding an exoprotein of bacteria and said expression element is 


isolated from DNA encoding a gram positive bacterial protein; b. growing the transformed Bacillus subtilis in suitable growth medium whereby the fused streptavidin and desired protein are secreted into the growth medium; and c. purifying the fused streptavidin and desired protein from the growth medium.
10. The method of Claim 9 wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide and said expression element are each independently selected from the group consisting of apr, npr, lvs and bar genes from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens .
11. The method of Claim 9 wherein said fused gene product is comprised of tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin fused to the C-terminus of the second desired protein. __
12. The method of Claim 9 wherein said fused gene product is comprised of tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin fused to the N-terminus of the second desired protein.
13. The method of Claim 9 wherein said second target protein is selected from the group consisting of levansucrase, alkaline phosphatase, β-lactamase, luciferase, and Protein A.
14. The method of Claim 12 wherein the fused gene product is comprised of streptavidin at the N-terminal region of the fused protein and levansucrase at the C-terminal region of the fused protein; and wherein said fused gene construct is comprised of the expression 


element and sequence encoding the signal peptide isolated from the levansucrase gene of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, fused to a sequence encoding mature streptavidin, fused to a sequence encoding mature levansucrase from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens.
15. A fused gene product produced by the method of Claim 11 or 12.
16. A transformed Bacillus subtilis bacterium capable of secreting tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin fused to a second desired protein; said bacterium having a fused gene construct comprising a sequence encoding streptavidin fused to a sequence encoding a second desired protein; wherein said fused sequence is operably linked to a sequence encoding a signal peptide and an expression element, and wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide is isolated from DNA encoding an exoprotein of bacteria and said expression element is isolated from DNA encoding a gram positive bacterial protein.
17. The bacterium of Claim 15 wherein said fused protein is comprised of tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin fused to the C-terminus of the second desired protein.
18. The bacterium of Claim 15 wherein said fused protein is comprised of tetrameric, biologically active streptavidin fused to the N-terminus of the second desired protein.
19. The bacterium of Claim 16 wherein said sequence encoding a signal peptide and said expression element are each independently selected from the group 


consisting of apr, npr, lvs and bar genes from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens .
20. The bacterium of Claim 16 wherein said second target protein is selected from the group consisting of levansucrase, alkaline phosphatase, β-lactamase, luciferase, and Protein A. -
^
21. Plasmids pBE659, ρBE660, pBE661, pBE662, pBE663, pBE673, and pBE655. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
