<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIQUID REMOVAL SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F5455	A61F5451	A61F5451	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A liquid removal system having an interface device and a vacuum source are described. The interface device has a porous membrane with an entrance zone on one side. The vacuum source maintains a cacuum on the side of the membrane opposite the entrance zone when the membrane is wetted. Liquid which contacts the wetted porous membrane is removed from the interface device by the vacuum source.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SQUIBB BRISTOL MYERS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE W THOMPSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STROHL CLAIR L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE, W. THOMPSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STROHL, CLAIR, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed toward
apparatus used in applications where there
is a need for liquid removal. Such applications
include laboratories, workshops and elsewhere. Other
applications are in the medical and dental fields and
include use in wound drainage, chest cavity drainage,
oral surgery and others.The present invention also has particular
application as a female external catheter providing
improved urine removal to increase patient comfort, to
reduce the potential of skin disorders from irritation,
and to reduce odors. When used as a female external
catheter the present invention has particular
applicability to female patients who suffer from
incontinence whether they are bed-ridden, have limited
mobility or are ambulatory.There are many instances in a laboratory,
work shop or other setting where liquid removal is
desired. For example, there may be spills or leaks or
overflows where it is desired to achieve prompt and
relatively effective removal of liquids. While
absorbent towels or other conventional means will pick 
up liquids, there are many instances where it is
desirous that the liquid not come into contact with the
skin. Thus, there is a need for a liquid removal
system which avoids contact with personnel as much as
possible.In the medical area, particularly for wound
drainage or chest drainage, there is a need for
expeditious and efficient removal of liquid such as
blood or other bodily liquid. In view of current
concerns over the transmission of communicable diseases
through contact with body liquid, there is a need for a
system of removing body liquid where personal contact
is minimized thereby reducing the risk of disease
transmission.The present invention has
applicability as a female external
catheter. As the average age of the population in this
country increases, a greater number of people are
living longer than in the past. The advances in
medicine and patient care have contributed greatly to
the increased life expectancy. Unfortunately, although
there is a greater number of persons who are living to
an advanced age, not all these persons are enjoying
this benefit through an active lifestyle and have good
health. Naturally, there is also an increase of
patients who are older but have, for one reason or 
another, become bed-ridden or have limited mobility due
to age or physical disability.In the past, there was a tendency for
families to try, at least initially, to have an older
family member reside with them. However, due to
various economic and sociological factors
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An external female catheter apparatus comprising an interface device (10),
said interface device comprising an entrance zone (24) on one side of a

porous membrane (25) and a second zone (27) on the opposite side of the
membrane, a vacuum source (60,77) for providing a vacuum on the

second zone side of said membrane (25), so that urine received in
the entrance zone in contact with said porous membrane is drawn through

the membrane into the second zone, and a drain
tube (26) is connected with the second zone, the vacuum source (60,77)

being connected with the drain tube (26) to remove urine drawn
through the membrane (25), from the second zone (27)

   
characterised in that
 the membrane (25) is prewetted by a
liquid having a low vapor pressure to cause the membrane to be capable

of maintaining said vacuum continuously in the second zone.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said entrance zone (24)
contains an open celled reticulated foam.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said entrance zone (24)
contains a wicking material.
An external female catheter apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said
prewetting liquid having a low vapor pressure is glycerin.
An external female catheter apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said
membrane (25) has a pore size of 5 to 30 microns. 
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein said membrane, when
prewetted with said liquid having a low vapor pressure, supports a suction pressure of 12.5 to

152 cm of water (5 to 60 inches).
An external female catheter apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said vacuum
source is a pump (60,77).
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said pump (77) is
connected to a pressure transducer (74) which maintains a preselected

vacuum.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said membrane (25) is
hydrophilic.
An external female catheter apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein, in use, the
vacuum is maintained by the drain tube (26) having liquid therein, said

tube (26) having an outlet positionable lower in height than the interface
device (10) during operation of said system.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein a vacuum is maintained,
a receptacle (88) having first and second check valves (86,85) said first

check valve (86) being an inlet valve which permits first liquid to enter
from said drain tube (26), but prevents liquid from returning to said drain

tube and said second check valve being an outlet valve, which prevents air
from entering said system.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said pump comprises a
bellows (60). 
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said bellows (60) is
compressed by a cam (62) connected to a motor (63).
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 13, wherein said motor (63) has a
control means (64) which permits the motor to operate only when urine

is introduced into the interface device (10) and the vacuum in the
bellows (60) drops below a preselected level.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 7, comprising a first tube (71)
connecting said interface device (10) with a vacuum bottle (73) and a

second tube (72) having a pressure transducer (74) for sensing the vacuum
across the membrane (25), said vacuum being maintained by the pump

(77), wherein said pump is activated by the pressure transducer (74) when
there is a decrease in the vacuum below a preselected value and said pump

is deactivated once the vacuum returns to said preselected value.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 15, further comprising a vacuum
relief means (76) in said second tube (72) to prevent the vacuum from

exceeding a preselected value.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 16, wherein said vacuum relief means
(76) is a spring loaded check valve.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 16, wherein said vacuum relief means
(76) is an electronically operated solenoid valve.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 16, further comprising a means (78)
for preventing a positive pressure in said vacuum bottle (73) said means

being in line between said vacuum bottle (73) and said pump (77). 
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 7, comprising means (81) for
connecting said interface device (10) with the pump (82), a means (83) for

connecting said interface device (10) with vacuum relief means (84), said
pump being connected to a collection means (88) for holding the removed

urine, said vacuum relief means (84) being connected to said
collection means (88) such that said vacuum relief means prevents the

vacuum in the collection means from exceeding a predetermined level.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 20, wherein said pump is a hand
pump (82) which when pumped evacuates air from said connecting means

(81) into said collection means (88) and maintains a vacuum such that
when urine enters said connecting means (81) said urine is caused to

pass through said pump (82) into said collection means.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 21, wherein said vacuum relief
means (84) is a spring loaded check valve.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 21, wherein said vacuum relief
means (84) is an electronically operated solenoid valve.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 7, comprising a pressure transducer
(114) to monitor the vacuum between the interface device (10) and said

pump (112), said pump being further connected to a collection means
(113) whereby a decrease in pressure is sensed by said pressure transducer

which causes said pump to activate thereby increasing the vacuum.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 24, wherein said pump (112) is a
peristaltic pump. 
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 24, wherein said pump (112) has a
disposable pumphead.
An external female catheter apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the interface
device (10) has a female patient contact surface (23) comprised of a

flexible, fluid impervious material and is provided with an opening (20) to
receive the urine.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 27, further comprising an external
dam (23a) around said entrance zone (24).
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 28, wherein said dam (23a) is
comprised of a foam material.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 29, wherein said dam (23a) contains
a bump (23b) at the portion of the dam that, in use, contacts the region of

the body between the anus and vagina.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 29, wherein said dam (23a) has a
sealing material on the surface which will contact the patient's skin.
An external female catheter apparatus according to Claim 31, wherein said sealing material is
petroleum jelly.
A method of removing urine using an external female catheter apparatus
according to Claim 1, the method comprising:


maintaining a continuous vacuum in the second zone (27), the
vacuum being supported by the prewetted membrane; 
directing urine into the entrance zone and into contact
with the membrane (25); and
drawing the liquid having a low vapor pressure through the prewetted membrane (25) by
said vacuum into the second zone and the drain tube (26), and maintaining

the vacuum in the second zone (27) supported by the membrane (25) now

wetted by the urine.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
