<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617858</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONVERSION OF THREE-PHASE LINE VOLTAGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J301	H02J301	H02M112	H02M112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J3	H02J3	H02M1	H02M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit (30) is provided for generating a current that is a harmonic of the frequency of the utility system (12, 34, 160, 220) and which is of a selected amplitude and phase to reduce the total harmonic distortion of a system (10, 42, 136, 170, 236) that converts alternating current to direct current, or vice versa. The DC signal is sampled and by controlling switches (68, 70; 130, 132; 204, 208, 294, 296), a sinusoidal current at the desired harmonic is generated, and is provided to an impedance network (71, 71H, 71K, 150, 218) that injects this current into the multiphase AC system used (260) by the utility in a very low cost, easily controlled, and highly effective manner. The impedance network, (71, 71H, 71K, 150, 218, 260) comprises a single inductor (73A, 73B, 73C) and capacitance (75A, 75B, 75C, 75H, 75I, 75J) connected in series through each of the phases of the utility, with the current signal having an amplitude that is selected to substantially eliminate harmonics which cause high distortion of the utility signal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MINNESOTA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MINNESOTA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOHAN NED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOHAN NED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CONVERSION OFTHREE-PHASE LINEVOLTAGESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a system for reducing harmonic currents in an electric power conversion system where three-phase alternating current (AC) power is converted to direct current (DC) power and vice versa, and, more particularly, to a system that modulates current on the DC portion of the conversion system to create a selected harmonic current that is injected into the AC portion of the conversion system.Converter systems and inverter systems are used throughout electric utility power systems to transfer power from and to the utility system grid, respectively. Converter systems transform alternating current power from the utility system to direct current power as a front end in loads such as uninterruptable power supplies (UPS) , adjustable speed drives, induction heaters and arc welders. In contrast, inverter systems transform direct current power provided from renewable energy sources such as wind, photovoltaic or small hydro-powered generating systems to alternating current power that is provided to the electric utility system. In other energy storage systems such as batteries and magnetic storage, a combination of a converter and an inverter allows power to flow bidirectionally rather than unidirectionally.However, as is commonly known, each of the aforementioned converter and inverter systems also contribute harmonic currents into the utility system grid. These harmonic currents may distort the generated voltage waveform at the point of common coupling with the power conversion system due to the finite system impedance of the utility system grid. In addition to 

 voltagewaveform distortion, harmonic currents interfere with communication and control signals, cause economic losses due to errors in metering and malfunctioning of utility system protection relays and stress the utility system equipment from heat generated by the harmonic currents and over-voltage conditions that occur in resonant situations.Due to the increased use of converter and inverter conversion systems, and the inherent problems associated with the harmonic currents that they produce, national and international agencies have established various standards and guidelines to specify allowable limits for harmonic currents on a system. Some of these standards include: EN 50 006, "The Limitation of Disturbances in Electricity Supply Networks Caused byDomestic and Similar Appliances Equipped with ElectronicDevices," European standard prepared by Comite
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A harmonic reducing system for reducing harmonic currents generated from power conversion means connected between a multiphase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having terminals carrying a direct current, said harmonic reducing system comprising: current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, said current modulating means being connected to receive the direct current carried through the first terminal and modulating a first and second superimposed sinusoidal currents with the direct current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency, with an amplitude proportional to the direct current; and means connected to the current modulating means for combining said first and second superimposed currents to form a sinusoidal injection current at the selected harmonic frequency, said injection current having an amplitude substantially equal to twice the amplitude of each sinusoidal current; and impedance means connected between said means for combining and said multiphase alternating current power system, said impedance means providing a substantially low impedance for the 


 injection current injected into said multiphase alternating current power system and a higher impedance for a current having the base fundamental frequency.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the impedance means comprises a filter network having a filter component thereof for each phase of the multiphase alternating current power system.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein each filter component comprises a high pass filter.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein each filter component is a pure capacitor.
5. The system of claim 2 wherein each filter component is tuned at a selected frequency related to the base fundamental frequency.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the current modulating means comprises a first current shaping modulator connected between the first terminal and the power conversion means and a second current shaping modulator connected between the second terminal and the power conversion means, and wherein the means for combining comprises a junction point connected between the first and second current shaping modulators, the impedance means being connected to the current modulating means at the junction point.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the power conversion means comprises rectification means to transfer power from the multiphase alternating current power system to the direct current power system.
8. The system of claim l wherein the power conversion means comprises both rectification means to transfer power from the multiphase alternating power 


 system to the direct current power system and, inverter means to transfer power from the direct current power system to the multiphase alternating current power system.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the current modulating means includes means for maintaining the superimposed current at a selected phase relationship to the base fundamental frequency.
10. A method for reducing harmonic currents when power is converted with power conversion means between a three-phase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system defined by a voltage across opposed first and second terminals and receiving a direct current through said terminals, said method comprising: providing current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, and impedance means connected between said modulating means and said three-phase alternating current power system; operating said current modulating means to receive a first superimposed current comprising the direct current and a first sinusoidal current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency with an amplitude thereof proportional to the direct current, and to provide a second superimposed current to an output comprising the direct current and a second sinusoidal current at the selected harmonic frequency with 



 an amplitude thereof proportional to the direct current; combining said first and second superimposed currents to form a sinusoidal injection current at the selected harmonic frequency, said injection current having an amplitude substantially equal to twice the amplitude of the first sinusoidal current; and injecting said injection current into the three-phase alternating current power system.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of operating includes operating said modulating means such that the selected harmonic frequency of the first and second sinusoidal currents is equal to the third harmonic frequency.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of operating includes operating said modulating means such that the selected harmonic frequency of the first and second sinusoidal currents is equal to the ninth harmonic frequency.
13. A method for reducing harmonic currents when power is converted with power conversion means between a three-phase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having first and second terminals and receiving a direct current through said terminals, said method comprising: providing current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, and impedance means connected between said 


 modulating means and said three-phase alternating current power system; operating said current modulating means to provide a sinusoidal injection current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency with an amplitude proportional to the direct current; and injecting said injection current through said impedance means into each separate phase of the three-phase alternating current power system. 14. An apparatus for reducing harmonics between a three-phase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having terminals and having a direct current through said terminals comprising: a power converter connected between the alternating current power system and the direct current system for converting power between the two systems; current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power converter for providing a sinusoidal injection current synchronized and in phase with the alternating current power system and at a selected frequency and amplitude; and impedance means connected between said modulating means and said three-phase alternating current power system for injecting a portion of said injection current through said impedance means 


 into each phase of the three-phase alternating current power system.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the impedance means comprises three separate impedance branches, each branch comprising a series connected inductor and capacitor.
16. A harmonic reducing system for reducing harmonic currents generated from power conversion means connected between a multiphase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having terminals carrying a direct current, said harmonic reducing system comprising: current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, said current modulating means being connected to receive the direct current carried through the first terminal and modulating a first and second superimposed sinusoidal currents with the direct current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency, with an amplitude proportional to the direct current; and means connected to the current modulating means for combining said first and second superimposed currents to form a sinusoidal injection current at the selected harmonic frequency, said injection current having an amplitude substantially equal to twice the amplitude of each sinusoidal current; and 


means connected between said means for combining and said multiphase alternating current power system, said impedance means providing a substantially low impedance for the injection current injected into said multiphase alternating current power system and a higher impedance for a current having the base fundamental frequency. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 22 March 1993 (22.03.93); original claim 1 amended; new claims 2 and 3 added; claims 2-16 renumbered as claims 4-18 (7 pages)]
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A harmonic reducing system for reducing harmonic currents generated from power conversion means connected between a multiphase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having terminals carrying a direct current, said harmonic reducing system comprising: current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, said current modulating means being connected to receive current from the power conversion means and modulating a first and second superimposed sinusoidal currents with the direct current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency, with an amplitude proportional to the direct current; and means connected to the current modulating means for combining said first and second superimposed currents to form a sinusoidal injection current at the selected harmonic frequency, said injection current having an amplitude substantially equal to twice the amplitude of each sinusoidal current; and coupling means connected between said means for combining and said multiphase alternating current power system.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the coupling means comprises impedance means providing a substantially low impedance for the injection current 


 injected into said multiphase alternating current power system and a higher impedance for a current having the base fundamental frequency.
3. The system of claim 1 further comprising transformer means for connecting the multiphase alternating current power system to the direct current power system, the transformer means having a center tap, and wherein the coupling means is connected to the center tap.
4. The system of claim 2 wherein the impedance means comprises a filter network having a filter component thereof for each phase of the multiphase alternating current power system.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein each filter component comprises a high pass filter.
6. The system of claim 4 wherein each filter component is a pure capacitor.
7. The system of claim 4 wherein each filter component is tuned at a selected frequency related to the base fundamental frequency.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein the terminals comprise a first terminal and a second terminal and wherein the current modulating means comprises a first current shaping modulator connected between the first terminal and the power conversion means and a second current shaping modulator connected between the second terminal and the power conversion means, and wherein the means for combining comprises a junction point connected 


between the first and second current shaping modulators, the coupling means being connected to the current modulating means at the junction point.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the power conversion means comprises rectification means to transfer power from the multiphase alternating current power system to the direct current power system.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein the power conversion means comprises both rectification means to transfer power from the multiphase alternating power system to the direct current power system and, invertor means to transfer power from the direct current power system to the multiphase alternating current power system.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein the current modulating means includes means for maintaining the superimposed current at a selected phase relationship to the base fundamental frequency.
12. A method for reducing harmonic currents when power is converted with power conversion means between a three-phase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system defined by a voltage across opposed first and second terminals and receiving a direct current through said terminals, said method comprising: providing current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, and impedance means connected between said modulating means and said three-phase 


 alternating current power system; operating said current modulating means to receive a first superimposed current comprising the direct current and a first sinusoidal current at a selected harmonic frequenc of the fundamental frequency with an amplitude thereof proportional to the direct current, and to provide a second superimposed current to an output comprising the direct current and a second sinusoidal current at the selected harmonic frequency with an amplitude thereof proportional to the direct current; combining said first and second superimposed currents to form a sinusoidal injection current at the selected harmonic frequency, said injection current having an amplitude substantially equal to twice the amplitude of the first sinusoidal current; and injecting said injection current into the three-phase alternating current power system.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of operating includes operating said modulating means such that the selected harmonic frequency of the first and second sinusoidal currents is equal to the third harmonic frequency.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of operating includes operating said modulating means such that the selected harmonic frequency of the first and 


second sinusoidal currents is equal to the ninth harmonic frequency.
15. A method for reducing harmonic currents when power is converted with power conversion means between a three-phase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having first and second terminals and receiving a direct current through said terminals, said method comprising: providing current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, and impedance means connected between said modulating means and said three-phase alternating current power system; operating said current modulating means to provide a sinusoidal injection current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency with an amplitude proportional to the direct current; and injecting said injection current through said impedance means into each separate phase of the three-phase alternating current power system.
16. An apparatus for reducing harmonic between a three-phase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having terminals and having a direct current through said terminals comprising: a power converter " connected between the alternating current power system and the direct current system for converting 


 power between the two systems; current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power converter for providing a sinusoidal injection current synchronized and 
'
 in phase with the alternating current power system and at a selected frequency and amplitude proportional to the direct current; and coupling means connected between said modulating means and said three-phase alternating current power system for injecting a portion of said injection current through said coupling means into each phase of the three-phase alternating current power system.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the coupling means comprises impedance means providing a substantially low impedance for the injection current injected into said multiphase alternating current power system and a higher impedance for a current having the base fundamental frequency.
18. A harmonic reducing system for reducing harmonic currents generated from power conversion means connected between a multiphase alternating current power system having a base fundamental frequency and a direct current power system having terminals carrying a direct current, said harmonic reducing system comprising: current modulating means connected between said direct current power system and said power conversion means, said current modulating means being connected 


 to receive current from the power conversion means and modulating a first and second superimposed sinusoidal currents with the direct current at a selected harmonic frequency of the fundamental frequency, with an amplitude proportional to the direct current; and means connected to the current modulating means for combining said first and second superimposed currents to form a sinusoidal injection current at the selected harmonic frequency, said injection current having an amplitude substantially equal to twice the amplitude of each sinusoidal current; and means connected between said means for combining and said multiphase alternating current power system, said means providing a substantially low impedance for the injection current injected into said multiphase alternating current power system and a higher impedance for a current having the base fundamental frequency. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
