<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658979</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data converter with programmable decimation or interpolation factor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H1700	H03H1700	H03H1706	H03H1706	H03M112	H03M112	H03M166	H03M166	H03M302	H03M302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H17	H03H17	H03H17	H03H17	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M3	H03M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a data converter 
(e.g., 720, 84, 78) is disclosed that provides a sampling rate conversion. 

The converter receives a clock signal (e.g., CKOS, CKL1, CPD or CPI), a divided-down 
clock signal (e.g., CKM1, CKL1, CKL2, CPDM2, or CPIL3), and first digital 

signal samples at a first rate. The converter converts the first digital signal samples 
to second digital signal samples at a second rate. The ratio of the first rate to the 

second rate is defined as a fist conversion rate factor. 
In an alternate embodiment, another stage of sampling rate conversion is 
provided by a second data converter. The second converter 

receives the divided-down clock signal, a further divided-down clock signal, and the 
second digital signal samples. The second data converter converts the 

second digital signal samples to the third rate. The ratio of the second rate to the 
third rate is defined as a second conversion rate factor. A second programmable 

counter receives the divided down clock signal and divides it down to 
produce a further divided-down clock signal. The second programmable counter 

is programmable to selectively determine the second conversion rate 
factor. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORSWORTHY STEVEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORSWORTHY, STEVEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates generally to data converters such as encoders or 
decoders for converting signals from analog-to-digital form, or from digital-to-analog 
form, and particularly to such converters including a capability to divide an 
incoming clock frequency by a programmable quantity to result in a variable 
interpolation or decimation factor. Data converters are used in many applications such as telephone 
switching equipment, voice-band data communications, speech coding systems, and 
audio and video signal processing equipment. Data converters may include multiple 
stages of interpolation or decimation. Each stage of the interpolation operates at a 
frequency that is different from the frequency of other stages of interpolation. 
Similarly, each stage of decimation operates at a frequency that is different than the 
frequency of operation of other stages of decimation. The frequency of operation of 
the various stages are dependent on the frequency of operation of the initial stage of 
interpolation. Similarly, the frequency of operation of subsequent stages of 
decimation are dependent on the frequency of operation of the initial stage of 
operation. Therefore, the clock frequency of the initial stage of interpolation (or 
decimation) has typically been divided down in a hardware divide circuit, such as a 
series of flip-flops, to provide the appropriate frequencies for subsequent stages of 
interpolation or decimation. The dependent relationship between the frequency of 
operation of one stage and the frequency of operation of a subsequent stage was 
fixed and remained unchanged. A need exists for a technique useful with multiple-stage interpolation or 
decimation that would permit the relationship between the frequency of operation of 
one stage and the frequency of operation of a subsequent stage to be varied. Such a 
technique would permit maintaining the clock frequency constant and changing the 
interpolation or decimation factor for each stage. Being able to change the 
interpolation or decimation factor for each stage would permit the overall 
interpolation or decimation factor, which is the product of the interpolation or 
decimation factor for each stage, to be programmable resulting in a versatile 
interpolation or decimation capability with multiple applications.  In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a data converter 
provides a sampling rate conversion. The converter receives a clock signal, a 
divided-down clock signal, and first digital signal samples at a first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data converter for providing sampling rate conversion including a 
first converter (e.g., 720, 84, 78, 352, or 356) for receiving a clock signal, (e.g., 

CKOS, CKL1, CPD, or CPI) a divided-down clock signal (e.g., CKM1, CKL1, 
CKL2, CPDM2, or CPIL3), and first digital signal samples at a first rate, the first 

(e.g., 720, 84, or 78) converter for converting the first digital signal samples to 
second digital signal samples at a second rate, the ratio of the first rate to the second 

rate being a first conversion rate factor, characterized by 
   a first programmable counter (e.g., 24,74,76, 351, 357), the first 

programmable counter for receiving the clock signal (e.g., CKOS, CKL1, CPD, or 
CPI) and for dividing down the clock signal to produce the divided-down clock 

signal (e.g., CKM1, CKL1, CKL2, CPDM2, or CPIL3), the first programmable 
counter (e.g., 24,74,76, 351, 357) being programmable to selectively determine the 

first conversion rate factor. 
A data converter as recited in claim 1, characterized in that the first 
rate is greater than the second rate resulting in a sampling rate conversion that is 

decimation. 
A data converter as recited in claim 1, characterized in that the first 
rate is lower than the second rate resulting in a sampling rate conversion that is 

interpolation. 
A data converter as recited in claim 1, further characterized by 
   a second converter (e.g., 352,78, or 84) for receiving the divided-down 

clock signal, a further divided down clock signal, and the second digital signal 
samples at the second rate, said second converter (e.g., 352, 78, or 84) for converting 

the second digital signal samples to third digital signal samples at a third rate, the 
ratio of the second rate to the third rate being a second conversion rate factor; and 

   a second programmable counter (e.g., 351,76, 357), the second 
programmable counter for receiving the divided-down clock signal and for dividing 

down the divided-down clock signal to produce a further-divided-down clock signal, 
the second programmable counter (e.g., 351, 76, 357) being programmable to 

selectively determine the second conversion rate factor. 
A data converter as recited in claim 4, characterized in that the third 
 

rate is greater than the second rate, resulting in a sampling rate conversion that is 
decimation. 
A data converter as recited in claim 4, characterized in that the third 
rate is lower than the second rate resulting in a sampling rate conversion that is 

interpolation. 
A data converter as recited in claim 4, further characterized by 
   a digital processor (e.g., 50), one of said first and second converters 

(e.g., 352 or 356) within the digital processor (e.g., 50), whereby at least one of the 
stages of signal conversion is achieved within the digital processor. 
A data converter as recited in claim 7, characterized in that the 
sampling rate conversion achieved in the digital processor is interpolation. 
A data converter as recited in claim 7, characterized in that the 
sampling rate conversion achieved in the digital processor is decimation. 
A data converter as recited in claim 7, further characterized by 
   a register (e.g., 44 or 64), the register interposed between the first and 

second converters, the register (e.g., 44 or 64) for receiving the second digital 
samples at the second rate and temporarily storing the second digital samples, 

whereby a buffer is introduced between the first and second converters. 
A data converter for providing sampling rate conversion including a 
first converter (e.g., 720) for receiving a first clock signal (e.g., CKOS), a first 

divided-down clock signal (e.g., CKM1), and first digital signal samples at a first 
rate, the first converter (e.g., 720) for converting the first digital signal samples to 

second digital signal samples at a second rate, the ratio of the first rate to the second 
rate being a first decimation factor and a digital processor (e.g., 50), characterized by 

   a first programmable counter (e.g., 24), the first programmable counter 
for receiving the first clock signal (e.g., CKOS) and for dividing down the first clock 

signal to produce the first divided-down clock signal (e.g., CKM1), the first 
programmable counter being programmable to selectively determine the first 

decimation factor; and
 

   the digital processor characterized by 
   a second converter (e.g., 352) for receiving a second clock signal, a 

second divided-down clock signal, and the second digital samples at the 
second digital rate, the second converter for converting the second digital 

signal samples to third digital signal samples at a third rate, the ratio of the 
second rate to the third rate being a second decimation factor; 

   a second programmable counter (e.g., 351), the second programmable 
counter for receiving the second clock signal (e.g., CPD) and for dividing 

down the second clock signal (e.g., CPD) to produce the second divided-down 
clock signal (e.g., CPDM2), the second programmable counter being 

programmable to selectively determine the second decimation factor; 
   a third converter (e.g., 356) for receiving a third clock signal (e.g., CPI), 

a third divided-down clock signal (e.g., CPIL3), and fourth digital signal 
samples at a fourth rate, the third converter (e.g., 356) for converting the 

fourth digital signal samples to fifth digital signal samples at a fifth rate, 
the ratio of the fourth rate to the fifth rate being a first interpolation factor; 

and 
   a third programmable counter (e.g., 357), the third programmable 

counter (e.g., 357) for receiving the third clock signal (e.g., CPI) and for 
dividing down the third clock signal (e.g., CPI) to produce the third 

divided-down clock signal (e.g., CPIL3), the third programmable counter 
(e.g., 357) being programmable to selectively determine the first 

interpolation ratio; and 
   a fourth converter (e.g., 78) for receiving a fourth clock signal (e.g., 

CKL1), a fourth divided-down clock signal (e.g., CKL2), and the fifth digital signal 
samples at a fifth rate, the fourth converter (e.g., 78) for converting the fifth digital 

signal samples to sixth digital signal samples at a sixth rate, the ratio of the fifth rate 
to the sixth rate being a second interpolation factor; and 

   a fourth programmable counter (e.g., 76), the fourth programmable 
counter (e.g., 76) for receiving the fourth clock signal (e.g., CKL1) and for dividing 

down the fourth clock signal (e.g., CLK1) to produce the fourth divided-down clock 
signal (e.g., CKL2), the fourth programmable counter (e.g., 78) being programmable 

to selectively determine the second interpolation ratio. 
A data converter as recited in claim 11, further characterized by
 

   a register (e.g., 44), the register (e.g., 44) interposed between the first 
(e.g., 720) and second (e.g., 352) converters, the register (e.g., 44) for receiving the 

second digital signal samples at the second rate and temporarily storing the second 
digital signal samples, whereby a buffer is introduced
 between the first and second 
converters. 
A data converter as recited in claim 11, further characterized by 
   a register (e.g., 64), the register interposed between the third (e.g., 356) 

and fourth (e.g., 78) converters, the register (e.g., 64) for receiving the fourth digital 
signal samples at the fourth rate and temporarily storing the fourth digital signal 

samples, whereby a buffer is introduced between the third and fourth converters. 
A data converter as recited in claims 10, 12 or 13, further 
characterized in that the register (e.g., 44 or 64) is a first-in-first-out register. 
A data converter as recited in claim 11, further characterized by 
   a first register (e.g., 44), the first register (e.g., 44) interposed between 

the first (e.g., 720) and second (e.g., 352) converters, the first register (e.g., 44) for 
receiving the second digital signal samples at the second rate and temporarily storing 

the second digital signal samples; and 
   a second register (e.g., 64), the second register (e.g., 64) interposed 

between the third (e.g., 356) and fourth (e.g., 78) converters, the second register 
(e.g., 64) for receiving the fourth digital signal samples at the fourth rate and 

temporarily storing the fourth digital signal samples, whereby a first buffer is 
introduced between the first and second converters, and a second buffer is introduced 

between the third and fourth converters. 
A data converter as recited in claim 15, further characterized in that 
one of the first register (e.g., 44) and the second register (e.g., 64) is a first-in-first-out 

register. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
