<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640169</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FRAMELESS INSULATING GLAZING AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C2706	E06B366	B32B1706	E06B302	E06B366	E06B302	B32B1710	C03C2706	C03C2712	C03C2712	E06B3663	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	E06B	B32B	E06B	E06B	E06B	B32B	C03C	C03C	C03C	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C27	E06B3	B32B17	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	B32B17	C03C27	C03C27	C03C27	E06B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In its most simple embodiment, the disclosed glazing element consists of two panes (1, 2) mutually linked by a shaped body (13) made of a textile spacing fabric. The textile spacing fabric allows the panes to be frictionally coupled, thanks to its highly elastic, flexurally stiff transversal threads (16), forming a dimensionally stable and self-supporting plate-shaped body. This plate-shaped body is particularly suitable to form frameless window wings.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUNERT HEINZ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUNERT, HEINZ, DR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNERT HEINZ DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNERT, HEINZ, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
An insulating glazing unit comprising at least two 
panes arranged in parallelism to each other and connected 

together by a marginally surrounding spacer, characterized in 
that the spacer is constituted by a shaped body which possesses 

a plurality of elastic, flexurally rigid and mutually 
intersecting filaments, which extend transverse in relation to 

the plane of the panes and form a force transmitting 
buttressing means between the panes. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that at least in a substantial portion of the 

mutually intersecting filaments such filaments are connected 
with each other. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 1 or in 

claim 2, characterized in that the filaments are arranged with 
a density of approximately 10 to 60 filaments per square 

centimeter. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the shaped body is 

constituted by a textile spacer fabric, which is made up of at 
least two covering layers and rib fibers constituting the 

filaments, the rib fibers being erected and stiffened by 
impregnation with resin. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 4, 
characterized in that the said resin is selected from the group 

essentially including epoxy, polyurethane, phenol and polyester 
resins and mixtures thereof. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
preceding claim, characterized in that the shaped body is made  

 
up of glass, synthetic resin or carbon fibers or mixtures 

thereof. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized in that the shaped body is constituted by glass 

fibers, which are provided with silane sizes. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 6 or in 
claim 7, characterized in that the glass, synthetic resin or 

carbon fibers are constituted at least partly of hollow fibers. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the filaments are 

provided with resins sizes of graduated density, which endow 
them with the property of a low loss light guide. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the filaments have 

a mean degree of fineness of 20 to 80 tex. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the spacer is 

surrounded on the outside by a sealing rib arranged between the 
panes. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 11, 
characterized in that between the panes a further sealing rib 

is arranged on the inside on the spacer. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 1 through 10, characterized in that the filaments 

are arranged with a density increasing towards the edge and the 
intermediate space between the panes is sealed to the outside 

against the resin layer applied to the filaments. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the shaped body is 

attached to the panes by means of transparent adhesive films.  
 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the shaped body is 

designed with a T-like cross section, the web of the T-like 
shaped body being arranged between the pane and the flanges of 

the T-like shaped body overlapping the outer edges of the 
panes. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized by the use thereof as a 

frameless window, wall, roof, door or parapet element. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 16, 
characterized in that at least one tubular body is embedded in 

a force transmitting fashion in at least one section of the 
shaped body and extending in the longitudinal direction 

thereof. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 17, 
characterized in that the tubular body receives for at least a 

part of its length a rod as a pivot shaft, which extends past 
the ends of the tubular body. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 16, 
characterized in that at least one hollow moulding band is 

embedded in a force transmitting fashion in at least one 
section of the shaped body so as to extend in the longitudinal 

direction thereof. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 19, characterized in that the panes, in 

addition to their force transmitting connection by means of the 
shaped body are coupled in a force transmitting manner in the 

edge part by screw or rivet means. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 19, characterized in that the panes, in 

addition to their force transmitting connection by means of the 
shaped body are coupled in a force transmitting manner by means  

 
of an adhesive composition in a cured state introduced while 

viscous into non-circular through holes in the panes. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 21, characterized in that the insulating 

glazing unit is able to be turned through 180°. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 22, characterized in that the insulating 

glazing unit is pivotally mounted for tilting about one of the 
middle axes of the pane surface. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 23, 
characterized in that at least one bearing element is provided 

between the panes generally in the middle of the extent of the 
area of the same transversely in relation to the longitudinal 

direction of the shaped body. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 24, characterized in that in the 

intermediate space between the panes and generally in the 
middle of the extent of the area of the same a space band is 

arranged constituted by the shaped body and which connects the 
panes in a force transmitting fashion and extends along at 

least one of the middle axes of the panes. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 25, 
characterized in that at least one tubular body is embedded in 

a force transmitting fashion in at least one section of the 
spacer band and extends in the longitudinal direction thereof. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 26, characterized in that in the 

intermediate space between the panes a muntin grid is arranged 
with glazing bars extending over the area of the panes, such 

bars respectively being constituted by a shaped body.  
 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 27, characterized in that at least three 

panes are connected to constitute a single pane body by means 
of a surrounding shaped body arranged at the edge. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 27, characterized in that between the 

panes a plastic sheet or plastic film is arranged, which by 
means of two oppositely arranged shaped bodies is connected in 

a compound manner with the panes to have a force transmitting 
connection therebetween. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 27, characterized in that the lower 

and/or upper regions of the marginally surrounding shaped body 
are wider than the lateral regions thereof. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 30, characterized in that the panes are 

provided on the inside with a surrounding printed on ceramic 
mask arranged at the edge. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 30, characterized in that at the edge 

surrounding moulding bands with an U-like cross section of 
plastic, wood or aluminum are provided which are applied to the 

panes on the outside. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 32, 
characterized in that the moulding bands comprise matching 

shaped parts for rain and wind shields disposed in the outer 
stationary frame at least in the region of the lower pane edge. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 33, characterized in that at least one of 

the panes consists of toughened or partly toughened glass, 
composite safety glass or transparent plastic.  

 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in any one of 
the claims 16 through 34, characterized in that one of the 

panes is provided to be radiation absorbent. 
The insulating glazing unit as claimed in claim 35, 
characterized in that at least the pane provided to be 

radiation absorbent has a low E coating on the surface thereof 
facing the intermediate space between the panes. 
A method for the production of a frameless insulating 
glazing unit, characterized in that in a surrounding manner on 

the edge of a pane a resin impregnated spacer band comprising 
at least two oppositely arranged covering layers and, 

perpendicularly to the extent of the area of the covering 
layers, rib fibers is laid, the second pane is laid on with an 

accurate fit and the resulting laminate is compressed with an 
accurate fit in a pressing mold so that the panes are bondingly 

connected with the covering layers of the fabric with a 
surrounding arrangement and at the edge, whereafter the 

pressing mold is opened, the rib fibers erect themselves and 
the resin is cured. 
The method as claimed in claim 37, characterized in 
that the pressing mold is opened a graduated amount until the 

desired distance between the panes is reached. 
A method for the production of a frameless insulating 
glazing unit, characterized in that a textile spacer fabric 

comprises at least two mutually opposite covering layers and 
rib fibers extending transversely in relation to the extent of 

the area of the covering layers and is impregnated with resin 
and such resin cured and in that from such spacer fabric after 

curing shaped bodies are produced in a form ready for assembly, 
which are then connected together at the edge and in a 

surrounding manner and in a manner defining a distance apart 
are arranged between the at least two panes and are connected 

in a bonding manner with the panes.  
 
The method as claimed in claim 39, characterized in 
that after the impregnation and prior to their final curing the 

shaped bodies pass through a shaping tool in a continuous 
process. 
The method as claimed in claim 39 or in claim 40, 
characterized in that in one single operation the shaped bodies 

are provided with an adhesive coating on at least one covering 
layer of the spacer fabric and with an adhesive sealing rib on 

at least one of the side surfaces. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
