<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627998</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND ARRANGEMENT FOR REMOTELY CONTROLLING ONE OR MORE FUNCTIONS OF A MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2504	B60R2500	B60R2504	B60R2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R25	B60R25	B60R25	B60R25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for remotely controlling one or more vehicle functions. The invention is characterized in that a first coded signal transmitted by a cordless transmitter is caused to be received in a receiver (1; 16) located in the vehicle. The receiver (1; 16) includes a decoding device which is caused to detect and identify the code and to compare the code with a vehicle specific code. When agreement is found between the received code and the vehicle specific code, the receiver (1; 16) is caused to activate one or more electronic circuits in the vehicle through the agency of a control circuit (2; 12-15), such as to deactivate one or more of the vehicle functions. The invention also includes a method for receiving a second coded signal which results in the activation of those vehicle functions that were earlier deactivated. The invention also relates to devices for carrying out the method.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCARINUS DEV AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCARINUS DEVELOPMENT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYFELT LEIF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYFELT, LEIF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and to an 
arrangement for remotely controlling one or more of 
the functions of a motor-driven vehicle. More particularly, 
the invention is concerned with fully or 
partially deactivating and activating a motor-driven 
vehicle by remote control. By partial or total deactivation of a vehicle is meant 
the deactivation of all vehicle functions or facilities, 
from the locking of certain parts of the vehicle 
to rendering the vehicle inoperable. By activating the 
vehicle is meant to bring the vehicle to an operable 
state from an inoperable state. The theft of vehicles in society is progressively increasing. 
Furthermore, it is becoming progressively 
more common for the return of leasing cars and rented 
cars to be delayed beyond the date agreed, or for such 
cars not to be returned at all. There is a serious 
need for the prevention of theft and unauthorized use 
of motor-driven vehicles. EP-A-0 449 471 shows a generic device by means of which it is 
possible to activate circuits for stopping a vehicle 
via a mobile telephone network. An instruction to stop 
a car is received via a mobile telephone installed in 
the vehicle and the instruction is stored in a computer 
in the vehicle. The instruction is, however, not 
executed until the speed of the engine or the speed of 
the vehicle are lower than predetermined speeds. Any explicit warning signal to the driver is not delivered. WO-A-92/02911 refers to an anti-theft alarm system where 
the driver of the vehicle need to carry a transponder  
 
within a short range from the vehicle. The lack of 
such transponder will activate the anti-theft alarm 
system so that the vehicle will be stopped within a 
short period of time proceeded by that a warning lamp 
will lit up. Both the systems referred to do not solve the problem 
of stopping the vehicle in a safe manner, because it 
is not sure that the driver understands what will 
happen. Theft against security vehicles is also becoming more 
usual. Naturally, there is a serious need to prevent 
theft or robbery of this nature. The theft of leisure boats has also increased. Such 
boats are often very valuable and the possibility of 
finding a stolen boat is relatively limited. The object of the present invention is to enable these 
problems to be greatly reduced. The present invention thus relates to a method for 
remotely controlling one or more of the functions of a 
motor vehicle, including transmitting a first coded 
signal with the aid of a cordless transmitter,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for remotely controlling one or more of the 
functions of a motor vehicle, including transmitting a first 

coded signal with the aid of a cordless transmitter, receiving 
the signal in a receiver (1; 16) provided in the vehicle; 

including in the receiver (1; 16) a decoding device which 
functions to detect and identify said code and also to compare 

the code with a specific vehicle code; and causing the 
receiver (1; 16) to activate one or more electronic circuits 

in the vehicle when agreement is found between the received 
code and the specific vehicle code through the agency of a 

control circuit (2; 12-15) in a manner causing the control 
circuit (2; 12-15) to activate a warning device (9) 

comprising a loudspeaker which delivers a voice message 
and to 

deactivate one or more of the vehicle functions, where the 
control circuit (2; 12-15) is caused to break the voltage to 

one or more of the vehicle electrical circuits, so that the 
vehicle engine can no longer operate, including transmitting 

said coded signals to the vehicle through the agency of a 
mobile telephone network or a paging network, 
characterized
 
in that said 

loudspeaker delivers a speech warning so as to warn the 
driver of the vehicle that one or more of vehicle functions 

will cease to operate, when the vehicle receiver (1; 16) receives 
a signal indicating that the control circuit (2; 12-15) 

shall activate one or more electronic circuits in a 
manner to deactivate one or more of the vehicle functions, 

and in that after a predetermined period of time from activation 
of the warning device the control circuit activates one 

or more electronic circuits in a manner that one or more of 
the vehicle functions are deactivated. 
A method according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 
by causing a second coded signal transmitted 

by a cordless transmitter to be received in a receiver (3; 
16) in the vehicle; causing a decoding device included in the 

receiver (3; 16) to detect and identify said code and to 
compare said code with a vehicle specific code; and to cause 

the receiver (3; 16) to activate one or more electronic circuits  
 

in the vehicle through the agency of a control circuit 
(2;12-15) when agreement is found between the received code 

and the vehicle specific code, so as to activate those functions 
of the vehicle which were earlier deactivated. 
A method according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 
by causing the control circuit (2; 12-15) to 

control the vehicle locking system and, when applicable, the 
vehicle window elevating system, so as to lock the vehicle 

and close the windows and by then causing the control circuit 
(2; 12-15) to break the voltage to one or more of the vehicle 

electrical circuits so as to deactivate the engine of the 
vehicle. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, 

characterized
 by causing the receiver (1), in 
the form of a paging device or a mobile telephone intended to 

receive the first coded signal, to deliver a signal to the 
control circuit (2; 12-15) when said receiver looses contact 

with the paging network or the mobile telephone network, said 
signal corresponding to the signal which the receiver delivers 

to the control circuit when agreement is found between 
the received code and the vehicle specific code. 
An arrangement for remotely controlling one or more 
of the functions of a vehicle, where the arrangement includes 

a receiver (1; 16) which is located in the vehicle and which 
is intended to receive a first coded signal transmitted by a 

cordless transmitter; where the receiver (1: 16) includes a 
decoding device which is constructed to detect and identify 

said code and to compare said code with a vehicle specific 
code; where the receiver (1; 16) is constructed to deliver a 

signal to a control circuit (2; 12-15) when agreement is 
found between the received code and the vehicle specific 

code, said control circuit being constructed to activate one 
or more electronic circuits in the vehicle in a manner to 

activate a warning device (9) and to deactivate one or more 
of the vehicle functions where the control circuit (2; 12-15) 

is constructed to interrupt the voltage to one or more of the  
 

vehicle electric circuits so as to deactivate the vehicle 

engine, and where the receiver (1; 16) is constructed to 
receive a coded signal which is transmitted to the vehicle 

over a mobile telephone network or a paging network, 
characterized
 
in that when the first coded signal is 

received by the receiver (1; 16), the control circuit (2; 12-15) 
will function to first activate said warning device (9) 

comprising a loudspeaker for delivering warning in the form 
of a speech message which warns the driver of the vehicle 

that one or more of the vehicle functions are about to be 
deactivated, and in that the control circuit, after a predetermined 

time after the warning device was activated, is 
arranged to control said electronic circuits in such a way 

that one or more of the vehicle functions are deactivated. 
An arrangement according to Claim 5, 
characterized
 
in that the arrangement includes a receiver 

(3; 16) which is located in the vehicle and which is intended 
to receive a second coded signal transmitted by a cordless 

transmitter; in that the receiver includes a decoding device 
which is constructed to detect and identify said code and to 

compare said code with a vehicle specific code; and in that 
the receiver (3; 16) is intended to deliver a signal to a 

control circuit (2; 12-15) when agreement is found between 
the received code and the vehicle specific code, said control 

circuit (2; 12-15) being constructed to activate one or more 
electronic circuits in the vehicle in a manner to reactivate 

one or more of those vehicle functions which were earlier 
deactivated. 
An arrangement according to Claims 5 or 6, 

characterized
 in that the control circuit (2; 
12-15) is constructed to control the vehicle locking system 

and, when applicable, to control the electric window elevators, 
so that the vehicle can be locked and the windows 

closed, whereafter the control circuit (2; 12-15) is caused 
to interrupt the voltage to one or more of the vehicle electric 

circuits so as to deactivate the engine of the vehicle.  
 
An arrangement according to any one of Claims 5-7, 

characterized
 in that the vehicle receiver (1; 
16) and the decoding device are included in a paging device 

or a mobile telephone located in the vehicle. 
An arrangement according to any one of Claims 5-8, 

characterized
 in that the control circuit (12-15) 
includes a computer (12) which controls the electronic 

circuits of the vehicle. 
An arrangement according to any one of Claims 5-9, 

characterized
 in that the electronic circuits 
include relays (2, 6; 13-15) which function to break and make 

the supply of current to one or more devices belonging to the 
vehicle. 
An arrangement according to any one of Claims 5-10, 

characterized
 in that the receiver (1) has the 
form of a paging device or a mobile telephone and is intended 

to receive the first coded signal and to deliver a signal to 
the control circuit (2; 12-15) when the receiver looses 

contact with the paging network or the mobile telephone 
network, said signal corresponding to the signal which the 

receiver is intended to deliver to the control circuit when 
agreement is found between the received coded signal and the 

vehicle specific code. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
