<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629129</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR KIDNEY TUBULOGENESIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F202	A61F202	A61K31185	A61K3120	A61K31557	A61K31557	A61K3157	A61K3157	A61K3306	A61K3312	A61K3324	A61K3324	A61K3512	A61K3512	A61K3822	A61K3822	A61K4800	A61K4800	A61P1300	A61P1302	A61P1500	A61P1500	C12M306	C12M306	C12N506	C12N506	C12N510	C12N510	C12N1509	C12N1509	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	C12M	C12M	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K35	A61K35	A61K38	A61K38	A61K48	A61K48	A61P13	A61P13	A61P15	A61P15	C12M3	C12M3	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods, including culture media conditions, which provide for isolation and purification of renal tubule stem cells and for in vitro kidney tubulogenesis are disclosed. The methods rely on culturing adult kidney cells in a culture media treated with combinations of transforming growth factor- beta 1, epidermal growth factor, and all-trans retinoic acid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUMES H DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUMES, H., DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Method for Kidney TubulogenesisBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention:This invention relates to methods and compositions for isolating, growing and transforming kidney tubule stem cells. Discussion of the Background;Renal failure is a common clinical syndrome, defined as a decline in renal function, either acutely or chronically. The clinical manifestations of this disorder arise from a decline in glomerular filtration rate and an inability of the kidney to excrete the toxic metabolic wastes produced by the body. The complete treatment of this condition is dependent upon the replacement of filtrative, reabsorptive, homeostatic and endocrine functions of the kidney as an integrated organ structure.In this regard, the function of a tissue is critically dependent upon the spatial arrangement of its constituent cells. The precise molecular determinants of such pattern formation both in vitro and in vivo is complicated, but soluble factors, such as growth factors, and insoluble factors, such as extracellular matrix molecules, most likely play fundamental roles in this process. Soluble molecules include both growth promoters (epidermal growth factor) and growth inhibitors (transforming growth factor-β) . Insoluble 

factors include complex extracellular matrices (collagen gels, Matrigel) or extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules (laminin, fibronectin, collagen types I and IV) .This critical interplay of structure and function is demonstrated in the embryonic morphogenesis of the kidney, which is dependent upon a finely orchestrated interaction between mesenchy e and epithelium. The initial steps in differentiated nephrogenesis are followed by the development of tubule epithelial cell polarity and lumen formation. Coincident with the onset of cell polarity and tubulogenesis, as defined by both morphologic and directional transport properties, is the appearance of the A chain of laminin, a cell attachment protein of the basement membrane, in the basal regions of the mesenchymal cell aggregate. A sequential series of growth and further differentiation processes then follows to result eventually in a fully formed and functional kidney.If this complex process of kidney organogenesis could be mimicked in vitro, novel methods for the treatment of renal failure could become available. Various tissue engineering products could be constructed from both semi-synthetic and organic components for complete replacement of renal function in patients with renal failure. Such advances might also allow the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED AS NEW AND DESIRED TO BE SECURED BY LETTERS PATENT OF THE UNITED STATES IS:
1. An ex vivo renal tubule tissue system prepared by a process comprising culturing adult kidney cells in a culture medium containing all-trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor in an amount effective for. achieving tubulogenesis.
2. The renal tubule tissue system of Claim 1, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor- i.
3. The renal tubule tissue system of Claim 2, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
4. The renal tubule tissue system of Claim 2, wherein said culture medium contains an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
5. The renal tubule tissue system of Claim 2, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of 


Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
6. A transformed renal tubule cell produced by the process of culturing renal tubule cells in a culture medium containing with all-trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α in an amount effective to achieve tubulogenesis, in the presence of a cell transformation vector.
7. The transformed renal tubule cell of Claim 6, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor-^.
8. The transformed renal tubule cell of Claim 7, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, protaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
9. The transformed renal tubule cell of Claim 7, wherein said culture medium contains an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
10. The transformed renal tubule cell of Claim 7, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of 


Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
11. A method for growing kidney tubule stem cells ex vivo, comprising culturing adult kidney cells in the presence of all-trans retinoic acid, and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α, in an amount effective for growing kidney tubule stem cells.
12. The method of Claim 11, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor-^.
13. The method of Claim 12, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
14. The method of Claim 12, wherein said culture medium contains an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen. Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
15. The method of Claim 12, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor, selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof. 


 16. A method for effecting tubulogenesis in a renal cell culture, comprising culturing adult kidney cells in the presence of all-trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α in an amount effective for achieving tubulogenesis.
17. The method of Claim 16, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor-/^.
18. The. ethod of Claim 17, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
19. The method of Claim 17, wherein said culture medium contains an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
20. The method of Claim 17, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor, selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
'
21. A method for constructing and maintaining an ex vivo renal tubule tissue system, comprising culturing adult kidney 


cells in the presence of all-trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α in an amount effective for tubulogenesis.
22. The method of Claim 21, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor-/^.
23. The method of Claim 22, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf.serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
24. The method of Claim 22, wherein said culture medium contains an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
25. The method of Claim 22, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
26. A method for effecting kidney repair, comprising administering to a patient in need thereof all-trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α in an amount effective for achieving kidney repair. 


 27. The method of Claim 26, wherein said patient is further treated with transforming growth factor-/^.
28. The method of Claim 27, wherein said patient is treated with a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
29. The-method of Claim 27, wherein said patient is further treated with an insoluble factor, selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
30. The method of Claim 27, wherein said patient is further treated with a soluble factor, selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
31. A method for effecting gene therapy upon renal tubule tissue, comprising culturing adult kidney cells in a culture medium containing all-trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α in an amount effective to achieve tubulogenesis in the presence of a transforming vector. 


 32. The method of Claim 31, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor-βi.
33. The method of Claim 32, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
34. The method of Claim 32, wherein said culture medium contains an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
35. The method of Claim 32, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium,
'
 fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
36. A method for effecting kidney repair, comprising removing renal cells from a patient in need of treatment, culturing said renal cells in a culture medium containing all- trans retinoic acid and either epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor-α in an amount effective for achieving a tubule tissue system and returning said tubule tissue to said patient. 


 37. The method of Claim 36, wherein said cells are further treated with transforming growth factor-/^.
38. The method of Claim 37, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof.
39. The-method of Claim 37, wherein said culture medium contains insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof.
40. The method of Claim 37, wherein said culture medium contains a soluble factor selected from the group consisting of fetal calf serum, prostaglandins, hydrocortisone, triodothyronine, selenium, fibroblastic growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and combinations thereof, and an insoluble factor selected from the group consisting of Type I collagen, Type IV collagen, laminin, proteoglycans, fibronectin, and combinations thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
