<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628178</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOTOGRAPHIC FLASH APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B716	G03B716	G03B1505	G03B1505	H05B4130	H05B4132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B7	G03B7	G03B15	G03B15	H05B41	H05B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic strobe flash apparatus (10) includes a first energizable flash tube (32) arranged to project light in a first direction to directly illuminate a scene, a second energizable flash (28) arrange to project light in a second direction to indirectly illuminate the scene, a battery power supply for providing a source of charging energy, first and second high voltage discharge capacitors coupled to the first and second flash tubes, and electronic control means for providing charging current from the power supply to the first high discharge voltage capacitor (96) until it is charged to a predetermined discharge voltage and for then charging the second high voltage discharge capacitor (96') to the predetermined discharge voltage level. Preferably, the electronic control means includes a single DC/DC converter (94) coupled through a miniaturized relay (92) to the first (96) and second (96') high voltage capacitors to successively charge each under charge control signals provided by a microcontroller.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COCCA J DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COCCA, J., DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PHOTOGRAPHIC FLASH APPARATUSFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to electronic strobe flash apparatus for a camera, and, more particularly, to a system for providing composite flash illumination comprising indirect (bounce) and direct (fill-in) flash of a subject from a single battery with priority given to direct flash.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Electronic strobe flash systems mounted on or in a camera and involving the rapid discharge of a high voltage through a flash lamp synchronized with the exposure of an image frame are well-known in the photographic art. For a flash exposure of a scene, it is desirable to illuminate the scene indirectly so that it appears to be illuminated from above in a way characteristic of natural lighting and to illuminate the scene directly to soften dark shadows caused by obliquely directed light. The indirect illumination is commonly known as bounce flash, since the light is typically directed upward and bounced off a reflective ceiling and onto the scene, although it is also known to bounce the flash off a vertical wall or panel to provide side illumination. Flash light aimed directly at the scene is referred to as direct illumination or fill-in flash. Where natural illumination from above is available, such as in daylight outdoor scenes, direct or fill-in flash may be employed to soften shadows falling on the subject to be photographed. Conversely, in indoor scenes, where illumination from above is not available or does not possess natural light spectral characteristics, it is desirable to provide indirect illumination by bouncing flash light off a ceiling and onto the scene or subject to be photographed. In such situations, it is also 

desirable to provide direct illumination so as to again fill in shadows created by the downwardly directed bounce flash illumination. The combination of bounce and fill in flash illumination minimizes the undesirable effects of direct illumination alone, including harsh shadows, red eye, specular reflections, and high contrast or loss of tonal detail depending on the distance of subjects in the image. Unfortunately, indirect flash illumination requires much more energy than direct illumination due to light intensity loss by absorption and scattering by the ceiling or wall surface.U.S. Pat. No. 4,242,616 describes a photographic flash apparatus for providing both fill-in and bounce flash illumination provided by a direct illumination flash bulb 17 and an indirect illumination flash bulb 19, which are simultaneously
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An capacitive discharge flash apparatus for a camera comprising: a first energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a first direction to directly illuminate a scene; a second energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a second direction to indirectly illuminate the scene; power supply means for providing a source of charging energy; first and second high voltage discharge capacitors coupled to said first and second flash tubes, respectively; control means for first coupling charging energy from the power supply means to said first high discharge voltage discharge capacitor and for then coupling charging energy from said power supply means to said second high voltage discharge capacitor; and interrupt means for disabling the charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor and for discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube.
2. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising.: means for detecting the presence or absence of a suitable reflecting surface in said second direction from which flash illumination may be bounced onto said scene; means responsive to the detected presence of a suitable reflecting surface for means responsive to the detected absence of said suitable reflecting surface for inhibiting the charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor after charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor. 


 3. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said interrupt means further comprises: user interface means for inhibiting or interrupting the charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor and for discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube.
4. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said power supply means further comprises: a low voltage power source; a voltage converter for converting the low voltage provided by the low voltage power source to a high voltage; and switching means coupled to said voltage converter and selectively actuable by said control means for first connecting said voltage converter to said first high voltage discharge capacitor and then to said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
5. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said interrupt means further comprises: user interface means for inhibiting or interrupting the charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor and for discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube.
6. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said user interface means further comprises: display means for indicating to the user that said second high voltage discharge capacitor is charging; and 


 means for triggering discharge of said first high voltage discharge capacitor during the operation of the display means.
7. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said power supply means further comprises: a low voltage power source; a voltage converter for converting the low voltage provided by the low voltage power source to a high voltage; and switching means coupled to said voltage converter and selectively actuable by said control means for first connecting said voltage converter to said first high voltage discharge capacitor and then to said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
8. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said interrupt means further comprises: means for detecting the presence or absence of a suitable reflecting surface in said first direction from which flash illumination may be bounced onto said scene; and means responsive to the detected absence of said suitable reflecting surface for selectively controlling said switching means to disconnect said voltage converter from said first and said second high voltage discharge capacitors after charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor.
9. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said interrupt means further comprises: user interface means for inhibiting or interrupting the connection of said second high voltage discharge capacitor with said voltage converter by said switching means and for discharging said first high voltage 


discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube.
10. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 9 wherein said user interface means further comprises: display means for indicating to the user the state of charge of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
11. A method of operating a capacitive discharge flash apparatus for a camera comprising the steps of: providing a first energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a first direction to directly illuminate a scene; providing a second energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a second direction to indirectly illuminate the scene; providing first and second high voltage discharge capacitors coupled to said first and second flash tubes, respectively; charging said first high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level; detecting the presence or absence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizeable flash tube in said second direction may be reflected onto the scene; selectively charging said second high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and upon detection of the presence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizable flash tube may be reflected onto said scene; and discharging said first and second high voltage discharge capacitor through said first and second 



energizable flash tubes to directly and indirectly illuminate the scene.
12. The method of operating the capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 11 further comprising the steps of: selectively overriding said selective charging step to inhibit the charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor; and discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube to directly illuminate the scene.
13. The method of operating the capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 12 further comprising the step of: indicating to the user the state of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
14. A method of operating a capacitive discharge flash apparatus for a camera comprising the steps of: providing a first energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a first direction to directly illuminate a scene; providing a second energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a second direction to indirectly illuminate the scene; providing first and second high voltage discharge capacitors coupled to said first and second flash tubes, respectively; charging said first high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level; detecting a user initiated interrupt signal; selectively charging said second high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and unless an interrupt signal is 


detected before completion of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor; and discharging said first and second high voltage discharge capacitors through said first and second energizable flash tubes to directly and indirectly illuminate the scene upon completion of charging of said first and second high voltage discharge capacitors; or discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube to directly illuminate the scene upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and detection of an interrupt signal prior to completion of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
15. The method of operating the capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 14 further comprising the step of: indicating to the user the state of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
16. The method of operating the capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 14 further comprising the steps of: detecting the presence or absence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizeable flash tube in said second direction may be reflected onto the scene; selectively charging said second high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and upon detection of the presence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizable flash tube may be reflected onto said scene. 


 17. The method of operating the capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 16 further comprising the step of: indicating to the user the state of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
18. A capacitive discharge flash apparatus for a camera comprising: a first energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a first direction to directly illuminate a scene; a second energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a second direction to indirectly illuminate the scene; first and second high voltage discharge capacitors coupled to said first and second flash tubes, respectively; means for charging said first high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level; means for detecting the presence or absence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizeable flash tube in said second direction may be reflected onto the scene; means for selectively charging said second high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and upon detection of the presence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizable flash tube may be reflected onto said scene; and means for discharging said first said first and second high voltage discharge capacitor through said first and second energizable flash tubes to directly and indirectly illuminate the scene.
19. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 18 further comprising: 


 means for selectively overriding said selective charging step to inhibit the charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor; and means for discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube to directly illuminate the scene.
20. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 18 wherein said charging and said selectively charging means further comprises: a low voltage power source; a voltage converter for converting the low voltage provided by the low voltage power source to a high voltage; and first switching means coupled to said voltage converter and selectively actuable for connecting said voltage converter to said first high voltage discharge capacitor during operation of said charging means and to said second high voltage discharge capacitor during operation of said selectively charging means.
21. A capacitive discharge flash apparatus for a camera comprising: a first energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a first direction to directly illuminate a scene; a second energizable flash tube arranged to project light in a second direction to indirectly illuminate the scene; first and second high voltage discharge capacitors coupled to said first and second flash tubes, respectively; means for charging said first high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level; means for detecting a user initiated interrupt signal; 


 means for selectively charging said second high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and unless an interrupt signal is detected before completion of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor; and means for discharging said first and second high voltage discharge capacitors through said first and second energizable flash tubes to directly and indirectly illuminate the scene upon completion of charging of said first and second high voltage discharge capacitors; or means for discharging said first high voltage discharge capacitor through said first energizable flash tube to directly illuminate the scene upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and detection of an interrupt signal prior to completion of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
22. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 21 further comprising: means for indicating to the user the state of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
23. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 21 further comprising: means for detecting the presence or absence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizeable flash tube in said second direction may be reflected onto the scene; and means for selectively charging said second high voltage discharge capacitor to a predetermined energy level upon completion of charging of said first high voltage discharge capacitor and upon detection of the presence of a reflective surface from which light projected by said second energizable flash tube may be reflected onto said scene. 


 24. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 23 further comprising: means for indicating to the user the state of charging of said second high voltage discharge capacitor.
25. The capacitive discharge flash apparatus of Claim 21 wherein said charging and said selectively charging means further comprises: a low voltage power source; a voltage converter for converting the low voltage provided by the low voltage power source to a high voltage; and first switching means coupled to said voltage converter and selectively actuable for connecting said voltage converter to said first high voltage discharge capacitor during operation of said charging means and to said second high voltage discharge capacitor during operation of said selectively charging means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
