<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615728</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Orthopaedic reconstruction plate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1768	A61B1780	A61B1784	A61F228	A61F228	A61F230	A61F230	A61F236	A61F236	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An orthopaedic reconstruction plate (10) designed to be secured to 
the femur to contain bone graft material placed in the area of the 

lesser trochanter includes a series of pins extending from the inner 
surface facing the bone to prevent excessive compressive forces from 

being imparted to the bone. The plate may have a series of 
perforations to enhance the flow of blood to the bone. 

The plate may also include a plurality of sections and an area of 
reduced thickness between said sections in order to be bendable. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIKHAIL MICHAEL W E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIKHAIL MICHAEL W E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKHAIL MICHAEL W E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKHAIL MICHAEL W E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of my co-pending U.S. 
application, Serial No. 08/050,857, filed April 21, 1993 which is a 
continuation-in-part of Serial No. 08/016,840, filed February 16, 
1993. The present invention relates to orthopaedic hip surgery and is 
specifically directed to a method and device for use in building up the 
proximal femur in the trochanteric region. It is particularly useful in hip 
replacement surgery in which a femoral stem prosthesis is implanted 
in the intramedullary canal of the femur. Many patients requiring hip 
revision surgery have significant bone deficiency particularly in the 
supratrochanteric area adjacent the lesser trochanter. In those 
patients, the orthopaedic surgeon will utilize bone graft material in an 
attempt to reconstitute the bone in that area sufficiently to provide a 
sound support for the prosthesis. Additionally, the reconstituted bone 
assists in maintaining proper length of the femur following 
implantation of the prosthesis. However, it is frequently difficult to 
retain the bone graft material in the specific locations desired. The present invention is directed to a hip revision plate 
specifically designed to support bone graft material in the area of the 
proximal femur and more particularly that portion of the proximal  
 
femur in the area of the lesser trochanter. The plate is designed of a 
flexible surgical grade material such as malleable metal which may be 
wrapped around and fastened to the femur in the area of the lesser 
trochanter and the greater trochanter. The plate is provided with a 
plurality of apertures for receiving screws for affixing the revision 
plate to the femur. A plurality of pins or posts extend from the side 
of the plate intended to face the bone for the purpose of preventing 
excessive compressive forces being imparted to the bone upon 
fastening with screws. Excessive compressive forces imparted to the 
bone can interfere with the blood supply to the bone. Under one 
embodiment the plate is provided with a tab or a tail which may be 
folded around a hinge line parallel to the longitudinal axis to engage 
and be screwed to the lesser trochanter. Under another embodiment, 
the plate is provided with wires and/or integral strips which may be 
wrapped around the femur to provide additional support. The plate may be used in combination with biocompatible mesh 
which is placed directly over the defect and the surrounding bone, 
between the bone and the plate. The biocompatible mesh may be a 
surgical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An orthopaedic reconstruction plate comprising: 

(a) an elongated body portion having inner and outer 
surfaces and upper and lower edges; 
(b) a plurality of apertures in said body portion sized 
to receive fixation members; 
(c) a plurality of pins extending from said inner 
surface; and 
(d) a tab extending from said lower edge, said tab 
having at least one aperture. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 1, wherein 
said tab extends from said lower edge along a line of juncture, said 

tab being foldable about said line of juncture. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 1 further 
including at least two wires fixed to said body portion or said tab. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 3, wherein 
said wires are permanently affixed to said body portion or said tab. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 1, wherein 
said pins extend 1 to 3 mm from said inner surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 1, wherein 
said body portion apertures are positioned substantially midway 

between said upper and lower edges. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 6, wherein 
said pins are positioned to form two rows, one adjacent each of said 

upper and lower edges. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 6, wherein 
said pins are positioned substantially midway between said upper and 

lower edges. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 1, wherein 
said body portion is provided with a series of perforations 

substantially throughout, said perforations extending between said 
inner and outer surfaces. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 9, wherein 
said perforations have diameters in the range of 1 to 3 mm and are 

separated from adjacent perforations by a distance in the range of 1 
to 5 mm. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 1, wherein 
said pins extend to a free end and taper from a relatively large cross-sectional 

size at said inner surface to a smaller cross-sectional size 
adjacent said free end and define a concavity with an opening facing 

said outer surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 9, wherein 
said pins extend to a free end and taper from a relatively large cross-sectional 

size at said inner surface to a smaller cross-sectional size 
adjacent said free end and define a concavity with an opening facing 

said outer surface. 
An orthopaedic reconstruction plate adapted to be 
attached to bone comprising a bendable elongated member having an 

inner surface adapted to face said bone, an outer surface, upper and 
 

lower edges, a plurality of apertures extending between said inner and 
outer surfaces and a plurality of pins extending from said inner 

surface to a free end. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 13, 
wherein said pins have a length of 1 to 3 mm and said free end is 

blunt. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 13, 
wherein said plate includes a plurality of sections and an area of 

reduced thickness between each of said sections, a majority of said 
sections having at least one of said pins and one of said apertures. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 15, 
wherein at least some of said sections have an aperture and two of 

said pins positioned such that said aperture is located therebetween. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 15 further 
including at least two wires fixed to at least one of said sections. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 15 further 
including at least two wires fixed to each of at least two of said 

sections. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 13, 
wherein said member is provided with a series of perforations 

substantially throughout, said perforations extending between said 
inner surface and said outer surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 19, 

wherein said perforations have diameters in the range of 1 to 3 mm 
and are separated from adjacent perforations by a distance in the 

range of 1 to 5 mm. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 13, 
wherein said pins extend to a free end and taper from a relatively 

large cross-sectional size at said inner surface to a smaller cross-sectional 
size adjacent said free end and define a concavity with an 

opening facing said outer surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction plate of claim 19, 
wherein said pins extend to a free end and taper from a relatively 

large cross-sectional size at said inner surface to a smaller cross-sectional 
size adjacent said free end and define a concavity with an 

opening facing said outer surface. 
An orthopaedic reconstruction device intended to be 
affixed to a bone comprising, in combination: 


(a) a metal mesh having a plurality of apertures 
extending across a major portion thereof; and 
(b) a plate having inner and outer surfaces, a plurality 
of pins extending from said inner surface sized to fit in said apertures, 

at least a portion of said pins extending through said apertures and 
means for fastening said plate to bone. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 23, 
wherein said pins extend 1 to 3 mm from said inner surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device according to claim 
23, wherein said means for fastening said plate to bone comprises 

holes in said plate and a plurality of screws extending through said 
holes. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device according to claim 
23, wherein said means for fastening said plate to bone comprises a 

plurality of wires each having a first end engaged to said plate and a 
second end, said wires having a length permitting engagement of said 

 
second end of one of said wires to said second end of another of said 

wires. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device according to claim 
23, wherein said plate includes a plurality of sections, and an area of 

reduced thickness between each of said sections, a majority of said 
sections having said pins. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 23 
wherein said plate has upper and lower edges joining said inner and 

outer surfaces and further including a tab extending from said lower 
edge. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 28, 
wherein said tab has inner and outer surfaces, at least one aperture 

extending through said tab from said inner surface to said outer 
surface and at least one pin extending from said inner surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 28 
wherein said plate includes a second elongated member having a 

central portion extending from said tab and first and second end 
portions extending in opposite directions from said tab, said second 

elongated member having inner and outer surfaces and a plurality of 
pins extending from said inner surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 30, 
wherein said first and second end portions taper away from said lower 

edge as they extend from said tab. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 23, 
wherein said plate portion is provided with a series of perforations 

substantially throughout, said perforations extending between said 
inner and outer surfaces. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 32, 
wherein said perforations have diameters in the range of 1 to 3 mm 

and are separated from adjacent perforations by a distance in the 
range of 1 to 5 mm. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 23, 
wherein said pins extend to a free end and taper from a relatively 

large cross-sectional size at said inner surface to a smaller cross-sectional 
size adjacent said free end and define a concavity with an 

opening facing said outer surface. 
The orthopaedic reconstruction device of claim 32, 
wherein said pins extend to a free end and taper from a relatively 

large cross-sectional size at said inner surface to a smaller cross-sectional 
size adjacent said free end and define a concavity with an 

opening facing said outer surface. 
A method for repairing deficient cortices in a bone 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing an orthopaedic reconstruction plate 
having an inner surface with a plurality of pins extending therefrom to 

a free end and apertures for receiving retaining screws; 
(b) affixing said plate to said bone in the area of said 
deficient cortices with said free ends of said pins contacting said 

bone; 
(c) placing crushed cancellous allograft in said 
deficient cortices; and 
(d) retaining said crushed cancellous allograft with 
said plate. 
A method of reconstructing a femur having deficient 
bone material at a level of the trochanteric region comprising the 

steps of: 
(a) providing an orthopaedic reconstruction plate 
formed of a flexible strip of biocompatible material, said strip having 

first and second surfaces and upper and lower edges between said 
first and second surfaces, said first surface having a plurality of pins 

extending therefrom; 
(b) wrapping said plate around the femur in said 
trochanteric region such that at least a portion of said pins contact 

the bone and such that said upper edge extends above at least a 
portion of said level; and 
(c) fastening said plate to said femur in said 
trochanteric region. 
The method according to claim 37, wherein said plate is 
provided with a plurality of holes and said step of affixing comprises 

affixing screws through at least some of said holes. 
The method according to claim 38, wherein said affixing 
step comprises applying at least one screw through a hole in the 

trochanteric region adjacent the greater trochanter and applying at 
least one screw through one of said holes into the lesser trochanter. 
The method according to claim 38, wherein said plate is 
provided with a tab extending from said lower edge and a plurality of 

holes and said affixing step includes applying at least one screw 
through a hole in the trochanteric region adjacent the greater 

trochanter and bending said tab into conformity with the lesser 
trochanter and affixing a screw through a hole in said tab into said 

lesser trochanter. 
The method according to claim 40 further including the 
step of wrapping a further support member around said femur from an 

area adjacent said lesser trochanter to an area distally spaced from 
said greater trochanter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
