<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643528</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image processing apparatus capable of performing marker editing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N146	G01J350	H04N146	H04N1387	G01J350	G06T100	H04N162	H04N162	G06T100	H04N1387	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G01J	H04N	H04N	G01J	G06T	H04N	H04N	G06T	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	G01J3	H04N1	H04N1	G01J3	G06T1	H04N1	H04N1	G06T1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing apparatus includes a reading 
unit, a determining unit, a converting unit, a 

recording unit, and a control unit. The reading unit 
moves sensors corresponding to a predetermined number 

of pixels aligned along a sub-scanning direction in a 
main scanning direction to read an image having a 

predetermined width of an original. The determining 
unit determines an area designated by a marker in the 

original in accordance with pixel data of a pixel read 
by the reading unit and pixel data of pixels 

surrounding the pixel. The converting unit converts 
the pixel data of the pixel read by the reading unit in 

accordance with a determination result from the 
determining unit. The recording unit drives recording 

elements corresponding to the predetermined number of 
pixels aligned along the sub-scanning direction in 

accordance with pixel data from the converting unit and 
moving the recording elements in the main scanning 

direction to record the image having the predetermined 
width on a sheet. The control unit moves the reading 

unit in the sub-scanning direction by a distance 
corresponding to pixels less than the predetermined 

number of pixels to perform a next main scanning 
operation after the reading unit completes a main 

scanning operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKAMI FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NONAKA TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKAMI, FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NONAKA, TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image
processing apparatus capable of performing marker
editing.When image editing is to be performed in a
conventional color copying machine, prescanning is
performed in advance to store data necessary for
editing. For this purpose, a large memory is required.
Hence, a serial scanning method has been receiving a
great deal of attention because it needs no large
memory.If the serial scanning method is applied to the
conventional image processing apparatus, a large memory
is unnecessary. However, since an original is scanned
for every band, the image cannot be processed using
information in a wide image area, and much time is
needed to read all the images. For this reason, image
processing by color marking using the serial scanning
method (to be referred to as marker editing
hereinafter) is currently out of use. It is a concern of the present invention to provide
an image processing apparatus for reading the image of
an original, determining an area designated by a marker
in the original, converting the image in the determined
area, and recording the converted image in synchronism
with reading.French Patent Specification No FR-A-2505518
discloses image processing apparatus which can detect a
marker zone and convert the colour of an image encircled
by the marker zone.In accordance with a first aspect of the invention
there is provided image processing apparatus as set out
in claim 1.In accordance with a second aspect of the invention
there is provided an image processing method as set out
in claim 11. Other features, and advantages of the
present invention will be apparent from the following
detailed description of the preferred embodiments in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings.Fig. 1 is a block diagram schematically showing
the arrangement of an image processing apparatus
(full-color copying machine) according to the first
embodiment which performs the marker editing mode
of the present invention;Figs. 2A to 2C are views showing specifications of
marker editing executed by the apparatus shown in
Fig. 1;Fig. 3 which is comprised of Figs. 3A and 3B is a
block diagram showing the internal arrangement of a
marker editing circuit 7 in Fig. 1;Figs. 4A to 4C are views showing a color
determining method;Fig. 5 is a view showing a color code table; Fig. 6 is an explanatory view of isolated color
eliminating processing;Fig. 7 is a view showing delay data upon area
determination;Fig. 8 is a view showing area determining
conditions;Fig. 9 is a view showing area

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image processing apparatus for reading an
original image and capable of operating in either a

marker editing mode or a non-marker editing mode, the
marker editing mode being a mode in which a predetermined

conversion of the image data is carried out on a marked
area of the original, the apparatus comprising:


reading means (1) for reading an original image by
moving a sensor aligned in a sub-scan direction in a main

scan transverse to the sub-scan direction so as in a
single scanning operation to read a predetermined width

of the original image;
determining means (23) for determining, in the

marker editing mode, the marked area in the original
image said determining means being adapted to determine

the area while reading the original image;
converting means (24B) operative in the marker
editing mode for converting pixels of the original image

read by said reading means into pixel data having a
second color in accordance with the output of said

determining means;
recording means (17) for performing recording in
synchronism with said reading means, on the basis of the

converted result of said converting means; and
control means (9) for moving said reading means in
the sub scan direction to perform a next scanning

operation in the main scan direction after said reading 
means has completed a scanning operation in the main scan

direction and characterised in that said control means
is adapted in the marker editing mode to move said

reading means in the sub scan direction by a distance
less than said predetermined width read by said reading

means, and to move said reading means in the sub scan
direction by a distance corresponding to said

predetermined width when the apparatus is in the non-marker
editing mode.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
determining means operates to determine a marked area in

accordance with the pixel data of individual pixels read
by said reading means and in accordance surrounding pixel

data in the form of pixels surrounding each individual
pixel.
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said
determining means in the marker editing mode uses pixel

data of pixels at portions near two ends of said sensor
as the surrounding pixel data and uses pixel data of

pixels at remaining portions as to-be-converted pixel
data.
An apparatus according to claim 3, further
comprising memory means for storing pixel data along the

main scanning direction of said reading means, and 
wherein said determining means uses the pixel data stored

in said memory means as the surrounding pixel data.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein
said sensing means represent a predetermined number of

pixels in said sub-scanning direction and further
comprising recording means (18) comprising a recording

head having a plurality of aligned recording elements
equal in number to said predetermined number, and means

for moving said recording head relative to a recording
medium in a sub-scan direction corresponding to said

aligned recording elements, and in a main scan direction
transverse to said sub-scan direction.
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said
recording means is adapted to perform recording in

accordance with the pixel data converted by said
converting means in the marker editing mode and performs

recording in accordance with the pixel data of the pixel
read by said reading means in the non marker editing

mode.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein in the marker editing mode said converting means

is capable of performing color conversion of a black line
designated by the marker into a predetermined colour. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein in the marker editing mode said converting means

is capable of performing color conversion of the inside
of a closed area designated by the marker.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said recording means is an ink jet recorder.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said reading means comprises a color sensor.
A method of processing an original image using
either a marker editing mode or a non-marker editing

mode, the marker editing mode being a mode in which an
area of the original image is marked and a predetermined

conversion of the image data is carried out on the marked
area;


the method comprising reading the original image by
moving a sensor aligned in a sub-scan direction in a main

scan direction transverse to the sub-scan direction so
as to read a predetermined width of the original image

in a single scanning operation;
determining in the marker editing mode, the marked
area of the original image whilst reading the original

image and converting pixel data of the area so determined
into a different colour;
after the sensor has carried out a scan in the main 
scan direction in the marker editing mode moving the

sensor relative to the original image in the sub-scan
direction by a distance less than said predetermined

width, and after the sensor has carried out a scan in the
non-marker editing mode, moving the sensor in the sub-scan

direction by a distance equal to said predetermined
width, and wherein recording is performed in synchronism

with the operation of said reading step.
A method according to claim 11, wherein in said
marker editing mode said determining means operates to

determine a marked area in accordance with the pixel data
of individual pixels read by said reading means and

surrounding pixel data in the form of pixels surrounding
each individual pixel.
A method according to claim 12, wherein in said
marker editing mode said determining means uses pixel

data of pixels at portions near the two ends of said
sensor as the surrounding pixel data and uses pixel data

of pixels at remaining portions as to-be-converted pixel
data.
A method according to claim 13, further comprising
storing pixel data read along the main scanning direction

of said reading means, and wherein said determining means
uses the pixel data stored in said memory means as the 

surrounding pixel data.
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 14,
wherein said sensing means represent a predetermined

number of pixels in said sub-scanning direction and
further comprising utilising recording means (18)

comprising a recording head having a plurality of aligned
recording elements equal in number to said predetermined

number.
A method according to claim 15, wherein said
recording means performs recording in accordance with

converted pixel data in the marker editing mode and
performs recording in accordance with the pixel data

read by said reading means in the non marker editing
mode.
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 16,
wherein said converting means performs in the marker

editing mode color conversion of a black line designated
by the marker.
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 17,
wherein said converting means performs in the marker

editing mode color conversion of the inside of a closed
area designated by the marker. 
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 18,
wherein said recording means is an ink jet recorder.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
