<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641709</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Live ring articulation for articulated busses
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60D500	B62D4702	B62D4700	B60D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60D	B62D	B62D	B60D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60D5	B62D47	B62D47	B60D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The subject-matter of the invention is a live ring articulation for articulated buses, in which a turning ring is a casting (5, 8) which at one end has a circular eye (3a) and at the other end a cantilever (8) which extends in the direction of a diameter of the eye and at that end which is remote from the eye there are provided connections (9a, 10a) by means of which the turning ring can be connected to the associated section of the vehicle. The turning ring is preferably designed in such a manner that the rolling members of a rolling-contact bearing can be supported on that wall of the turning ring (5) which surrounds the eye without further machining. This support can be brought about in that the rolling members are supported on that wall of the turning ring which surrounds the eye via bearing means inserted in the eye. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUEBNER GUMMI 
&
 KUNSTSTOFF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUEBNER GUMMI- UND KUNSTSTOFF GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<CLAIMS>
A turntable articulation for articulated buses, 
comprising a turntable ring which, on the one hand, has 

a circular eye (3a), and, on the other hand, an arm (8) 
extending in the direction of a diameter of the eye, 

connections (9a, 10a) by means of which the turntable 
ring can be connected to the associated component 

vehicle being provided at the arm end remote from the 
eye, characterised in that the turntable ring is a one-piece 

casting (5, 8) having a plurality of openings 
such that one of said openings forms the eye and is so 

devised that the rolling members (19a) of a rolling 
bearing (17a, 18a, 19a) can, without any finishing 

operation, bear against the wall of the turntable ring 
(5) enclosing the eye (3a), namely by way of bearing 

means (17a, 18a) which are inserted in the eye and 
which are parallel special steel rings (17a, 18a) of 

circular cross-section, while the wall enclosing the 
eye is part of a plain bearing having specific 

frictional or damping action, whereas the other 
openings (13a, 14a, 15a) are situated in the arm (8) 

and are separated from one another by webs extending 
substantially in the longitudinal direction of the arm 

and the connections are disposed in the form of bearing 
eyes or bearing bushes at the end remote from the eye 

(3a). 
A turntable articulation according to claim 1, 
characterised in that the special steel rings are two 

spaced-apart special steel wire rings. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 1, 
characterised by inserts in the openings (13a, 14a,  

 
15a) of the arm made from a different material than the 

material of the turntable ring including the arm (5, 
8). 
A turntable articulation according to claim 3, 
characterised in that the inserts are containers for 

operating fluid. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 3 or 

4, characterised in that the material of the inserts is 
a polyamide. 
A turntable articulation according to any one of 
claims 3 to 5, characterised in that the inserts in a 

plurality of openings (13a, 14a, 15a) of the arm (8) 
form a unit which form reception openings (27a) for 

ribs (20a) by means of which the openings are separated 
from one another. 
A turntable articulation according to any one of 
claims 3 to 6, characterised in that the inserts have a 

height corresponding to the thickness of the arm (8). 
A turntable articulation according to claim 6 or 
7, characterised in that the reception openings have 

the form of channels (27a) which extend from the top of 
the inserts forming a unit (24a) to near the underside 

of the unit. 
A turntable articulation according to any one of 
claims 6 to 8, characterised in that the inserts 

combined to form a unit (24a) have at least one inlet 
opening for an operating fluid and venting openings  

 
(29a), the inlet and venting openings being closable 

after the introduction of the fluid. 
A turntable articulation according to any one of 
claims 4 to 9, characterised by the use of the 

hydraulic fluid as a means (7) for damping or 
controlling the relative movements between two 

turntable rings (5, 5a) of a turntable articulation for 
articulated buses. 
A turntable articulation according to any one of 
claims 1 to 10, characterised by an elastic connection 

between an associated component vehicle (1) of an 
articulated bus and the arm (8) of the casting (5, 8). 
A turntable articulation according to claim 11, 
characterised in that the elastic connection includes a 

spring rod (120), the two ends of which are fixed on 
the component vehicle and on which the arm (8) is fixed 

between the two ends. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 12, 
characterised by a change in the fixing of the spring 

rod (120) such that the ends of the spring rod are 
fixed on the arm (8) and the spring rod is fixed on one 

of the two component vehicles between its ends. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 12 or 
13, characterised by a round cross-section of the 

spring rod. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 14, 
characterised by a circular cross-section of the spring 

rod (120).  
 
A turntable articulation according to claim 12 or 
13, characterised by a rectangular cross-section of the 

spring rod (120). 
A turntable articulation according to claim 12 or 
13, characterised in that the spring rod (120) is fixed 

on one of the two component vehicles according to claim 
18 or on the bracket according to claim 19 so as to be 

displaceable in the longitudinal direction of the 
spring rod. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 16, 
characterised in that the longer sides of the 

rectangular cross-section are horizontal. 
A turntable articulation according to claim 11, 
characterised in that the elastic connection is in the 

form of rubber bushes so disposed between the arm and 
the associated component vehicle and so constructed 

that they allow pitch movements between the two 
component vehicles by torsional deformation, rolling 

movements between the two component vehicles by contra-directional 
compressive/tensile deformations at the two 

ends and longitudinal force transmission by 
compressive/tensile deformations in zones situated 

opposite one another in the longitudinal direction of 
the vehicle. 
Use of a turntable articulation according to any 
one of claims 1 to 19 for an articulated bus having a 

first turntable ring which can be connected 
articulatedly to the two-axle or multi-axle front 

vehicle of the articulated bus and on which a second  
 

turntable ring rigidly associated with the rear vehicle 
of the articulated bus bears, or on which a second 

turntable ring rigidly associated with the rear vehicle 
of the articulated bus is suspended, wherein the rear 

vehicle has an axle or axle assembly only at its end 
remote from the articulation and the supported load of 

the semitrailer at the end of the articulation is 
transmitted by the latter to the front vehicle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
