<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645068</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING PERIODIC SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION SERVICES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N716	H04N716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLONDER TONGUE LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLONDER TONGUE LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORSETTI PAUL JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DURDEN GREGORY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDWARDS ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH HIMANSHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSTAGI VIBHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORSETTI, PAUL, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DURDEN, GREGORY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDWARDS, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH, HIMANSHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSTAGI, VIBHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of subscription television
equipment and, more particularly, to a method and apparatus for use in
subscription television systems whereby a subscriber to subscription television
services may periodically receive service with minimal supervision and control by
the service provider. For example, one periodic subscription television service
offering according to the principles of the present invention may be a weekend
service whereby the subscriber is automatically connected from 6 PM on a Friday
evening through 12 PM midnight on a Sunday night to receive a predetermined
plurality of channels allocated to the periodic (weekend) service offering.A problem has recently surfaced primarily in the cable television field in
high density population areas. There may be a considerable so-called embedded
base in terms of the costs of establishing a distribution cable network connecting
subscribers with a central service control point, hereinafter, a headend.
Furthermore, besides establishing a cable television signal distribution system,
multiple dwelling units and other homes may be pre-wired for so-called drop wires
from the distribution cable system into the subscribers' homes. Furthermore,
within the homes, there may be equipment which is owned by the cable television
service provider such as terminal equipment. Such terminal equipment may
represent a considerable investment in a given subscriber.With this large embedded base, there is a requirement to maximize its
utilization by potential subscribers while minimizing the costs associated with
providing various services. Many would-be subscribers, however, are unable to
afford the costs of subscribing on a regular or continuous basis to services. Such
customers, however, in accordance with the principles of the present invention,
may be able to afford periodic subscription services, provided, of course, that such
services are reasonably priced. An associated problem to reducing the costs of services is that of alleviating
the need for cable television service personnel to visit a subscriber's premises in
order to install service. One solution to the problem of alleviating the need for
service visits for service installations is for a system operator to utilize so-called
addressable interdiction or related service denial technologies for provision of
services in place of so-called scrambling/descrambling technologies which require
that equipment be provided on the subscribers' premises. The service denial
equipment may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Service denial apparatus for permitting and denying service to
subscribers of a subscription system, the service denial apparatus comprising


communications receiving means for receiving communications from
a service provider,
communications decoding means, responsive to the communications
receiving means, for decoding communications received from the service

provider,
memory means for storing instructions and data for permitting and
denying service to a particular subscriber,
selective service denial means for selectively permitting and denying
service to the particular subscriber, and
controller means;

characterised in that the controller means is responsive to the
communications decoding means and the memory means, for selectively

actuating the memory means and the selective service denial means, the
controller means being further responsive to a first communication to store, in

the memory means, a data code representing a periodic service offering, the
data code further indicating a predetermined plurality of channels allocated to

the periodic service offering.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the
controller means is further responsive to a second communication at a first

predetermined time to actuate the selective service denial means to permit
reception of service by the particular subscriber on the predetermined plurality

of channels.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the
controller means is further responsive to a third communication at a second

predetermined time to actuate the service denial means to deny reception of
service by the particular subscriber.
Service denial apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the
controller is arranged to compare data representing a periodic service offering

stored in memory with data received with the second and third
communications for selectively permitting and denying service on the

predetermined plurality of channels allocated for the periodic service offering.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4
wherein the second and third communications each comprise an address

representing a plurality of subscribers. 
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein the first communication comprises an address uniquely representing

the particular subscriber.
The service denial apparatus according to any one of claims 1
to 5 wherein the first communication comprises an address representing a

plurality of subscribers.
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein the first communication comprises at least one data bit representing

the status of the periodic service offering.
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim,
adapted to be located external to subscriber premises.
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim
adapted to be shared by a plurality of subscribers.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 3 or any one of
claims 4 to 10 dependent thereon wherein the first and second predetermined

times define a time interval for a particular periodic service offering. 
The service denial apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the
length of the period between the first and second predetermined times is

selected by the subscriber.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the
time interval comprises at least one selected day of the week.
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein the selective service denial means comprises a switch selectively

operable for denying reception of service.
The service denial apparatus according to any one of claims 1
to 13 wherein the selective service denial means comprises a jamming means

selective operable for jamming channels which a subscriber is not authorized
to receive.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the
memory means comprises non-volatile memory for storing a status bit

representing the intended status of the switch and random access memory for
storing the condition of the switch and the controller means comprises means

for appropriately actuating the switch when the status bit and switch are not
equivalent. 
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim
further comprising


a headend for transmitting communications and a broadband television
signal from the service provider to the communications receiving means,
a first medium connecting the headend and the communications
receiving means, and
a second medium for connecting the first medium to a television signal
receiver, the television signal receiver adapted to receive at least the

predetermined plurality of channels via the second medium.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 17, the
communications receiving means particularly comprising directional coupling

means for coupling the first and second mediums and a data receiver for
receiving communications from the headend.
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding claim,
the first communication comprising data representing at least one periodic

service data code indicating a corresponding predetermined plurality of

channels allocated to a periodic service offering. 
The service denial apparatus according to any preceding
claim, the data code representing the periodic service offering having an

absence of channel data, the absence of channel data representing at least one
predetermined channel allocated to the periodic service offering.
The service denial apparatus according to claim 3 or any one of
claims 4 to 20 dependent thereon, wherein the first communication, the

second communication, and the third communication are intended only for the
particular subscriber.
A method for permitting and denying service to subscribers of
a subscription system, the method characterised by the steps of:


allocating a plurality of channels to a periodic service offering
represented by a service data code; and,
storing in a memory of a service denial apparatus the service data code
defining the allocated plurality of channels.
The method according to claim 22 further comprising the step
of:


permitting access to the allocated plurality of channels to subscribers
responsive to a first communication at a first predetermined time.
The method according to claim 23 further comprising the step
of:


denying access to the allocated plurality of channels to subscribers
responsive to a second communication at a second predetermined time.
The method according to claim 24 wherein at least television
services are provided over the predetermined plurality of channels, the method

further including the step of comparing the data representing a periodic
service offering stored in memory with data received with the first and second

communications for selectively permitting and denying service on the
predetermined plurality of channels allocated for the periodic service offering.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 25 further
comprising the step of: repeating the steps of allocating and storing for each of

a plurality of periodic service offerings, each such periodic service offering
being represented by a different service data code.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 26,
comprising the further steps of:


receiving a first communication from a service provider at the service
denial apparatus,
decoding the received communications from the service provider, 
receiving a second communication from the service provider at a first
predetermined time representing the initiation of service on the predetermined

plurality of channels,
selectively permitting service responsive to receipt of the second
communication,
receiving a third communication from the service provider at a second
predetermined time representing the termination of service, and
selectively denying service responsive to receipt of the third
communication.
The method according to claim 27 wherein the first
communication comprises an address which uniquely identifies a subscriber

to periodic service.
The method according to claim 27 wherein the first
communication comprises an address which identifies a plurality of

subscribers.
The method according to any one of claims 27 to 29 wherein
the first communication comprises at least one data bit representing the status

of the periodic service offering. 
The method according to any one of claims 27 to 30 wherein
the second and third communications are received by service denial apparatus

for all subscribers of the subscription television system,
The method according to any one of claims 27 to 31 wherein
the first and second predetermined times define a time interval for a particular

periodic service offering.
The method according to claim 32 wherein the time interval
comprises at least one predetermined day of the week.
The method according to any one of claims 27 to 33, wherein
the decoding step comprises the step of decoding service code data of the

communications wherein the absence of data represents at least one
predetermined channel allocated to the periodic service offering.
The method according to any one of claims 27 to 34, wherein
the first communication includes a data code representing a periodic service

offering and indicating a predetermined plurality of channels allocated to the
periodic service offering. 
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 35, wherein
the storing step is performed if and only if an address received with initial

communication from a headend matches an address stored in the memory of
the service denial apparatus.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 36, wherein
the plurality of channels allocated to the periodic service offering comprises a

set of free channels.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 37, wherein
the service data code comprises an absence of channel data, the absence of

channel data representing at least one predetermined channel allocated to the
periodic service offering.
The method according to claim 38, wherein an absence of
channel data represents the subset of all channels provided allocated to a

regular service offering.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 38, wherein
the plurality of channels allocated to the periodic service offering comprises a

set of premium cost channels. 
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 38, wherein
the plurality of channels allocated to the periodic service offering comprise a

set of channels comprising free and premium cost channels.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 41, wherein
the periodic service offering is available for subscription by regular service

subscribers.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 42, wherein a
first predetermined time and a second predetermined time define a time

interval for a particular periodic service offering.
The method according to claim 43 wherein the time interval
comprises at least one selected day of the week.
The method according to any one of claims 22 to 44, wherein
the plurality of channels allocated to the periodic service offering comprises a

set of non-scrambled channels.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
