<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626829</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENDODONTIC APPARATUS FOR RETROFILL CAVITY PREPARATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C100	A61C105	A61C107	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C1	A61C1	A61C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An endodontic tool has a working tip including a cylindrical (22) segment terminating in a conical end (20). A shoulder (25) is provided at the end of the cylindrical segment which is spaced from the conical end. The conical end and the cylindrical segment each have a surface for removing tooth material when the tool is vibrated at sonic frequencies. A stem connects to the second cylindrical segment (24) at a right angle and is connectable to a conventional sonic hand piece so that vibratory energy generated within the hand piece is transmitted to the working tip by way of the stem. The hand piece provides vibratory motion generally along its longitudinal axis, and the stem is received in the hand piece with the stem axis at an angle to the longitudinal axis of the hand piece. The stem can be rotated about its own axis in the hand piece such that orientation of the working tip relative to the longitudinal axis of the hand piece is readily and releasably adjustable.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICRO MEGA SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICRO MEGA S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FONG CHENG DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FONG, CHENG, DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ENDODONTIC APPARATUS FOR RETROFILL CAVITY PREPARATIONThis invention relates generally to dental apparatus for use in endodontic procedures and more particularly to a tool and hand piece suitable for retrofill cavity preparation, that is, preparation of a root cavity for filling from the bottom, by access through an opening provided in the jawbone. In root canal surgery, the space containing the pulp is opened by drilling into the tooth from the top. The pulp is the removed and a suitable material is used to fill the entire internal volume of the tooth. However, if pain persists or if problems develop subsequently to cause the patient to feel pain in the tooth, it may be necessary to drill into the bottom of the tooth root which is seated in the jawbone. The tip or bottom of the root is removed and the bottom of the root canal1 o is bored out and is subsequently filled with a filler material.In the past, such bore has been made by an vibratory instrument operating at ultrasonic frequencies. Vibrations are induced in the tool by a mechanism, typically including a piezoelectric element, in a hand piece to which the tool is mounted, and which is adapted to be held by the dental surgeon. Rotary drilling bits are also sometimes used in place of, or in conjuction with,! 5 tolls operating with vibratory motion.Because of the various locations in the mouth where root canal surgery may be required and because of the relative inaccessibility of many of these areas and the small space between cheek and jawbone, tolls of many different shapes have been constructed to accommodate the various tooth locations so that the bottom of the root can be reached for retrofill cavity preparation 0 regardless of the tooth's location. No single tool is known which is sufficiently versatile to operate at all of the tooth locations. Many possibilities of misaligning a drilled cavity, are present. Such hazards are especially prevalent when using devices that vibrate at ultrasonic frequencies, since a small deviation from an intended path of preparation can quickly and undesirably remove relatively large quantities of tooth material. Among others, the risk of an unintended breaking25 through of the side wall of a tooth is increased at ultrasonic frequencies. At best, operation of these tools involves very delicate and time consuming procedures.Further, when operating at ultrasonic speeds with conventional tools, it is difficult to avoid enlarging the entrance to the cavity drilled at the bottom of the root such that the cavity
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS
1 . An endodontic apparatus for retrofill cavity preparation, comprising : a tool including a working tip having a first axis, said tip including a pointed end connected to one end of a first cylindrical segment, said first cylindrical segment and said pointed end being aligned to said first axis, the outer surfaces of both said pointed end and said first cylindrical segment being working surfaces for acting on a tooth and for removing tooth material, stop means positioned proximate the other end of said first cylindrical surface, said stop means extending radially of said first axis and beyond the working surface of said first cylindrical segment ; and a stem for connection to a tool holder and having a first end and a second end, said second end being connected to said first cylindrical segment proximate said stop means and said other en of said first cylindrical segment, said stem being selectively positionable about a second axis when said stem is connected to said tool holder.
2. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said pointed end is conical. 3. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1 , further comprising a second segment connected to the other end of said first cylindrical segment, the cross section of said second segment being larger than the cross section of said first cylindrical segment, said stop means including a shoulder formed at the connection between said first cylindrical segment and said second segment by their respectively different cross sections. 4. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 3, wherein said second segment is cylindrical.
5. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 2, further comprising a second segment connected to the other end of said first cylindrical segment, the cross section of said second segment being larger than the cross section of said first cylindrical segment, said stop means including a shoulder formed at the connection between said first cylindrical segment and said second segment by their respectively different cross sections.
6. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 5, wherein said second segment is cylindrical.
7. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1 , segment and said second segment by their respectively different cross sections.
6. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 5, wherein said second segment is cylindrical. 7. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1 , wherein the working surface of at least one of said pointed end and said first cylindrical segment is barbed.
8. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 2, wherein the working surface of at least one of said pointed end and said first cylindrical segment is barbed.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


9. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 5, wherein the working surface of at least one of said pointed end and said first cylindrical segment is barbed.
10. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a tool holder having length and connection means for releasibly gripping said stem, said tool holder including dynamic means for providing vibrations at least along a lengthwise third axis, said vibrations being transmitted to said working tip via said stem when said stem is gripped by said connection means, said second axis and said third axis intersecting at a first angle.
11. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said first and second axes meet at a second angle. 12. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 11, wherein said connection means, when released, permit rotation of said stem about said second axis, whereby the orientation of said working tip relative to said tool holder is adjustable.
13. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said first and second axes meet at an angle. 14. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said first axis and said second axis intersect at substantially a right angle.
15. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said dynamic means provides vibrations at frequencies in the sonic range.
16. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said conical and has a length from the apex to the base of said end in a range of approximately 0.5 to 2.0 millimeters and said base has a radius in a range of approximately 0.1 to 0.5 millimeters.
17. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said first cylindrical segment has a length in a range of approximately 1.5 to 3.0 millimeters and a radius in a range of approximately 0.3 to 0.8 millimeters. 18. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 6, wherein said second cylindrical segment has a length in a range of approximately 0.0 to 3.0 millimeters and a radius in a range of approximately 0.3 to 0.8 millimeters.
19. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1, wherein in the length of said stem is in a range of approximately 20 to 30 millimeters and the radius of said stem is in a range of approximately 0.8 to 1.2 millimeters.
20. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a resilient sleeve, and wherein said stem is round and has a radius in a range of approximately 0.3 to 0.8 millimeters and is encircled with said resilient sleeve at one end, said sleeve having an outer radius in a range of approximately 0.8 to 1.2 millimeters. 21. An endodontic apparatus for retrofill cavity preparation, comprising :
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 a working tip having a first axis, said tip including a generally pointed end connected to one end of a cylindrical segment, said cylindrical segment and said pointed end being aligned to said first axis, the outer surface of said pointed end and the outer surface of said cylindrical segment being working surfaces for acting on a tooth and for removing tooth material ; a stem having a first end and a second end, said second end being connected to said cylindrical segment at the end of said cylindrical segment away form said pointed end, a second axis extending between said first and second ends of said stem, said first and second axes meeting at an angle of approximately 90° ; and an elongated hand piece having connection means for releasibly gripping said stem, said hand piece including dynamic means for providing sonic vibrations at least along a third axis lengthwise of said hand piece, said sonic vibrations being transmitted to said working tip via said stem when said stem is gripped by said connection means, said second axis and said third axis intersecting at an angle.
22. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 2, wherein the axial length of said conical end is in the range of appromately 15 percent to 65 pecent of the distance from an apex of said conical end to said stop means.
23. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said conical end has a length from the apex to the base of said conical end in a range of approximately 0.5 to 2.0 millimeters and said first cylindrical segment has a length in a range of approximately 1.5 to 3.0 millimeters. 24. An endodontic apparatus for retrofill cavity preparation, comprising : a working tip having axis, said tip including a tapered end connected to one of a cylindrical segment, said cylindrical segment and said tapered end being aligned to said first axis, the outer surface of said tapered end and the outer surface of said cylindrical segment being working surfaces for acting on a tooth and for removing tooth material, the cross section of said tapered end diminishing as the distance from said cylindrical segment increases ; a stem having a first end and a second end, said second end being connected to said cylindrical segment at the end of said cylindrical segment spaced from said tapered and, a second axis extending between said first and second ends of said stem, said first and second axes meeting at an angle of approximately 90° ; and an elongated hand piece having connection means for releasibly gripping said stem, said hand piece including dynamic means for providing sonic vibrations at least along a third axis lengthwise of said hand piece, said sonic vibrations being transmitted to said working tip via said stem when said stem is gripped by said connection means, said second axis and said third axis intersecting at an angle. 25. An endodonctic apparatus as in claim 24, wherein said stem includes an elbow portion.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


26. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said first cylindrical segment is bar and said barbed surface, inclusive of said barb, has an outer diameter in a range o approximately 0.20 millimeters to 0.55 millimeters and said first cylindrical segment, exclusive said barbs, has a diameter in a range of approximately 0.17 to 0.52 millimeters. 27. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 24, wherein the working surface of at least one said tapered end and said first cylindrical segment is barbed.
28. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 27, wherein said tapered end is conical.
29. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 21, wherein said first axis, and an apex of s pointed end, face in a direction generally towards the hand piece. 30. An endodontic apparatus for retrofill cavity preparation, comprising : a tool including a working tip having a first axis, said tip including a tapered e connected to one end of a cylindrical segment, said cylindrical segment and said tapered e being aligned to said first axis, the outer surfaces of both said tapered end and said cylindri segment being working surfaces for acting on a tooth and for removing tooth material, the cr section of said tapered end diminushing as the distance from said cylindrical segment increas stop means positioned proximate the other end of said cylindrical segment, said stop me extending radially of said first axis and beyond the working surface of said cylindrical segme and an elongated stem for connection to a tool holder, one end of said stem being connected said cylindrical segment proximate said stop means.
31. An endodontic apparatus as in claim 30, wherein the working surface of at least one said pointed end and said first cylindrical segment is barbed.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
