<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623068</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PROCESSING SCRAP TIRES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1300	B29B1302	B29B1702	B29B1702	C10G100	C10G110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	C10G	C10G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B13	B29B13	B29B17	B29B17	C10G1	C10G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) for liquifying tires is shown in a first form including a plurality of tire modules (12) holding tires which are immersed in and preheated by a slurry located in a tank (22). After preheating, the tire module (12) and tires held thereon are removed from the preheat tank (22) and are immersed in a slurry located in a high temperature tank (28). The temperature of the slurry in the high temperature tank (28) is sufficient to liquify the tires. As the tires liquify, the slurry produced is retained in the high temperature tank (28) to immerse further tires and also overflows from the high temperature tank (28) to the preheat tank (22) and then to a storage tank (36). The slurry from the storage tank (36) can be pumped to the burner (42) of the heat exchanger (48) for heating the slurry in the high temperature tank (28) or can be used for other purposes. In an alternate form, the apparatus (10) includes a vertical stack of tires held in a basket (64) removably supported in a tank (62), with the height of the stack being greater than the outlet (74) of the tank (62) and the level of the slurry located in the tank (62). Thus, the tires above the slurry are preheated prior to being immersed in the slurry and act as a weight to move the stack of tires downward as the lower tires in the slurry are melted.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARPENTER ROLAND K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARPENTER, ROLAND, K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER ROLAND K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER, ROLAND, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PROCESSING SCRAP TIRES BACKGROUNDThe present invention generally relates to apparatus and methods for processing scrap tires for reuse, and particularly to apparatus and methods for extracting liquid rubber/fiber/catalyst slurry from the remaining components of the tires, with the liquid slurry and remaining components being in a condition for reuse and/or recycling. The United States alone scraps about 250,000,000 tires per year or roughly one tire per person per year, with 2-4 billion tires currently stockpiled. These stockpiled tires represent potential threats for both air and water quality plus they provide a breeding ground for mosquitoes Each of the solutions to the present scrap tire problem has difficulties. One method of disposal is landfilling the tires; however, tires generally do not degrade and whole tires cannot be landfilled because they "bubble up" to the surface. Specific disposal of tires is expensive but does tend to preserve the resource for a later date. 

 Using scrap tires to develop energy serves two purposes: first, it disposes of the tire, and second, it provides industrial/commercial companies with lower fuel cost energy. The economic cost/benefit of the waste-to- energy (WTE) approach will depend greatly on the particula type of combustor being used. For example, many moving grate type boilers have great difficulty if there is too much steel remaining in the fuel. The cost of removing the steel belts and steel beads from a tire is expensive. Generally speaking, the light belt wire in a typical steel belted radial tire will be consumed in combustors that operate at 870CC and above. The primary problem is the steel bead. The steel bead survives temperatures in the range of 870°-1370°C and could present problems in mechanical mechanisms in today's combustors and also provide a problem in the need for removing the steel from the ash. Some boilers have other significant problems in burning tires in the inability to handle the sulfur content and the effect of zinc oxide coating of heat transfer elements.Recycling of all the tire components is the optimum choice both from the environmental and an economic view¬ point. One of the problems of recycling of scrap tires is the great difficulty in separating the components. The tire companies have spent years making the steel, rubber and fiber virtually non-separable. Pyrolysis has been tried to break a tire into its components but has proven uneconomical because of the lack of a market for the oils and tire
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. Apparatus for processing scrap tires comprising, in combination: a first tank for holding a slurry of liquified rubber and fiber; means for immersing the scrap tires in the slurry of liquified rubber and fiber of the first tank; and means for heating the slurry in the first tank to a temperature to liquify the rubber and fiber of the scrap tires immersed in the first tank.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising, in combination: a second tank for holding the slurry; and an overflow passage from the first tank to the second tank.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the immersing means can be immersed in the slurry of the second tank to preheat the scrap tires prior to being immersed in the slurry of the first tank.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the second tank is of a size to receive multiple immersing means, with the scrap tires of each of the immersing means immersed in the slurry of the second tank.
5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising, in combination: a third tank for holding the slurry; and an overflow passage from the second tank to the third tank.
6. The apparatus of any preceeding claim further comprising, in combination: means for vibrating the scrap tires in the slurry of liquified rubber and fiber of the first tank.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the immersing means comprises, in combination: a tire handler module for holding the scrap tires; and wherein the vibrating means comprises means for vibrating the tire handler module.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the tire handler module includes a stem vertically protruding therefrom, with the stem including a stop; and wherein the vibrating means comprises a rotatable cam for abutting with the stop of the stem.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the immersing means comprises means for stacking the tires in the slurry of liquified rubber. 


 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the stacking means stacks the tires in the first tank to a height above the slurry of liquified rubber in the first tank, with the tires above the slurry of liquified rubber in the first tank being preheated prior to being immersed in the slurry of the first tank.
11. The apparatus of claim 9 or 10 wherein the stacking means includes a basket removably supported in the tank for receipt of the tires.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the stacking means includes means for conveying the scrap tires into the first tank and the basket.
13. The apparatus of any one of claims 9-12 wherein the stacking means stacks the tires in a vertical stack, with the scrap tires being horizontally arranged in the vertical stack.
14. The apparatus of any preceeding claim wherein the heating means comprises a burner capable of burning the slurry.
15. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-13 wherein the heating means comprises, in combination: a fluid circulatio loop including a first heat exchanger outside of the first tank and a second heat exchanger located in the slurry of the first tank; and a source of heat for exposure to the first heat exchanger.
16. Method for processing scrap tires comprising the steps of: providing a first tank of a slurry of liquified rubber and fiber; heating the slurry of the first tank to a temperature to liquify the rubber and fiber of the scrap tires; and immersing the scrap tires in the heated slurry of the first tank.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the steps of: providing a second tank; and overflowing the slurry from the first tank into the second tank.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the step of immersing the scrap tires in the slurry of the second tank prior to immersing the scrap tires in the slurry of the 


first tank to preheat the scrap tires.
19. The method of any one of claims 16-18 further comprising the step of vibrating the scrap tires in the heated slurry of the first tank.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: providing a tire handler module; and placing the scrap tires on the tire handler module; wherein the immersing step comprises the step of immersing the tire handler module with the scrap tires placed thereon in the heated slurry of the first tank; and wherein the vibrating step comprises the step of vibrating the tire handler module.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of providing a tire handler module comprises the step of providing a tire handler module having a stem vertically protruding therefrom, with the stem including a stop; and wherein the vibrating step comprises the step of camming against the stop of the stem.
22. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of preheating the scrap tires prior to immersing the scrap tires in the slurry of the first tank.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the preheating step comprises the steps of: providing a second tank; overflowing the slurry from the first tank into the second tank; and immersing the scrap tires in the slurry of the second tank.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein the preheating step comprises the step of stacking the scrap tires in the first tank in a stack having a height above the slurry of liquified rubber in the first tank, with the tires above the slurry of liquified rubber in the first tank being preheated prior to being immersed in the slurry of the first tank.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the stacking step comprises the step of stacking the scrap tires in a vertical stack in the first
'
 tank, with the scrap tires being horizontally arranged in the vertical stack.
26. The method of claim 24 or 25 further comprising the step of providing a basket removably supported in the tank for receipt of the stack. 


 27. The method of any one of claims 24-26 further comprising the step of conveying the scrap tires to the top of the stack.
28. The method of any one of claims 16-27 wherein the heating step comprises the steps of: providing a burner; and combusting the liquified rubber and fiber in the burner.
29. The method of any one of claims 16-27 wherein the heating step comprises the steps of providing a fluid circulation loop including a first heat exchanger outside of the first tank and a second heat exchanger located in the slurry of the first tank; and exposing the first heat exchanger to a source of heat. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
