<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649178</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flash EEPROM cell having gap between floating gate and drain for high hot electron injection efficiency for programming.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L218247	H01L27115	H01L27115	H01L2966	H01L29788	H01L29792	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flash or block erase electrically erasable programmable 
read-only memory (EEPROM) cell (10) includes a 

substrate (12) having a channel region (22), and a source 
(28) and a drain (32) formed in the substrate (12) on 

opposite sides of the channel region (22). A first oxide 
layer (19), a floating gate (20), a second oxide layer (24) 

and a control gate (26) are formed over the channel region 
(22). The cell (10) is programmed by hot electron injection 

from the drain (32) into the floating gate (20), and 
erased by Fowler-Nordheim tunneling from the floating gate 

(20) to the source (28). A gap (36) is provided between a 
sidewall (20a) of the floating gate (20) and the drain (32) 

to increase the electric field in the drain depletion 
region. An oxide sidewall spacer (38) is formed on the 

first oxide layer (19) in the gap (36) which traps electrons. 
The gap (36) and sidewall spacer (38) increase the 

hot electron injection efficiency, and enable programming 
to be accomplished at high speed, with low applied voltages 

and at high temperatures. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG CHEN-CHI P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI MEI F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, CHEN-CHI P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, MEI F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to the art of 
semiconductor memories, and more specifically to a flash or 
block erase electrically erasable programmable read-only 
memory (EEPROM) cell which is programmable at high speed, 
with low applied voltages and at high temperatures. A flash or block erase EEPROM semiconductor memory 
includes an array of cells which can be independently 
programmed and read. The size of each cell and thereby the 
memory are made small by omitting select transistors which 
would enable the cells to be erased independently. All of 
the cells are erased together as a block. A conventional flash EEPROM is described in an article 
entitled "A FLASH-ERASE EEPROM CELL WITH AN ASYMMETRIC 
SOURCE AND DRAIN STRUCTURE", by H. Kume et al, IEDM, 25.8, 
1987, pp. 560-563. Each cell includes a source and a drain 
which are formed on opposite sides of a channel region in 
a substrate. A first oxide layer, a floating gate, a 
second oxide layer and a control gate are formed over the 
channel region. The cell is programmed by applying, typically, 12V to 
the control gate, 6V to the drain and grounding the source,  
 
which causes hot electrons to be injected from the drain 
depletion region into the floating gate. Upon removal of 
the programming voltages, the injected electrons are 
trapped in the floating gate and create a negative charge 
therein which increases the threshold voltage of the cell 
to a value in excess of approximately 6V. The cell is read by applying 5V to the control gate 
and 1V to the drain, and sensing the impedance of the cell 
at the source. If the cell is programmed and the threshold 
voltage (6V) is higher than the control gate voltage (5V), 
the control gate voltage will be insufficient to enhance 
the channel and the cell will appear as a high impedance. 
If the cell is not programmed or erased, the threshold 
voltage will be low, the control gate voltage will enhance 
the channel and the cell will appear as a low impedance. The cell is erased by applying typically 12V to the 
source, grounding the control gate and allowing the drain 
to float. This causes the electrons which were injected 
into the floating gate during programming to be removed by 
Fowler-Nordheim tunneling from the floating gate to the 
source. A problem with the conventional flash EEPROM cell 
configuration is that semiconductor memories are often 
required to operate at high temperatures on the order of 
125°C. As discussed in an article entitled "A 5 VOLT HIGH 
DENSITY POLY-POLY ERASE
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrically erasable programmable read-only 
memory (EEPROM) cell, comprising: 

   a semiconductor substrate; 
   a channel formed in the substrate; 

   a source and a drain formed in the substrate on 
opposite sides of the channel respectively; 

   a first insulating layer formed over the channel; 
   a floating gate formed over the first insulating 

layer and having a sidewall which faces the drain and is 
laterally spaced therefrom by a predetermined drain gap; 

   a second insulating layer formed over the 
floating gate; and 

   a control gate formed over the second insulating 
layer. 
A cell as in claim 1, in which: 
   the second insulating layer and the control gate 

have respective sidewalls which are vertically aligned with 
said sidewall of the floating gate; and 

   the sidewall spacer extends vertically from the 
first insulating layer over said sidewalls of the floating 

gate, second insulating layer and control gate. 
A cell as in claim 1, in which: 
   the floating gate further has a sidewall which 

faces the source and is laterally spaced therefrom by a 
source gap which is substantially symmetrical to said drain 

gap; and 
   the cell further comprises: 

   an oxide drain sidewall spacer formed over 
the first insulating layer in said drain gap; and 

   an oxide source sidewall spacer formed over 
the first insulating layer in said source gap. 
A cell as in claim 3 further comprising: 
   a shield strata formed in the substrate which 

underlies and has opposite conductivity type to the drain, 
and extends into the channel in said drain gap; and 

   a lightly doped strata formed in the substrate 
which underlies and has the same conductivity type as the 

source, and extends into the channel in said source gap. 
A cell as in claim 1, in which: 
   the channel has P-type conductivity; 

   the source and drain have N-type conductivity; 
and 

   said hot charge carriers are hot electrons. 
A method of fabricating an electrically erasable 
programmable read-only memory (EEPROM) cell, comprising the 

steps of: 

(a) providing a semiconductor substrate of a 
first conductivity type having a channel region, and a 

source region and a drain region on opposite sides of the 
channel region respectively; 
(b) forming a first insulating layer over the 
channel region; 
(c) forming a floating gate over the first 
insulating layer having a sidewall which faces the drain 

region and is laterally spaced therefrom by a predetermined 
drain gap; 
(d) forming a second insulating layer over the 
floating gate; 
(e) forming a control gate over the second 
insulating layer; 
(f) forming a sidewall spacer of a material which 
blocks implantation of ions of a second conductivity type 

which is opposite to said first conductivity type over the 
first insulating layer in said drain gap; 
(g) forming a drain in the drain region by 
implantation of ions of said second conductivity type; and 
(h) forming a source in the source region by 
implantation of ions of said second conductivity type. 
A method as in claim 6, in which: 
   the method further comprises the step, performed 

between steps (e) and (f), of: 

(i) forming a shield strata in the drain region 
and in the channel region in said drain gap by implantation 

of ions of said first conductivity type; and 
 
   step (g) comprises forming the drain overlying 

said shield strata in the drain region. 
A method as in claim 6, in which: 
   step (c) comprises forming the floating gate as 

further having a sidewall which faces the source region and 
is laterally spaced therefrom by a source gap which is 

substantially symmetrical to said drain gap; and 
   step (f) further comprises forming a sidewall 

spacer of said material over the first insulating layer in 
said source gap. 
A method as in claim 8, further comprising the 
steps, performed between steps (e) and (f), of: 


(i) forming a shield strata in the drain region 
and in the channel region in said drain gap by implantation 

of ions of said first conductivity type; and 
(j) forming a lightly doped strata in the source 
region and in the channel region in said source gap by 

implantation of ions of said second conductivity type; in 
which 
 
   step (g) comprises forming the drain overlying 

said shield strata in the drain region; and 
   step (h) comprises forming the source overlying 

said lightly doped strata in the source region. 
A method as in claim 6, in which step (c) 
comprises forming the floating gate on the first insulating 

layer such that said drain gap has a length which is 
selected to substantially maximize injection of hot charge 

carriers from the drain into the floating gate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
