<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632638</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Facsimile user interface and method of use.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3048	G06F3048	G06F312	G06F312	G06F314	G06F314	H04N100	H04N100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A user interface simplifies operation of a facsimile machine (FAX). A 
display screen displays a plurality of menus and allows the user to select from the 

menus. The display contains a touch-sensitive screen to allow the user to select menu 
options by touching the display screen in a position corresponding to the displayed 

menu option. The user interface is context sensitive and can interpret the user 
selections in determining which menu to display. If the user makes an incorrect 

selection, the system instructs the user as to the proper selection. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELBENE KURT DAVIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCEAU RENEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REIFMAN JEFFREY BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOBEY CHRIS EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELBENE, KURT DAVIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCEAU, RENEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REIFMAN, JEFFREY BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOBEY, CHRIS EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates generally to a user interface for an 
intelligent facsimile machine (IFAX) and, more specifically, to a system and 
method for controlling user interaction with the IFAX. The modern workplace has become increasingly dependent on 
electronic devices. Machines such as photocopiers, computers, modems, and 
facsimiles are now considered essential tools for the office. Many of these tools 
are extremely sophisticated, which can make them difficult to use. The increased 
capability of these tools has often outpaced the ability of the average user to 
efficiently operate them. For example, an old style facsimile (FAX) machine had few 
options and was relatively easy to operate. Early FAX machines used an 
acoustical modem to couple the FAX signal to a standard telephone handset. 
The person sending a facsimile message simply dialed the FAX telephone 
number of the recipient and plugged the telephone handset into the acoustical 
modem when they heard an audible tone generated by the recipient's FAX 
machine over the handset. The FAX machine was easy to use, but had few or no 
options. More modem IFAX machines have direct telephone lines as well 
as a long list of sophisticated options. For example, the user can elect to send a 
facsimile message immediately, or delay transmission to a later time at which it 
is automatically sent, such as at nighttime when the telephone rates decrease. 
The facsimile message is read by the IFAX and a digital image of the message is 
stored in memory within the IFAX until the designated transmission time. With another option, the user may elect to send a facsimile 
message to a group of recipients that can be specified by a group identifier. The 
IFAX stores a list of facsimile telephone numbers, sometimes called addresses, 
and can be programmed to recognize various groups. The user need only 
provide the IFAX with the instruction to send a facsimile message to a group, 
such as "Sales Managers", for example, and the IFAX will automatically send  
 
the facsimile message to each facsimile telephone number associated with the 
group of sales managers. Numerous other features such as speed dialing, automatic 
redialing, confidential facsimile transmission and reception, facsimile 
forwarding, facsimile relaying and facsimile polling are now available on 
modern IFAXs. One problem with the advanced technological features of the 
modern IFAX is that they are difficult for the average user utilize without 
extensive training. Further, once learned, if a new
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method in a facsimile machine for facsimile communication, 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) storing a plurality of menus in a menu storage location within the 
facsimile machine, said plurality of menus providing the user with a plurality of 

options for operation of the facsimile machine; 
(b) displaying on a display a first of said stored menus to provide the 
user with an initial set of facsimile option; 
(c) displaying an instruction to the user on a portion of said display; 
(d) sensing a user input on a user input device in response to said 
instructions; and 
(e) activating one of said initial set of facsimile functions 
corresponding to said user input. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said step (e) of activating said 
facsimile function includes the display of a subsequent one of said stored menus to 

provide the user with additional instructions related to said subsequent stored menu. 
The method of claim 2 wherein the facsimile machine has a 
plurality of stored facsimile messages stored in message storage locations within the 

facsimile machine, and said step (d) senses said user input to select a selected one of 
said stored facsimile messages and said step (e) retrieves said selected stored facsimile 

message from one of said message storage locations in response to said user input. 
The method of claim 3, further including the step of displaying 
said selected stored facsimile message on said display in response to user input 

selecting a display option from said plurality of menu options. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (b) of displaying said 
plurality of menu options initially displays a main menu to permit the user to select 

from a plurality of main menu options. 
The method of claim 5 wherein said plurality of main menu 
options comprises sending a facsimile message option, an examining received 

facsimile messages option, a changing parameters of the facsimile machine option, a 
 

selecting preprogrammed sequences of facsimile functions option, and a sign in to log 
in the user option. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said step (e) of activating a 
facsimile function includes the display of additional menus on said display. 
The method of claim 1 wherein a sequential display of said stored 
plurality of menus provide instructions for the user to operate the facsimile machine, 

said sequential display based on said step (d) of sensing user input to select said one 
initial facsimile function. 
The method of claim 1, further including the steps of determining 
if said user input is erroneous and displaying an error message on said display screen 

to provide the user with error information, and inhibiting performance of said step (e) 
of activating said one initial function if said user input is erroneous. 
The method of claim 9 wherein said error information provides 
user instructions related to said erroneous user input. 
The method of claim 1, further including the step of enabling a 
selected one of a plurality of system parameters from a particular one of said plurality 

of stored menus, and said step (d) sensing said user input to select said selected system 
parameter and said step (e) activating said selected system parameter. 
The method of claim 11 wherein said selected system parameter 
is a scanner setting for a facsimile scan engine. 
A method in a facsimile machine having a facsimile scan engine 
and coupled to a communication link for facsimile communication, the method 

comprising the steps of: 

(a) storing a plurality of menus in a menu storage location within the 
facsimile machine, said plurality of menus providing the user with plurality of options 

for transmitting a facsimile message on the facsimile machine; 
(b) displaying on a display a first one of said stored menus to provide 
the user with an initial set of facsimile options related to transmitting said facsimile 

message; 
(c) displaying an instruction to the user on a portion of said display; 
(d) sensing a user input on a user input device in response to said 
instructions, said user input including the selection of a recipient facsimile machine; 

and 
(e) activating one of said initial set of facsimile functions 
corresponding to said user input to transmit said facsimile message. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said initial set of facsimile 
functions includes an options for transmitting said facsimile message immediately, and 

said step (e) of activating one of said initial set of facsimile functions causes the 
facsimile scan engine to scan a document and create said facsimile message for 

transmission. 
The method of claim 13, further including the step of generating 
a confirmation report following said transmission of said facsimile message indicating 

that said facsimile message was transmitted. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said initial set of facsimile 
functions includes an option for transmitting said facsimile message at a subsequent 

designated time, and said step (e) of activating one of said initial set of facsimile 
functions causes the facsimile scan engine to scan a document to create said facsimile 

message, the method further including the step of storing said facsimile message in a 
document storage location for transmission at said designated time and transmitting 

said facsimile message at said subsequent time. 
The method of claim 16, further including the step of generating 
a confirmation report following transmisssion of said facsimile message indicating that 

said facsimile message was transmitted at said designated time. 
The method of claim 16, further including the step of displaying 
said stored document on said display to permit the user to view said stored document. 
The method of claim 16, further including the step of generating 
an instruction to cancel transmission of said stored document at said designated time. 
The method of claim 16, further including the step of sensing a 
user input to select said designated time. 
The method of claim 20, further including the step of changing 
said designated time to send said stored facsimile message at a time other than said 

designated time. 
The method of claim 13 wherein the facsimile machine has a 
plurality of stored outgoing facsimile messages stored in message storage locations 

within the facsimile machine, and the method further including the steps of sensing 
said user input to select a selected one of said stored outgoing facsimile messages and 

retrieves said selected outgoing facsimile message in response to said user input. 
The method of claim 22, further including the step of generating 
an instruction to cancel the transmission of said selected outgoing facsimile message 

in response to user input selecting a cancel option from said plurality of menu options, 
whereby said selected outgoing facsimile message is not transmitted. 
The method of claim 22, further including the step of changing a 
transmission parameter of said selected outgoing facsimile message in response to 

user input selecting a transmission parameter option from said plurality of options, 
whereby said selected facsimile message will be transmitted in accordance with said 

changed transmission parameter. 
The method of claim 24 wherein said transmission parameters 
includes a selected time of transmission for said selected outgoing facsimile message. 
The method of claim 13, further including the step of dialing a 
facsimile telephone number of said recipient facsimile machine, the facsimile machine 

transmitting said facsimile message upon establishing a telephonic connection 
between the facsimile machine and said recipient facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 26, further including the step of 
automatically redialing said recipient facsimile telephone number if no connection of 

the telephone line is made between the facsimile machine and said recipient facsimile 
machine resulting from said initial step of dialing. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said initial set of facsimile 
functions includes an option for transmitting a copy of said facsimile message to a 

carbon copy recipient facsimile machine, and said step (e) of activating one of said 
 

initial set of facsimile functions causes the facsimile scan engine to scan a document 
to generate said facsimile message for transmission to both said recipient facsimile 

machine and said carbon copy recipient facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said step (e) of activating one of 
said initial set of facsimile functions includes displaying a second one of said stored 

menus on said display in response to step (d) of sensing said user input. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said second one of said stored 
menus is selected based on a current one of said stored menus currently displayed on 

said display. 
The method of claim 29, further including the step of storing a 
plurality of help menus to assist the user in accessing information about the operation 

of the facsimile machine and displaying said plurality of help menu on said display. 
The method of claim 31, further including the steps of selecting 
one of said plurality or stored help menus based on said second stored menu displayed 

on said display, and displaying said selected help menu to provide information to the 
user concerning said second stored menu displayed on said display. 
The method of claim 13, further including the step of storing a 
plurality of help menus to assist the user in accessing information about the operation 

of the facsimile machine and displaying said plurality of help menu on said display. 
The method of claim 33, further including the steps of selecting 
one of said plurality of stored help menus based on a second one of said stored menus 

currently displayed on said display, and displaying said selected help menu to provide 

information to the user concerning said second stored menus currently displayed on 
said display. 
The method of claim 33 wherein step (d) senses said user input to 
select one of said stored help menus, and the method further including the step of 

displaying said user-selected help menu. 
A method in a facsimile machine having a facsimile modem, a 
display, and a user input device for facsimile communication, the method comprising 

the steps of: 

(a) storing a telephone directory having information associated with 
a plurality of facsimile machines; 
(b) sensing a user input to select a portion of said stored information; 
(c) determining a recipient facsimile telephone number in said 
telephone directory associated with said user selected portion; and 
(d) transmitting an outgoing facsimile message from the facsimile 
machine to said recipient facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 36, further including the step of displaying 
at least a portion of said stored information on the display. 
The method of claim 36 wherein facsimile recipient names are 
included in said stored information and said step (b) senses said user input of a 

selected name of a facsimile recipient, said step (c) determines said recipient facsimile 
telephone number in said telephone directory associated with said selected name, and 

said step (d) uses said recipient facsimile telephone number to transmit said outgoing 
facsimile message. 
A method in a facsimile machine having a facsimile modem, a 
display, and a user input device for facsimile communication, the method comprising 

the steps of: 

(a) detecting an incoming facsimile to the facsimile modem 
transmitted from a second facsimile machine; 
(b) receiving said incoming facsimile message from said second 
facsimile machine; 
(c) storing said received facsimile message in a storage location 
within the facsimile machine; and 
(d) generating an indication on the display that said incoming 
facsimile message has been received by the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 39, further including the step of generating 
a message count indicating the number of received facsimile messages stored in said 

storage location. 
The method of claim 40, further including the step of displaying 
said message count on the display to permit the user to determine if any facsimile 

messages are stored in said storage location. 
The method of claim 39, further including the step of sensing 
user input indicating a particular user operating the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 42 wherein said particular user can 
determine if my stored facsimile messages are directed to said particular user without 

sensing said input indicating said particular user operating the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 42, further including the step of displaying 
on the display a message count of stored incoming facsimile messages for said 

particular user. 
The method of claim 42 wherein a plurality of facsimile 
messages are stored in said storage location, and the method further includes the step 

of sensing user input from said particular user to select one of said plurality of stored 
incoming facsimile messages for said particular user. 
The method of claim 45, further including the step of displaying 
said selected stored facsimile message on the display. 
The method of claim 39 wherein the facsimile machine has a 
plurality of data processing modes, the method further including the step of sensing 

user input to select one of said data processing modes for said stored facsimile 
message. 
The method of claim 47 wherein said particular data processing 
mode is a mode where the facsimile machine prints said stored facsimile message. 
The method of claim 48 wherein the facsimile machines is 
operable in a printing mode, the method further including the steps of sensing user 

input to select said printing mode, determining a quantity of copies of said stored 
facsimile message to print, and printing said quantity of copies of said stored facsimile 

message. 
The method of claim 47 wherein said selected data processing 
mode is a mode where the facsimile machine forwards said stored facsimile message 

to a computer coupled to the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 50 wherein the facsimile machine is 
coupled to said computer by a local area network, and the method further includes the 

step of transferring said stored facsimile message to said computer using said network. 
The method of claim 47 wherein said particular data processing 
mode is a mode where the facsimile machine stores said stored facsimile message on a 

storage device. 
A method in a facsimile machine for facsimile communication, 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) displaying on a display screen a plurality of predetermined 
facsimile parameters for operation of the facsimile machine to provide the user with 

an initial set of facsimile parameters; 
(b) displaying an instruction to the user on a portion of said display; 
(c) sensing a user input on a user input device in response to said 
instruction; and 
(d) in response to said sensed user input, altering user-selected 
ones 

of said facsimile parameters. 
The method of claim 53, further including the step of storing said 
altered parameter in a storage location within the facsimile machine as a system 

default value for the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 54, further including the steps of; 
   sensing user input to enter an administrator password; and 

   comparing said entered administrator password with a stored valid 
administrator password, said system default values being stored only if said entered 

administrator password matches said valid administrator password. 
The method of claim 53, further including the step of storing said 
altered parameter in a storage location within the facsimile machine as a default value 

for a particular user. 
The method of claim 56, further including using said stored 
default value as said initial set of facsimile parameters for said particular user. 
The method of claim 56, further including the step of storing a 
plurality of sets of said altered parameters are stored in said storage location as default 

values for a plurality of users, each of said plurality of stored sets being used as said 
initial set of facsimile parameters for a different user. 
A method in a facsimile machine for facsimile communication, 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) sensing user input on a user input device to select a user logon 
procedure; 
(b) sensing user input on said user input device of a unique 

identification for a password for said particular user; 
(c) comparing said password to a predetermined stored list of 
passwords to determine if said password is a valid identification of said particular 

user; and 
(d) permitting operation of the facsimile machine by said particular 
user if said password matches one of said predetermined list of passwords for said 

particular user. 
The method of claim 59, further including the steps of: 
   sensing user input to define a plurality of parameter values for the 

facsimile machine; and 
   storing said user-defined parameter values in a storage location within 

the facsimile machine as default values for said particular user. 
The method of claim 60 wherein said stored default values are 
used as a set of initial values for said particular user if step (d) permits operation of the 

facsimile machine by said particular user. 
A method in a facsimile machine having a facsimile scan engine 
and coupled to a communications link for facsimile communication, the method 

comprising the steps of: 

(a) scanning a document using the scan engine to create a scanned 
facsimile message; 
(b) storing said scanned facsimile message in a storage location 
within the facsimile machine; 
(c) encrypting said stored facsimile message using a data encryption 
key; and 
(d) transmitting said encrypted facsimile message over the 
communication link to a second facsimile machine, whereby said facsimile message is 

transmitted in encrypted form. 
The method of claim 62 wherein said encryption key comprises a 
public encryption key distributed to a plurality of individuals, said plurality of 

individuals each being able to use said public encryption key to decrypt said encrypted 
facsimile message. 
The method of claim 62 wherein said encryption key comprises a 
private encryption key, only individuals possessing said private encryption key being 

able to decrypt said encrypted facsimile message. 
The method of claim 62, further including transmitting a digital 
signature to said second facsimile machine, said signature including error detection 

information used by said second facsimile machine to detect transmission errors. 
A method in a facsimile machine having a facsimile scan engine 
and coupled to a communication link for facsimile communication, the method 

comprising the steps of: 

(a) scanning a document using the scan engine to create a scanned 
facsimile message; 
(b) transmitting said scanned facsimile message over the 
communication link to a second facsimile machine; 
(c) transmitting a password command to said second facsimile 
machine, said password command indicating to said second facsimile machine that 

said facsimile message requires password authentication to read said facsimile 
message; 
(d) at said second facsimile machine, receiving said facsimile 
message and storing said facsimile message in a storage location within said second 

facsimile machine; 
(e) associating said password command with said stored facsimile 
message; 
(f) sensing user input to enter a password into said second facsimile 
machine; 
(g) comparing said user entered password with said password 
command; and 
(h) permitting reading of said stored facsimile message only if said 
user-entered password matches said password command. 
A method in a facsimile machine for facsimile communication, 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) creating a status summary indicating information about the usage 
of the facsimile machine; 
(b) storing said status summary in a storage location within the 
facsimile machine; and 
(c) periodically generating a status report based on selected portions 
of said status summary. 
The method of claim 67, further including the step of transmitting 
said status report to a selected individual using the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 67, further including the step of determining 
a period of time for periodically generating said status report, the facsimile machine 

automatically generating said period status reports upon occurrence/elapse of each 
said period. 
A method in a facsimile machine for facsimile communication, 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) sensing user input to define a set of user-selected commands for 
the facsimile machine, said set of commands being associated with a command 

identifier; and 
(b) storing said set of user-selected commands and said command 
identifier in a storage location within the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 70, further including the steps of sensing 
user input to enter said command identifier into the facsimile machine, and executing 

said set of user-selected commands associated with the command identified in the 
facsimile machine only if said sensed user input is entry of said command identifier. 
The method of claim 70 wherein step (a) is repeated to define a 
plurality of said sets of user-selected commands and a plurality of different command 

identifiers, each of said command identifiers being associated with one of said sets of 
user-selected commands. 
The method of claim 72, further including the steps of sensing 
user input to select a particular one of said command identifiers, and executing said 

associated set of user-selected commands in the facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 70 wherein said set of user-selected 
commands comprise selection of a plurality of parameters defining operation of the 

facsimile machine. 
The method of claim 74 wherein said parameters comprise 
selection of a particular facsimile cover page, a particular transmission time for 

transmitting a facsimile message to a second facsimile machine, and a particular 
facsimile recipient of said facsimile message to said second facsimile machine. 
An apparatus for facsimile communication comprising: 
   a facsimile machine; 

   a storage location in said facsimile machine containing a plurality of 
menus, said plurality of menus providing the user with lists of options for operation of 

the facsimile machine; 
   a display screen displaying said stored menus and instructions to a user 

relating to operation of the facsimile machine for each of said stored menus; 
   a user input device sensing a user input in response to said instructions, 

said user input selecting a facsimile function from one of said displayed menus; and 
   means for activating said facsimile function in said facsimile machine 

corresponding to said user input. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
