<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651219</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Kiln control.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F26B1500	F26B1516	F26B2106	F26B2106	F27D1900	F27D1900	G01K100	G01K102	G05D2320	G05D2322	H04B500	H04B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F27D	F27D	G01K	G01K	G05D	G05D	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F26B15	F26B15	F26B21	F26B21	F27D19	F27D19	G01K1	G01K1	G05D23	G05D23	H04B5	H04B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for controlling a kiln, the apparatus 
comprising: a computer 32 connected to the kiln's 

controls; a plurality of mobile sensor units 34 to 
detect for example temperature, a number of such units 

being provided at different points on each kiln car; and 
an air core signal transformer 36 to transmit readings 

made by the units 34 to the computer 32. The computer 
32 controlling the heating supply of the kiln 20 and 

other appropriate controls in accordance with the 
temperatures measured at the different points on the 

kiln cars. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH CERAMIC SERVICE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH CERAMIC SERVICE COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWLEY ARTHUR JOHN C O BRITISH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWLEY, ARTHUR JOHN, C/O BRITISH CERAMIC SERVICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns improvements in or relating 
to control of processing equipment, especially kilns, and 
particularly but not exclusively: kiln control 
apparatus; kilns fitted with such an apparatus; and a 
method of kiln control. Kilns have been used for many years in the 
manufacture of ceramic articles. It is important to 
provide the correct atmospheric conditions within a kiln 
to ensure correct firing of the ceramic ware or other 
articles in the kiln. Atmospheric conditions will vary 
within the kiln and there will exist for example a 
temperature gradient with the highest temperatures being 
at or near the top of the kiln. Theoretical models can 
be constructed of such temperature gradients based on 
previous firings in order to try and provide a required 
temperature at any particular point in the kiln. 
However, such a temperature gradient is only theoretical 
and differences in for example the loading of ware in the 
kiln can alter this gradient as an increased weight of 
ware will absorb more heat. Furthermore, the shape of 
the ware can affect heat flow through the kiln. The atmospheric conditions in a kiln which are of 
particular importance to firing are especially 
temperature, but also humidity, and the levels of carbon  
 
monoxide, carbon dioxide, oxygen and sulphur oxide. According to the present invention there is 
provided control apparatus for processing equipment, the 
apparatus comprising a sensor locatable within the 
equipment for sensing atmospheric conditions, transmitter 
means for sending a signal from the sensor to a remote 
discrete receiver means, control means connected to the 
receiver means to decode signals received therefrom, the 
control means being connectable to the equipment so as to 
automatically control the functions of the equipment in 
response to the signals received. A plurality of sensors are preferably provided. 
One or more of the sensors is preferably locatable in a 
fixed position in the equipment whilst one or more other 
of the sensors is preferably locatable on support 
apparatus for articles being processed, such apparatus 
being movable into and out of the equipment. The sensors in the equipment and/or on the article 
support apparatus are preferably provided at different 
heights such that a profile of conditions in the 
equipment may be detected. The sensors preferably sense any of: temperature;  
 
humidity; carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, oxygen, or 
sulpur oxide content. The sensors may also provide an indication of the 
location
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Control apparatus for processing equipment, the 
apparatus comprising a sensor locatable within the 

equipment for sensing atmospheric conditions, 
transmitter means for sending a signal from the sensor 

to a remote discrete receiver means, characterised in 
that the apparatus also comprises control means 

connected to the receiver means to decode signals 
received therefrom, the control means being connectable 

to the equipment so as to automatically control the 
functions of the equipment in response to the signals 

received. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised in 
that a plurality of sensors are provided. 
Apparatus according to claim 2, characterised in 
that one or more of the sensors is locatable in a fixed 

position in the equipment whilst one or more other of 
the sensors is locatable on support apparatus for 

articles being processed, such apparatus being movable 
into and out of the equipment. 
Apparatus according to claims 2 or 3, 
characterised in that the sensors in the equipment 

 
and/or in the article support apparatus are provided at 

different heights such that a profile of conditions in 
the equipment may be detected. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 2 to 4, 
characterised in that the sensors sense any of: 

temperature; humidity; carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, 
oxygen, or sulphur oxide content. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 or either of claims 
4 or 5 when dependent on claim 3, characterised in that 

the sensors provide an indication of the location of the 
article support apparatus such that the control 

apparatus can correlate the atmospheric conditions 
sensed relative to the particular location of the 

article support apparatus. 
Apparatus according to claim 6, characterised in 
that the sensors can be used to identify the particular 

article support apparatus and/or load provided thereon 
such that the equipment functions are controlled 

accordingly. 
Apparatus according to claim 5 or either of claims 
6 or 7 when dependent on claim 5, characterised in that 

where the sensors are used for temperature detection, 
high temperature thermocouples are used. 
Apparatus according to claim 8, characterised in 
that such sensors include means for converting the 

signal from the thermocouples into digital form. 
Apparatus according to any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the transmitter and the 

receiver means communicate by magnetic coupling. 
Apparatus according to claim 10, characterised in 
that the transmitter and receiver means are linked by an 

air core signal transformer comprised of loops of wire 
arranged to provide good magnetic coupling. 
Apparatus according to claim 11 when dependent on 
at least claim 3, characterised in that the transmitter 

means comprises several turns of wire around the support 
apparatus. 
Apparatus according to claims 11 or 12, 
characterised in that the receiver means comprises a 

wire which extends through the equipment. 
Apparatus according to claim 13, characterised in 
that the receiver means comprise a wire with a loop with 

parallel sides extending from one end of the equipment 
to a 180° turn at or adjacent the other end. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 10, 
characterised in that the transmitter means communicates 

with the receiver means by telemetry. 
Apparatus according to claim 2 or any of claims 3 
to 15 when dependent on claim 2, characterised in that 

the sensors communicate with the control means by time 
multiplexing. 
Apparatus according to any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the control means includes 

means for displaying and/or storage of the atmospheric 
conditions data. 
Kiln control apparatus, characterised in that the 
apparatus is according to any of claims 1 to 17. 
An assembly comprising a kiln, ware support 
apparatus, and kiln control apparatus, characterised in 

that the kiln control apparatus is according to any of 
claims 1 to 17. 
An assembly according to claim 19, characterised 
in that a plurality of ware support apparatus are 

provided. 
An assembly according to claim 20, characterised 
 

in that the ware support apparatus comprise kiln cars. 
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 21, 
characterised in that the kiln is an intermittent kiln. 
An assembly according to any of claims 19 to 21, 
characterised in that the kiln comprises a tunnel kiln. 
A method of controlling processing equipment, the 
method comprising sensing atmospheric conditions in the 

equipment, sending a signal corresponding to the 
condition to a remote discrete location outside of the 

equipment, characterised in that the method also 
comprises controlling the functions of the equipment in 

response to the conditions sensed. 
A method according to claim 24, characterised in 
that the conditions sensed include any of: temperature; 

humidity; carbon, monoxide, carbon dioxide, oxygen or 
sulphur oxide content. 
A method according claims 24 or 25, characterised 
in that conditions are sensed at a plurality of 

locations in the equipment. 
A method according to any of claims 24 to 25, 
characterised in that conditions are sensed at locations 

 
on support apparatus for articles being processed in the 

equipment. 
A method according to claim 27, characterised in 
that the method includes sensing the location of article 

support apparatus in the equipment and/or, identifying 
the particular article support apparatus and/or the 

article or articles thereon. 
A method according to any of claims 24 to 28, 
characterised in that the signals are communicated to 

the remote location by magnetic coupling. 
A method of controlling a kiln, characterised in 
that the method is according to any of claims 24 to 29. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
