<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654238</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Utensil holding container.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47G1922	A47G1922	A47K108	A47K109	B43M1700	B43M1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47G	A47G	A47K	A47K	B43M	B43M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47G19	A47G19	A47K1	A47K1	B43M17	B43M17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A decorative container (10) has a rigid inner body (12) 
and a supple outer surface (14). The body (12) is made of 

a rigid plastic material and is preferably injection 
moulded. The supple decorative outer member (14) is made 

of a relatively pliable plastic or rubber and is preferably 
rotation moulded. The outer member (14) has the general 

shape of a sleeve and is adapted to be slipped over the 
outer surface of the inner body (12) so that a unitary 

appearing container )10) is formed which is sturdy, but 
which is very supple, with a three-dimensional outer 

surface. The outer surface of the outer member (14) may be 
configured as by facial lips (94,96) to releasable retain a 

utensil (98). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CREATA PROMOTION AUST PTY LIMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CREATA PROMOTION (AUST.) PTY. LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENHAIN NORMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENHAIN, NORMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a decorative container and more particularly 
to a decorative cup that has the advantages of a rigid cup, but has a supple decorative three-dimensional 
surface. Most specifically, the present invention relates to a cup which is 
configured to releasably retain a utensil upon an exterior surface thereof. There are numerous decorative containers including decorative cups. Most of these 
have a two dimensional design on their outer surface. Typically, these containers are 
manufactured from a rigid plastic of some type and the design is put on by painting, silk 
screening, decaling etc. One problem with this type of cup is that the design has a tendency 
to fade, peel, etc. Another problem is that the container does not have a pleasant feel 
because of the rigidity of the container. Still further, these containers have two dimensional 
designs with three-dimensional designs being more desirable especially in the novelty item 
market. There are containers with three-dimensional designs, but the design is typically made 
of the same material as the container and the container is rather expensive to manufacture. 
Ceramic material is commonly used to make these containers. One major problem with 
ceramic containers, particularly in the novelty market is that they are fragile. This is a 
particular problem if the item is intended for use by children.  Frequently containers such as cups, mugs, bowls and the like are used in conjunction 
with other utensils such as eating implements, writing implements or toothbrushes. 
Oftentimes, such utensils are stored within the container; however, it has been found that 
from a utilitarian aspect as well as an aesthetic and novelty aspect it is desirable to store such 
utensils by affixing them to an exterior surface of the container. The present invention provides a durable, easy to manufacture mug or other such 
container which has a resilient outer surface which bears a three-dimensional raised-relief 
image. In a further embodiment, the outer surface of the container is adapted to releasably 
retain a utensil. Disclosed herein is a utensil holding container having a body portion with an interior 
and exterior surface, an open top and a closed bottom. A relatively supple sleeve is mounted 
about the exterior surface of the body portion of the container. The sleeve has an inner and 
outer surface with the outer surface of the sleeve having a three-dimensional decorative 
image on it. The sleeve further includes a gripping
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A utensil holding container comprising: 
   a rigid inner member having a body portion with an interior and exterior 

surface, an open top and a closed bottom; 
   a supple, sleeve member mounted about the exterior surface of the body 

portion of the inner member, said sleeve member having an inner and outer surface, said 
outer surface of said sleeve member having a three-dimensional decorative image thereon, 

said outer surface including a gripping portion defined thereby, which is configured to engage 
and hold a utensil. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said gripping portion 
includes two resilient gripping members. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said three-dimensional 
decorative image comprises a representation of a face and said gripping portion is defined 

by a mouth portion of said face. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said gripping portion is' 
configured to engage and hold a utensil selected from the group consisting of: eating 

utensils, writing utensils and toothbrushes. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said sleeve member is fixed 
to said rigid inner member by an adhesive applied between said exterior surface of said rigid 

inner member and said inner surface of said sleeve member. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said rigid inner member 
includes a handle having a first end fixed to said rigid inner member and a second end 

releasably connected to said rigid inner member. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 6, wherein said bottom includes a 
flange extending radially outwardly from said body portion with a slot formed therein and 

wherein the second end of said handle is configured to engage said slot. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said bottom and said top 
each include a flange extending radially outwardly from said body portion; 

   said outer member being received about said body portion between said 
flanges. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 8, wherein said flanges include 
generally planar surfaces adjacent to said outer member; 

   whereby said outer member appears to be integral with said rigid inner 
member. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said rigid inner member is 
injection molded from polyethylene. 
The utensil holding container of Claim 1, wherein said sleeve member is 
rotationally molded from polyvinyl chloride. 
A method of making a utensil holding container comprising the steps of: 

a. injection molding an inner member having a body portion with an 
interior and exterior surface, an open end and a closed end; 
b. forming an outer sleeve, said sleeve having an inner surface adapted 
to mate with the exterior surface of said body portion, and an outer surface having a three-dimensional 

image thereon, said outer surface including a gripping portion defined thereby, 
which is configured to engage and hold a utensil; 
c. sliding said sleeve about said exterior surface of said body portion such 
that said exterior and inner surfaces mate. 
The method of Claim 12, further including the steps of: 

d. injection molding a handle on said inner member, said handle having 
opposed ends, one of said ends formed integrally with said inner member and said other end
 
being releasably connected to said inner member; 
e. releasing said other end from said inner member before step c; 
f. connecting said handle to said inner member after step c. 
The method of Claim 12, wherein the step of forming said outer sleeve 
comprises rotation molding said sleeve. 
The method of Claim 12, wherein the step of forming the outer sleeve 
comprises forming a sleeve having a three-dimensional image which is a representation of 

a face and a gripping portion which is defined by a mouth portion of said face. 
A utensil retaining container comprising: 
   a hollow, cylindrical body which is closed at the bottom and open at the top 

and which defines an interior surface and an exterior surface, wherein at least a portion of 
said exterior surface is fabricated from a resilient material and includes a unitary gripping 

portion defined thereupon for releasably retaining a utensil upon said exterior surface. 
A utensil retaining container as in Claim 16, wherein said exterior surface is 
configured as a face and wherein said gripping portion is defined by a mouth portion of said 

face. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
