<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626548</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and apparatus for the high speed oxidation of organic fiber.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01F914	D01F922	D01F932	F27B900	F27B928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01F	D01F	D01F	F27B	F27B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01F9	D01F9	D01F9	F27B9	F27B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and related apparatus for the continuous 
oxidation of a web of organic fiber. The web undergoes 

multiple parallel passes through an oxidizing chamber. Each 
pass enters and leaves the chamber through appropriate slots 

and upon leaving the chamber passes around a cooling cylinder 
external to the chamber which lowers the temperature of the 

web an appropriate amount prior to the next pass. The 
alternate passes are as close as conveniently possible to 

each other and the interior surfaces of the chamber highly 
reflective all of which enables the most efficient use of 

heat required by the system and maximization of the velocity 
of the web through the chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AKZO NOBEL NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AKZO NOBEL N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILLIAM HUBERT KENNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILLIAM, HUBERT KENNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process and apparatus for 
the continuous oxidation of organic fibers. It is well known that carbon fibers may be produced from 
organic fibers, particularly polyacrylonitrile fibers. The 
fibers are first oxidized in an oxidizing gas and then 
carbonized in an inert atmosphere. The focus of the present 
invention is on the oxidation step. U.S. Patent No. 4,609,540 discloses a process for 
producing a carbon fiber from a polyacrylonitrile-type 
polymer fiber by subjecting the fiber to an oxidizing 
atmosphere at 200째 to 400째C in a treatment furnace. Driving 
rolls external to the furnace are employed and controlled so 
as to achieve the desired multistep elongation. This 
reference is not concerned with heat balance or close 
temperature control of the fiber. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,671,950; 4,069,297; 4,517,169; 
4,536,448; 4,545,762 and 4,559,010 also disclose methods for 
oxidizing an acrylic fiber or strand. These references show 
multiple rollers external to the oxidizing furnaces. The 
references are concerned with various aspects of the 
oxidation process such as control over fiber shrinkage, 
recycle of spent oxidizing gas, coating of the acrylic fiber 
with an ammonium salt prior to oxidation, controlling 
temperature variances in the furnace and spraying water into  
 
various parts of the oxidizing apparatus to control 
temperature and quench fires. Japanese Application No. 57-40923 shows oxidation of a 
strand of polyacrylic yarn via a series of passes of the yarn 
through a hot active atmosphere with cooling of the yarn 
between passes by rollers which also serve to reverse 
direction of each pass. U.S. Patent No. 4,461,159 teaches dissipating the 
exothermic heat of reaction from the oxidation of "tows" of 
acrylic fiber bundles in an oxidation chamber by having walls 
in the oxidation chamber of high thermal conductance and 
emissivity for absorption of heat from the fibers and, where 
there are multiple fiber layers, avoidance of exchange of 
radiant heat between layers. It is also known in the art to oxidize a web of 
polyacrylonitrile fibers by passing the web in parallel 
layers of alternating direction through an oxidizing chamber 
while using external rollers to reverse direction of the web. 
Although some heat dissipates from the web by convection with 
and radiation into the air when the web passes around the 
rollers, no attempt is made to remove significant amounts of 
heat via the rollers or maintain control of heat removal at 
the rollers. These prior
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for continuously oxidizing organic fibers 
comprising introducing a continuous web of organic fibers as 

a first layer into an oxidizing chamber through an entrance 
opening into said chamber, maintaining an oxidizing 

atmosphere and oxidizing conditions throughout the interior 
of said chamber, the interior walls of said chamber 

comprising reflective surfaces, passing said first layer of 
said web through said chamber and out of an exit opening, 

passing said web over the circumference of a first cooling 
roll external to said chamber and reversing the direction of 

travel of said web, passing the web of reversed direction as 
a second layer into said chamber through a second opening, 

said first layer and said second layer being substantially 
parallel and in close proximity, passing said second layer 

through said chamber and out of a second exit opening, 
repeating the above sequence with said continuous web with 

additional cooling rolls entrance openings, parallel layers 
of close proximity and exit openings as well as controlling 

the temperature and circulation of said oxidizing atmosphere 
in said chamber and the amount of heat removal of the cooling 

rolls to the extent necessary to achieve the desired degree 
of oxidation of said organic fibers, while avoiding excessive 

temperature on any part of said web and while maximizing the 
linear velocity of the web through said chamber. 
The process of claim 1 wherein said web comprises 
filaments of from 0.5 to about 10 denier with about 10,000 to 

about 20,000 filaments per cm. 
The process of claim 1 wherein said organic fiber 
comprises polyacrylonitrile. 
The process of claim 1 wherein adjacent layers of 
said web are separated by from about 2 cm to 20 cm. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the linear velocity 
of said web through said chamber is from about 10 m/min to 

about 50 m/min. 
The process of claim 1 wherein said oxidizing 
atmosphere comprises air and said oxidizing conditions 

comprise from about 200째C to about 300째C. 
The process of claim 1 wherein said web is passed 
from the last exit opening of said oxidizing chamber to one 

or more additional oxidizing chambers in series in order to 
achieve further oxidation. 
An apparatus suitable for the continuous oxidation 
of organic fibers comprising: 


an oxidizing chamber having internal walls with highly 
reflective surfaces; 
two opposite facing walls of said oxidizing chamber, 
each wall having a series of slots therethrough able and 

aligned in a manner to accommodate tight passage of a 
continuous web of fibers in alternating parallel layers 

passing back and forth through said chamber; 
means for feeding said continuous web through a first of 
said slots; 
cooling cylinders external to said chamber and aligned 
with said chamber in a manner to enable layers of said 

web exiting said chamber to pass around the 
circumference of a cooling cylinder and be in contact 

 
with the surface thereof and reenter said chamber 

through another slot so as to comprise the next 
alternating layer; 
means for passing a cooling medium through each cooling 
cylinder to enable absorption of heat transferred from 

said web; 
drawing and collecting means to pull said web through 
the last slot of said chamber through which said web 

exits at the desired linear velocity, and to retain said 
web; 
means for providing heated oxidizing gas to said 
oxidizing chamber and for circulating and withdrawing 

said gas from said chamber; and 
control means to control the rate of flow of cooling 
medium through said cooling cylinders, to control the 

circulation and temperature of oxidizing gas to and 
through said oxidizing chamber and to maximize the rate 

of drawing said web through said chamber while achieving 
the desired degree of oxidation of the fibers in said 

web while preventing their melting or other degradation 
because of excessive temperature on any part of said 

web. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said cooling 
cylinders rotate about their longitudinal axis so as to 

facilitate the passage of the alternating layers of the 
continuous web through the oxidizing chamber. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the diameters of 
said cooling cylinders and spacing of slots are such to 

enable distances between alternating layers of web of from 
about 2 cm to 20 cm. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
