<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640828</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Monitoring multiple reactions simultaneously and analyzing same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M100	C12N1509	B01L700	C12M100	C12Q168	C12N1509	C12N1510	C12Q168	B01L700	G01N2125	G01N2125	C12N1510	G01N2164	G01N2164	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	C12N	B01L	C12M	C12Q	C12N	C12N	C12Q	B01L	G01N	G01N	C12N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	C12N15	B01L7	C12M1	C12Q1	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	B01L7	G01N21	G01N21	C12N15	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for monitoring multiple nucleic acid amplifications simultaneously. In 
order to provide real-time monitoring of the amplification product of multiple nucleic acid 

amplifications simultaneously the apparatus is characterized in that it comprises a thermal 
cycler (12) including a heat conducting member having multiple recesses formed therein; and 

a sensor (16a) arranged for detecting light emitted from said recesses, simultaneously. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOFFMANN LA ROCHE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
F. HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIGUCHI RUSSELL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATSON ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIGUCHI, RUSSELL G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATSON, ROBERT M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to detecting nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) amplification,
and more particularly to real-time monitoring of multiple nucleic acid amplification reactions,
simultaneously. The invention also relates to a method for using the accumulated data to
quantitate the starting concentration of a target nucleic acid sequence provided in one or more
of the mixtures and monitor the effect of amplification reaction conditions on the reaction
kinetics.Various methods for detecting nucleic acid amplification are known. A number of
assays are known which quantitate the number of starting DNA templates in a polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), for example. Some involve the measurement of PCR product at the
end of temperature thermal cycling and relate this level to the starting DNA concentration.
Such an "endpoint" analysis, as has been typically done using PCR, reveals the presence or
absence of target DNA but generally does not provide a usable measure of the starting
number of DNA targets.Other assays involve the use of a competitor amplification product whose template is
added at known concentration to the reaction mixture before thermal cycling. In competitor-product
protocols, an aliquot of the amplification is examined by gel-electrophoresis.
The
relative amount of target-specific and competitor PCR product is measured; this ratio is used
to calculate the starting number of target templates. The larger the ratio of target-specific
product to competitor-specific product, the higher the starting DNA concentration.In addition to requiring "downstream" processing, such as hybridization or gel
electrophoresis, these other assays are more limited in dynamic range (i.e., sensitivity to a
range of target nucleic acid concentrations). In competitor assays, the sensitivity to template
concentration differences is compromised when either the target or added competitor DNA is
greatly in excess of the other. The dynamic range of assays that measure the amount of end
product can also be limited in that at the chosen number of cycles some reactions may have
reached a "plateau" level of product. Differences in starting template levels in these reactions
are therefore not well reflected. Furthermore, small differences in the measured amount of
product result in widely varying estimates of the starting template concentration, leading to
great inaccuracy due to variable reaction conditions, variations in sampling, or the presence
of inhibitors. Optimization of PCR conditions typically is accomplished by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for simultaneously monitoring multiple nucleic acid
amplifications characterized in that it comprises:


(a) a thermal cycler (12) including a heat conducting member (22) having multiple
recesses (24) formed therein;
(b) a light source (14,14') optically coupled to the thermal cycler and arranged to
distribute light over a plurality of the recesses in the heat conducting member;

and
(c) a sensor (16,16a') arranged for simultaneously detecting light emitted from the
plurality of recesses.
An apparatus according to claim 1 characterized in that it further
comprises means for generating an average value for light detected by the

sensor with respect to each light emitting recess.
An apparatus according to claim 1 characterized in that
it further comprises


(a) means for cycling the temperature of the heat conducting member
according to a preselected temperature versus time profile for multiple cycles;
(b) multiple nucleic acid amplification reaction mixtures, each mixture
comprising a fluorescent binding agent and being disposed in a different one

of the recesses;

and in that
the light source provides an essentially uniform light flux to a plurality of the
reaction mixtures; and
the sensor being optically coupled to the plurality of reaction mixtures for
simultaneously detecting fluorescence emitted from each of the plurality of

reaction mixtures.
An apparatus according to claim 3 characterized in that it further
comprises means for generating an average fluorescence intensity value for

each excited reaction mixture based on the detected fluorescence therefor.
An apparatus according to claim 4 characterized in that it further
comprises means for generating normalized fluorescence intensity values from

the average fluorescence intensity values. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 characterized in that

the recesses of the heat conducting member of the thermal cycler are formed
through a surface thereof for receiving reaction vessels (26) containing a nucleic

acid amplification reaction mixtures; and in that
said sensor is an imaging device optically coupled to the heat conducting
member for generating an image of the surface and reaction vessels when the

vessels are disposed in the recesses of the heat conducting member.
An apparatus according to claim 6 characterized in that it further
comprises a light source arranged to provide light over said heat conducting

member surface.
An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said light source is
arranged to distribute light essentially uniformly along said heat conducting

member surface.
An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said light source comprises
a UV lamp.
An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said imaging device

comprises a CCD-imaging array.
An apparatus according to claim 1 characterized in that the heat
conducting member of the thermal cycler has multiple recesses formed therein

and adapted for receiving nucleic acid amplification reaction mixtures, and in
that said apparatus further comprises


a housing positioned over the heat conducting member and coupled to
the thermal cycler;
the light source is arranged to emit light in the housing and toward a
plurality of the recesses; and
a dichroic mirror positioned in the housing and optically coupled to the
light source and to the plurality of recesses, the dichroic mirror being

transmissive to light having a first predetermined wavelength and reflective
to light having a second predetermined wavelength that differs from the first

predetermined wavelength; and
the sensor being optically coupled to the dichroic mirror and arranged for
simultaneously detecting light emitted from the plurality of the recesses.
An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the first predetermined
wavelength corresponds to the wavelength of light generated by the light

source and the second predetermined wavelength corresponds to the
wavelength of light emitted from a nucleic acid amplification mixture when

that mixture is disposed in one of the recesses and exposed to light from the
light source.
An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the first predetermined
wavelength is about 200-550 nm.
An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the housing comprises
opaque material and is constructed to form a light-tight chamber in which the

dichroic mirror and the sensor are arranged.
An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the heat conducting
member has an upper surface and the dichroic mirror forms an angle of about

45° with the upper surface.
An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said sensor comprises a
charge coupled device.
An apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a shutter for
regulating the exposure of the recesses to the light source at preselected

intervals.
An apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a window
comprising transparent material and a heating element coupled thereto, the

window being disposed between the recesses and the dichroic mirror.
An apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a field lens
arranged between the dichroic mirror and the sensor.
An apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a filter wheel
coupled to the sensor.
An apparatus according to claim 1 characterized in that the heat
conducting member of the thermal cycler has multiple recesses formed therein

for receiving nucleic acid amplification reaction mixtures including a nucleic
acid sequence and a fluorescent binding agent and in that said apparatus

further comprises 

a housing positioned over the heat conducting member and being coupled
to the thermal cycler; whereby
the light source is arranged to emit light in the housing; and
the sensor is arranged in the housing and
a dichroic mirror positioned in the housing and above the recesses, the
dichroic mirror being transmissive to light having a wavelength corresponding

to the wavelength of light generated by the light source and reflective to light
having a wavelength corresponding to the wavelength of fluorescence emitted

from a nucleic acid amplification mixture, including a fluorescent binding
agent, when that mixture is disposed in one of the recesses formed in the heat

conducting member and exposed to light from the light source, the mirror be
oriented to form an optical path between the recesses and the sensor.
An apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said dichroic mirror
comprises a first surface and a second surface, the first surface generally

facing the light source and the second surface generally facing the recesses
and the sensor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
