<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for stacking cartridge shell plate of photographic film cartridge
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H2930	G03C300	G03C300	B65H2926	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	G03C	G03C	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H29	G03C3	G03C3	B65H29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cartridge shell plate stacking apparatus (2) comprises a 
plurality of arms (7) circulating along an annular cam rail (17). Each 

arm (7) has a magnet (15) in its distal end (7a). The cam rail (17) 
lowers the 

distal end (7a) of the arm (7) in a pick-up station (5a-5d) to cause 
the magnet (15) to 

attract one of cartridge shell plates (4) successively conveyed on 
a bucket conveyer (8) and hold the shell plate (4) in the horizontal 

state with plush ribbons (9a,9b) stuck on the upside surfaces. The cam 
rail (17) also lowers the distal end (7a) of the arm (7) in a piling 

station (5a-5d) 
wherein a piling box (5a-5d) having a cut-out (27,54) formed in the top 

edge of 
a side wall (25,52b) is disposed. Although the distal end (7a) passes 

through 
the cut-out (27,54), the cartridge shell plate (4) cannot pass and 

strikes 
against the side wall (25,52b), thereby to drop into the piling 

box (5a-5d). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OYAMA SHOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI KOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OYAMA, SHOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, KOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for stacking 
cartridge shell plates of photographic film cartridges before 
assembling into the photographic film cartridges of the type as 
described in the preamble of claim 1. An apparatus of this type is disclosed in JP-A-03-290657. ISO 135-type photographic film cartridges are one of the 
most popular types of photographic film cartridges today. The 
135-type film cartridge is constituted of a resin spool, a 35mm 
filmstrip coiled around the spool, and a metal housing in which 
the spool and the filmstrip are contained. The housing is 
constituted of a cartridge shell plate of a shape of a 
cylindrical tube and a pair of caps fitted on the ends of the 
tube. Also a pair of light-trapping pieces or plush ribbons are 
stuck on the shell plate so as to prevent entrance of light 
through a film passage mouth of the housing which is formed by 
the ends of the shell plate that extend in the axial direction 
of the tube. To produce such a film cartridge, the shell plate of the  
 
housing are blanked out of a metal plate and are bent into an 
U-shape. The plush ribbons are stuck onto the inside surface of 
the U-shaped blank or shell plate. Then, the shell plate is 
rounded into the cylindrical tube, into which the film roll 
wounded on the spool is inserted. Thereafter, the caps are 
attached to the tube to complete the assembly of the film 
cartridge. Because there is a difference in speed between the plush 
sticking process and the cartridge assembly process, the shell 
plates to which the plush ribbons are stuck are temporarily 
stacked on a tray or the like. An automatic photographic film 
cartridge assembling apparatus having an automatic stacking 
system for the U-shaped shell plates is disclosed in 
JP-A-3-290654 and the above defined JP-A-3-290657. In the known shell plate stacking system, the cartridge 
shell plate is carried in the horizontal state with the plush 
ribbons stuck on the upside surface thereof, and is elected by 
a magnet pulley. Then the cartridge shell plate is carried in 
the standing attitude on a belt conveyer having magnets 
disposed in the lower portion thereof. A stopper is disposed in 
a course of the belt conveyer so as to dam up the cartridge 
shell plates and gather the same into a pile. When a 
predetermined amount of cartridge shell plates are thus 
accumulated, a robot hand remove the pile of the cartridge 
shell plates from the belt conveyer. However, because the above-described known apparatus  
 
carries the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for stacking U-shaped cartridge shell 
plates (4) of photographic film cartridges after light-trapping 

plush ribbons (9a, 9b) are stuck on said 
cartridge shell plates before said cartridge shell 

plates are assembled into said photographic film 
cartridges,
characterized by
a plurality of arms (7) each having an attraction member 
(15) for attaching one of said cartridge shell plates 

(4) onto said arm in a horizontal state with plush 
ribbons (9a, 9b) stuck on the upside surface of said 

cartridge shell plate, said arms (7) being driven to 
circulate around a track having at least a pick-up 

station (18) and at least a piling station (5), 
a conveyor (8) for successively conveying said cartridge 
shell plates in said horizontal state toward said pick-up 

station under the path of said arms (7), said 
conveyer moving at the same speed in the same direction 

as said arms in said pick-up station (18), 
a separation member (25, 27) associated with said piling 
station, for detaching said cartridge shell plate from 

said attraction member in said piling station, and 
a cam member (17) coupled to said arms (7) for 
transiently lowering the position of said arms in said 

pick-up station (18) and said piling station, so as to  
 

permit said attraction member (15) to pick up said 
cartridge shell plate in said pick-up station and to 

permit said separation member (25, 27) to detach said 
cartridge shell plate from said attraction member in 

said piling station. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
cartridge shell plates (4) are made of iron, and said 

attraction member is a magnet (15) mounted in a distal 
end (7a) of said arm (7), said arms extending radially 

relative to said track. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said magnet 
(15) is recessed by a distance from a bottom surface of 

the distal end (7a) of said arm (7), so as not to 
contact said cartridge shell plates (4). 
An apparatus as recited in at least one of claims 1 to 
3, wherein said cam member is an annular cam rail (17) 

extending along said track, and said arms (7) each has a 
pulley (16) which rolls along said cam rail (17) when 

said arms are driven to circulate, said cam rail having 
lowered rail portions (21a) in correspondence with said 

pick-up station and said piling station. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said cam 
rail (17) includes a bypass rail portion (21b) for 

bypassing one of said lowered rail portions (21a), and a 
change-over rail portion (22) movable to be connected 

either to said bypass rail portion or to said one 
lowered rail portion, wherein detachment of said 

cartridge shell plate (4) is avoided when said pulley 
(16) rolls along said bypass rail portion. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein a plurality 
of said piling stations (5) are provided, and said 

separation member (25, 27), said lowered rail portion  
 

(21a), said bypass rail portion (21b) and said change-over 
rail portion (22) are disposed in association with 

each of said piling stations. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 6, further comprising 
shell plate inspecting and counting means (12, 13) 

disposed after said pick-up station before said piling 
stations in the moving direction of said arms, wherein 

one of said separation members (25, 27) is provided for 
detaching defective ones of said cartridge shell plates 

(4). 
An apparatus as recited in at least one of claims 1 to 
7, wherein said track is an oval track consisting of at 

least one straight track section (6a, 6b) and a curved 
section (6c, 6d), and said pick-up station (18) and said 

piling station are disposed in said at least one 
straight track section. 
An apparatus as recited in at least one of claims 1 to 
8, wherein said track has first and second straight 

track sections (6a, 6b), and first and second curved 
sections (6c, 6d) connecting said first and second 

straight track sections (6a, 6b) to each other, and said 
pick-up station is disposed in said first straight track 

section (6a), whereas said piling station is disposed in 
said second straight track section (6b). 
An apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said 
inspecting and counting means (12, 13) is disposed in 

said first curved section (6c), and said distal ends 
(7a) of said arms (7) are spaced further from each other 

in said first curved section (6c) compared with said 
straight track sections (6a, 6b). 
An apparatus as recited in at least one of claims 2 to 
10, wherein said separation member comprises a wall (25)  

 
extending transverse to the path of said distal ends 

(7a) of said arms (7) and a cut-out (27) formed in the 
top edge of said wall (25) such that said cut-out allows 

passage of said distal end (7a) of said arm (7), but 
does not allow passage of said cartridge shell plate (4) 

attracted by said magnet (15). 
An apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein said 
separation member further comprises a rectangular box 

(5a-5d) in which said cartridge shell plates (4) are 
piled on atop another, and said wall (25) having said 

cut-out is constituted of one side wall of said 
rectangular box (5a-5d) which is disposed farther from 

said pick-up station (18) in the moving direction of 
said arms (7). 
An apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein a bottom 
wall (28) of said rectangular box (5a-5d) is mounted 

movable in a vertical direction and is lowered by a 
predetermined amount each time a cartridge shell plate 

(4) is separated from said arm (7) and drops into said 
rectangular box (5a-5d). 
An apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein said 
rectangular box (5a-5d) has a magnet (30) mounted to one 

side thereof which extends parallel to said track, said 
magnet keeping said cartridge shell plates (4) in said 

horizontal state at uniform spacings in said rectangular 
box. 
An apparatus as recited in at least one of claims 12 to 
14, wherein said rectangular box (5a-5d) is movably 

disposed in the vicinity of said lowered rail portion 
(21a). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
