<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0498998</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for remotely heating a polymeric material to a selected temperature
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C7088	B29C6548	B29C7000	B29C6548	B29C6534	H05B602	B29C6536	B29C3508	B29K10516	B29C3508	B29C6540	B29C6542	B29C6514	B29C7058	B29K10110	B29C6724	H05B602	B29C6514	B29C6724	B29C6500	B29C6500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	H05B	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29C	H05B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C70	B29C65	B29C70	B29C65	B29C65	H05B6	B29C65	B29C35	B29K105	B29C35	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C70	B29K101	B29C67	H05B6	B29C65	B29C67	B29C65	B29C65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for remotely heating a polymeric material 
to a selected temperature in which particulate ferromagnetic 

material (3) having a Curie temperature corresponding 
to the selected heating temperature is dispersed throughout 

the polymeric material to form a composite, and microwave 
energy is applied to the resulting composite. Preferably, 

the particulate ferromagnetic material comprises only about 
2 percent of the total composite by weight. The polymeric 

material may be compliant, thermosettable plastic, and the 
Curie temperature of the particulate ferromagnetic material 

dispersed therein may advantageously be above the curing 
temperature of the polymer, such that a beam (13) of microwave 

energy may be used to remotely join surfaces or construct 
joints in composite structures. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK WILLIAM GUY JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHANNON ROBERT EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, WILLIAM GUY, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHANNON, ROBERT EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to methods for 
remotely heating polymeric materials to selected temperatures 
by the dispersion of particulate ferromagnetic 
materials throughout the polymers whose Curie temperatures 
correspond to the selected temperatures of heating and find 
particular application in the remote formation of joints in 
composite structures, as well as in forming plastic materials 
which are either recyclable, or separably heat degradable. 
One such remote heating method is disclosed in US-A-3 620 876. Thermosettable plastic materials for forming 
mechanical joints or other structures are known in the 
prior art. In their uncured state, such materials may 
resemble either viscous liquids, putty-like solids, or even 
flexible, tape-like materials which may be manipulated into 
a desired shape, and then heat-cured to form a tough 
plastic solid that assumes the shape that the uncured 
polymer was last manipulated into. These materials find 
particular application with respect to the construction of 
joints in composite structures, such as in the graphite 
composite frames of state-of-the-art aircraft. Unfortunately, there are a number of drawbacks 
associated with the use of such thermosettable polymers to 
construct aircraft frames and other structures that 
significantly limits their usefulness. For example, at 
some stages of construction, it is desirable if not 
absolutely necessary that the heat used to thermoset the  
 
polymer be applied only locally to the specific area of the 
joint, as the application of such heat to the surrounding 
components may damage or degrade them. In such instances, 
the application of heat in the form of infrared radiation 
must be performed very carefully, and with appropriate 
shielding so as not to damage the surrounding components. 
Still other difficulties arise with respect to the 
inspection of the surrounding joints. As joints formed 
entirely of plastics and other composite materials are 
transparent to X-rays, it is not possible to inspect the 
joint for bubbles, cracks, or other quality-degrading 
discontinuities with the same kind of X-ray equipment used 
to inspect metallic joints. Finally, both of these 
aforementioned problems become exacerbated when it is 
necessary to perform the repair of a joint formed from such 
thermosettable, polymeric materials since the remote and 
focused application of the energy necessary to heat-cure 
the thermosetting plastic used in the repair becomes 
difficult, if not impossible, as does the ability to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of heating a polymeric material (5) which 
comprises disposing a particulate ferromagnetic material 

(7) throughout a matrix of said polymeric material to form 
a composite (3,30) and applying electromagnetic heating to 

said composite, 
characterized by
 selecting a particulate 
ferromagnetic material (7) whose Curie temperature corresponds 

to the temperature to which said polymeric material 
(5) is to be heated and applying electromagnetic energy in 

the form of microwaves having a frequency between 400 and 
3,000 MHz to said composite (3), said particulate ferromagnetic 

material having a diameter between 1 and 100 nm (10 and 
1000 Angstroms) and comprising between 0. 1 and 10 per cent by 

weight of said composite. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the polymeric material is a heat-curable polymer, and 

the Curie temperature of the ferromagnetic material ishigher 
than the curing temperature of said polymer such that 

the composite is cured when the microwave energy is applied 
thereto. 
A method according to claim 2, characterized by 
placing the composite between two surfaces to be joined,and 

focussing the microwave energy onto said composite to cure 
the latter and join said surfaces. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the Curie temperature of the ferromagnetic material is 

higher than the melting point of the polymeric material 
such that the composite melts when microwave energy is applied 

thereto. 
A method according to claim 4, characterized in 
that the particulate ferromagnetic material is dispersed 

only within selected portions of the polymeric material 
such that only said selected portions melt when the composite 

is exposed to microwave energy.  
 
A method according to claim 4, characterized by 
placing the composite between two surfaces to be joined, 

and applying the microwave energy to melt said composite 
and join said surfaces. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized by 
dispersing a heat-actuated degradation chemical throughout 

the composite, the Curie temperature of the particulate 
ferromagnetic material being above the temperature required 

to actuate said degradation chemical. 
A method according to claim 7, characterized in 
that the heat-actuated degradation chemical is encapsulated 

in microspheres of a material inert to the degradation 
action of said chemical and the Curie temperature of the 

particulate ferromagnetic material is above the temperature 
required to cause the walls of said microspheres to open. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized by 
encoding the composite by identifying and recording distinctive 

electromagnetic characteristics of theferro magnetic 
particulate material distributed through the polymeric 

material when forming the composite. 
A method according to claim 9, characterized by 
electromagnetically locating the composite within polymeric 

materials commingled therewith, and separating said composite 
from said commingled materials. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized by 
magnetically separating the composite from the commingled 

materials. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized in 
that the Curie temperature of the ferromagnetic material is 

higher than the melting point of the polymeric material, 
the composite being separated from the commingled polymeric 

materials by applying sufficient microwave energy to liquefy 
said composite. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized by 
further dispersing a heat-actuated degradation chemical  

 
throughout the composite, the Curie temperature of the 

particulate ferromagnetic material being above the temperature 
required to actuate said degradation chemical, and 

separating the composite from the commingled materials by 
applying sufficient microwave energy to disintegrate said 

composite. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized in 
that the commingled polymeric materials are composites 

containing particulate ferromagnetic material having different 
Curie temperatures, each Curie temperature being 

lower than the melting point of the polymeric material 
distributed within. 
A method according to claim 14, characterized by 
applying sufficient microwave energy to the commingled 

composites to heat all to their respective Curietemperatures 
except the composite containing the ferromagnetic 

material having the highest Curie temperature, and then 
magnetically separating said latter composite. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized by 
uniformly distributing finely divided particles of the 

ferromagnetic material throughout the polymeric material 
and, after step (c), moving in the vicinity of the composite 

a probe emanating an electromagnetic field until said 
field detectably interacts with said composite. 
A method according to claim 16, characterized in 
that the finely divided particles of ferromagnetic material 

are colloidally suspended in aqueous solution and are 
intermixed with a thermosetting polymeric material in 

liquid or putty-like form. 
A method according to any of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the particulate ferromagnetic 

material comprises from 0.1 to 10% by weight, preferably 
between 1 and 2, of the composite. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the Curie temperature of the particulate 

ferromagnetic material is from 50°C to 700°C.  
 
A method according to claim 19, characterized in that 
the particles are of spinel ferrite. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that
 the diameter of the particulate 
ferromagnetic material is between 5 and 15 nm (50 and 150 

Angstroms). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
