<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638169</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR THE DETECTION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HYDROCARBONS IN LIQUID FORM, IN WATER, ON THE GROUND OR IN THE SUBSURFACE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3324	G01N3318	G01N3324	G01N3318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the detection of the discharge of hydrocarbons in liquid form at normal ambient temperature, in water, on the ground or in the subsurface is based on the detection of an alteration in one or more physical parameters which characterize a material which demonstrates high selective absorption of liquid hydrocarbons relative to water. In the method this material is used as an absorbent body provided in a detector device. The detector is arranged to detect respectively an alteration in the absorbent body's ultrasound transmissivity, an alteration in the absorbent body's optical reflectance, an alteration in the absorbent body's dielectric constant and an alteration in the absorbent body's buoyancy in water, either separately or in combination. The method and the detector device for execution of the method are particularly well suited to the detection of oil spillage on water or in ground water.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOESTUE CLARIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOESTUE, CLARIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOESTUE CLARIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOESTUE, CLARIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a method for the detection 
of hydrocarbons in liquid form at 
normal ambient temperature, in water, on the ground or in 
the subsurface, especially for the detection of oil 
spillage on water or in ground water. The invention also 
concerns a detector device for the execution of the method 
according to the invention. The discharge and spillage of hydrocarbons, above all oil, 
into the natural surroundings is considered to be a serious 
problem, with grave consequences for the environment when 
it takes place. The risk of this kind of accident happening 
is very great, due to the wide-spread use of hydrocarbons 
in liquid form in practically every area where mankind 
travels and lives. The danger of discharge is particularly 
great during the storage and transport of hydrocarbons. 
Examples of this kind of discharge can be the leakage of 
oil from tanks and pipelines into the surface of the ground 
or the subsurface, thus causing the oil to be deposited in 
the ground water, or discharges during loading and 
unloading of vessels and vehicles or in connection with 
transport of these. Finally, oil spillage in surface water 
or on the sea is one of the major environmental problems of 
our time, e.g. in connection with shipwrecks or discharges 
in connection with oil production at sea. In order to be able to issue a warning concerning the 
discharge of hydrocarbons and oil spillage, a number of 
methods have been developed, both for in-situ detection and 
remote surveillance. These methods are based on the use of 
more or less expensive instrumentation or are designed for 
periodic surveillance of vulnerable areas, e.g. from the 
air.  
 The United States Patent US-A-3,733,594 discloses an alarm 
apparatus for detecting and indicating oil slicks. The 
apparatus incorporates a hydrophobic oil absorbent material 
which floats on the surface of the water. On contact with oil 
of an oil slick, the hydrophobic material absorbs oil and 
sinks into the water. Upon sinking to a predetermined depth, 
an alarm signalling device is actuated thereby indicating the 
presence of an oil slick. The European Patent Application EP-A-0,337,630 discloses an 
oil leak detecting apparatus comprising an elongated oil 
sensor supported in a protective tube, which is open at its 
bottom end for the ingress of leaking oil. The sensor is 
encased in a sheath of non-woven fabric made of an absorbing 
material such as isotactic polypropylene. When oil penetrates 
the sensor, an increase in the electrical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the detection of hydrocarbons present in 
liquid form at normal ambient temperature, the method 

suitable for detection in water, on the ground or in 
the subsurface, especially for the detection of oil 

spillage on water or in ground water, said method 
comprising: 


providing a detector having an absorbent body (3) 
comprising a polypropylene material, which 

demonstrates a selective, passive absorption 
of liquid hydrocarbons, especially mineral oil, which is 

about 487 times greater than that for water. 
placing said detector in a place where hydrocarbon 
discharge may occur, and 
detecting a change in one or more physical parameters 
distinguishing said absorbent body (3), 
wherein said detection includes either separately or 
in combination the detection of an alteration in the 

absorbent body's ultrasound transmissivity, an 
alteration in the absorbent body's optical 

reflectance, an alteration in the absorbent body's 
dielectric constant, and an alteration in the 

absorbent body's buoyancy in water. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said polypropylene material is in the form of a non-woven 

cloth. 
A method according to Claim 2, characterized in that 
in order to detect the alteration in an individual 

physical parameter a sensor (1,2; 6,7; 16; 18) is used which  
 

is arranged to detect the respective physical 
parameter. 
A method according to Claim 3, characterized in that 
two or more of the individual sensors (1,2; 6,7; 16; 18) 

arranged to detect the respective physical parameter 
are combined in an integrated detector device (21,22). 
A method according to one of the preceding Claims 
characterized in that for the detection of an 

alteration in the absorbent body's ultrasound 
transmissivity a sensor is used with an ultrasound 

transmitter (1) and an ultrasound receiver (2) 
provided respectively on each side of the absorbent 

body (3) or a sensor with the absorbent body provided 
between a combined ultrasound transceiver and an 

ultrasound reflector. 
A method according to one of the Claims 1-4, 
characterized in that for the detection of the 

absorbent body's optical reflectance a sensor is used 
with an optical transmitter (6) and an optical 

receiver (7) provided respectively beside the 
absorbent body (3), so that an optical signal 

transmitted by the transmitter (6) is reflected by the 
absorbent body (3) back to the receiver (7). 
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in that 
in the absorbent body (3) there is provided a dye 

which is dissolved in hydrocarbons in liquid form and 
causes a further alteration in the body's optical 

reflectance. 
A method according to Claim 7, characterized in that 
the optical reflectance is measured in the UV range 

and/or in the visible range and/or in the IR range.  
 
A method according to one of the Claims 1-4, 
characterized in that for the detection of the 

absorbent body's dielectric constant a sensor (16) is 
used which is arranged so as to measure the energy 

which is exchanged between a surrounding medium and an 
oscillator. 
A method according to one of the Claims 1-4, 
characterized in that for the detection of the 

absorbent body's buoyancy in the water a sensor is 
used with a floating body (18) connected to the 

absorbent body (3) a buoyancy indicator provided in 
the sensor being activated by an alteration in the 

absorbent body's buoyancy. 
A detector device for performing the method according 
to any one of the Claims 1-10, the detector device 

comprising 

an absorbent body (3) formed by a polypropylene 
material which demonstrates a 

selective, passive absorption of liquid hydrocarbons, 
especially mineral oil, which is about 487 times greater than that for water and one or more 

sensors (1,2; 6,7; 16; 18) provided in connection with the 
absorbent body (3) and arranged for the detection of 

an alteration in one or more physical parameters 
distinguishing the absorbent body, 
the sensor or sensors (1,2; 6,7) being one or more of 
the group of an ultrasound sensor (1,2), an optical 

sensor (6,7), a sensor for the dielectric constant 
(16) and a buoyancy sensor (18). 
A detector device according to Claim 11, characterized 
in that the detector device comprises combinations of 

two or more sensors (1,2; 6,7; 16; 18) arranged for the  
 

detection of two or more of the respective physical 
parameters. 
A detector device according to Claim 11, characterized 
in that the ultrasound sensor comprises respectively 

an ultrasound transmitter (1) and an ultrasound 
receiver (2) provided on each side of the absorbent 

body (3), or with the absorbent body (3) provided 
between a ultrasound transducer (1) and an ultrasound 

reflector (2). 
A detector device according to Claim 11, characterized 
in that the optical sensor comprises respectively an 

optical transmitter (6) and an optical receiver (7) 
provided beside the absorbent body (3), thus providing 

a free optical path between the transmitter, one of 
the absorbent body's surfaces and the receiver. 
A detector device according to Claim 14, characterized 
in that in the absorbent body (3) there is provided a 

dye (9) which is arranged to be dissolved in 
hydrocarbons in liquid form. 
A detector device according to Claim 14, characterized 
in that the optical sensor is a UV sensor or a sensor 

for the visible light range or an IR sensor. 
A detector device according to Claim 16, characterized 
in that the optical sensor is equipped with at least 

two optical transmitters (6) and at least two optical 
receivers (7), assigned to the respective transmitter, 

the transceiver pairs (6,7) being arranged so as to 
measure the optical reflectance in the same wavelength 

frequency or each in its own wavelength frequency. 
A detector device according to Claim 11, characterized 
in that the sensor for the dielectric constant  

 
comprises a plate condenser (15) with the absorbent 

body (3) as a dielectric medium, the plate condenser 
(15) being connected in series with an oscillator (14) 

and also with the clamps on a voltmeter device, in 
such a manner that the measured condenser voltage 

becomes an expression of the absorbent body's 
dielectric constant. 
A detector device according to Claim 11, characterized 
in that the buoyancy sensor comprises a floating body 

(18) connected with the absorbent body (3) and a 
buoyancy indicator provided in the sensor and arranged 

to be activated by an alteration in the absorbent 
body's buoyancy, the buoyancy indicator either being 

arranged to provide a visual indication and/or 
indication in the form of an electrical signal in 

reaction to an alteration in the absorbent body's 
buoyancy. 
A detector device according to one of the Claims 11-19, 
characterized in that the detector device is 

arranged to be connected with a central monitoring 
unit. 
A detector device according to the preceding Claim, 
characterized in that it comprises means for the 

transfer of detection signals from one or more of the 
sensors to a monitoring unit, either automatically or 

in reaction to a poll from the central monitoring 
unit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
