<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617759</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REVERSE PHASE AND HIGH DISCHARGE TEMPERATURE PROTECTION IN A SCROLL COMPRESSOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B4908	F04C2806	F04B4900	F04B4908	F04C2828	F04B4900	F04C2800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F04C	F04B	F04B	F04C	F04B	F04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B49	F04C28	F04B49	F04B49	F04C28	F04B49	F04C28	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN STANDARD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN STANDARD INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON MARK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOTLAREK PETER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOILANEN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON, MARK, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOTLAREK, PETER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOILANEN, JOHN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the 
protection of scroll compressors from damage due to 
the existence of abnormal operating conditions. Hermetic compressors, including those of the 
scroll type, are of a high or a low side type. A high 
side compressor is one in which the motor is disposed 
in the discharge or high pressure portion of the 
compressor shell. A low side compressor is one in 
which the motor is disposed in the suction or low 
pressure portion of the hermetic shell.  
 A common problem in hermetic rotary compressors, 
including those of the scroll type, is the tendency of 
compressed refrigerant gas to flow back from the discharge 
pressure portion of the compressor shell, through the 
compression mechanism and back to the suction side of the shell 
upon compressor shutdown. This backflow is as a result of the 
natural tendency of the system within which the compressor is 
employed to equalize its internal pressure when the compressor 
is de-energized. Such backflow, if not prevented, can cause 
the high speed reverse rotation of the compression mechanism 
and can lead to potentially serious compressor damage. The prevention of such backflow upon compressor 
shutdown is typically accomplished by the disposition of a 
discharge check valve downstream of the aperture through which 
gas is discharged from the compressor's compression mechanism. 
The discharge check valve is closed by the initial backflow of 
refrigerant gas through the compressor which begins immediately 
upon compressor shutdown. The closing of the discharge check 
valve may be assisted or accelerated by a biasing member such 
as a spring. In scroll compressors having compression mechanisms 
which are protected from gas-driven reverse rotation by 
apparatus such as a discharge check valve, a problem arises 
when the compressor is electrically connected in an improper 
manner. Such improper electrical connection can cause the 
motor to run in a direction reverse from which it is intended 
to run. This problem is recognized in U.S. Patents 4,820,130 
and 4,840,545, both of which are assigned to the assignee of 
the present invention.  
 Briefly, when a scroll compressor having a 
discharge check valve is miswired so that it is caused to run 
backwards, the pockets defined between the scroll wraps, 
instead of moving radially inward and decreasing in volume, 
move radially outward and expand in volume in a pumping action. 
In effect, the scroll device functions as a gas expander or 
pump as opposed to a compressor. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for compressing a gas comprising: 

a shell (22) defining a suction pressure portion 
(38;38') and a discharge pressure portion (36;36'); 
a first scroll member (24;24') disposed in said 
shell, said first scroll member having an involute 

wrap (28) and defining a discharge aperture (26) in 
flow communication with said discharge pressure 

portion of the shell; 
a second scroll member (30) disposed in said 
shell, said second scroll member having an involute 

wrap (32), the involute wraps of said first and said 
second scroll members being in interleaving engagement 

and cooperating to define a plurality of pockets 
including a discharge pocket (34;34') in flow 

communication with said discharge aperture (26); and 
means (46a,46b,48,62;46',48',62') for permitting 
gas flow from said suction pressure portion (38;38') 

to said discharge pocket (34;34') when, in use of the 
apparatus, gas pressure in said discharge pocket is 

less than gas pressure in said suction pressure 
portion, characterised in that said flow permitting 

means (46a,46b,48,62;46',48',62') is adapted for 
selectively permitting (i) said gas flow from the 

suction pressure portion (38;38') to said discharge  
 

pocket (34;34') when, in use of the apparatus, gas 
pressure in said discharge pocket is less than gas 

pressure in said suction pressure portion and (ii) gas 
flow from said discharge pocket to said suction 

pressure portion when during said use, discharge gas 
temperature exceeds a predetermined temperature. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said flow 
permitting means includes means (46a,46b,62;46',62') 

defining a passage internal of said shell which 
communicates between said suction pressure portion and 

said discharge pocket. 
Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said flow 
permitting means includes a valve member (48;48'), 

said valve member being actuated to permit said gas 
flow through said passage (i) by the development of 

gas pressure in said discharge pocket (34;34') less 
than gas pressure in said suction pressure portion 

(38;38') and (ii) by the occurrence of discharge gas 
temperatures which exceed said predetermined 

temperature. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said 
valve member (48;48') is a thermally responsive 

bimetal valve member.  
 
Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said 
valve member (48;48') is disposed entirely within said 

passage and is not connected to any other element of 
the apparatus. 
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said 
bimetal valve member responds to discharge 

temperatures which exceed said predetermined 
temperature by changing shape to permit said gas flow 

from said discharge pocket to said suction pressure 
portion. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 6, 
further comprising means (100;100') for preventing 

backflow of gas from said discharge pressure portion 
(36;36') of the shell to said discharge pocket 

(34;34') when the pressure in said discharge pocket is 
less than the pressure in said discharge pressure 

portion (38;38'). 
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said 
passage (46a,46b,62;46',62') has o
ne end disposed 
within said shell (22) at a location upstream of said 

backflow preventing means (100;100'). 
Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said  
 

passage communicates with said discharge pocket (34) 
via an opening (44) upstream of said backflow 

preventing means (100). 
Apparatus according to claim 7, 8 or 9, wherein 
said backflow preventing means (100') is disposed 

downstream of said discharge pressure portion (36') of 
the shell. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 10, 
wherein said passage (46a,46b,62;46',62') is at least 

partially defined by a fixed one (24;24') of said 
scroll members. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising a motor (50) for driving 

one of said first and second scroll members 
(24,30;24'), said motor being disposed in said suction 

pressure portion of the shell (22). 
Apparatus according to claim 12 when dependent on 
claim 2, wherein said passage (46a,46b,62;46',62') 

opens into said suction pressure portion of the shell 
adjacent a thermally actuated protective device 

(60;60') for de-energising said motor when exposed to 
temperatures exceeding said predetermined temperature.  

 
Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said 
thermally actuated protective device (60;60') is a 

line break which is integral to said motor (50). 
A method for protecting a scroll compressor 
against damage due to reverse direction motor rotation 

or high discharge temperatures, the method comprising 
the steps of defining a passage in said compressor, 

said passage communicating between a suction pressure 
portion of said compressor and a portion of said 

compressor through which discharge gas flows when said 
compressor is in normal operation, and controlling 

flow through said passage such that: (i) gas is 
permitted to flow through said passage from said 

suction pressure portion to said portion of said 
compressor through which discharge gas normally flows 

when the pressure in said suction pressure portion 
exceeds the pressure in said portion of said 

compressor through which discharge gas normally flows; 
(ii) gas is permitted to flow through said passage 

from said portion of said compressor through which 
discharge gas normally flows to said suction pressure 

portion of said compressor when the temperature of 
said gas exceeds a predetermined temperature; and 

(iii) gas is prevented from flowing through said 
passage when said discharge temperature is less than  

 
said predetermined temperature and when the pressure 

in said portion of said compressor through which 
discharge gas normally flows exceeds the pressure in 

said suction pressure portion. 
A method according to claim 15, further 
comprising the step of disposing a thermally 

responsive valve in said passage. 
A method according to claim 15 or 16, wherein 
said scroll compressor includes a motor disposed in 

said suction pressure portion of said shell, the 
method further comprising the step of disposing a 

thermally actuated motor protective device adjacent 
the location where said passage opens into said 

suction pressure portion of said shell. 
A method according to claim 16 or 17, further 
comprising the step of fabricating said valve from a 

bimetal so that said valve responds to temperatures in 
excess of said predetermined temperature by changing 

shape, the change of shape of said valve opening said 
passage to gas flow when discharge gas temperatures 

exceed said predetermined temperature. 
The method according to claim 18, wherein said  
 

fabricating step includes the step of sizing said 
valve such that when disposed in said passage the 

valve is free to move within a predetermined portion 
of said passage and is not connected to said 

compressor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
