<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644058</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Printing tape and printing-tape cartridge
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M544	B41M540	B41M540	B41J3200	B41J3200	B41M542	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B41M	B41J	B41J	B41M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41J32	B41J32	B41M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a printing tape T having a support sheet 4, a 
heat-sensitive layer 3 including thermal chromogenic material 

formed on one surface of the support sheet 4, a protection layer 
2 formed on the heat-sensitive layer 3, a colored transparent 

layer which is mainly formed of silicone resin curable at 
ordinary temperature including colorant such as dye or pigment. 

On the other surface of the support sheet 4, a removable sheet 6 
is adhered through an adhesive layer 5. And a printing-tape 

cartridge C that a tape spool 10 around which the printing tape T 
mentioned above is wound is rotatably supported in a housing 11, 

is disclosed. When images such as characters are recorded on the 
printing tape T, the printing-tape cartridge C is set in a 

printer 20 having a thermal head 15 and the images are recorded 
on the printing tape T by the thermal head 15 while being derived 

from the tape spool 10. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORIMATSU TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORIMATSU, TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a printing tape through 
which images such as characters are printed thereon by being 
heated through a thermal head, and in particular, relates to a 
printing tape, on a top surface of which a colored transparent 
layer defining background color of the printing tape is formed so 
that images such as characters can be clearly recognized in the 
background color and which can be adhered onto an object after 
printing of images is conducted. And the present invention 
relates to a printing-tape cassette or cartridge accommodating 
the above printing tape, which is utilized in a tape printer. Conventionally, there have been proposed various printing 
tapes. These kinds of printing tapes are generally produced by 
forming a heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer on a 
film-like support sheet. Here, for instance, in order to form 
the heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer, a mixture of 
leuco-dye such as crystal violet lactone ( CVL ), which is 
disclosed in the specifications of U.S. Patent Nos. 2,712,507 and 
2,730,457, and organic acid such as phenol compound, is used. On the surface of the heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic 
layer, a protection layer for protecting the heat-sensitive or 
thermal chromogenic layer is formed and the protection layer is 
made transparent so that colored portions ( i.e. images such as  
 
characters ) can be visually recognized through the protection 
layer. Further, on the surface of the support sheet opposite to the 
surface where the heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer is 
formed, a colored layer is formed by coating print ink, which 
includes pigments or dyes, so that the images formed in the 
heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer can be recognized in 
the background color defined by the colored layer. At that time, 
the background color of the colored layer is visually recognized 
through the support sheet, the heat-sensitive or thermal 
chromogenic layer and the protection layer. In the thus produced printing tape, the heat-sensitive or 
thermal chromogenic layer is colored by being heated through a 
thermal head, thereby the image such as characters are formed in 
the background color defined by the colored layer, on the 
printing tape. And, in general, the printing tape is utilized in 
a tape printer in a state that the printing tape is accommodated 
in a printing-tape cartridge. In the case that printing of the 
images is conducted on the printing tape through the thermal head 
arranged in the tape
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printing tape having a support sheet (4), a heat-sensitive 
layer (3) formed on one surface of the support sheet (4) and a protection 

layer (2) formed on the heat-sensitive layer (3), the printing tape (T) being 
used for a tape-recording printer (20) including a thermal head (15) which 

thermally records images on the printing tape, the printing tape 
comprising : 


a colored transparent layer (1) which is mainly formed of resin 
curable at ordinary temperature including colorant, the colored 

transparent layer being formed on the protection layer (2). 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the resin 
in the colored transparent layer (1) is composed of silicone resin 

which is curable at ordinary temperature. 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the resin 
in the colored transparent layer (1) is composed of urethane resin 

which is curable at ordinary temperature. 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the 
colorant is composed of pigment dispersed in the resin curable at 

ordinary temperature. 
The printing tape according to claim 4, wherein the pigment 
is organic pigment or inorganic pigment.  

 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the 
colorant is composed of dye dissolved in the resin curable at 

ordinary temperature. 
The printing tape according to claim 6, wherein the dye is 
selected from the group consisting of xanthene dye, coumalin dye, 

merocyanine dye, thiazine dye, azine dye, 
methine
 dye, oxazine 
dye, phenylmethane dye, cyanin dye, azo dye, anthraquinone dye, 

pyrazoline dye, stilbene dye and quinoline dye. 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the colored 
transparent layer (1) is formed on the Protection layer (2) by coating 

solution in which the resin curable at ordinary temperature and 
solvent are mixed with each other, and wherein the protection 

layer (2) protects the heat-sensitive layer (3) from the solvent in the 
solution. 
The printing tape according to claim one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the 
protection layer (2) is formed of one or more water-soluble resins 

which have film-forming ability. 
The printing tape according to claim 9, wherein the 
water-soluble resin is selected from the group consisting of 

polyvinyl alcohol, methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, 
carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, polyacrylamide, 

starch, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone and methoxy cellulose.  
 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the colored 

transparent layer is formed on the protection layer by coating 
solution in which the resin curable at ordinary temperature and 

water are mixed with each other, and wherein the protection layer 
protects the heat-sensitive layer from the water in the solution. 
The printing tape according to claim 11, wherein the 
protection layer includes anti-water agent. 
The printing tape according to claim 12, wherein the 
anti-water agent is selected from the group consisting of 

formal in, glyoxal, chrome alum, melamine, melamine formalin, 
polyamide resin and polyamide epichlorhydrin resin. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 13, further comprising 
an adhesive layer formed on the other surface of the support 

sheet opposite to the one surface where the heat-sensitive layer 
is formed and a removable sheet adhered on the adhesive layer. 
The printing tape according to claim 14, wherein the 
printing tape is used so as to adhere on an object through the 

adhesive layer (5) by removing the removable sheet (6) therefrom after 
the images are thermally recorded by the thermal head (15) in the 

tape-recording printer (20). 
A printing tape cartridge (C) accommodating a printing tape (T) according 
to one of claims 1 to 15, for use with a tape-recording printer (20) including  

 
a thermal head (15) which thermally records images on the 

printing tape (T), the printing-tape cartridge comprising: 

a housing (11); 
a tape spool (10) disposed inside the housing (11) so that 
the tape spool (10) is rotatable, the printing tape being wound 

around the tape spool. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
