<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drive shaft apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1526	G11B1526	G11B1530	G11B1532	G11B1546	G11B1550	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high torsional stiffness low axial deflection stiffness flexible 
drive shaft apparatus is provided for driving a magnetic tape cassette 

and includes a drive shaft 46 having opposite ends, a device for engaging 
the magnetic tape cassette and a pair of flexible diaphragms 54, 56. A 

device is connected to one of the drive shaft ends, one of the flexible 
diaphragms, and is connectable to a motor for transmitting torsional 

force from the motor to the drive shaft via the flexible diaphragm. 
Another device is connected to the other end of the drive shaft, the 

other flexible diaphragm and the tape cassette engaging device for 
transmitting torsional force from the drive shaft to the engaging device 

via the other flexible diaphragm. Because the diaphragms are too 
delicate to handle thrust loads and because the torsional stiffness of 

the diaphragm degrades rapidly as its centre is displaced axially with 
respect to the outer driving points, a device is operably connected to 

each torsional force transmitting device for transmitting thrust loads 
exerted along the axes of rotation of the drive apparatus. With this 

arrangement the drive apparatus call easily adapt for misalignment of the 
drive apparatus with the magnetic tape cassette to deliver a reliable 

rotating force. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALBRECHT THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EATON JAMES HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALBRECHT, THOMAS R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EATON, JAMES HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a high torsional stiffness low axial 
deflection stiffness flexible drive shaft system for rotating recordable 
media, such as magnetic tapes or discs or video disks. There are at least three options for coupling a drive motor to one 
or more tape reels in a tape drive. The general problem of off-centre 
drive exists in all cases, but is handled in different ways. The first 
option is a data cartridge which uses a belt drive. Although the belt 
inside the cartridge has more function than just solving the off-centre 
drive problem, it is nevertheless one way to solve the problem. The 
second option, which is used in all audio and video cassette systems is 
to allow the tape reel to "float" inside the cartridge. The tape reels 
in such systems do not rotate on axes that are rigidly attached to the 
cartridge. The reels can move within a certain range to align with the 
drive axes. Usually the engagement method has some kind of self-centring 
device, such as spider gears, or the reel is allowed to wobble a 
little (audio and video tape cassettes). The third option is to have the 
tape reels rotate on axes that are rigidly connected to the cassette 
housing, and allow the drive shafts axes to adjust to the cassette reels. 
The advantage of this kind of system is that a precision tape path can be 
defined totally inside the cassette for excellent guiding, low debris 
generation, etc. Note that the first option also has the tape path 
totally defined inside the cassette. In the third option, each reel includes an axle with a bearing that 
is designed to have a close fit; however the axle will rock slightly if 
the tape driving mechanism ("tape drive") is not aligned with it. This 
rocking motion results in an unreliable tape path which, in turn, causes 
low quality recording or playing of the magnetic tape. Some magnetic tape cassettes have a gear connected to each reel 
axle. In a like manner, the tape drive has a pair of drive gears, each 
drive gear being engageable with a respective reel axle gear to implement 
the tape driving function. In addition to low quality tape performance, 
misalignment between the drive system and the reel axles further results 
in improper meshing of the gears. This improper meshing causes wear of 
the gears and creates debris which can adversely affect system 
performance.  The off-centre drive problem is a classic mechanical problem, with 
numerous solutions existing in the prior art. For example, automobile 
drive trains often use a pair of universal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high torsional stiffness, low axial deflection stiffness drive 
shaft apparatus for driving a recordable medium by a power means for 

rotating the medium comprising: 
   a drive shaft having opposite driving ends along an axis of 

rotation; 
   first means connected to a first driving end of the drive shaft and 

to a first flexible diaphragm (54) and further connectable to the power 
means for transmitting torsional force from the power means to the drive 

shaft via the flexible diaphragm; 
   second means connect
ed to a second driving end of the drive shaft, 
to a second flexible diaphragm (56) and to means for engaging the medium 

for transmitting torsional force from the drive shaft to the medium 
engaging means via said second flexible diaphragm; and 

   means (72, 74) operably connected to each respective torsional 
force transmitting means for transmitting thrust loads exerted along all 

axes of rotation; 
   whereby the drive shaft apparatus can deflect to adapt for 

misalignment or axis offset between the drive apparatus and the rotatable 
medium. 
A high torsional stiffness low axial deflection stiffness flexible 
drive shaft apparatus for driving recordable media comprising: 

   drive shaft means having opposite ends for rotating on a first axis 
of rotation; 

   a pair of flexible diaphragms, each diaphragm having oppositely 
facing substantially parallel flat sides; 

   means for connecting each diaphragm to a respective end of the 
drive shaft means with a flat side of each diaphragm extending in a 

respective plane, each of the respective planes being substantially 
perpendicular to the first axis of rotation;

 
   a source of power having an output element which rotates on a 

second axis of rotation; 
   first means for connecting the output element of the power source 

to a first flexible diaphragm in a position generally opposite an end of 
the drive shaft means with the first and second axis of rotation 

substantially aligned such that torsional force can be transmitted from 
the output element to the drive shaft means via the first flexible 

diaphragm; 
   means for engaging the recordable media, the means for engaging 

having a third axis of rotation; 
   second means for connecting the means for engaging to a second 

flexible diaphragm with the first and third axes of rotation 
substantially aligned such that torsional force can be transmitted from 

the drive shaft means to the means for engaging via the second flexible 
diaphragm; and 

   means mounted between the first diaphragm and the first means for 
connecting and between the second diaphragm and the second means for 

connecting for transmitting thrust loads extended along the first, second 
and third axes of rotation. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 including: 
   each flexible diaphragm being substantially circular and having a 

central axis substantially aligned with the first axis of rotation; 
   each flexible diaphragm having at least two pairs of arcuate 

apertures; and 
   the apertures of one pair of arcuate aperture, extending along an 

inner circle and the apertures of the other pair of arcuate apertures 
extending along an outer circle, the inner and outer circles and the 

flexible diaphragm being substantially concentric. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 including:
 

   the flexible diaphragms each being stainless steel with a thickness 
between .002-.010 inches. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 4 including: 
   the source of power being a motor having a stator and an output 

element which is a hollow shaft; and 
   the stator being mounted between the flexible diaphragms with the 

drive shaft means extending through the hollow shaft. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 5 including: 
   the means for transmitting thrust load being at least a portion of 

each of a pair of spherical balls, each spherical ball portion being 
fixed to a respective means for connecting; and 

   the spherical portion of each ball portion rollably engaging a 
respective end of the drive shaft means. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 including: 
   each spherical ball portion engaging the respective end of the 

drive shaft means in a plane which is substantially coplanar with the 
flat sides of a respective flexible diaphragm. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 7 including: 
   the means for engaging recordable media being a gear. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 8 including: 
   the drive shaft means including telescoping means for expanding or 

lengthening the distance between the opposite ends. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 including: 
   spring means connected to the telescoping means for urging the 

means for engaging recordable media away from the source of power. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 including: 
   retracting means operably connected to the telescoping means for 

selectively overcoming the spring means and pushing the means for 
engaging recordable media toward the source of power. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 11 including: 
   stop means for limiting angles of deflection between the flexible 

diaphragms and the drive shaft means. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 12 including: 
   each means for connecting a flexible diaphragm to a respective end 

of the drive shaft means including a hub; 
   the first means for connecting and the second means for connecting 

each including a yoke; and 
   each hub being connected to an inner portion of a respective 

flexible diaphragm and each yoke being connected to an outer portion of a 
respective flexible diaphragm. 
A system for operating recordable media, the recordable media 
having drive receiving means for rotating the media comprising: 

   a system platform; 
   receptacle means in the platform for receiving the recordable media 

means; 
   drive shaft apparatus as claimed in any of claims 2 to 13 mounted 

to the platform and engageable with the drive receiving means for 
rotating the recordable media means. 
A system as claimed in claim 14 including: 
   the power source having on, off and variable speed modes;

 
   control means connected to said power source for controlling said 

modes; and 
   computer means connected to the control means for enabling 

automatic operation of the recordable media means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
