<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641978</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Refrigeration apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25B2500	F25B2500	F25D1600	F25D1600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25B	F25B	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25B25	F25B25	F25D16	F25D16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Refrigeration apparatus is capable of operating in i) 
vapour compression mode or ii) thermosyphon mode. The 

apparatus defines a refrigerant path includes a compressor 
(12), a condenser (14), an expansion valve (16) and a 

chiller (18) where the refrigerant absorbs heat from fluid 
to be cooled. The refrigeration circuit includes valves 

(26, 28) configurable for selectively directing refrigerant 
i) to pass through the compressor (12) and expansion valve 

(16) or ii) to bypass the compressor and expansion valve. 
A thermal store (20) is provided and is i) cooled while the 

apparatus operates in the vapour compression mode and ii) 
provides a chilling effect during changeover to 

thermosyphon mode. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STAR REFRIGERATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STAR REFRIGERATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEARSON STEPHEN FORBES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEARSON, STEPHEN FORBES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a refrigeration apparatus
and refrigeration method, and in particular to
refrigeration apparatus capable of operating in either a
vapour compression mode or a natural cooling mode.GB-B-2 233 080 describes a refrigeration apparatus
which may be operated in a mechanical mode, or
alternatively in a thermosyphon mode. In the mechanical
mode the apparatus operates in a conventional manner
utilising a vapour compression cycle, with refrigerant
vapour being compressed before being passed through a heat
exchanger (condenser) where sensible heat is rejected to
the atmosphere from the compressed refrigerant, then
passing the resulting condensate through a restriction,
typically an expansion valve, and finally passing the
expanded and cooled refrigerant to a heat exchanger
(evaporator) to absorb heat from a fluid to be chilled.
When ambient temperatures are sufficiently low the
refrigerant path may be reconfigured to bypass the
compressor and the expansion valve such that the only
cooling effect experienced by the refrigerant is the
natural cooling obtained when the refrigerant is passed
through the condenser, the evaporator being located below
the condenser such that the refrigerant may circulate
without the mechanical assistance normally provided by the
compressor. Clearly, operation in the thermosyphon mode is
more economical than the mechanical or vapour compression
mode.In a typical refrigerating unit incorporating this
feature, several refrigerating systems are arranged so that
the fluid to be chilled is passed through the evaporators
in series. A number of the systems may cool the fluid by
vapour compression operation while other systems operating
with warmer inlet fluid may contribute a share of the 
required cooling by thermosyphon operation. However, such
units are expensive and involve high capital costs and in
practice are restricted to very large units where stand-by
equipment is specified. It has not yet been possible to
use an individual two-mode system, as when the system
changes from vapour compression refrigeration to
thermosyphon refrigeration there is a period of delay while
the heat rejection equipment, previously in contact with
the compressed (and thus heated) refrigerant, cools to a
temperature below that of the fluid being chilled.US-A-5 211 029 discloses air-conditioning apparatus
which includes a conventional condensing unit including a
compressor and condenser, and a negative energy storage
system including an insulated tank for containing negative
heat energy
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Refrigeration apparatus capable of operating in i)
vapour compression cooling mode or ii) natural cooling

mode, the apparatus defining a refrigerant path comprising:

compression means (12) for compressing a refrigerant;
heat rejection means (14) for cooling the compressed
refrigerant
;
restriction means (16) for expanding the refrigerant;
chilling means (18) for permitting the absorption of
heat by the refrigerant from a fluid to be chilled;
valve means (26, 28) configurable for selectively
directing refrigerant i) to pass through the compression

means (12) and restriction means (16) or ii) to bypass the
compression means (12) and restriction means (16); and
thermal storage means (20) for i) being cooled while
the apparatus operates in the vapour compression cooling

mode and ii) providing a chilling effect to the
fluid during changeover to natural cooling

mode.
The apparatus of claim 1 in which the chilled fluid is
a cooling medium for a region (22) to be cooled.
The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2 in which the
thermal storage means (20) is i) arranged to be cooled by

the chilled fluid while the apparatus operates in the
vapour compression cooling mode and ii) arranged to chill

the fluid during changeover to natural cooling mode.
The apparatus of claims 1, 2 or 3 in which the
chilling means (18) is positioned below the heat rejection

means (14) to allow operation in natural cooling mode
without any mechanical circulation.
The apparatus of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein refrigerant 
circulation means is provided for use in the natural

cooling mode.
The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims
wherein the thermal storage means (20) is arranged such

that the apparatus is operable at full capacity in the
vapour compression cooling mode irrespective of cooling

load, any excess capacity being utilised to cool the
thermal storage means (20).
The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a
thermostatic switch (30) to reconfigure the valve means

(26, 28) from the vapour compression mode to the natural
cooling mode on the thermal storage means (20) reaching a

condition where it cannot be cooled further.
The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims
wherein the thermal storage means (20) contains a phase

change material which will absorb or reject heat at a
substantially constant temperature.
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the phase change
material is one of acetic acid or lactic acid.
A refrigeration method including i) a vapour
compression cooling mode or ii) a natural cooling mode, the

method including the steps of:

providing heat rejecting means and utilising said
means to reject heat from a refrigerant;
chilling a fluid with the refrigerant; and

i) when operating in vapour compression cooling mode
the method further including the steps of:


a) compressing the refrigerant;
b) expanding the refrigerant; and
c) cooling a thermal storage means; and
ii) when operating in natural cooling mode the method
further including the step of: 


a) providing a chilling effect to said fluid
using the thermal storage means, at least during initial

changeover from vapour compression cooling mode to natural
cooling mode.
The method of claim 10 wherein the chilled fluid
provides a cooling medium for a region to be cooled.
The method of claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the thermal
storage means is i) cooled by the chilled fluid in vapour

compression cooling mode and ii) chills the fluid during
changeover to natural cooling mode.
The method of claim 10, 11 or 12 in which, in the
natural cooling mode, the refrigerant circulates without

any mechanical circulation.
The method of any one of claims 10 to 13 wherein
operation in vapour compression cooling mode is at full

capacity irrespective of cooling load, any excess capacity
being utilised to cool the thermal storage means.
The method of claim 14 wherein the mode of operation
changes from i) vapour compression cooling mode to ii)

natural cooling mode on the thermal storage means reaching
a condition where it cannot be cooled further.
The method of any one of claims 10 to 15 wherein the
thermal storage means absorbs or rejects heat at

substantially constant temperature.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
