<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645718</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Calculator with table generation capability.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F102	G06F102	G06F1502	G06F1502	G06F1508	G06F1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital computer or calculator (10) is equipped with a numerical data 
table generation capability (36). It provides a user with the ability to specify 

one or more mathematical functions (32), and the ability to specify how the 
numerical data in support of the functions are to be displayed (34, 50-56). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHIPPS ANN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTUCCI DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHIPPS, ANN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTUCCI, DAVID M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to the field of digital computers and 
calculators. More particularly, the present invention relates to a calculator 
with table generation capability. Calculators may be equipped with graphics capabilities. These 
calculators are generally special purpose computers with built-in software for 
drawing graphs. Upon the specification of a function, the graphics calculator 
is able to plot the function on a predefined set of axes. Such graphics 
calculators have been pedagogically employed as effective mathematics 
teaching tools. Educators can easily and quickly plot a variety of 
mathematical equations to demonstrate the interrelationship between the 
mathematical expressions and their corresponding graphs. Abstract 
mathematical concepts are thus more easily grasped by the students. However, a serious limitation of graphics calculators heretofore has 
been their limited ability to provide numerical information in support of the 
plotted graph. Although numerical information about plotted functions can 
sometimes be obtained, the procedures to do so are awkward and the 
information is not displayed in a convenient manner. Without this  
 
capability, useful and sometimes vital information about the function, such 
as zeros, local maxima, and local minima, is not readily available. 
Accordingly, a need has arisen to provide the capability to supply desirable 
numerical information in support of the graphics function in a graphics 
calculator or computer. In accordance with the present invention, a calculator is provided 
which substantially eliminates or reduces disadvantages and problems 
associated with prior calculators and computers. In one aspect of the present invention, a digital computer or calculator 
is equipped with a numerical data table generation capability. It provides a 
user with the ability to specify one or more mathematical functions, and the 
ability to specify how the numerical data in support of the functions are to be 
displayed. In another aspect of the present invention, the graphics calculator or 
computer includes an input device for receiving at least one mathematical 
function, a processor for computing the mathematical function, and a tabular 
display for displaying the results of the computation in a user-definable 
tabular format. In yet another aspect of the present invention, a method is provided for 
generating and displaying numerical data in support of a mathematical 
function in a calculator or computer. The method includes the steps
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A calculator or computer device, comprising: 
an input device for receiving a mathematical function having at least 

one dependent and one independent variable; 
a processor for computing said mathematical function and producing 

ordered sets of numerical values for said dependent and independent 
variables; and 

a display for displaying said computed ordered sets of numerical 
values in a predetermined tabular format. 
The device, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said input device further 
receives a minimum numerical value for said independent variable 

and an incremental step value therefor for display. 
The device, as set forth in claim 2, wherein said processor produces a 
predetermined number of ordered sets of numerical values for display 

in said predetermined tabular format in response to said received 
minimum numerical value and incremental step value for said 

independent variable. 
The device of any preceding claim, wherein said input device further 
receives directional scrolling inputs for traversing said displayed 

numerical values in said tabular format. 
The device, as set forth in claim 4, wherein said received directional 
scrolling input traversing beyond said displayed numerical values in 

said tabular format prompts said processor to compute said 
mathematical function and produce additional ordered sets of 

numerical values for display, and said display scrolls correlative to 
 

said directional scrolling input and displays said additional ordered 
sets of numerical values. 
The device of any preceding claim, wherein said input device further 
receives specific numerical values for said independent variables for 

display in said predetermined tabular format, said processor, in 
response, computes said mathematical function using said received 

specific numerical values for producing corresponding numerical 
values for said dependent variables, and said display displays said 

computed numerical values for said dependent variables in said 
predetermined tabular format. 
A device of any preceding claim and arranged to plot a graph. 
The device of any preceding claim, further comprising a memory for 
storing table setup parameters, wherein said display displays a table 

setup menu in response to a designated table setup menu key of said 
input device being entered, said table setup menu having a designated 

entry for a minimum numerical value for said independent variable 
and a designated entry for an incremental step value for determining a 

range of display in said predetermined tabular format, said input 
device receives a minimum numerical value and an incremental step 

value. 
The device, as set forth in claim 8, wherein said display displays 
numerical values for said independent variable in accordance with 

said received minimum numerical value and said incremental step 
value in said user-defined tabular format, said processor, upon said 

input device receiving a prompting keystroke sequence, computes said 
mathematical function using said received specific numerical values 

for producing corresponding numerical values for said dependent 
 

variables, and said display displays said computed numerical values 
for said dependent variables in said predetermined tabular format. 
The device of any preceding claim, wherein said input device receives a 
display table key input, and in response said processor produces a 

predetermined number of ordered sets of numerical values associated 
with said mathematical function, and said display displays said 

ordered sets in said predetermined tabular format. 
The device of any preceding claim, wherein said input device includes 
a scroll up key, said input device receives a scroll up key input for 

traversing said displayed numerical values upward in said user-defined 
tabular format. 
The device, as set forth in claim 11, wherein said received scroll up key 
input for traversing beyond said displayed numerical values in said 

user-defined tabular format prompts said processor to compute said 
mathematical function and produce additional ordered sets of 

numerical values for display, and said display scrolls upward 
correlative to said scroll up input and displays said additional ordered 

sets of numerical values. 
The device of any preceding claim, wherein said input device includes 
a scroll down key, said input device receives a scroll down key input 

for traversing said displayed numerical values downward in said user-defined 
tabular format. 
The device, as set forth in claim 13, wherein said received scroll down 
key input for traversing beyond said displayed numerical values in 

said user-defined tabular format prompts said processor to compute 
said mathematical function and produce additional ordered sets of 

 
numerical values for display, and said display scrolls downward 

correlative to said scroll down input and displays said additional 
ordered sets of numerical values. 
The device of any preceding claim, further comprising a memory for 
storing table setup parameters, said display displaying a table setup 

menu in response to a designated table setup menu key of said input 
device being entered, said table setup menu having a designated entry 

for selecting an option to user-specify numerical values for said 
independent variable, said input device further receiving specific 

numerical values for said independent variables for display in said 
predetermined tabular format, said processor, in response, computing 

said mathematical function using said received specific numerical 
values for producing corresponding numerical values for said 

dependent variables, and said display automatically displaying said 
computed numerical values for said dependent variables in said 

predetermined tabular format. 
The device of any preceding claim, further comprising a memory for 
storing a table setup menu, said display displaying said table setup 

menu in response to a designated table setup menu key of said input 
device being entered, said table setup menu having a designated entry 

for selecting an option to user-prompt numerical values for said 
dependent variable, said processor, upon said input device receiving a 

prompting input, computing said mathematical function and 
producing corresponding numerical values for said dependent 

variables, and said display displaying said computed numerical values 
for said dependent variables in said predetermined tabul
ar format. 
The device of any preceding claim, further comprising a memory for 
storing a table setup menu, said display displaying said table setup 

 
menu in response to a designated table setup menu key of said input 

device being entered, said table setup menu having a designated entry 
for selecting a first option to user-specify numerical values for said 

independent variable, and a second option to user-prompt numerical 
values for said dependent variable, said input device receiving specific 

numerical values for said independent variables for display in said 
predetermined tabular format, said processor, upon said input device 

receiving a prompting input, computing said mathematical function 
using said received specific numerical values for producing 

corresponding numerical values for said dependent variables, and said 
display displaying said computed numerical values for said dependent 

variables in said predetermined tabular format. 
The device of any preceding claim being a digital computer. 
A method for supporting a graph with tabular information in a 
calculator or computer, comprising the steps of: 

receiving a mathematical function having at least one dependent and 
one independent variable; 

computing said mathematical function and producing ordered sets of 
numerical values for said dependent and independent variables; and 

displaying said computed order sets of numerical values in a 
predetermined tabular format. 
The method, as set forth in claim 19, further comprising the step of 
receiving a minimum numerical value for said independent variable 

and an incremental step value therefor for displaying in said 
predetermined tabular format. 
The method, as set forth in claim 20, wherein said computing step 
further produces a predetermined number of ordered sets of numerical 

 
values for display in said predetermined tabular format in response to 

said received minimum numerical value and incremental step value 
for said independent variable. 
The method, as set forth in claim 19, 20 or 21 further comprising the 
step of receiving directional scrolling inputs for traversing said 

displayed numerical values in said tabular format. 
The method, as set forth in claim 22, further comprising the steps of: 
computing additional ordered sets of numerical values in response to 

receiving directional scrolling input traversing beyond said displayed 
numerical values in said tabular format; and 

scrolling correlative to said directional scrolling input and displaying 
said additional ordered sets of numerical values. 
The method, as set forth in any of claims 19 to 23, further comprising 
the steps of: 

receiving specific numerical values for said independent variables for 
display in said predetermined tabular format; 

computing said mathematical function using said received specific 
numerical values for producing corresponding numerical values for 

said dependent variables; and 
displaying said computed numerical values for said dependent 

variables in said predetermined tabular format. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
