<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646348</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASOUND IMAGING PROBE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B806	A61B806	A61B812	A61B812	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A miniature intravascular ultrasonic imaging probe (12) 
includes a probe guide (14), a holder (36), an ultrasonic 

transducer (34) mounted within said holder (36), means (33) 
for connecting said holder (36) to an axially distal end of 

said probe guide (14), and electrical cable means (28) 
positioned within said probe guide (14) for transmitting 

electrical signals to/from said transducer (34) The means 
for connecting includes a tube section (33), an outwardly 

flared region formed at a distal end of said tube section (33), 
and an inwardly tapered region formed at a proximal end of 

said holder (36) and surrounding said outwardly flared 
region of said tube section (33). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERTHERAPY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERTHERAPY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GESSERT, JAMES M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITH, JAMES M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACIEL, MARIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POPE JR. JOSEPH L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZALESKY, PAUL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to ultrasonic 
intravascular imaging devices -- i.e., devices of 
the type which utilize acoustic transducers 
operating at ultrasonic frequencies to image 
intravascular geometry and/or associated tissue 
characteristics. In a specific embodiment it 
includes an elongate probe guide assembly, an 
ultrasonic transducer fixed to the probe guide 
assembly's distal end, and electrical cabling housed 
within, and extending proximally of, the probe guide 
assembly so as to send/receive electrical signals 
to/from the transducer. This invention effectively reduces "dead space" 
radially of the probe otherwise obscuring nearby 
reflections during the normal "ring down" time of a 
piezoelectric transceiver/transducer immediately 
after a transmit operation. A reflector is distally 
spaced from the transducer so as to reflect the 
ultrasound waves between a first path which is 
substantially parallel to the probe axis and a 
second path which is substantially perpendicular 
(i.e., radial) to the probe axis. A tuning 
induction coil is electrically connected in series 
with the transducer and is coaxially positioned 
within the tube section closely adjacent to the 
transducer. Such structure permits the ultrasound 
probes of this invention to be sufficiently  
 
miniaturized to be useful in extremely near-field 
intravascular imaging procedures. Intravascular probes which include ultrasound 
imaging crystal arrays have been proposed in the 
past. It is known, for example, to mount a 
piezoelectric crystal element (conventionally termed 
a "transducer") on or within a catheter of the type 
which can be inserted into a blood vessel. Once the 
probe has been inserted into a blood vessel, the 
transducer is electro-mechanically excited (as by 
the application of an electrical signal) to cause 
emission of ultrasonic energy into the surrounding 
tissue. While much of the emitted energy is 
absorbed by the surrounding tissue, a sufficient 
amount of energy is reflected back toward the 
transducer to permit imaging (with reflection 
occurring principally at interfaces between 
different types of material, e.g., the interface 
between blood and the vascular wall, the interface 
between blood and lesions adhered to the vascular 
wall, etcetera). The transducer, in turn, produces weak 
electrical signals in response to electro mechanical 
excitation by the returning reflected ("echo") 
ultrasonic energy. These weak electrical signals 
can be used to determine the geometry and/or other 
chara
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) comprising: 
a probe guide (14); 

a holder (36); 
an ultrasonic transducer (34) mounted within said 

holder (36); 
means (33, 62, 64) for connecting said holder (36) to 

an axially distal end of said probe guide (12); and 
electrical cable means (28) positioned within said 

probe guide (12) for transmitting electrical signals 
to/from said transducer (34),characterized in that 

said means for connecting includes: 

(i) a tube section (33); 
(ii) an outwardly flared region (62) formed at a distal 
end of said tube section; and 
(iii) an inwardly tapered region (64) formed at a 
proximal end of said holder (36) and surrounding said 

outwardly flared region (64) of said tube section (33). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 1, 
further comprising; an inductor coil (80) coaxially 

housed within said tube section (33) and having its 
distal end electrically connected to said transducer 

(34), and wherein said cable means (28) includes at 
least two leads (70, 76), one said lead (70) being connected 

to said transducer (34) and the other of said 
 

leads (76) being connected to a proximal end of said 
inductor coil (80). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 1 
or 2, wherein said holder (36) is generally cylindrical 

and defines an open elongate trough region (38), said 
transducer (34) being rigidly housed within said holder 

(36) at a proximal end of said trough region. 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 3, 
further comprising reflector means (44) rigidly housed 

within said holder (36) at a distal end of said trough 
region (38) and coaxially positioned with respect to 

said transducer (34) for reflecting ultrasonic waves at 
substantially right angles to the elongate axis of said 

probe (12). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 4, 
wherein said reflector means (44) includes a polished 

planar surface (46) oriented at an angle of substantially 

45° relative to the elongate axis of said probe 
(12). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 1, 
further comprising guide wire means (50) connected to 

and coaxially extending in advance of said holder (34) 
for assisting in the guiding and manipulation of said 

probe (12) during use. 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 6, 
wherein said guide wire means (50) includes an axially 

flexible coiled guide wire. 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 7, 
wherein said guide wire means (50) includes a tip (52) 

at the distal end thereof, and a continuous safety ribbon 
(54) positioned within said coiled guide wire and 

 
having one end rigidly fixed to said tip (52) and another 

end rigidly attached to the distal end of said 
holder (34). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 8, 
wherein said reflector means (44) at said distal end 

thereof includes a distally projecting cylindrical boss 
(58) having an axially bevelled surface (S6), said 

another end of said safety ribbon (54) being rigidly 
attached to said bevelled surface (54) of said boss 

(58). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 9, 
further comprising second guide wire means (66) having 

a distal end connected to a proximal end of said holder 
(34) and proximally extending therefrom in surrounding 

relationship to said probe tube (33). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 2, 
wherein said cable means (28) is a coaxial cable having 

(a) an inner electrically conductive lead (70) surrounded 
by an inner electrically insulative layer (72), 

and (b) an outer electrically conductive lead (74) surrounded 
by an outer electrically insulative layer (76), 

and wherein said outer electrically conductive lead 
(74) and insulative layer (76) annularly surround said 

inner electrically conductive lead (70) and insulative 
layer (72), and wherein said inner lead (70) is connected 

to said transducer (34) and said outer lead (74) 
is connected to said proximal end of said inductor coil 

(80). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 11, 
further comprising means associated with said coaxial 

cable for establishing an axial mounting space for said 
inductor coil (80) so that said inductor coil (80) and 

coaxial cable (28) are each positioned within said tube 
 

section, said mounting space establishing means being 
provided by an axially removed region of said outer 

electrically conductive lead (74) and insulative layer 
(76) to thereby expose a corresponding axial region of 

said inner electrically conductive lead (70) and insulative 
layer (72), wherein said inductor coil (80) 

occupies the space of said removed region of said outer 
electrically conductive lead (74) and insulative layer 

(76) such that said inductor coil (80) annularly surrounds 
said exposed corresponding axial region of said 

inner electrically conductive lead (70) and insulative 
layer (72). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to one of 
claims 1 through 12 wherein said ultrasound reflector 

(44) reflects incident ultrasonic waves between a first 
path which is parallel to said probe axis and a second 

path which is radial to said probe axis; said ultrasound 
transducer (34) propagates ultrasonic waves 

towards, and receives ultrasonic waves from, said 
reflector (44) along said first path; and wherein said 

reflector (44) is axially distally spaced from said 
transducer (34) by a predetermined dimension such that, 

for a given frequency of operation of said transducer, 
an area where ultrasonic imaging is not possible for 

said given frequency lies between said transducer (34) 
and reflector (44) and thus permits said probe to perform 

ultrasonic imaging immediately radially adjacent 
an external periphery of said holder (36). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe according to one of claims 
1 to 13 further comprising a solid ultrasonic couplant 

medium (49) filling said trough (38) in the space 
between said transducer (34) and reflector (44). 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to claim 14, 
wherein said solid ultrasonic couplant medium (49) consists 

 
essentially of a polymeric material which is substantially 

non-absorbant to said ultrasonic waves. 
An ultrasonic imaging probe (12) according to one of 
claims 1 through 15, wherein said holder (36) is generally 

cylindrical in configuration, and wherein said 
holder (36) and said solid couplant medium (49) collectively 

define a continuous smooth cylindrical outer 
surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
