<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid compositions for refrigeration systems containing fatty amines, fatty amides, and reaction products of fatty acylating agents.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K500	C09K504	C10M11100	C10M11102	C10M11104	C10M16900	C10M16904	C10M17100	C10M17100	C10N3006	C10N4030	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10N	C10N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K5	C09K5	C10M111	C10M111	C10M111	C10M169	C10M169	C10M171	C10M171	C10N30	C10N40	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a liquid composition comprising (A) at least one 
fluorine-containing hydrocarbon containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms, (B) an efficiency 

improving or wear reducing amount of an additive selected from the group consisting of 
at least one fatty amine, at least one fatty amide, at least one reaction product of at least 

one fatty carboxylic acylating agent and at least one amine selected from the group 
consisting of a polyamine, a hydroxy amine and a mixture thereof, and at least one 

mixture thereof, and (C) an effective amount of a lubricant selected from the group 
consisting of at least one carboxylic ester, at least one polyalkylene glycol, at least one 

polycarbonate, and at least one mixture thereof. The liquid compositions containing the 
fatty amine, the fatty amide, the reaction product of a fatty carboxylic acylating agent 

have improved efficiency and antiwear properties. These compositions provide effective 
protection against wear, especially aluminum on steel wear. The compositions help 

prevent formation of metal debris during compressor operations. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUBRIZOL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS KIRK EMERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VINCI JAMES NOEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, KIRK EMERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VINCI, JAMES NOEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to liquid compositions which are useful in refrigerator 
systems, especially those which use environmentally friendly fluorine containing 
hydrocarbon. The liquid compositions contain a fatty amine, a fatty amide, and/or a 
reaction product of a fatty carboxylic acylating agent and a polyamine of hydroxyamine 
together with a carboxylic ester, polyoxyalkylene glycol, or polycarbonate lubricant. The discovery that CFCs contribute substantially to degradation of the ozone layer 
lead to an urgent search for suitable, ozone-friendly replacements. Several candidate 
refrigerant fluids have since been identified. Many of these fall into the category of 
hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs. Hydrofluorocarbons contain at least one carbon atom, and 
have at least one C-F bond and at least one C-H bond. Another category of possible CFC replacements is hydrochlorofluorocarbons, or 
HCFCs. These are similar to HFCs, with the important distinction that HCFCs also 
contain at least one chlorine atom. Hydrochlorofluorocarbons, while not completely free 
of adverse effects on the ozone layer, represent a substantial improvement over CFCs in 
this respect, and may in many cases represent at least an interim solution to the problem 
of CFC replacement. However, the drive to replace CFCs in refrigeration systems did not end with the 
development of HFCs. Refrigeration systems use a mixture of refrigerant fluid with 
lubricant, due to the need to provide internal lubrication to the compressor parts. 
Therefore, the new generation of HFC refrigerant fluids had to be matched to a suitable 
category of compatible - i.e., miscible - lubricants. There was relatively little difficulty 
finding lubricants for use with CFCs, due to the strong solubilizing influence of the 
chlorine atoms. However, the presence of the C-H bond in HFCs greatly reduces their 
miscibility. Thus, it was soon realized that the hydrocarbon lubricants customarily used 
with CFCs were not miscible with HFCs.  Compatible lubricants, such as specific esters and polyalkylene glycols, have been 
found. However, there remains a need for additives which may be combined with these 
compatible lubricants. Additives are needed to provide wear protection to the 
compressor, particularly in compressors using CFC refrigerants because of the absence 
of chlorine. A particular problem in compressor lubrication is aluminum on steel wear. 
For example, high silica content aluminum, such as aluminum 390, may act to cause 
wear on soft steel. When wear is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A liquid composition comprising (A) at least one 
fluorine-containing hydrocarbon containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms, 

(B) an efficiency improving or wear reducing amount of an 
additive selected from at least one fatty amine, at least one 

fatty amide, at least one reaction product of at least one fatty 
carboxylic acylating agent and at least one amine selected from 

a polyamine, a hydroxy amine and a mixture thereof, and at least 
one mixture thereof, and (C) an effective amount of a lubricant 

selected from at least one carboxylic ester, at least one 
polyalkylene glycol, at least one polycarbonate, and at least one 

mixture thereof. 
A liquid composition of claim 1 wherein fluorine is the 
only halogen in the fluorine-containing hydrocarbon. 
A liquid composition of either of claims 1 and 2 wherein 
said fatty amine is represented by the formula: 

 
where R₁ is a hydrocarbyl group containing from about 8 to about 

30 carbon atoms, and R₂ and₃ are each independently hydrogen, an 
alkyl group containing from one to about twenty carbon atoms, a 

hydroxyalkyl group, a carbyloxy, a hydrocarbylcarbyloxy, or a 
polyoxyalkylene group. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim wherein said 
additive is represented by the formula 


 
wherein R₃ is a hydrocarbyl group containing from about 8 to about 

30 carbon atoms, R₄ and R₅ are each independently an alkylene 
group, a is zero or one, and each x is independently a number 

from zero to about 25, with the proviso that at least one of x is 
at least one. 
A liquid composition of claim 4 wherein R₃ is an octyl, 
decyl, decenyl, dodecyl, dodecenyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, 

hydroxytetradecyl, hexadecyl, hydroxyhexadecyl, octadecyl, oleyl, 
coco, soya or tallow group, each R₅ independently contains from 

about two to about six carbon atoms, a is zero, and each x is 
independently a number from one to about five. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim wherein said 
additive is represented by the formula: 

 
wherein R₇ is a hydrocarbyl group containing from about 8 to about 

30 carbon atoms, and each R₈ is independently hydrogen, a 
hydrocarbyl group containing from one to about twenty carbon 

atoms, a hydroxyalkyl group, or a polyoxyalkylene group. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim wherein said 
additive is a polyoxyalkylated oleylamide, stearylamide, 

tallowamide, soyamide, cocoamide, or laurylamide. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim wherein said 
carboxylic ester is a carboxylic ester of a polyhydroxy compound 

containing at least 2 hydroxy groups and characterized by the 
general formula 


 
wherein R₉ is a hydrocarbyl group, each R₁₀ is independently 

hydrogen, a straight chain lower hydrocarbyl group, a branched 
chain hydrocarbyl group, or a straight chain hydrocarbyl group 

containing from 8 to about 22 carbon atoms provided that at least 
one R¹⁰ group is hydrogen, a lower straight chain hydrocarbyl or 

a branched chain hydrocarbyl group, or a carboxylic acid- or 
carboxylic acid ester-containing hydrocarbyl group, and n is at 

least 2. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim wherein said 
carboxylic ester is at least one carboxylic ester of at least one 

polyhydroxy compound and a member selected from: 

(a) at least one monocarboxylic acylating agent having 
from about 4 to about 15 carbon atoms, 
(b) at least one branched chain monocarboxylic acylating 
agent having from about 8 to about 9 carbon atoms, 
(c) at least one straight chain monocarboxylic acylating 
having from about 4 to about 6 carbon atoms, 
(d) at least one mixture of 

(i) at least one monocarboxylic acylating agent 
having from about four to about five carbon 

atoms and 
(ii) (b) at least one monocarboxylic acylating 
agent having from about 7 to about 15 carbon 

atoms, and 
(e) combinations thereof. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim wherein said 
carboxylic ester is at least one carboxylic ester of a 

polyhydroxy compound and at least one combination of (i) at least 
one polycarboxylic acylating agent and (ii) at least one 

monocarboxylic acylating agent having from about 4 to about 15 
carbon atoms. 
A liquid composition of claim 10 wherein said 
monocarboxylic acylating agent (i) is at least one branched chain 

monocarboxylic acylating agent having from about 8 to about 9 
carbon atoms, and said polycarboxylic acylating agent (ii) 

contains from about 2 to about 12 carbon atoms. 
A liquid composition of any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein 
said polyhydroxy compound is selected from neopentyl glycol, 

glycerol, trimethylolpropane, di(trimethylolpropane), 
pentaerythritol, dipentaerythritol, tripentaerythritol, and 

mixtures thereof. 
A liquid composition of any preceding claim further 
comprising (D) at least one member selected from 
at least one 
phosphorus antiwear agent, at least one metal deactivator, and a 

mixture thereof. 
A liquid composition of claim 13 wherein said phosphorus 
antiwear agent is selected from at least one alkyl or aryl 

phosphite, at least one alkyl phosphonate ester, at least one 
alkyl or aryl phosphate, at least one phosphorus containing 

ester, amide or ether, and at least one mixture thereof. 
A liquid composition of either of claims 13 and 14 wherein 
said member (D) is selected from at least one aryl phosphate 

having from about 6 to about 12 carbon atoms, at least one alkyl 
phosphite independently having from about one to about 20 carbon 

atoms in each alkyl group, and at least one alkyl phosphonate 
independently having from about one to about 20 carbon atoms. 
A liquid composition of any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein 
said member (D) is at least one nitrogen-containing heterocycle. 
A liquid composition of claim 16 wherein said 
nitrogen-containing heterocycle is at least one triazole or 

derivative thereof. 
A liquid composition of claim 16 wherein said 
nitrogen-containing heterocycle is tolyltriazole, benzotriazole, 

or at least one reaction product of at least one benzotriazole, 
at least one amine, and at least one aldehyde or aldehyde 

precursor. 
A liquid composition of any one of claims 13 to 18 wherein 
said member (D) is a mixture of at least one alkyl phosphite 

independently having from about 1 to about 20 carbon atoms in 
each alkyl group, and at least one triazole or derivative 

thereof. 
A liquid composition of any one of claims 13 to 19 wherein 
said member (D) is tricresylphosphate, dibutyl phosphite, or 

dibutyl butyl phosphonate. 
A composition comprising (B) at least one fatty amine 
and (C) at least one carboxylic ester or at least one 

polyalkylene glycol lubricant. 
A method of lubricating a compressor comprising the steps 
of introducing to said compressor (A) at least one fluorine-containing 

hydrocarbon containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms, (B) an 
efficiency improving or wear reducing amount of an additive 

selected from at least one fatty amine, at least one fatty amide, 
and at least one mixture thereof, and (C) an effective amount of 

a lubricant selected from at least one carboxylic ester, at least 
one polyalkylene glycol, at least one polycarbonate, and at least 

one mixture thereof, and operating the compressor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
