<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HEATING CONTROL MEANS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6500	B29C6500	B29C6518	B29C6518	G05D2320	G05D2320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for controlling heating of heat sealing dies (12) relative to a target temperature has one or more electrical resistance heating elements (10) switched between "on" and "off" states for getting electrical power, according to frequency and durations of control signals. A first signal (from 42) proportional to said target temperature and a second signal (from 18) proportional to actual temperature to be controlled are compared (36, 38) to gauge prevailing temperature difference. Means (28, 30; 24, 26) responsive to comparison results is operative for varying said durations and said frequency of the control signals, both according to said temperature difference and to reduce same.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEETAK DEVELOPMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEETAK DEVELOPMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTTERY GERALD WHITE CROFTS ST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTTERY, GERALD 10 WHITE CROFTS STOTFOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE.-HEATING CONTROL MEANS DESCRIPTIONThe invention relates to heating means and more particularly, but not exclusively, to means for controlling electric heaters for use in apparatus and heat sealing plastics packaging film.It is known to seal or join flexible plastics packaging material by welding using heat supplied for example by hot air, or by heated metal dies often nowadays faced with other materials. It is usually important that the temperature of the dies is closely controlled since too low a temperature will result in poor or no sealing of the plastics film, whereas too high a temperature can damage even destroy, the plastic film again resulting in poor or no sealing. Historically, heated metal dies have comprised quite large metal blocks having a high thermal inertia in an attempt to provide temperature stability. This however means that it is impossible quickly to change or even correct the die temperature relative to a required target temperature.At least for heat sealing plastics film it is known to use heated dies faced with thermally conductive silicone rubber able to conform more closely to shape for what is to be heat-sealed than is the case for bare rigid metal dies. Although rubber-faced dies, or other faced dies, can be desirable, they are often adversely susceptible to temperatures higher than target, particularly to protracted such over-heating, so their heating should be closely controlled. It is advantageous for such dies, particularly rubber-faced dies, to have low thermal inertia, otherwise there can be early and unpredictable failure of the bond between the facing, such as rubber, and the electrical heating element or other carrier, which can create undesirable temperature gradients along the die with consequent inefficiency of resulting heat seals.It is an object of the invention to provide means of controlling the temperature of a low thermal inertia heat 

 sealing die, whether or not faced and regardless of any facing material used.According to the invention heating control means for controlling the temperature of a member to be heated by an electrical resistance heating element comprises means for generating a control signal proportional to a target temperature, means for generating a control signal proportional to the actual temperature of the member, means comparing the two control signals to gauge the temperature difference, and means responsive to the control signal comparison for switching a power supply to the heating element, the switching being such that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. Apparatus for controlling heating of heat sealing dies relative to a target temperature, comprising at least one electrical resistance heating element, means for switching between "on" and "off" states for supply of electrical power to said heating element according to frequency and durations of control signals, means for generating a first signal proportional to said target temperature, means for generating a second signal proportional to actual temperature to be controlled by said heating elements, means for making comparisons of the first and second signals to gauge prevailing temperature difference between said actual and target temperatures, and means responsive to results of said comparisons for varying said frequency and said durations of the control signals both according to said temperature difference and to reduce same.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1,wherein changes of said frequency and of said durations serve for relatively fine and relatively coarse control, respectively.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein changes of said frequency and said durations overlap.
4. Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said means for making comparisons and said means responsive are operative relative to prescribed temperature differences for step-wise changes in said frequency and durations of the control signal.
5. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein largest prescribed temperature difference below the target temperature corresponds to maxima for said frequency and said durations, and largest prescribed temperature difference above the target temperature corresponds to minima for said frequency and said durations.
6. Apparatus according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein reductions of said frequency and of said durations, considered for increasing actual temperature, are progressive for prescribed temperature differences 


 from below through and above the target temperature.
7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein at least one change of said frequency coincides with a change of said duration.
8. Apparatus according to any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein temperature comparator circuitry is operative to provide an input for each of prescribed temperature differences corresponding to required changes of said frequency and/or said durations.
9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein distinct temperature comparator circuits of said circuitry are operative to control setting of said frequency and of said durations, respectively.
10. Apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein said comparator circuitry includes operational amplifiers, one for each prescribed temperature difference required.
11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein each operational amplifier is operative for equality of input signals representing the actual and target temperatures, and inputs thereto concerning the target temperature are after being subjected to offsets as required.
12. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein representation of the actual and target temperatures and offsetting the latter are at 10 millivolts per degree centigrade.
13. Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein control of said frequency is by way of a voltage controlled oscillator.
14. Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein control of said durations is by way of a voltage controlled pulse duration setting circuit.
15. Apparatus according to claim 13 or claim 14, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator and/or pulse duration setting circuit are controlled by outputs from resistive ladder networks. 


 16. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said voltage controlled pulse duration setting circuit is controlled by a circuit alternatively operative to set one of two different time constants.
17. Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein plural heating elements of plural heat sealing dies or die parts are controlled sequentially within each period of said frequency.
18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein a set sequence of energising the plural heating elements is followed in each said period.
19. Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein trailing edges of the control signals for preceding heating elements in said sequence serve to trigger the control signals for the next of the heating elements in said sequence.
20. Apparatus according to claim 17, 18 or 19, where n control signal duration adjustment means is operative relative to different ones of the heater elements and relative to single actual temperature sensing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
