<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640228</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REDUCING MEMORY WEAROUT IN A COMPUTER SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1202	G06F1202	G06F1208	G06F1208	G06F1216	G06F1216	G11C800	G11C800	G11C1602	G11C1602	G11C1700	G11C1700	G11C2900	G11C2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G11C8	G11C8	G11C16	G11C16	G11C17	G11C17	G11C29	G11C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device and method for managing storage of data in the storage locations of a computer memory by periodically modifying a translation scheme so that input addresses are altered in a systematic and predetermined manner such that storage of data is evenly distributed among computer memory storage locations.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU LISHING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REOHR WILLIAM ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEN DAVID TJENG-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU, LISHING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REOHR, WILLIAM, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEN, DAVID, TJENG-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REDUCING MEMORY WEAROUT IN A COMPUTER SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates generally to memories of computer systems and, more particularly, to reducing or preventing wearout of storage locations and circuits in computer memory systems.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONBasic computer storage hierarchies include main storage, cache storage and auxiliary storage (for example, disks) . Main storage is typically implemented with either static RAM (SRAM) or dynamic RAM (DRAM) array chips; and main storage stores data that is directly accessible by program software via a corresponding physical address. Cache storage is utilized as a fast buffer for data accessing by the central processing unit (CPU) in order to compensate for the long lead-delays associated with main memory accesses.Breakdown or failure of any one circuit or conductor of a memory chip or system can cause the entire memory chip to fail. One cause of failure of a memory circuit is wearing out of the circuit. Many factors contribute to the wearout of memory circuits. For example, the phenomenon of electromigration is a contributing factor to circuit wearout. Electro¬ migration is the movement of atoms caused by collisions with energetic electrons. This motion is due to an exchange of momentum between the electrons and the atoms. Over a period of time, voids can form in the metal conductor as a result of electro- 

migration. Voids in a metal conductor causes an increase in current density. This can be explained by the fact that the size of the conductor is reduced as a result of the voids, but the remaining conductor must still carry the same quantity of energetic electrons. Such current density increase accentuates conductor atom movement, thus accelerating metal void growth in the conductor. Eventually, a complete open circuit in the metal conductor may result, possibly causing a breakdown of the entire memory chip.In order to reduce or prevent conductor wearout, current density guidelines for long term reliability are established by memory circuit designers. Essentially, the guidelines dictate how thick a wire must be so as to adequately support a certain current over a given period of time. That period of time being the lifetime of the chip. Reliability guidelines are set so that a memory chip will not likely wear out over its useful lifetime.When memory chips are designed, worse case current density numbers are determined for each circuit. The worse case numbers assume that the same circuit switches every memory
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A device for managing storage of data in the storage locations of a computer memory, comprising: translation means for receiving input addresses and altering said input addresses in accordance with a translation scheme so as to develop output addresses, wherein each of said input addresses comprises a plurality of segments, and wherein each of said input addresses and each of said output addresses corresponds to a computer memory storage location; and controlling means for developing and sending control signals to said translation means for periodically modifying the translation scheme so that altering of said input addresses by said translation means is conducted in a systematic and predetermined manner such that storage of data is evenly distributed among computer memory storage locations.
2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the translation scheme is modified after elapsing of a preset time period.
3. A device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said translation means alters all input addresses in accordance with a single translation scheme throughout a time period.
4. A device according to claim 1 being further adapted to manage storage of data in a computer memory which comprises a plurality of portions, each portion including at least one computer memory storage location, and wherein a plurality of translation schemes are provided, such that said translation means alters input addresses corresponding to a first portion of computer memory in accordance with a first 


translation scheme, and said translation means alters input addresses corresponding to a second portion of computer memory in accordance with a second translation scheme.
5. A device according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein data is written to the computer memory storage locations which correspond to the developed output addresses.
6. A device according to any one of the previous claims, wherein said translation means receives input addresses from a central processing unit.
7. A device according to any one of the previous claims, wherein said translation means alters selected segments of said input addresses for developing output addresses.
8. A device according to any one of the previous claims, wherein said translation means includes inversion means for inverting selected segments of said input addresses.
9. A device according to claim 8, wherein said inversion means comprises EXCLUSIVE-OR gates.
10. A device according to any one of the previous claims, wherein said translation means includes a circular shift register.
11. A device according to any of claims 1-3 or 5-10, wherein a plurality of translation schemes are provided, said device further comprising: means for reloading data previously stored in 


accordance with a first translation scheme to computer memory storage locations which are in accordance with a second translation scheme, said first translation scheme being modified for developing said second translation scheme.
12. A device according to claim 11, wherein said means for reloading data includes a temporary buffer for temporarily holding data to be reloaded.
13. A method for managing storage of data in the storage locations of a computer memory, comprising the steps of: receiving input addresses from a source, each of said input addresses comprising segments; providing a translation scheme for altering said input addresses in accordance therewith; periodically modifying the translation scheme in a systematic and predetermined manner so that storage of data is evenly distributed among computer memory storage locations; altering said input addresses in accordance with the translation scheme for developing output addresses; and outputting said output addresses.
14.. A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of periodically modifying the translation scheme is conducted after elapsing of a preset time period.
15. A method according to claim 13 or 14, wherein all input addresses are altered in accordance with a single translation scheme throughout a time period.
16. A method according to claim 13 being further 


adapted to manage storage of data in a computer memory which comprises a plurality of portions, each portion including at least one computer memory storage location, and wherein a plurality of translation schemes are provided, such that a first translation scheme alters input addresses corresponding to a first portion of computer memory in accordance with a first translation scheme, and a second translation scheme alters input addresses corresponding to a second portion of computer memory in accordance with a second translation scheme.
17. A method according to any one of claims 13-16, further comprising the step of writing data to computer memory storage locations which correspond to the developed output addresses.
18. A method according to any one of claims 13-17, wherein the source from which input addresses are received is a central processing unit.
19. A method according to any one of claims 13-18, wherein the step of altering said input addresses comprises altering selected segments of said input addresses.
20. A method according to any one of claims 13-19, wherein the translation scheme includes inverting selected segments of said input addresses.
21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the inverting of selected segments of said input addresses is conducted using EXCLUSIVE-OR gates. 


 22. A method according to claim any one of claims 13-15 or 17-21, further comprising the step of reloading data previously stored in computer memory storage locations in accordance with a first translation scheme to computer memory storage locations in accordance with a second translation scheme, said first translation scheme being modified for developing said second translation scheme. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
