<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640458</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Insulated mold structure for injection molding of optical disks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B726	B29L1700	B29C4526	B29K10112	B29C4526	G11B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	B29L	B29C	B29K	B29C	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B7	B29L17	B29C45	B29K101	B29C45	G11B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An insulated mold insert (12) is provided for injection 
molding compact disks and optical disks. The mold 

insert (12) is removably located in the mold cavity behind 
the stamper (20). The mold insert (12) has an insulation layer (24) 

retaining heat at the molding surface, thereby 
increasing surface smoothness of the molded part. The 

insert (12) may have a metal surface for contacting the back 
side of the stamper (20). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to
insulated molds and more particularly to a mold insert
useful in a process for molding optical and compact
disks having reduced birefringence, improved pits
replication and improved molding characteristics.Various types of molds have long been in use for
preparing shaped articles from thermoplastic resins.
Molds for these purposes are typically manufactured
from metal or a similar material having high thermal
conductivity. For most purposes, high thermal
conductivity is desirable since it permits the resin in
the mold to cool rapidly, shortening the molding cycle
time. At times, however, cooling is so rapid that the
resin freezes instantaneously at the mold surface upon
introduction into the mold, forming a thin solid layer
which, especially if it contains a filler, can create
rough surfaces, voids, porosity and high levels of
residual stress and orientation. In an optical disk,
such imperfections impede the optical properties and
decrease or eliminate performance.There have recently been disclosed multilayer
molds in which a metal core has an insulating layer
bonded thereto for the purpose of slowing the initial
cooling of the resin during the molding operation. The
insulating layer is fabricated of material having low
thermal conductivity, thus slowing the cooling of the
molded resin, and also having good resistance to high
temperature degradation, permitting use in a mold
maintained at high temperatures. In order to improve
durability of the mold and improve surface qualify one
or more skin layers of hard material, typically metal,
is bonded to the insulating layer. The skin layer may 
be deposited by such operations as electroless
deposition, electrolytic deposition and combinations
thereof. Due to the insulation, the skin layer retains
heat during the molding operation, thereby avoiding the
surface irregularities created by rapid surface
cooling. Thus, these devices provide a surface with
lower residual stress and less orientation than a
conventionally molded part while maintaining a
relatively short cycle time.Depending on specific requirements, plastic parts
can be made by any of a number of known molding
processes such as blow molding, compression injection
molding, molding and injection compression molding.In compression molding, composite blanks of glass
reinforced thermoplastic sheets are heated. The
material is heated above its melting point or if an
amorphous material at least substantially above its
glass transition temperature. When the

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A molding apparatus having a stamper (20) for
molding molten thermoplastic materials into finished

optical media comprising:

a support (14) for receiving the stamper; and
an insulating mold insert (12) removably
located between the support and the stamper for slowing

initial cooling of the thermoplastic during molding said
insert having an insulating layer with a thickness

dimension, characterised by the thickness dimension
having a centre region and two edge regions, and a

density variation across the thickness dimension wherein
the centre region of the thickness dimension has a low

density and the edge regions have a high density.
The molding apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the
insert includes at least one outer skin layer (26)

disposed for contact with the stamper.
The molding apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the
outer skin layer has a mirror finish.
The molding apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the
insert further includes an outer skin layer disposed for

contacting the mold support.
The molding apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the at
least one outer skin layer comprises a plurality of

sublayers comprising an outer sublayer (29) and at least
one inner sublayer (28).
The molding apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the
insulating mold insert comprises:


a first layer of temperature-resistant material 
having low thermal conductivity;
a second layer deposited on said first layer,
comprising a suspension of metal particles in a

temperature-resistant material having low thermal
conductivity.
The molding apparatus of Claim 6 further
including an outer metallic skin formed on the second

layer.
The molding apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the
insulating layer comprises a material selected from the

group consisting of polyimides and polyamideimides.
The molding apparatus of Claim 8 wherein the
insulating layer is about 50 µm to about 500 µm (about 2

to about 20 mils) thick.
A method for molding an optical medium
comprising the steps of:


charging a molten thermoplastic material into a
molding apparatus having a stamper (20) and a support

(14) for receiving the stamper;
and an insulating mold insert (12) removably
located between the support and the stamper for slowing

initial cooling of the thermoplastic during molding, said
insert having an insulating layer with a thickness

dimension,
retaining the material in the mold for a time
sufficient for the material to cool below its glass

transition temperature to form the optical medium; and
ejecting the optical medium from the mold,
characterised by the thickness dimension of the insert

having a centre region and two edge regions, and a
density variation across the thickness dimension wherein 

the centre region of the thickness dimension has a low
density and the edge regions having a high density.
The method of Claim 10 wherein the insulating
mold insert includes at least one outer skin layer (26)

disposed for contact with the stamper.
The method of Claim 11 wherein the outer skin
layer has a mirror finish.
The method of Claim 10 wherein the insert
comprises an insulating layer of temperature resistant

material having a low thermal conductivity.
The method of Claim 12 wherein the insulating
layer comprises a material selected from the group

consisting of polyimides and polyamideimides.
The method of Claim 12 wherein the insulating
layer is about 50 µm to about 500 µm (about 2 to about 20

mils) thick.
The method of Claim 10 wherein the insert
comprises:


a first layer (24) of temperature-resistant
material having low thermal conductivity;
a second layer (28) deposited on said first
layer, comprising a suspension of metal particles (34) in

a temperature-resistant material having low thermal
conductivity.
The method of Claim 16 wherein the second layer
further comprises a metal skin layer (29) atop the second

layer. 
The method according to Claim 10, wherein the
thermoplastic material is a material, filled or unfilled,

selected from the group consisting of polyamide,
polyester, a copolymer of polybutadiene terepthalate with

soft linkages formed of polycarbonate and methylene,
polyether ketone, polyetherimide, polylactam,

polypropylene, polyethylene, polystyrene, styrene-acrylonitrile,
acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene

terpolymer, nylon and blends thereof.
The method according to Claim 10 wherein the
thermoplastic material is a material selected from the

group consisting of filled or unfilled polycarbonate,
polyester, polyphenylene oxide, acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene,

styrene-acrylonitrile, polyamide and polymeric
combinations thereof.
A mold insert (12) for a molding apparatus (10)
having a stamper (20) for molding molten thermoplastic

materials into finished optical media, and a support (14)
for receiving the stamper comprising an insulating layer

insert removably located between the supported and the
stamper for slowing initial cooling of the thermoplastic

during molding, said insulating layer insert having a
thickness dimension, characterised by the thickness

dimension having a centre region and two edge regions,
and a density variation across the thickness dimension

wherein the centre region of the thickness dimension has
a low density and the edge regions have a high density.
The mold insert of Claim 20 wherein the
insulating layer insert comprises an insulating layer of

temperature resistant material having a low thermal
conductivity. 
The mold insert of Claim 21 wherein the
insulating layer insert comprises a material selected

from the group consisting of polyamides and
polyamidemides.
The mold insert of Claim 21 wherein the
insulating layer insert is 50 µm to about 500 µm (about 2

to about 20 mils) thick.
The mold insert of Claim 20 wherein the
insulating layer insert comprises:


a first layer (24) of temperature-resistant
material having low thermal conductivity;
a second layer (28) deposited on said first
layer, comprising a suspension of metal particles (34) in

a temperature-resistant material having a low thermal
conductivity.
The mold insert of Claim 24 further including
an outer metallic skin (24) formed on the second layer.
The mold insert of Claim 20 including at least
one outer skin layer disposed for contact with the

stamper.
The mold insert of Claim 26 wherein the outer
skin layer has a mirror finish.
The mold insert of Claim 20 wherein the
insulating layer insert further includes an other skin

layer disposed for contacting the support.
The mold insert of Claim 28 wherein the at
least one outer skin layer comprises a plurality of

sublayers comprising an outer sublayer and at least one 
inner sublayer.
The mold insert of Claim 29 wherein the
plurality of sublayers comprises first, second and third

sublayers.
The mold insert of Claim 20 wherein the
insulating layer insert comprises a material selected

from the group consisting of polyimides and
polyamideimides.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
