<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658149</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC SPLICING APPARATUS AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65C900	B65C942	B65H1918	B65H1918	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65C	B65C	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65C9	B65C9	B65H19	B65H19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for splicing the leading label in a roll (11) of labels to one of the last labels in a second roll (12). The second roll (12), depleted because the labels are applied to articles in an assembly line (67), has a photosensitive device (66) that registers this depletion as the second roll (12) is consumed. The device initiates splicing the leading label to a label in the depleted roll. A controller (64) also responds to the device by moving the dancer arm (26) to a predetermined position in order to control the registration of the leading label with the last labels in the second roll. The controller (64) also responds to a count of the labels that are in the web between the production line (67) and the splice in order to identify the article to which the splice has been applied and to eject that article from the production line (67).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMS GILBRETH PACKAGING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMS GILBRETH PACKAGING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINTON GAYLEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINTON, GAYLEN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATIC SPLICING APPARATUS AND METHODTechnical Field This invention relates to methods and apparatus for splicing labels and, more particularly, to methods and apparatus for automatically splicing a fresh roll of packaging labels to the terminal portion of a depleted roll of labels in order to permit uninterrupted application of these labels to the packaging, and the like.Background ArtHigh speed packaging machinery is essential to meet large demands for consumer products in a market-oriented economy. As a consequence, there is a need for machinery that can satisfy mass market packaging requirements swiftly, inexpensively and without interruption. Machinery of this character also must satisfy further needs, among which, safe and reliable operation by relatively unskilled production personnel are typical.Drawing labels from a preprinted roll and applying these labels to a row of articles that are moving along a production line at high speed is a relatively common production activity. Difficulties arise, however, in making a transition to a fresh roll of labels as the roll in use is depleted, and an illustrative apparatus for splicing a fresh roll of labels to a depleted roll is described in United States Patent No. 5,064,488, granted November 12, 1991 to D. M. Dickey.There are, however, further needs and among these is the need to reduce production costs by providing a splicing apparatus that does not require the presence of an attendant to initiate or help in the actual splicing process. Label "registration" during roll changeover also is a most important matter. Thus, as a fresh roll of labels is fed into the packaging machinery, it is essential that each of these labels is severed from the web of labels that is drawn from the fresh roll precisely at the margin separating one label from the next label in the sequence on that web. Only a little imagination is required to picture the waste 

 and expense that will result if labels are severed from a roll at some place other than at the predetermined line of severance and the labels, so mutilated, are applied to the articles moving along the production line.To swiftly identify those articles in the array on the production line to which a spliced label has been applied is also quite important. The adhesive strip, ordinarily used to attach the leading label in the web drawn from a fresh roll to one of the last labels in the depleted roll, necessarily will be applied to one of the articles moving through the production line. The adhesive strip mars the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for splicing the leading label in a web of labels to a label in a running web of labels that are being applied to articles in a production line comprising, a reel for supporting the web of labels for rotation thereon, another reel for supporting the running web of labels for rotation thereon, a photosensitive device associated with said another reel for generating a signal that corresponds to the depletion of the running web of labels, a controller coupled to said photosensitive device for controlling the speed of the running web, a brake for stopping the movement of at least a portion of the running web, and further brake means coupled to said another reel for establishing a tension in the ninning web between said brake and said another reel.
2. Apparatus according to Claim 1 , further comprising a dancer arm for establishing tension in the running web in the portion of the running web that extends beyond said brake, the running web engaging said dancer arm, and means for responsive to said controller for moving said dancer arm to a predetermined position in order to establish a specific length of the running web for registering the leading label in the web of labels with the labels in the running web.
3. Apparatus according to Claim 1 , further comprising means for generating signals that correspond to the labels that are applied to the articles in the production line, means for transmitting said signals to said controller, said controller counting said labels to identify the label that is spliced to the running web, and ejection means coupled to said controller for removing the article in the production line to which the spliced label is applied.
4. An apparatus for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising a dancer arm for engaging said second web of labels to establish a tension therein, a controller for counting the labels in the second web and the spliced label, and a means responsive to said controller count for moving said dancer arm to a predetermined position, establishing a fixed length of the second web with respect to said dancer arm in order 


to register the labels in the second web with the labels in the web that is spliced thereto.
5. An apparatus for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising a controller for counting the application of each of the labels that are applied to the respective articles in the production line between one of said articles to the spliced label and means responsive to said controller for ejecting the article from the production line to which the spliced label is applied.
6. A method for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising the steps of splicing the leading label to a label in the second web, establishing a predetermined number of labels between the production line and said splice, counting the labels that are applied to the articles to identify the splice and ejecting the article from the production line to which the spliced label is applied.
7. A method for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising the steps of splicing the leading label to a label in the second web, establishing a predetermined length of labels between the production line and said splice in order to register the labels in the web that is spliced to the second web with the labels in the second web.
8. A method for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a moving production line comprising the steps of signalling the depletion of the second roll of labels, decreasing the speed of the moving production line in response to said depletion signal and splicing the leading label in registration with a label in the second web thereof. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 24 January 1994 ( 24.01 .94 ) ; original claim 7 amended ; other cl aims unchanged ( 2 pages ) ]
• a tension therein, a controller for counting the labels in the second web and the spliced label, and a means responsive to said controller count for moving said dancer arm to a predetermined position, establishing a fixed length of the second web with respect to said dancer arm in order to register the labels in the second web with the labels in the web that is spliced thereto.
5. An apparatus for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of
10 labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising a controller for counting the application of each of the labels that are applied to the respective articles in the production line between one of said articles to the
" spliced label and means responsive to said controller for ejecting the article from the production line to which the spliced label in applied.
6. A method for splicing the leading label in a web drawn 20 from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising the steps of splicing the leading label to a label in the second web, establishing a predetermined number of labels between the production line and said splice,
25 counting the labels that are applied to the articles to identify the splice and ejecting the article from the production line to which the spliced label is applied.
7. A method for splicing the leading label in a web drawn
30 from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawing from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a production line comprising the steps of splicing the leading label to a label in the second web, establishing a 35 


predetermined length of labels between the production line and said splice in order to register the labels in the web that is spliced to the second web with the labels in the second web, generating a count signal that corresponds to the labels that are in the web between the production line and said splice, and ejecting from the production line the article to which said spliced label have been applied in response to said label count.
8. A method for splicing the leading label in a web drawn from a roll of labels to a label in a second web drawn from a second roll of labels in which the labels are applied to articles in a moving production line comprising the steps of signalling the depletion of the second roll of labels, decreasing the speed of the moving production line in response to said depletion signal and splicing the leading label in registration with a label in the second web thereof. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
United States Patent No. 5,064,488 granted to D. M. Dickey on November 12, 1991 for "Apparatus and Method For Splicing Film" has been cited in "Category X" against applicant's method claim 7.
As amended, method claim 7 now recites the steps of generating a count signal that corresponds to the labels that are in the web between the production line and said splice, and ejecting from the production line the article to which said spliced label has been applied in response to said label count. The United States '488 patent, in contrast, does not generate a count signal and does not eject an article to which a spliced label has been applied from the production line. Quite the contrary of applicant's invention as recited in method claim 7, the United States '488 patent is completely silent on anything that is remotely similar to applicant's claimed count signal generation and article ejection steps. 


 Accordingly, it is respectfully submitted that amended claim 7 satisfies the standards for patentability established under the terms of the Patent Cooperation Treaty. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
