<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649188</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Waterproof electrical connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R13523	H01R13523	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to an open-face waterproof, underwater matable 
electrical connector which can be used in marine seismic operations. The male 

receptacle (3) is of a one-piece construction 
and made of a molded relatively hard and rigid 

plastic, with electrical connectors (16) 
encapsulated therein. The core of the female receptacle (1) 

is of a one-piece construction and made 
of a relatively soft plastic, with electrical sockets (9) 

encapsulated therein. The female receptacle (1) 
also includes an external elongated tubular 

shell, or housing (11) made of a high density plastic material. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPUT OUTPUT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPUT/OUTPUT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD RICHARD G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD, RICHARD G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Underwater electrical cables and electrical connectors cause major problems
when they leak. Leakage is common due to the fact that such cables, and their
connectors, commonly operate in subsurface environments or in near surface
atmospheric environments characterized by extreme salt and humidity. Frequently, the
male and female portions of these connectors are each constructed of a separate core
and housing, which must be bonded together. Such connectors can have problems with
leakage in the area of the bond between each core and housing. Additionally, the cores
and housings of these connectors are often made of different materials. As a result,
bonding at the interface between the different materials is imperfect and can cause
water leakage problems.Moreover, when electrical contacts are embedded, either wholly or partially,
within the male and female portions, water can penetrate the interface between the
dissimilar materials of the electrical contacts and the male and female portions of the
connector. For example, German Patent Publication DE-A-26 50 240 discloses
electrical contact members embedded in both the male and female portions of an
electrical connector. In both portions, any water or moisture that may be present prior
to electrical assembly of the connector can pass along the interface between the
respective electrical contacts and the surrounding insulating material of the connector
portions. In a similar manner, British Patent Publication GB-A-2 131 633 discloses
electrical contacts partially embedded in respective male and female portions of an
electrical connector assembly. Neither of the above arrangements provide an electrical
connector that is open-face waterproof, nor do the German or British publications
disclose a structure or other means for sealing the interface between respective
electrical contacts and the surrounding material in which the contacts are embedded.
Thus, water or moisture can readily wick along the interface between the dissimilar
materials and penetrate the connector and/or the multi-wire electrical cable assemblies
attached to the connectors.The general object or the present invention is to provide an electrical connector
which solves the water leakage problems described above and which can be utilized in 
marine seismic operations. Another object or the invention is to provide and electrical
connector which is open-face waterproof. Still another object of the invention is to
provide an electrical connector which can provide a water-tight connection even if
conn
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical connector assembly for use in marine and corrosive
environments, said electrical connector assembly comprising a connector body (4) and

a connector core (15) configured to allow telescoping interaction together when
assembled, said connector body (4) having a plurality of sockets (9) molded therein,

each of said sockets (9) having an electrically conductive sleeve (31) disposed therein and at least
one radially inwardly extending sealing rib (27) integrally formed on an internal wall

surface of each of said sockets (9), and the connector core (15) having a plurality of
electrical contact members (16) at least partially encapsulated therein, each of the

electrical contact members (16) having a predetermined length that is surrounded by
a sheath (18) extending along a portion of said length and integrally formed with said

core (15), said contact members (16) being arranged for engagement with a
predetermined one of said electrical sleeves (31) disposed in a corresponding socket (9)

molded in said body (4) whereby said at least one sealing rib (27)
cooperates with a respective sheath (18)

surrounding a portion of each of said electrical contact members (16) to form a
waterproof seal between each respective socket (9) and sheath (18) solely in response

to inserting the contact members (16) into electrical contacting engagement with the
sleeves (31), said electrical connector assembly being

characterized by said connector core (15) having an integrally formed tubular wall
portion (17) that is closed at one end (20) and open at the other end (21) and said

electrical contact members (16) having a plurality of axially
spaced and radially inwardly extending grooves (29)

with the connector core (15) being mold formed around the electrical contact members
(16) and filling the grooves (29)

to prevent the passage
of water between a respective contact member (16) and the sheath (18) surrounding a

portion of the length of the contact member (16). 
The electrical connector assembly of claim 1, wherein said
electrical sleeve (31) disposed in each of said sockets (9) has a plurality of axially

spaced and radially inwardly extending grooves (30) arranged to prevent the passage
of water between the sleeve (31) and the internal wall surface of said socket (9).
The electrical connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the
connector body (4) is formed of a relatively soft plastic material and the connector core

(15) is formed of a relatively hard and rigid plastic material.
The electrical connector assembly of claim 3, wherein the
relatively soft plastic material from which the connector body (4) is formed is

polyurethane.
The electrical connector assembly of claim 3, wherein the
relatively hard and rigid plastic material from which the connector core (15) is formed

is fiberglass impregnated polyurethane.
The electrical connector assembly of claim 1, wherein said
electrical connector assembly is open-face waterproof.
The electrical connector assembly of claim 1, wherein said
connector core (15) forms a male plug portion of said connector assembly and said

connector body (4) forms a female receptacle portion of said connector assembly.
The electrical connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the
axially spaced and radially inwardly extending grooves (29) of said electrical contact

members (16) disposed in said core (15) are filled with the same material as said core
(15) whereby said contact member grooves (29) and said core material cooperate to 

form a waterproof seal between said contact members (16) and said core (15).
The electrical connector assembly of claim 2, wherein the
axially spaced and radially inwardly extending grooves (30) of said electrical sleeves

(31) disposed in each of the sockets (9) of the connector body (4) are filled with the
same material as said body (4) whereby said sleeve grooves (30) and said body material

cooperate to form a waterproof seal between said sleeves (31) and said body (4).
The electrical connector assembly of claim 1, wherein said
connector assembly includes a shell (11) having a plurality of internal threads (13)

formed adjacent one end thereof and said connector core (15) has a plurality of external
threads (23) disposed on an outer circumferential surface, said shell (11) being disposed

in substantially surrounding and independently rotatable relationship with respect to
said connector body (4), and said electrical contact members (16) of the connector core

(15) being drawn into and maintained in electrical contact with the sleeves (31) of the
connector body (4) in response to threadably engaging the internal threads (13) of the

shell (11) with the external threads (23) of the connector core (15).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
