<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616509</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAP SMEAR COLLECTION DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1000	A61B1000	A61B1002	A61B1002	A61B1732	A61B1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B10	A61B10	A61B10	A61B10	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAAL MED PROD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAAL MEDICAL PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SACCOMANNO GENO ST MARY S HOSP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRICKLAND RICHARD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SACCOMANNO GENO ST MARY S HOSP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRICKLAND RICHARD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PAP SMEAR COLLECTION DEVICE BACKGROUND !• The Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to apparatus and methods for use in the collection of a Pap smear. More particularly, the present invention provides a novel design which permits simultaneous collection of cells from the cervical face and from the endocervical canal. The device also provides a method and means for securing a vaginal sample without reverting to a second sampling device.2. The Background of the InventionOver the last 40 years, the death rate from cervical cancer has dropped dramatically due to the widespread use of the Papanicolaou ("Pap") test. This test involves the collection of cells from the cervical face, the endocervical canal and occasionally from the vaginal wall. These cells are then microscopically examined for evidence of precancerous or cancerous growth. The periodic use of this test permits early detection of malignancy so that palliative therapy can be initiated at a time when it will yield the highest possible success rate.For many years the standard method for collection of these cells has been a wooden or plastic spatula. A variety of slightly different shapes have been used in an effort to allow the clinician to collect cells from the cervical face as well as the endocervical canal. In some cases, the opposite end of the spatula was designed to collect a vaginal scraping.For the most part, these designs have been able to retrieve cells from the surface of the cervix and the vaginal wall but have frequently failed to collect adequate cell samples from the endocervical canal. This has been a serious problem because any sample which does not include endocervical cells is deemed to be inadequate for proper 

 interpretation and diagnosis. Further, many women who have had an inadequate sample taken are reluctant to have the procedure repeated and may be placed at risk for progression of their disease until their next periodic checkup.A delay in the diagnosis of cervical or uterine cancer can result in the need for far more radical treatment procedures than would be needed if the cancer were detected earlier. In the worst case, a delay in diagnosis could result in the progression from treatable cancer to a terminal cancer.Recent modifications in collection procedures have added a cotton swab to the technique in an effort to collect endocervical cells. The cotton swab is- inserted into the cervical canal and rotated. Although the cotton swab may somewhat improve the yield, it is not abrasive enough to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus comprising:
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end;
(b) tissue sampling means, located at the forward end of said handle, for simultaneously collecting tissue cells from the cervical face and endocervical canal, said sampling means comprising:
 
(i) first bristle means, aligned with said handle and extending from said forward end thereof, for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal as said handle is rotated; and
 
(ii) second bristle means, extending from said forward end of said handle, in a direction generally orthogonal to said first bristle means, for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face as said handle is rotated; and
 
(c) flexible means positioned at said forward end of said handle for bending said handle at an acute angle for assistance in dislodging the collected tissue cells from said first and second bristle means onto an area for examination.
2. A device as defined in claim l, wherein said first bristle means comprises: 


 (a) a member longitudinally extending from said flexible zone of said forward end of said handle; and (b) a first set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member from opposing sides thereof.
3. A device as defined in claim 2, wherein the bristles of said first set of bristles have a length such that the overall length of said first set of bristles extending from opposing sides of said longitudinally extending member is sufficient to contact the endocervical canal, even when the endocervical canal is dilated, and have a width such that said bristles are stiff enough to provide abrasive action yet supple enough to be easily compressed when entering an undilated endocervical canal.
4. A device as defined in claim 2, wherein said second bristle means comprises:
(a) a member laterally extending from said flexible zone generally on opposite sides of said flexible zone, at a point where said first bristle means extends from said flexible zone, said laterally extending member positioned along an axis substantially perpendicular to the axis of said handle, and said laterally extending member having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle; and 


 (b) a second set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said laterally 
ς
 extending member along the forward edge thereof.
5. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein the bristles of said second set of bristles are formed from a material and have a length and width such that said bristles are soft enough to contact the cervical face without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells.
6. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said first bristle means and said second bristle means generally lie in a single plane.
7. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said rear end comprises a means for scraping and collecting cells from the vagina.
8. A device as defined in claim 7, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells comprises a spatula- shaped member positioned along the same axis as the axis of said handle, said spatula-shaped member having perpendicular edges to enhance collection of cells from the vagina. 

1
 9. A device as defined in claim 7, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells is positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of said handle.
5
10. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein said laterally extending member is curved so as generally to conform to the cervical face. 0
11. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein the diameter of said laterally extending member is greater than the diameter of said longitudinally extending member. 5
12. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said handle is comprised of longitudinally extending ridges. 0
13. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein said forward edge of said laterally extending member is tapered to form a narrow forward edge from which said second set of 5 bristles extends.
14. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus
30 comprising:
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end; and
(b) tissue sampling means, located at the forward
----io end of said handle, for simultaneously collecting 


 tissue cells from the cervical face and endocervical canal, said sampling means comprising:
(i) first bristle means, aligned with said handle and extending from said forward end thereof, for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal as said handle is rotated; and
(ii) second bristle means, extending from said forward end of said handle, in a direction generally orthogonal to said first bristle means, = for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face as said handle is rotated, said second bristle means comprising means for conforming to said cervical face and maintaining
20
 said first bristle means generally in alignment in said endocervical canal when said first bristle means is inserted therein and when said handle is rotated.
15. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein said first bristle means comprises:
(a) a member longitudinally extending from said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a first set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said
_._ longitudinally extending member on opposing sides thereof. 


 16. A device as defined in claim 15, wherein the bristles of said first set of bristles have a length such that the overall length of said first set of bristles extending from opposing sides of said longitudinally extending member is sufficient to contact the endocervical canal, even when the endocervical canal is dilated, and have a width such that said bristles are stiff enough to
10 provide abrasive action yet supple enough to be easily compressed when entering an undilated endocervical canal.
- --- 17. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein said second bristle means comprises:
(a) a member laterally extending from said forward end of said handle at a point where said first
20
 bristle means extends from said forward end of said handle, and along an axis substantially perpendicular to the axis of said handle, said laterally extending member having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a second set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said laterally extending member along the forward edge thereof.
30
18. A device as defined in claim 17, wherein the bristles of said second set of bristles are formed from a material and have a length and width such that said bristles will be soft enough to contact the cervical face 


 without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells.
19. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein said first bristle means and said second bristle means generally lie in a single plane.
20. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein said rear end comprises a means for scraping and collecting cells from the vagina.
21. A device as defined in claim 20, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells comprises an spatula-shaped member positioned along the same axis as the axis of said handle, said spatula-shaped member having perpendicular edges to enhance collection of cells from the vagina.
22. A device as defined in claim 21, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells is positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of said handle.
23. A device as defined in claim 17, wherein said laterally extending member is curved so as generally to conform to the cervical face. 


 24. A device as defined in claim 17, wherein the diameter of said laterally extending member is greater than the diameter of said longitudinally extending member.
25. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein said handle is comprised of longitudinally extending ridges.
— u
26. A device as defined in claim 17, wherein said forward edge of said laterally extending member is tapered to form a narrow forward edge from which said second set of
15 bristles extends.
27. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein said forward end of said handle narrows into a flexible zone.
20
28. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus comprising:
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end; and
(b) tissue sampling means, located at the forward end of said handle, for simultaneously collecting tissue cells from the cervical face and endocervical canal, said sampling means comprising:
(i) first bristle means, aligned with said handle and extending from said forward end thereof, for contacting and collecting cells 


 within the endocervical canal as said handle is rotated; and
(ii) second bristle means, extending from said forward end of said handle in a direction generally orthogonal to said first bristle means, for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face as said handle is rotated, said
ID second bristle means and said first bristle means being located in a single plane.
29. A device as defined in claim 28, wherein said first bristle means comprises:
(a) a member longitudinally extending from said forward end of said handle; and
20 (b) a first set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member on opposing sides thereof.
30. A device as defined in claim 29, wherein the bristles of said first set of bristles have a length such that the overall length of said first set of bristles
JU extending from opposing sides of said longitudinally extending member is sufficient to contact the endocervical canal, even when the endocervical canal is dilated, and have a width such that said bristles are stiff enough to 


 provide abrasive action yet supple enough to be easily compressed when entering an undilated endocervical canal.
31. A device as defined in claim 28, wherein said second bristle means comprises:
(a) a member laterally extending from said _ forward end of said handle at a point where said first bristle means extends from said forward end of said handle, and along an axis substantially perpendicular to the axis of said handle, said
15 laterally extending member having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a second set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said laterally
20
 extending member along the forward edge thereof.
32. A device as defined in claim 31, wherein the bristles of said second set of bristles are formed from a material and have a length and width such that said bristles will be soft enough to contact the cervical face without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet
30 stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells.
mi Ω 


 33. A device as defined in claim 28, wherein said rear end comprises a means for scraping and collecting cells from the vagina.
34. A device as defined in claim 33, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells comprises a
10 spatula-shaped member positioned along the same axis as the axis of said handle, said spatula-shaped member having perpendicular edges to enhance collection of cells from the
_3 vagina.
35. A device as defined in claim 33, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells is positioned at an
20 angle from the axis of said handle.
36. A device as defined in claim 31, wherein said laterally extending member is curved so as generally to conform to the cervical face.
37. A device as defined in claim 31, wherein the diameter of said laterally extending member is greater than
30 the diameter of said longitudinally extending member.
38. A device as defined in claim 28, wherein said
~ 
~~~
 handle is comprised of longitudinally extending ridges. 


 39. A device as defined in claim 31, wherein said forward edge of said laterally extending member is tapered to form a narrow forward edge from which said second set of bristles extends.
40. A device as defined in claim 28, wherein said forward end of said elongated handle narrows into a flexible zone.
41. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical 
•
 face and endocervical canal of a uterus comprising:
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end, said forward end narrowing into a flexible zone of said handle;
(b) a member longitudinally extending from said flexible zone along the same axis as said handle, said longitudinally extending member having a length for comfortable insertion into the endocervical canal;
(c) a first multitude of bristles for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal, said first means projecting substantially perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member;
(d) a member laterally extending from said flexible zone generally on opposite sides of said handle, at the point where said longitudinally 


 extending member extends from said flexible zone, said laterally extending member positioned along an axis generally orthogonal to the axis of said handle and having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle, said laterally extending member being curved so as to generally conform to the cervical face, and said laterally extending member comprising means for maintaining said longitudinally extending member generally in alignment in said endocervical canal when said longitudinally extending member is inserted therein and when said handle is rotated;
(e) a second set of bristles for contacting and collecting cells on the cervical face of the uterus, said second set of bristles projecting from said forward edge of said laterally extending member along the same plane as said first set of bristles, and said second set of bristles being formed of a material and having a length and width such that said second set of bristles are soft enough to contact the cervical face without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[.received by the International Bureau on 19 April 1993 (19.04.93); original claims 6,11,19,24 and 37 deleted; original claims 1-4,14-17,28-31 and 34-40 amended; remaining claims unchanged all claims renumbered as claims 1-36 (10 pages)]
1. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus comprising: (a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end;
(b) tissue sampling means, located at the forward end of said handle, for simultaneously collecting tissue cells from the cervical face and endocervical canal, said sampling means comprising:
(i) first means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in a plane for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal as said handle is rotated, said first means aligned with said handle and extending from said forward end thereof; and
(ii) second means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in the same said plane for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face as said handle is rotated, said second means extending from said forward end of said handle in a direction generally .orthogonal to said first means; and
(c) flexible means positioned at said forward end of said handle for bending said tissue sampling means at an acute angle with respect to the handle for assistance in dislodging the collected tissue cells from said first and second means onto an area for examination.
2. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said first means comprises:
(a) a member longitudinally extending from said flexible means at said forward end of said handle; and 


 (b) a first set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member from opposing sides thereof.
3. A device as defined in claim 2, wherein the bristles of said first set of bristles have a length such that the overall length of said first set of bristles extending from the opposing sides of said longitudinally extending member is sufficient to contact the endocervical canal, even when the endocervical canal is dilated, and have a width such that said first set of bristles are stiff enough to provide abrasive action yet supple enough to be easily compressed when entering an undilated endocervical canal.
4. A device as defined in claim 2, wherein said second means comprises:
(a) a member laterally extending from said flexible means generally on opposite sides of said flexible means, at a point where said first means extends from said flexible means, said - laterally extending member positioned along an axis substantially perpendicular to the axis of said handle, and said laterally extending member having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a second set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said laterally extending member along the forward edge thereof for contacting and collecting cells of the cervical face.
5. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein the bristles of said second set of bristles are formed from a material and have a length and width such that said bristles are soft enough to contact the cervical face 


without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells.
6. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said rear end comprises a means for scraping and collecting cells from the vagina.
7. A device as defined in claim 6, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells comprises a spatula-shaped member positioned along the same axis as the axis of said handle, said spatula-shaped member having perpendicular edges to enhance collection of cells from the vagina.
8. A device as defined in claim 6, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells is positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of said handle.
9. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein said laterally extending member is curved so as generally to conform to the cervical face.
10. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said handle is comprised of longitudinally extending ridges.
11. A device as defined in claim 4, wherein said forward edge of said laterally extending member is tapered to form a narrow forward edge from which said second set of bristles extends.
12. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus comprising: 


 1
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end; and
(b) tissue sampling means, located at the 5 forward end of said handle, for simultaneously collecting tissue cells from the cervical face and endocervical canal, said sampling means comprising:
(i) first means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in a plane for
'" contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal as said handle is rotated, said first means aligned with said handle and extending from said forward end thereof; and
(ii) second means providing a plurality of 5 bristles oriented in a row and in the same said plane for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face as said handle is rotated, said second means extending from said forward end of said handle in a direction generally orthogonal to said first means, and said second means comprising means for conforming to said cervical face and maintaining said first means- generally in alignment in said endocervical canal when said first means is inserted therein and when said handle is rotated.
13. A device as defined in claim 12, wherein said first means comprises:
(a) a member longitudinally extending from said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a first set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member on opposing sides thereof. 


 14. A device as defined in claim 13, wherein the bristles of said first set of bristles have a length such that the overall length of said first set of bristles extending from the opposing sides of said longitudinally extending member is sufficient to contact the endocervical canal, even when the endocervical canal is dilated, and have a width such that said first set of bristles are stiff enough to provide abrasive action yet supple enough to be easily compressed when entering an undilated endocervical canal.
15. A device as defined in claim 12, wherein said second means comprises: (a) a member laterally extending from said forward end of said handle at a point where said first means extends from said forward end of said handle, and along an axis substantially perpendicular to the axis of said handle, said laterally extending member having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a second set of bristles - extending substantially perpendicularly from said laterally extending member along the forward edge thereof.
16. A device as defined in claim 15, wherein the bristles of said second set of bristles are formed from a material and have a length and width such that said bristles will be soft enough to contact the cervical face without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells. 


 17. A device as defined in claim 12, wherein said rear end comprises a means for scraping and collecting cells from the vagina.
18. A device as defined in claim 17, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells comprises an spatula-shaped member positioned along the same axis as the axis of said handle, said spatula-shaped member having perpendicular edges to enhance collection of cells from the vagina.
19. A device as defined in claim 18, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells is positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of said handle.
20. A device as defined in claim 15, wherein said laterally extending member is curved so as generally to conform to the cervical face.
21. A device as defined in claim 12, wherein said handle is comprised of longitudinally extending -ridges.
22. A device as defined in claim 15, wherein said forward edge of said laterally extending member is tapered to form a narrow forward edge from which said second set of bristles extends.
23. A device as defined in claim 12, wherein said forward end of said handle narrows into a flexible zone.
24. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus comprising:
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end; and 


 (b) tissue sampling means, located at the forward end of said handle, for simultaneously collecting tissue cells from the cervical face and endocervical canal, said sampling means comprising:
(i) first means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in a plane for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal as said handle is rotated, said first means aligned with said handle and extending from said forward end thereof; and
(ii) second means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in the same said plane for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face as said handle is rotated, and said second means extending from said forward end of said handle in a direction generally orthogonal to said first means.
25. A device as defined in claim 24, wherein said first means comprises:
(a) a member longitudinally extending from said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a first set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member on opposing sides thereof.
26. A device as defined in claim 25, wherein the bristles of said first set of bristles have a length such that the overall length of said first set of bristles extending from the opposing sides of said longitudinally extending member is sufficient to contact the endocervical canal, even when the endocervical canal is dilated, and have a width such that said first set of bristles are stiff enough to provide abrasive action yet supple enough to be 


 easily compressed when entering an undilated endocervical canal.
27. A device as defined in claim 24, wherein said second means comprises:
(a) a member laterally extending from said forward end of said handle at a point where said first means extends from said forward end of said handle, and along an axis substantially perpendicular to the axis of said handle, said laterally extending member having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle; and
(b) a second set of bristles extending substantially perpendicularly from said laterally extending member along the forward edge thereof.
28. A device as defined in claim 27, wherein the bristles of said second set of bristles are formed from a material and have a length and width such that said bristles will be soft enough to contact the cervical face without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells.
29. A device as defined in claim 24, wherein said rear end comprises a means for scraping and collecting cells from the vagina.
30. A device as defined in claim 29, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells comprises a spatula-shaped member positioned along the same axis as the axis of said handle, said spatula-shaped member having perpendicular edges to enhance collection of cells from the vagin . 


 1
31. A device as defined in claim 29, wherein said means for scraping and collecting cells is positioned at an angle from the axis of said handle. 5
32. A device as defined in claim 27, wherein said laterally extending member is curved so as generally to conform to the cervical face.
10 33. A device as defined in claim 27, wherein the diameter of said laterally extending member is greater than the diameter of said longitudinally extending member.
34. A device as defined in claim 27, wherein said 15 forward edge of said laterally extending member is tapered to form a narrow forward edge from which said second set of bristles extends.
35. A device as defined in claim 24, wherein said 20 forward end of said elongated handle narrows into a flexible zone.
36. A device for collection of tissue cells from a cervical face and endocervical canal of a uterus
25 comprising:
(a) an elongated handle having a forward end and a rear end, said forward end narrowing into a flexible zone of said handle;
(b) a member longitudinally extending from said 30 flexible zone along the same axis as said handle, said longitudinally extending member having a length for insertion into the endocervical canal;
(c) a first set of bristles for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal, said
,_ first set of bristles projecting substantially
35 


 perpendicularly from said longitudinally extending member and being oriented in a plane;
(d) a member laterally extending from said flexible zone generally on opposite sides of said handle, at the point where said longitudinally extending member extends from said flexible zone, said laterally extending member positioned along an axis generally orthogonal to the axis of said handle and having a forward edge which faces said forward end of said handle, said laterally extending member being curved so as to generally conform to the cervical face, and said laterally extending member comprising means for maintaining said longitudinally extending member generally in alignment in said endocervical canal when said longitudinally extending member is inserted therein and when said handle is rotated;
(e) a second set of bristles for contacting and collecting cells on the cervical face of the uterus, said second set of bristles projecting from said forward edge of said laterally extending member along the same plane as said first set of bristles, and said second set of bristles being formed of a material and having a length and width such that said second set of bristles are soft enough to contact the cervical face without causing damage to the cervical face as the second set of bristles are pressed against the cervical face, yet stiff enough to cause enough abrasive action necessary to collect cells. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
Please amend the claims in the above-identified application by cancelling sheets 18 - 31 of this application which contain the claims and abstract. Please substitute therefore, sheets 18 - 28, attached hereto, which contain the new claims to be entered in this application. Claims 6, 11, 19, 24, and 37 have been cancelled. Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 14, 15, 16, 17, 28-31, and 34-40 have been amended and the other remaining claims are unchanged. The claims remaining have all been renumbered. The spacing in the abstract has been changed so as to make the abstract one paragraph in length.
Claims 1, 12 and 24 have been amended to remove the reference to "bristle means." Further, in claim 1, line 19, the claim has been amended to recite a flexible means for bending the tissue sampling means rather than the handle. In claim 2, reference to the "flexible zone" has been replaced by reference to the "flexible means." In claim 4, the claim has been amended to refer to "flexible means" so as to provide the proper antecedent basis as set forth in the base claim. In claim 35, line 9 the term "comfortable" has been deleted as has the phrase "first means" in order to remove the indefinite terminology from that claim.
Independent claims 1, 14, 28 and 41 herein, have been amended to further define the claimed invention as comprised of a first means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in a plane for contacting and collecting cells within the endocervical canal and a second, generally orthogonal means providing a plurality of bristles oriented in a row and in the same plane, for contacting and collecting cells from the cervical face.
The claims as amended and submitted herewith place this application into conformity with the claims as allowed in the corresponding U.S. application. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
