<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624398</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Catalyst for production of ethylene oxide and process for producing the catalyst
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D30110	C07D30100	B01J2368	B01J2354	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D301	C07D301	B01J23	B01J23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A catalyst for the production of ethylene oxide 
which contains silver, tungsten, cesium and, in some cases, an 

alkaline metal other than cesium, an alkaline-earth metal, a 
rare-earth metal, and/or metal selected from Groups I B, II B, 

III B, IV A, IV B, V A, V B and VI A of the Periodic Table and 
tellurium. The components are uniformly deposited on a porous carrier. 
The loadings of silver, of tungsten and of cesium on the outside 
surface layer and on the innermost layer of the catalyst satisfy certain 

formulas. The use of the catalyst of this invention provides 
high selectivity in the production of ethylene oxide by the 

vapor contact oxidation of ethylene. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI CHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWAKURA TOMOATSU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAKATSU YUKAKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWAKURA, TOMOATSU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAKATSU, YUKAKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a catalyst for the 
production of ethylene oxide which is used to produce ethylene 
oxide by the vapor oxidation of ethylene, and to a process for 
producing the catalyst. More particularly, this invention 
relates to a catalyst for the production of ethylene oxide in 
which silver, tungsten, cesium and, in some cases, other 
additive metals are deposited on a porous carrier. The catalyst used for producing ethylene oxide on an 
industrial scale by the vapor contact oxidation of ethylene 
with molecular oxygen is a silver catalyst. In order to 
efficiently produce ethylene oxide, there is a strong demand 
for improved catalysts with highly selective and long-life 
catalysts being desired. Therefore, while various methods 
have been proposed in the past, these methods are primarily 
concerned with a combination of silver as a main active 
component with alkaline metal etc. as a reaction accelerator, 
optimization of the mixture ratio, and an improvement in 
carriers on which those components are to be 
deposited. The specifications of GB 1413251 and GB 1512625 
describe that high selectivity is obtained by a catalyst in 
which potassium, rubidium and/or cesium in a specific amount 
is deposited along with silver on a porous carrier. The  
 
specification of GB 1581884 describes that a catalyst 
containing silver and sodium, potassium, rubidium or cesium in 
specific amounts can improve the degree of activity and 
selectivity. Also, the specification of EP-A-0 172 565 (US 4,690,913) describes 
that silver grains deposited on a carrier are tiny and uniform 
and hence are highly active when used as a catalyst, and 
discloses a catalyst for the production of ethylene oxide in 
which the loading of silver grains is uniform from the outside 
surface layer to the inner layer of the catalyst. On the other hand, when tungsten is used as a 
reaction accelerator, Japanese Patent Publication No. 61-21701, 
for example, discloses a catalyst in which silver and 
an alkaline metal tungstate are deposited on an α-alumina 
carrier containing a small amount of sodium. In this 
Publication, however, the amount of tungsten used is limited 
to the range of high concentration and the catalyst is defined 
as being effective only when the content of sodium in the 
carrier is not more than 0.07 % by weight. Further, there is 
no suggestion found as to whether tungsten exhibits a 
remarkable accelerating effect or not when the amount of 
tungsten used is small. The specification of EP 266015-A discloses
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A catalyst for the production of ethylene oxide from 
ethylene which comprises a porous carrier having at least 

silver and cesium deposited thereon, wherein: 

(A) the silver is deposited on the outside surface of said 
carrier and on the inner surfaces of the pores of said 

carrier; 
(B) silver grains deposited on said carrier have an average 
diameter of 0.01-0.4 µm; 
(C) the loading (S
A
) of silver on the outside surface layer 
of said catalyst and the loading (I
A
) of silver on the 
innermost layer of said catalyst satisfy the following 

formula; 

I
A
 ≧ 0.65 S
A
 
characterized in that the catalyst further comprises tungsten 

deposited on said carrier, wherein: 
(D) loadings of silver, tungsten and cesium are from 5 to 50 
% by weight, from 92 to 700 ppm, and from 250 to 2000 ppm, 

respectively; 
(E) the tungsten is deposited on the outside surface of said 
carrier and on the inner surfaces of the pores of said 

carrier, and the loading (S
w
) of tungsten on the outside 
surface la
yer of said catalyst and the loading (I
w
) of  
 

tungsten on the innermost layer of said catalyst satisfy the 
following formula; 


I
w
 ≧ 0.5 S
w
 
and 
(F) the cesium is deposited on the outside surface of said 
carrier and on the inner surfaces of the pores of said 

carrier, and the loading (S
c
) of cesium on the outside 
surface layer of said catalyst and the loading (I
c
) of cesium 
on the innermost layer of said catalyst satisfy the following 

formula: 

I
c
 ≧ 0 7 S
c
. 
The catalyst according to claim 1, wherein at 
least one metal selected from the group consisting of alkaline 

metal except cesium, alkaline-earth metal, rare-earth metal, 
and metals of Groups I B, 
 B, 
 B, 
 A, 
 B, V A, V B and
 A 
of the Periodic Table and tellurium is deposited as an 

additive metal on the outside surface of said carrier and on 
the inner surfaces of the pores of said carrier, and the 

loading of said selected metal is from 10 to 10,000 ppm. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
alkaline metal is lithium, sodium, potassium or rubidium. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
alkaline-earth metal is beryllium, magnesium, calcium, 

strontium or barium. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
rare-earth metal is scandium, yttrium, samarium, cerium, 

lanthanum, neodymium, praseodymium or europium. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group I B of the Periodic Table is copper or gold. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group 
 B of the Periodic Table is zinc, cadmium or 
mercury. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group 
 B of the Periodic Table is boron, gallium, 
indium or thallium. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group IVA of the Periodic Table is titanium, 

zirconium or hafnium.  
 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group IVB of the Periodic Table is silicon, 

germanium, tin or lead. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group V A of the Periodic Table is vanadium, niobium 

or tantalium. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group V B of the Periodic Table is phosphorus, 

arsenic, antimony or bismuth. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein said 
metal of Group 
 A of the Periodic Table is chromium or 
molybdenum. 
The catalyst according to claim 2, wherein the 
loading (S
X
) of said additive metal on the outside surface 
layer of said carrier and the loading (I
X
) of said additive 
metal on the innermost layer of said carrier satisfy the 

following formula: 

I
X
 ≧ 0.3 S
X
The catalyst according to claim 1 or 2, wherein 
the silver grains deposited on the inner surfaces of the pores 

of said carrier have an average diameter in the range of from 
0.01 to 0.09 micron, and the silver grains having a diameter 

in the range of from 0.02 to 0.08 micron are present at least 
in a proportion of 60 % for all the silver grains. 
A process for producing a catalyst for the 
production of ethylene oxide from ethylene, which comprises 

impregnating a porous carrier with an aqueous solution 
containing at least a silver salt, a tungsten salt, a cesium 

salt and an amine as a complex forming agent, and heating said 
carrier with superheated steam to deposit at least silver,  

 
tungsten and cesium on said carrier, whereby the catalyst 

according to claim 1 is formed. 
The process according to claim 16, wherein said 
porous carrier impregnated with an aqueous solution containing 

at least a silver salt, a tungsten salt, a cesium salt and an 
amine as a complex forming agent is brought into contact with 

superheated steam at a temperature of not less than 120 °C 
under the condition that said porous carrier contains said 

aqueous solution, whereby at least silver, tungsten and cesium 
are deposited on said carrier. 
The process according to claim 16, wherein said 
porous carrier impregnated with an aqueous solution containing 

at least a silver salt, a tungsten salt, a cesium salt and an 
amine as a complex forming agent is brought into contact with 

superheated steam at a temperature of from 120 to 300 °C under 
the condition that the ratio of dryness, that is, removal, of the 

aqueous medium in said aqueous solution is in the range of 
from 0 to 70 % by weight, whereby at least silver, tungsten 

and cesium are deposited on said carrier. 
The process according to claim 16, wherein said 
silver salt is silver carboxylate, said tungsten salt is 

sodium tungstate, lithium tungstate or potassium tungstate, 
and said cesium salt is cesium nitrate, cesium chloride, 

cesium carbonate or cesium hydride. 
The process according to claim 16, wherein said 
aqueous solution further contains, as an additive metal salt, 

at least one metal salt selected from the group consisting of 
an alkaline metal salt except the cesium salt, an alkaline-earth 

metal salt, a rare-earth metal salt, and metal salts of 
Groups 
 B, 
 B, IVA, IVB, V A, V B and 
 A of the Periodic  
 

Table and tellurium salt, whereby said additive metal is 
deposited on said carrier. 
A process for the production of ethylene oxide 
characterised in that 


i) ethylene is used as a starting material, and 
ii) the catalyst defined in any one of claims 1 to 15 is employed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
