<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637938</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEMBRANE ENDOSCOPIC RETRACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1702	A61B1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV LOMA LINDA MED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOMA LINDA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRSH WOLFF M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHU YONG HUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRSH, WOLFF, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHU, YONG, HUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MEMBRANE ENDOSCOPIC RETRACTORField of the InventionThe present invention relates to retractors used in surgery. More specifically, the invention relates to a retractor having a membrane stretchable between various probes by which an internal organ or other internal body part may be retracted during endoscopic surgery.Background of the InventionThe field of endoscopic surgery has been advancing rapidly in recent years. In this form of surgery, procedures are performed inside of the body of a patient using instruments inserted through small endosurgical ports. The surgery is performed with the aid of an endoscope, which is a thin, tube like instrument featuring a light source, viewing lenses, and/or various other attachments such as irrigators, scissors, snares, brushes, or forceps. Endoscopes may be flexible or rigid, and normally utilize optic fibers to transmit light to the internal cavity. The surgery is normally viewed by the surgeon through an ocular. Lenses are placed near the tip of the endoscope and the image thereon is transmitted via optic fibers or other lens systems, to the ocular or viewer. Other types of endoscopes utilize optical fibers to transmit electronic signals representing the internal image from the distal lens to a video monitor which is viewed by the surgeon.This form of surgery allows internal visualization of the body structure without the necessity of excessive dissection of tissue. Typical endoscopes often are in the 5 to 12 mm diameter range and thus require only very small incisions for insertion into the body.This form of surgery has developed rapidly because of the numerous benefits arising in favor of the patient. Since there is only a small incision to permit entrance of the endoscope, endoscopic surgery results in less trauma to the patient's body and faster patient recovery. For the benefits 

of endoscopic surgery to arcise, however, all aspects of the surgery, such as the initial examination, retraction', and the surgical procedure itself, must be capable of being accomplished through small endoscopic incisions or ports. The obvious difficulty associated with endoscopic surgery is inadequate visualization of the internal structure required to properly complete the surgical procedure. Endoscopic surgery is thus difficult in areas which are typically difficult to reach, such as the gallbladder. In gallbladder surgery, (or "cholecystectomy") the tissue and organs surrounding the gallbladder are examined with the endoscope and retracted in order to properly expose the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A retractor adapted for use in endoscopic surgery, comprising: at least two independent probes, each of said probes having a distal portion and a proximal portion, said distal portion being adapted to be removably inserted through a small incision in the body of a patient, said proximal portion remaining externally of the body for manipulation; and a retraction surface, wherein said probes are joined only by engagement of said retraction surface with said distal portion of said probes, and wherein said retraction surface may be externally manipulated by said proximal portions of said probes to provide retraction of tissues and organs and the like in a variety of planar and non-planar positions.
2. The retractor of Claim 1, wherein there are first and second probes, each of said probes being independently manipulatable into a variety of positions. 3. The retractor of any of Claims 1 or 2, wherein said retraction surface is an elongate flexible membrane.
4. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein said retraction surface has two edges, at least one of said edges adapted to be removably attached to said distal portion of one of said probes.
5. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 4, further comprising a third probe having a distal portion and a proximal portion, said distal portion of said third probe engaging said retraction surface to provide additional support during retraction.
6. The retractor of Claim 5, wherein a loop is mounted on said retraction surface midway along its length, such that said distal portion of said third probe engages said loop to provide additional support during retraction. 7. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the retraction surface is mounted on said distal portion of said first probe, and said distal portion of said second probe is 


engageable with said retraction device mounted on said distal portion of said first probe.
8. The retractor of Claims 6 or 7, wherein said first probe has an extension whereby said first and third probes can be held in one hand such that a single surgeon can manipulate said retractor.
9. The retractor of Claim 8, wherein said extension comprises at least one handle extending transversely away from said proximal portion of said first probe and in the direction of said third probe.
10. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 9, wherein said retraction surface is mounted in a coiled fashion on said distal portion of one of said probes whereby said retraction surface is coiled for insertion through said first incision into the body of the patient and is uncoiled for retraction.
11. The retractor of Claim 10, wherein said distal portion of said probe is rotatable with respect to said probe and said retraction surface is coiled on said distal portion.
12. The retractor of Claim 10, further comprising an external handle having an internal tip, said tip selectively engaging said rotatable distal portion of said probe in order to control the uncoiling of said retraction surface.
13. The retractor of any of Claims 2 to 12, wherein said retraction surface has a fixed edge and a free edge, said fixed edge being permanently mounted on said distal portion of said first probe and adapted to be inserted therewith into said patient through a small incision, said retraction surface being capable of selectively assuming (i) a first position with respect to said first probe in which said retraction surface is compactly stored on said distal portion of said first probe for insertion into and withdrawal from said body of said patient, and (ii) a second position in which said retraction surface is at least partially deployed with respect to said distal portion of said first probe whereby retraction may occur, and said second probe has a connector for detachably mounting said free edge of said retraction .surface thereon wherein said retraction surface will be supported in 


 its deployed position for retraction but can be returned to its stored position with respect to said distal portion of said first probe for removal from the body of the patient.
14. The retractor of Claim 13, wherein said retraction surface, when assuming its stored position with respect to the distal portion of said first probe is substantially cylindrical.
15. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 14, wherein said distal portion of a first probe rotates with respect to said proximal portion of said first probe to facilitate storage and deployment of said retraction surface.
16. The retractor of Claim 13, wherein said distal portion of said second probe is detachably mounted on said free edge of said retraction surface by means of cooperating hooks and eyes.
17. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 16, wherein at least one of said probes are hollow to facilitate the introduction of additional endoscopic surgical instruments into the patient's body. 18. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 17, wherein said retraction surface is elastic and flexible and is stretched between said distal portions of said probes whereby damage to internal tissues and organs is avoided.
19. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 18, wherein the surface area of said retraction surface is adjustable.
20. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 19, wherein each of said probes is provided with graduated marks to indicate the depth of insertion into the body of the patient.
21. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 20, further comprising a frame for holding said proximal portions of said probes in place whereby manual manipulation is not necessary.
22. A method for providing retraction during endoscopic surgery, comprising the steps of:
(a) inserting into the body of a patient a first probe having a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end of said first probe remaining outside the body for manipulation; 


 (b) causing said*distal end of said first probe to engage a retraction surface;
(c) inserting into the body of the patient a second probe having a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end of said second probe remaining outside the body for manipulation;
(d) causing said distal end of said second probe to engage said retraction surface; and
(e) manipulating said first and second probes such that said retraction surface retracts desired tissue inside the patient's body.
23. The retraction method of Claim 22, wherein said step of engaging said retraction surface with said second probe comprises the step of uncoiling said retraction surface from the distal portion of said first probe.
24. The retraction methods of Claim 22, wherein said retraction surface is uncoiled from the distal portion of said first probe by rotating said distal portion.
25. The retraction method of Claim 22, further comprising the step of inserting a third probe through a third incision in the body of a patient and engaging the retraction surface for further retractive support.
26. The retraction method of Claim 22, further comprising the step of locking the retraction surface in place once the desired retraction position has been assumed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
