<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654628</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Faucet control device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K3136	F16K3162	F16K3144	F16K31385	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K31	F16K31	F16K31	F16K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A faucet control device to provide asepsis and conservation of water 
consisting of a 

diaphragm valve block (10) connected inline between the hot and 
cold water supply (16C,16H) and faucet (17). 

Pilot hot and cold water pressure (23H,23C) from said valve block is 
routed through three flexible 

conduit (11,12,13) assemblies to a three-way valve (14) remotely located 
to facilitate operation by knee, 

foot or elbow. The application of force to the three way valves cycles 
the diaphragm valve 

block from the closed to open position while preventing crossflow 
between the hot and cold water supplies. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEGRA DYNAMICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEGRA DYNAMICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUBBEN PETER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUBBEN, PETER A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the control of cold and hot water flowing through a faucet
by a method other than hand operation.It has been amply demonstrated by a variety of studies and research that
conventional hand operated faucets are a source of wasted water and energy and a cross
contamination point for the spread of infectious diseases. Several devices have been
developed and marketed to overcome these problems but all have some disadvantages.
Mechanical foot pedal or knee operated faucets are expensive and often require extensive
and costly modifications to plumbing and cabinetry. Infra-red sensor electrically operated
faucets are costly to install, require an electrical outlet, may be erratic in operation and
may permit cold and hot water cross flow. Foot pedal valves controlling the application of
air pressure to water controlling valves are expensive and often difficult to install and
require a compressed air source. Some devices attach to the spout of the faucet and
although easily installed, they connect the cold and hot water supplies together, thereby
permitting cross flow between them. Of these, ultrasound sensor electrically operated
valves require batteries and are too bulb to comfortably adapt to many faucets. Other
types operate by a foot control supplying fluid pressure through flexible tubings connected
to a spout mounted valve. These tend to be untidy and cumbersome to operate.
Examples of such devices are described and illustrated in United States Patent No.
5,029,806, dated July 9, 1991 granted to Chaung for a "Foot-Controlled Water Faucet"; in
United States Patent No. 4,052,035, dated October 4, 1977, granted to Kenny and
Armstrong for a "Remotely-Controlled Valve" and in United states Patent No. 3,536,294,
dated October 27, 1970, granted to Rodrigues for a "Foot-Operated Control Valve
Attachment Device for Water Faucets".It is desirable to have a water control device which employs supply water pressure
for control, is easily installed, simple in construction, reliable, economical and has the
ability to convert existing hot and cold water outlets of any style, in any facility to other than
hand operation. The present invention, now provides a water outlet control assembly
which substantially overcomes the disadvantages of the aforementioned devices.U.S. Patent No. 5,203,373 by Austin teaches a foot actuated valve assembly
which separately controls the flow of pressurized hot and cold water to a water outlet.
The assembly includes separate diaphragm gate valves for the control of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control assembly for controlling the flow of water to a
water outlet (17) including a control block (10) having inlet means (19H, 19C)

for receiving pressurized water from a pressurized water source (16H, 16C),
outlet means (37H, 37C) for discharging pressurized water to a water outlet,

pilot water input means (27) for receiving pilot water of controlled
pressure, and a valve (22H, 22C) for controlling the flow of water from the

pressurized water source through the control block and towards
the water outlet characterized in that the control block (10) has

first and second inlet means (19H, 19C) for respectively receiving
hot and cold pressurized water from separate hot and cold

pressurized water sources (16H, 16C), first and second outlet
means (37H, 37C) for respectively discharging pressurized hot and

cold water to a water outlet (17), a pilot water input (27) for
receiving pilot water of controlled pressure, and first and

second valves (22H, 22C) for respectively controlling the flow of
hot and cold water from the hot and cold pressurized water

sources through the control block (10) and towards the water
outlet (17), in that the first and second valves (22H, 22C) are

simultaneously moved from an open to a closed position and
maintained in the closed position by the pressure of the pilot

water supplied thereto through the pilot water input (27);
and in that the control assembly further includes a pilot

pressure control valve (14) for selectively controlling the
pressure of pilot water supplied to the pilot water input (27),

the pilot pressure control valve (14) having an intake means (38)
for receiving pressurized water from at least one of the hot and

cold pressurized water sources, a discharge means (39) for
supplying pressurized pilot water to the pilot water input (27),

and actuator means for selectively operating the pilot pressure
control valve (14) between a first position wherein pressurized

water is supplied to the input (27) and a second position wherein
pressure of the pilot wa
ter present in the discharge means (39)
and, thus, the input means (27) is released. 
A control assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein the water
outlet (17) includes a flow control valve for controlling the

flow of water discharged from the outlet.
A control assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein the water
outlet (17) includes first and second valve means for

respectively controlling the flow of hot and cold water
discharged from the outlet.
A control assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein pilot
water pressure is supplied to the pilot pressure control valve

(14) from both the hot and cold pressurized water sources.
A control assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein the
pressure of the pilot water present in the discharge means (39)

and the input means (27) is released into at least one of the
first and second outlet means (37H, 37C).
A control assembly as defined in claim 2, wherein the
control block (10), the water outlet (17) and the flow control

valve are combined into one control unit, said flow control
valve, preferably being first and second valve means.
A control assembly as defined in claim 5, wherein the
control block (10) further includes a pair of one way valves

(31H, 31C) respectively positioned upstream the pilot water input
(27) to prevent cross-flow between the hot and cold pressurized

water sources.
A control assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein the
control block (10) further includes a filter means for preventing

fouling of elements subjected to the pilot water by water born
pollutants and debris, wherein preferably the control block

further includes a filter means (28H, 28C) for respectively
preventing fouling of elements subjected to the pilot water by

water born pollutants and debris, wherein preferably the valve of 
the control block is a conventional diaphragm valve, wherein

preferably the pilot pressure control valve (14) is a three way
valve, wherein preferably the water outlet (17) is one of a water

faucet and a shower faucet, and wherein preferably the control
block (10) is divided into separate hot and cold water control

sections, the hot water control section having the first inlet
means (19H), the first outlet means (37H) and the first valve

(22H), and the cold water control means having the second inlet
means (19C), the second outlet means (37C) and the second valve

(22C). 
A control assembly for controlling the flow of water as defined in claim 1, characterized in that
the control block is divided into separate hot and cold water control arrangements, the hot water control

arrangement including the first inlet means (19H), the first outlet means (37H), and the first valve
(22H); the cold water control arrangement including the

second inlet means (19C), the second outlet means (37C), and the second valve (22C).
A control assembly for controlling the flow of water as defined in claim 1, characterized in that
the pilot water input (27) includes a first pilot pressure chamber (26H) and a second pilot

pressure chamber
(26C); whereby the pilot pressure control valve (14) selectively controls the pressure of pilot water

supplied to the first and second pilot water chambers (26H, 26C), whereby the discharge means (39)
supplies pressurized pilot water to the first and second pilot water chambers (26H, 26C), and the

actuator means selectively operating the pilot pressure valve between a first position wherein
pressurized water is supplied through the discharge means (39) to the first and second pilot water

chambers (26H, 26C), and the second position wherein the pressure of pilot water present in the
discharge means (39) is released; the first and second valves (22H, 22C) being simultaneously moved

from an open to a closed position and maintained in the closed position by the pressure of the pilot
water supplied thereto from the pilot pressure control valve (14) and into the respectively associated

one of the first and second pilot water chambers (26H, 26C).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
