<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mission planning cost system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C2100	G06F1750	G05D100	G01C2100	G06F1750	G05D106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G06F	G05D	G01C	G06F	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C21	G06F17	G05D1	G01C21	G06F17	G05D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mission planning costing surface is formed from digital terrain elevation 
data of a given geographical region (S1) and is for use in routing covert flight paths. To 

form the costing surface, a hideability map is generated from the digital terrain elevation 
data by assigning line of sight area values to points within the digital terrain elevation 

data (S2). The hideability map is indicative of hideable areas within the geographical 
region. The hideability map is then quantized by assigning each of the line of sight area 

values to one of a set number of quantization levels (S3). A flyability map is formed 
from the digital terrain elevation data by determining slopeness values for points within 

the digital terrain elevation data (S4). The flyability map is indicative of flyable areas of 
the geographical region. The flyability map is quantized by assigning each of the 

slopeness values to one of the quantization levels (S5). The costing surface is formed 
(S7) from a weighted combination (S6) of the quantized hideability map and the 

quantized flyability map. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPPITT CARL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRICE DAVID N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPPITT, CARL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRICE, DAVID N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to routing of covert flight paths for maximum terrain
masking. More particularly, the invention relates to use of digital terrain elevation data
to generate a costing surface which allows superior routing of covert flight paths.Digital terrain elevation data (DTED) is a digital representation of the
topography of a geographical region. DTED is produced from satellite photographs or
other means and is available through the Defense Mapping Agency to government
contractors on a need-to-know basis. DTED comprises a plurality of digital data points
laid out in a grid with a spacing typically on the order of 800 meters between points.When routing flight paths for covert operations, it is desirable to route the paths
such that maximum terrain masking is achieved. Particularly, it is desirable to avoid
highly visible areas such as ridge tops and wide open areas.According to the prior art, it is known to route covert flight paths using DTED
such that the flight path is always in the lowest local area. This routing method rests on
the assumption that the best terrain masking will always be at the lowest local elevation.
However, this assumption is not always true, and thus the prior art method frequently
results in less than optimum routing of flight paths. For example, consider an airplane
flying perpendicular to the plane of the paper along a line through point A in Fig. 1.
Because of the high valley created by parallel ridges R1 and R2, the flight path through
point A will have excellent terrain masking. Under the prior art assumption that the
lowest local elevation has the best terrain masking, however, the prior art routing
method will cause the airplane to move from position A to the lower position B in the
adjacent valley. Clearly, despite the fact that position B is lower than position A, the
terrain masking in the open valley is significantly inferior to the terrain masking at
position A. Moreover, in order to move from position A to position B, the flight path
must move over ridge R1, i.e., through a highly visible area where detection is likely.
Thus, the prior art routing method cannot be used to provide reliable terrain-masked
covert flight paths.The use of local minimums in DTED to route covert flight paths also neglects the
importance of the roughness or "flyability" of the terrain. Where the surface of the local
minimum is very rough, it will be difficult for the aircraft to maintain a low altitude flight 
path. Flying at an increased altitude over low but rough terrain may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for routing covert flight paths using digital terrain
elevation data of a geographical region, the apparatus characterised

by:

means to form a hideability map from the digital terrain elevation
data, said hideability map being indicative of hideable areas within

the geographical region, said hideability map comprising means to
generate said hideability map by using a line of sight area

calculation for each point in the digital terrain elevation data in
relation to a plurality of surrounding terrain points;
means to form a flyability map from the digital terrain elevation
data, said flyability map being indicative of flyable areas of the

geographical region, said flyability map comprising means to
generate said flyability map by determining a slopeness calculation

value for each point in the digital terrain elevation data in relation
to a plurality of surrounding terrain points;
means to create a costing surface from a weighted combination of
said hideability map and said flyability map; and
means to determine a covert flight path through areas of said
costing surface which are both hideable and flyable.
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised by means to quantize
the hideability map and means to quantize the flyability map prior

to forming the costing surface. 
Apparatus to any preceding Claim characterised by means to
quantize the hideability map including means to normalize points

within the hideability map based on a maximum theoretical value
and means to distribute the normalized points into a plurality of

quantized levels. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim characterised in that the
creating means comprises means to perform the weighted combination in accordance

with the following formula where Pq is a point within the costing surface, Hq is a
quantized hideability value, Fq is a quantized flyability value, and "a" and "b" represent

weighting factors between 0 and 255:

Pq
 = 
127
15
((a)
2
Hq
2
+(b)
2
Fq
2
)
(a
2
+b
2
)
Apparatus according to any of Claims 2 to 4 characterised by means to
effect a line of sight area calculation comprising:


means to perform a ray trace from one point in the digital terrain elevation
data to every other point within a circle of a predetermined radius centered on said one

point; and
means to determine how many of the points within the circle are observable
from said one point based on the ray trace.
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 to 5 characterised by
hideability quantizing means to quantize said hideability map and

flyability quantizing means to quantize said flyability map, said
hideability quantizing means comprising means to assign each of

said line of sight area values to one of a plurality of quantization
levels and said flyability quantizing means comprising means to

assign each of said slopeness values to one of a plurality of
quantization levels.
A method of routing covert flight paths using digital terrain
elevation data of a geographical region, the method comprising the steps

of:

forming a hideability map from the digital terrain elevation data,
said hideability map being indicative of hideable areas within the

geographical region, said hideability map being generated by using
a li
ne of sight area calculation for each point in the digital terrain
elevation data in relation to a plurality of surrounding terrain

points;
forming a flyability map from the digital terrain elevation data, said
flyability map being indicative of flyable areas of the geographical

region, said flyability map being generated by determining a
slopeness value for each point in the digital terrain elevation data in

relation to a plurality of surrounding terrain points;
creating a costing surface from a weighted combination of said
hideability map and said flyability map; and 
routing a covert flight path through areas of said costing surface
which are both hideable and flyable.
A method according to Claim 7 characterised by the steps of
quantizing the hideability map and quantizing the flyability map

prior to forming the costing surface. 
A method according to Claim 7 or 8 characterised in that the
step of quantizing the hideability map includes the steps of normalizing points within

the hideability map based on a maximum theoretical value and distributing the
normalized points into a plurality of quantized levels.
A method according to any of Claims 9 to 13 characterised in that the
weighted combination is performed in accordance with the following formula where Pq

is a point within the costing surface, Hq is a quantized hideability value, Fq is a
quantized flyability value, and "a" and "b" represent weighting factors between 0 and

255:

Pq
 = 
127
15
((a)
2
Hq
2
+(b)
2
Fq
2
)
(a
2
+b
2
)
A method according to any of Claims 7 to 10 characterised in that said
line of sight area calculation includes the steps of:


performing a ray trace from one point in the digital terrain elevation data to
every other point within a circle of a predetermined radius centered on said one point;

and
determining how many of the points within the circle are observable from
said one point based on the ray trace.
A method according to any of Claims 7 to 11 characterised in that the
step of quantizing the hideability map includes the step of assigning each of said line of

sight area values to one of a plurality of quantization levels and in that the step of
quantizing the flyability map includes the step of assigning each of said slopeness

values to one of a plurality of quantization levels. 
A method according to Claim 12 characterised in that the weighted
combination is performed in accordance with the following formula where Pq is a point

within the costing surface, Hq is a quantized hideability value, Fq is a quantized flyability
value, and "a" and "b" represent weighting factors between 0 and 255:
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
