<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632418</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Security dye pack having flexible heat-resistant chemical pouch
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B1500	G08B1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B15	G08B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A security dye pack (20) disguised as a bundle of 
currency for deterring robberies includes a housing (24) 

formed from a stack of currency bills sewn together and 
having a hollow chamber (22) formed therein. A printed 

circuit board (54) is disposed within the chamber for 
supporting electrical components which generate an 

actuating signal upon detecting removal of the security dye 
pack from the protected premises. A flexible pouch (68) 

containing dye, tear gas, or other active chemicals, is 
secured at one end of the printed circuit board, and a 

squib (60) extends into the pouch to ignite the chemical 
mixture (70) when the actuating signal is generated. The 

flexible pouch is formed of a heat-resistant plastic film 
(50) which is easily bendable. Foam cushions (30/32), 

protected by heat-resistant film (42,44,46,48), are 
disposed above and below the pouch and circuit board. Heat 

resistant plastic sheets (34/36) extend about the foam 
cushions and are secured by an elastic thread (38/40) to 

the housing to retain the components within the hollow 
chamber. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US CURRENCY PROTECTION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
U.S. CURRENCY PROTECTION CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENISTON SCOTT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENISTON, SCOTT E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to security
systems for aiding authorities in the apprehension of bank
robbers and the recovery of stolen monies, and more
particularly, to security systems employing currency packs
disguised as bundles of currency bills for discharging tear
gas, dye, smoke and/or other chemicals in the event of a
robbery.Among the devices which have been used by banks and
other financial institutions to deter bank robberies, and
to aid in the apprehension of a thief and the recovery of
stolen monies, are security dye packs disguised as a
strapped bundle of currency bills. Such security dye packs
are normally kept in a teller drawer along with actual
currency bills and are handed to a robber by the teller
during a bank robbery. The top and bottom faces of the
security dye pack are concealed by actual currency bills to
simulate actual bundles of currency bills. The disguised
security dye packs actually conceal metal canisters
containing tear gas, visible dye, tracer dye (rare earth
oxide), smoke and/or other active chemicals which can be
discharged from the security dye pack to assist in the
recovery of stolen monies; and to assist in the
apprehension of an assailant.Tear gas helps to hinder the robber, making it more
difficult for the robber to escape from the scene of the
crime. Dye serves to stain any bills in the vicinity of
the security dye pack, making such bills unspendable and
easier to trace; the dye also may stain the skin and
clothing of the robber, making it easier for authorities to
identify the robber. Smoke provides a visible signal for
authorities to follow to help locate the robber and the
stolen funds. In addition, such security dye packs often
emit a loud bang upon being expended, tending to confuse
the robber and aiding authorities in apprehending the
robber. Metal canisters are commonly used to contain the
active chemicals that are emitted by the security dye pack
after being ignited. The chemical mixture contained in
such security dye packs typically includes combustion
chemicals similar to those used in a flare; once ignited,
these chemicals burn for approximately one minute. High
temperatures are created when the active chemicals are
ignited by a heat-generating electrically-actuated squib.
The walls of the metal canister help to contain heat that
might otherwise cause the security pack to catch fire and
become engulfed in flames. Clearly, the danger of fire
within banks and other financial institutions is a risk
that must be minimized. However, the metal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A security dye pack (20) disguised as a bundle of
currency bills for discharging active chemicals to assist

in the apprehension of an assailant and in the recovery of
monies stolen from a protected premises, said security dye

pack including:

a. a housing (24) resembling a bundle of currency
bills and having a hollowed inner chamber (22);
b. a substrate (54) disposed within said hollowed
inner chamber;
c. electronic circuit means (53, 55) disposed upon
said substrate for detecting removal of said security

dye pack from the protected premises and generating an
actuating electrical signal in response thereto;
d. a squib (60) coupled to said electronic circuit
means and responsive to said actuating electrical

signal for generating heat to ignite chemicals;
e. a container (68) disposed within the hollowed
inner chamber of said housing, said squib extending

into said container; and
f. a chemical mixture (70) disposed within said
container and adapted to be ignited by heat generated

by said squib for discharging active chemicals from
said housing;

characterised in that:

g. said container being flexible and relatively soft
and bendable to avoid significant stiffening of said

housing, and to help prevent detection by an
assailant, said flexible container being formed of a

layer of a heat-resistant material (50) to prevent
said housing from burning due to the ignition of said

chemical mixture by said squib.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 wherein
said substrate (54) is a printed circuit board.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 wherein
the hollowed inner chamber (22) of said housing (24) has a

predetermined length, and wherein said printed circuit
board (54) has a length shorter than said predetermined

length.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 2 wherein
said squib (60') has a pair of electrical leads (62), and

wherein said electrical leads are connected to said printed
circuit board (54).
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 wherein
said electronic circuit means (53, 55)includes battery

means (52) secured to said substrate (54) for supplying
electrical power to said electronic circuit means.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 further
including a first layer of cushioning material (32)

disposed within the hollowed inner chamber (22) below said
substrate (54), and including a second layer of cushioning

material (30) disposed within the hollowed inner chamber
above said substrate, each of said first and second layers

of cushioning material being covered by a heat-resistant
film (42-48) to prevent said first and second layers of

cushioning material from melting or burning due to the
ignition of said chemical mixture (7
0) by said squib (60).
A security dye pack as recited by claim 6
including a first plastic sheet (36) secured to said

housing (24) and extending across the hollowed inner
chamber (22) of said housing below said first layer of

cushioning material (32) to maintain said substrate,
flexible container and first layer of cushioning material

within the hollowed inner chamber of said housing, and
including a second plastic sheet (34) secured to said

housing and extending across the hollowed inner chamber of
said housing above said second layer of cushioning material 

(30) to maintain said substrate, flexible container and
second layer of cushioning material within the hollowed

inner chamber of said housing.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 7 wherein
said first and second plastic sheets (34, 36)have holes

formed therein, and wherein said security dye pack includes
elastic threads (38, 40) extending through the holes of

said first and second plastic sheets to secure said first
and second plastic sheets to said housing.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 7 wherein
said first and second plastic sheets are heat-tempered to

prevent said housing from burning due to the ignition of
said chemical mixture by said squib.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 wherein
said flexible container (68) is sealed to an edge of said

circuit board (54), and wherein said squib (60) extends
from said edge of said circuit board into said chemical

mixture (70) contained by said flexible container.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 wherein
said printed circuit board (54) is surrounded by a heat-resistant

film (64/66).
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 11
wherein said heat resistant film surrounding said printed

circuit board is a continuation of the walls (64/66)
forming said flexible container.
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 1 wherein
said flexible container is formed of a sheet of heat

resistant film (50) folded over itself (64/66) and joined
along overlapping edges to form a pouch (68).
A security dye pack as recited by Claim 13
wherein the overlapping edges of said sheet of heat

resistant film (50) are joined by an adhesive strip of heat
resistant tape (86/88).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
