<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658679</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Locking for roller shutter, gate or door made of slots
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B980	E06B980	E06B986	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a securing means for a roller shutter or rolling shutter door which is made up of slats, can be wound up onto a shaft and unwind therefrom and of which the slats slide in lateral guides, the first of the slats being articulated on the shaft, and it being possible to position the last slat, in particular, on the exterior windowsill. In order further to develop said securing means such that unauthorized opening can be ruled out, the intention being for this to be achieved in a simple manner with economical means and for the securing means to be fitted easily on the roller shutter, it is proposed that one of the slats of the roller shutter (1) or rolling shutter door have, over its entire length, a recess in which there is pivotably mounted a tiltable latch (10), of which the foot (13) is mounted in a channel (3.1) of a clearance, open towards the window, of the recess provided in the profile slat, it being possible for the latch (10) to be introduced into the clearance of said recess and the latch exhibiting a foot (13) which is offset towards the profile slat with respect to the centre of gravity of the latch (10) and has a profile which can roll in said channel (3.1), and it being possible for the latch (10), when the end slat (3) is positioned on the outer windowsill, to be tilted out freely, and that at least one of the lateral guides (4) has blocking means which interact with the tilted latch (10) when the roller shutter (1) or rolling shutter door is pushed up. 
<
IMAGE
>
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKENJOHANN JOHANN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKENJOHANN, JOHANN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENKENJOHANN JOHANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENKENJOHANN, JOHANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Locking device for a roller shutter (1), gate or door 
composed of bars which can be wound on to and off a shaft, 

the bars (2, 3) of which slide in lateral guides (4), the 
first of the bars (2) being hinged to the shaft and the 

last bar (3) being capable of being placed on the outside 
window sill and at least one of the lateral guides (4) 

having blocking means, characterized in that one of the 
bars of the roller shutter (1), gate or door has a recess 

over its whole length in which a tiltable latch (10) is 
swivel-mounted, the foot of which (13) is mounted in a 

groove (3.1) of a clearance - open towards the window side 
- of a recess provided in the profile bar, the latch (10) 

being designed to be inserted into the clearance of this 
recess and having a foot (13) - with a profile which can be 

unrolled in this groove (3.1) - offset with respect to the 
centre of gravity of the latch (10) towards the profile 

bar, and the latch (10) being designed to be freely tilted 
out when the end bar (3) is placed on the outside window 

sill, and in that at least one of the lateral guides (4) 
has the blocking means interacting with the tilted latch 

(10) when the roller shutter (1), gate or door is pushed 
up. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in 
that the end bar (3) is provided with the recess forming 

the clearance, into which recess the tilt latch (10) is 
inserted. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that the tilt latch (10) is connected to 

one end of a strip spring (37), the other end of which is 
fixed to one of the preceding bars (2). 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterized in that at least one of the lateral guide 

profiles (4) has a blocking nose as blocking means. 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3,  
 

characterized in that an opening (4.1) is provided as a 
blocking means in at least one, preferably in both, of the 

side legs of the lateral guide profile (4). 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 5, characterized in 
that an insert is provided in the opening of the lateral 

guide profile (4). 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in 
that the insert is made from steel, preferably from 

stainless steel. 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 5 to 7, 
characterized in that the unlatched leg of the lateral 

guide profile (4) or the insert has a run-in slope (4.2). 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 4 to 8, 
characterized in that further blocking means are provided 

between the two lateral guide profiles (4), preferably on 
vertical legs of the window frame. 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9, 
characterized in that the tilted-out latch (10) is 

unlockable by means of an unlocking bar (25) fitted in the 
area of the outside window sill, the unlocking bar (25) 

having at its end facing the tilt latch (10) a sliding head 
interacting therewith, which head preferably takes the form 

of a sliding shoe (25.1). 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 10, characterized 
in that the unlocking bar (25) takes the form of an 

elastically sprung, flexible bar. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 10 or 11, 
characterized in that the unlocking bar (25) can be 

operated by hand by means of a fixed leg (30) of the window 
frame guided from the inside to the outside. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 10 or 11, 
characterized in that the unlocking bar (25) can be 

operated by a fixed leg (30) of the window frame guided 
from the inside to the outside by means of a rocking arm 

and a cable pull.  
 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9, 
characterized in that the unlocking bar (25) interacts with 

a controllable actuator. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 14 for a motor-driven 
roller shutter or door, characterized in that the 

actuator can be activated when the upward movement is 
initiated. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 14 or 15, 
characterized in that a servomotor is provided as actuator. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 14 or 15, 
characterized in that a lifting magnet (35) with an 

unlocking bolt (36) is provided as actuator. 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 10 to 
17, characterized in that means are provided which delay 

the return of the unlocking bar (25) or bolt (36). 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 18, characterized 
in that as delay means the unlocking bar (25) is provided 

with a lock ring (28) and the fixed leg (30) of the 
external window frame with a holding finger (29), the lock 

ring (28) and the holding finger (29) interacting in such 
a way that, when the unlocking bar (25) is pushed in, the 

lock ring (28) is guided over the holding finger (29) and 
thus prevented from returning, and that the sliding shoe 

(25.1) which presses the tilt latch (10) into the recess of 
the profile bar (3) is entrained for releasing the block 

when the roller shutter, gate or door is pulled up. 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9, 
characterized in that the tilt latch (10) is releasable via 

a cable pull (8). 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 20, characterized 
in that the cable pull (8) is connected to one of the bars 

(2) of the roller shutter or door. 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 21, characterized 
in that the uppermost one of the bars (2) or the shaft is 

used as a bar for binding the cable pull (8).  
 
Locking device as claimed in Claim 20, 21 or 22, 
characterized in that the lateral termination of the bars 

(2) of the roller shutter, gate or door is closed with end 
caps, of which at least some have a guide lug for the cable 

pull. 
Locking device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
23, characterized in that the tilt latch (10) is fixed on 

at least one side with a holding angle piece (14) which can 
be positively inserted into the profile of the end bar (3) 

and fixed therein. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
