<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634808</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Raised patch antenna.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q904	H01Q904	H01Q2100	H01Q2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q9	H01Q9	H01Q21	H01Q21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A raised patch antenna is disclosed which includes a 
base (20) having a ground plane (22), a plurality of leg supports (30) 

interconnected to and extending upwardly to the base (20), a 
raised patch antenna element (10) supportedly interconnected to 

the leg supports (30) and positioned over the ground plane (22) and 
an RF feed comprising a feed-leg portion (50) provided on the 

leg supports (30) and a feed base portion (40) provided as a part of 
the base. The RF feed includes impedance matching 

components (60) for matching the impedance of the feed base 
portion with the impedance with the raised patch antenna 

element in series with the feed-leg portion (50). The feed-leg 
portion (50) comprises at least a first pair of balanced feed-leg 

lines interconnected to opposing sides of the raised 
patch antenna element. 

The antenna yields broad 
overhead coverage and satisfactory bandwidth, and can be 

economically and readily produced. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BALL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BALL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANFORD GARY G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANFORD, GARY G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to a raised patch 
antenna which provides broad overhead coverage and 
satisfactory bandwidth, and which can be economically and 
readily produced. As the performance of antennas improves and costs are 
reduced, the potential applications for antennas rapidly 
increase. With the development of extensive satellite 
communication systems, the potential applications for 
antennas providing a broad overhead beamwidth are 
particularly apparent. Specifically, the applications for mobile, ground-based 
antennas capable of transceiving circularly polarized 
signals are numerous. For example, such antennas can be 
deployed on fleets of vehicles to provide positional and 
other field information via satellite to a central location 
and/or to each other on a rapidly updated basis. For many 
remaining applications, however, the feasibility of 
implementing antenna systems will depend upon the 
achievement of even lower production costs. Microstrip patch antennas have been successfully 
employed to address many overhead coverage needs. In order 
for such antennas to achieve required bandwidths for many 
evolving applications, however, the required dielectric 
structure becomes so thick as to be impractical.  While dipole arrangements have also been employed to 
provide overhead coverage, significant manufacturing costs 
are entailed for the feed system, particularly in 
applications requiring the transmission of circular 
polarized signals. In such situations, constant spacing 
between the feedlines and interconnections to dipole 
elements is critical and the manufacturing tolerances are 
therefore extremely tight. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention 
to provide an antenna which yields broad overhead coverage 
and satisfactory bandwidth, and which can be readily 
produced. A further object of the present invention is to 
provide an antenna having a relatively small size and 
otherwise displaying low mutual coupling for phased array 
applications. More particularly, it is an object of the present 
invention to provide an antenna which is capable of 
circularly polarized signal transmission, which has a 3dB 
bandwidth of about 120° or more and a 2:1 VSWR bandwidth of 
at least about 8 percent, and which has low material/production 
cost requirements. In addressing such objectives it was recognized that, 
in order to raise an antenna patch element beyond about 
0.03 wavelength from an underlying ground plane and avoid 
a monopole-like pattern, the patch should be fed as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A raised antenna comprising: 
   a base having a ground plane; 

   a plurality of leg supports interconnected to and 
extending upwardly from said base; 

   a raised patch antenna element supportedly 
interconnected to said leg supports and positioned over 

said ground plane; 
   feed means for transmitting signals to and from said 

raised patch antenna element and having a feed base portion 
and a feed-leg portion, said feed-leg portion being 

provided on said leg supports. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 1, said feed 
means further comprising: 

   impedance matching means for matching the impedance of 
said feed base portion with the impedance of said raised 

patch antenna element and said feed-leg portion. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 2, said 
matching means comprising: 

   one of either a capacitive means or inductive means 
provided as a part of said feed base portion. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 3, said 
matching means comprising: 

   both capacitive means and inductive means provided as 
a part of said feed base portion. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 2, said 
impedance matching means comprising: 

   one of either capacitive means or inductive means 
provided as a part of said feed-leg portion. 

   wherein preferably 
said capacitive means is further positioned within said 

feed-leg portion for frequency tuning. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 5, said 
matching means comprising: 

   both capacitive means and inductive means provided as 
a part of said feed-leg portion. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 1, said 
feed-leg portion comprising: 

   a first pair of balanced feed-leg lines interconnected 
to first opposing sides of said raised patch antenna 

element. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 7, said feed 
base portion comprising: 

   a first balun interconnected between said first pair 
of feed-leg lines, 

said 
first balun preferably comprising: 

   a one-half wavelength transmission line, 
said 

feed-leg portion further preferably comprising: 
   a second pair of balanced feed-leg lines, 

interconnected to second opposing sides of said raised 
patch antenna element, 

 
said 

feed base portion further preferably comprising: 
   a second balun interconnected between said second pair 

of feed-leg lines, 
said 

first and second baluns each preferably comprising: 
   a one-half wavelength transmission line, 

said 
feed base portion further preferably comprising: 

   a main feed supply; and 
   phasing means, interconnected between said main feed 

supply and said first and second pairs of balanced feed-leg 
lines, for establishing a 90° phase difference between a 

first feed signal supplied to said first pair of feed-leg 
lines and a second feed signal supplied to said second pair 

of feed-leg lines, wherein said antenna is capable of 
transmitting circularly polarized radiation, 

said 
phasing means preferably comprising: 

   a quadrature hybrid, 
   wherein preferably 

said feed base portion and said phasing means are 
integrally defined and disposed directly upon said base, 

   wherein preferably 
said first and second baluns and said phasing means are 

positioned substantially under said raised patch antenna 
element,

 
   wherein preferably 

said raised antenna patch element and said feed-leg portion 
are integrally defined, 

further preferably comprising: 
   a support structure for supporting said raised antenna 

patch element and said feed-leg portion, and 
   wherein preferably 

said raised antenna patch element and said feed-leg portion 
are disposed directly upon said support structure. 
A raised antenna comprising: 
   a base having a ground plane; 

   a plurality of leg supports interconnected to and 
extending upwardly from said base; 

   a raised patch antenna element supportedly 
interconnected to said leg supports and positioned over 

said ground plane; 
   feed means for transmitting signals to and from said 

raised patch antenna element including: 
   a feed base portion; 

   at least a first pair of balanced feed-leg lines 
interconnected to first opposing sides of said raised 

patch antenna element to feed said antenna element in 
series; and 

   impedance matching means for matching the 
impedance of said feed base portion with the impedance 

of said raised patch element in series with said 
balanced feed-leg lines. 
A raised antenna, according to Claim 9, said 
impedance matching means comprising: 

   a first feed-leg line portion interconnected at a 
bottom end to a feed pad within said feed base portion and 

capacitively interconnected at a top end to a second feed-leg 
line portion,

 
   wherein preferably 

said second feed-leg line portion is interconnected at a 
bottom end to a shunt pad spaced from said feed pad within 

said base portion and interconnected at a top end to said 
raised patch antenna element, 

said second feed-leg line portion preferably comprises 
inductive means, and 

said balanced feed leg-lines being preferably provided on 
said leg supports. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
