<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617248</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Freezing apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25D311	F25C112	F25C112	A23L3375	F25D310	A23L336	A23L336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25D	F25C	F25C	A23L	F25D	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25D3	F25C1	F25C1	A23L3	F25D3	A23L3	A23L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for freezing particulate bodies, comprises a rotary 
member 

(14) having a generally horizontal freezing surface (16), means (40) 
for 

dispensing said bodies onto the surface (16), means for cooling 
said 

surface to a freezing temperature and means for collecting said bodies 
at 

least peripherally frozen from said surface (16). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARDLE DAVID GRANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARDLE, DAVID GRANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to freezing apparatus and method, and in particular to the
conversion into a solid particulate product of a flowable material capable of
being frozen or to the freezing of discrete foodstuffs such as prawns, scampi
and peas. The flowable material may for example be a dairy product (for
example cream, milk or yoghurt), liquid egg, a soup, a pharmaceutical, a
microbiological culture, or a purée.Various prior proposals have been made for methods of freezing dairy products
into discrete particulate form. GB-A-1 264 439 describes direct contact of egg
or dairy produce with a liquefied gas refrigerant to give pop-corn-like particles.
GB-A-1 376 972 describes a small scale system for production of pellets of egg
by causing the egg to fall from nozzles into liquefied gas or refrigerant.GB-A-2 092 880 discloses a method and apparatus for producing buoyant
frozen pellets of liquid, preferably cream, by causing drops of liquid to fall onto
or into a liquefied gas. GB-A-2 117 222 and US-A-4 843 840 disclose methods
and apparatus for producing discrete bodies of frozen liquid, eg cream, by
passing a pulsating flow of the liquid into or onto a stream of liquefied gas.One disadvantage of such apparatus and methods as described in the
aforementioned prior proposals is that difficulties arise in obtaining economical
utilisation of the liquefied gas particularly when there is a large demand for the
particulate material.It has been proposed in GB-A-2 023 789 to freeze seafood such as prawns or
scampi by depositing the seafood on the outer surface of a rotary drum having a
horizontal axis of rotation cooling the inner surface of the drum by exposure to a
cryogenic medium such as liquid nitrogen and spraying liquid nitrogen directly
onto the seafood. Such an apparatus is unsuitable for freezing liquids.US-A-4 527 401 discloses an apparatus according to the preamble of claim 1 and a method of freezing liquids onto a disk surface and
then removing the frozen product by scraping it from the disk. The product is
bonded to the disk throughout its freezing cycle and must be removed by 
mechanically cracking the bond. Such an apparatus does not lend itself to use in
the freezing of delicate food products.According to the present invention there is provided apparatus for freezing
particulate bodies, comprising a rotary member having a generally horizontal
freezing surface, means for dispensing said bodies onto said surface, means for
cooling said surface to a freezing temperature and means for collecting said
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for freezing particulate bodies, comprising a rotary member
(14) having a generally horizontal freezing surface (16), means (30) for

dispensing said bodies onto said surface (16), means (42) for cooling said
surface to a freezing temperature, and means (52) for collecting said

bodies at least peripherally frozen from said surface (16) characterised in
that the cooling means (42) comprises means for placing the freezing

surface in direct or indirect thermal contact with a cryogenic medium and
in that the rotary member (14) comprises a base of comparatively high

thermal conductivity and a coating of inert material having a
comparatively low thermal conductivity.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that the rotary
member (14) is a plate.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, further characterised in that the plate
(14) is disc-shaped.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, further characterised in
that the dispensing means comprises at least one nozzle (30).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, further characterised in that there are a
plurality of nozzles (30) arranged radially above the freezing surface (16).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, further characterised in that
the vertical distance from the said nozzle(s) (30) to the freezing surface (16)

is adjustable.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, further characterised in that the cooling
means (42) comprises means (44) for directing liquid cryogenic medium at the

freezing surface (16) itself so as to bring it into contact with the bodies as well

as the freezing surface.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, further characterised in that said
directing means (44) is arranged such that, in operation, the bodies are 

carried through an arc of at least 90° before being impinged upon by the
liquid cryogenic medium itself.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, further characterised in that
said directing means comprises at least one cryogenic liquid spray nozzle

(44) able to impart a swirling motion to the liquid and to cause it to exit in
the form of a divergent cone.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further
characterised in that the collecting means (52) comprises at least one

blade (58) having an edge (64) in contact with the freezing surface (16),
said blade being directed such that the bodies are guided by the blade (58)

to the periphery of the plate (14).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, further characterised in that the said
edge (64) is spring biased into contact with the freezing surface (16).
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claims in which said base
comprises a disk made from a material selected from the group comprising

copper or aluminium and the coating comprises stainless steel.
A method for freezing particulate bodies, comprising the steps of
dispensing said bodies onto a generally horizontal freezing surface of a

rotating member which comprises a base of comparatively high thermal
conductivity and a coating of inert material having a comparatively low

thermal conductivity, cooling said surface to a freezing temperature by
direct or indirect thermal contact with a liquid cryogenic medium, freezing

at least the periphery of each such body by contact with the cooled
surface, and collecting said peripherally frozen bodies from the said

surface.
A method as claimed in claim 13, further characterised in that the freezing
temperature is in the range minus 50°C to minus 100°C. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, further characterised in that liquid
cryogenic medium is directed at a region of the freezing surface such that

it comes into contact with both the surface and the bodies.
A method as claimed in claim 15, further characterised in that the bodies
are carried through an arc of at least 90° before being impinged upon the

liquid cryogenic medium.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 16, further characterised
in that the cryogenic medium is liquid nitrogen.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 17, further characterised
in that the bodies are formed by creating a pulsating flow of liquid and

dispensing the pulsating flow onto the freezing surface.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 18, further characterised
in that the bodies comprises a particulate foodstuff.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 18, further characterised
in that the bodies comprise prawns or scampi.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
