<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616588</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PACKAGE SYSTEM FOR FLOWABLE OR SOLID SUBSTANCES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L1316	B65D7534	B65D7722	B65D130	A47L1317	B65D122	B65D7528	B65D7730	B65D7532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	B65D	B65D	B65D	A47L	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L13	B65D75	B65D77	B65D1	A47L13	B65D1	B65D75	B65D77	B65D75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CREATIVE PROD RESOURCE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOYT EARL E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CREATIVE PRODUCTS RESOURCE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOYT, EARL E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOYT EARL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOYT, EARL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, JAMES A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is directed to a package for
containing and dispensing substances such as solid
substances and/or flowable substances.Packages are used to contain and protect a
substance until it is desired to release the substance
from the package. Packages may be used to contain
various solid substances or articles, such as powders,
pills, granules and other shaped substances. Packages
may also be used to contain various flowable substances
such as gels, solutions, dispersions, and other
dimensionally unstable substances. In some cases, it
may be desirable to include structure on the package
which assists in dispersing or applying the contents.Several factors are taken into consideration in
providing a package system for dispensing a flowable or
solid substance. One concern is the performance
characteristics of the dispensing package. For example,
the ease with which the package can be opened and its
contents expelled can be important. The ability of the
package to store and contain a substance prior to its
application is another factor. When an applicator is
included as part of the package, secure attachment of
the applicator to the packaging can be important so that
the applicator does not become disengaged during use.Another consideration in designing a useful
dispensing system is the ability to deliver more than
one substance from a unitary system. Also desirable is
a packaging system that is useful to simultaneously
combine and dispense a plurality of substances, each
requiring separate storage until being combined, due to
their physical or chemical incompatibility.Various packages have been developed to contain
and dispense solutions, dispersions or gels of various
active ingredients. One such dispenser is an envelope-like 
package that defines an internal reservoir for
containing a fluid. For example, U.S. Patent No.
4,427,115 to Laipply, discloses a packaging device for
applying various fluids to the skin. The device is made
of a flexible sheet of fluid impermeable material that
is folded in half and sealed around the edges in a
temporary seal. The two halves of the sheet are pulled
apart to break the seal and form a flat surface covered
with the fluid. An absorbent pad may be adhered inside
the chamber to aid in the retention and delivery of the
fluid. A disadvantage of this type of package is its
limited capacity. Also, the sealed edging may split
open, prematurely exposing the contents. Conversely,
the edges of the containing packet may be too tightly
sealed so that it is difficult to open
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dispensing device (10) comprising:

(a) a flexible backing sheet (14) with a first
surface (37) and a second surface (38); and
(a) two receptacle units (20, 21), each of the
receptacle units including peripheral edges

(25, 26), and a distal end (46, 47) and a
proximal end (50, 51), each of the proximal

ends being formed to provide at least one
extension member (60, 61) protruding

therefrom, each of the receptacle units
being sealed along the peripheral edges to

the first surface (37) of the backing sheet
to form at least one sealed interior

chamber (80) thereinbetween for containing
a flowable or solid substance, at least a

portion of the backing sheet being
releasably attached along the peripheral

edges of the proximal ends (50, 51) of the
receptacle units, the receptacle units

positioned on the backing sheet with the
proximal ends adjacent to each other and

the extension members (61, 61) of the
receptacle units overlapping an axis (70)

extending between the receptacle units and
across a width of the dispensing device

(10);

wherein at least a portion of the backing sheet is
separable from the extension members (61, 61) of the first

and second receptacle units by urging together the distal
ends (46, 47) of the receptacle units to bend the dispensing

device about the axis (70), so that an opening to the
interior chambers of the dispensing device is provided and

the substance within the chambers are dispensable therefrom. 
A dispensing device according to claim 1, wherein
at least a portion of the first receptacle unit (20) adjacent

to its extension member (60) is integrally attached to the
second receptacle unit (21), the integrally attached portion

having a score line (72) therethrough, the receptacle units
being separable along the score line during urging of the

distal ends of the dispensing device together.
A dispensing device according to claim 1, wherein
each of the receptacle units (20, 21) comprises a plurality

of extension members (60, 61), each extension member forming
an opening into one of the interior chambers.
A dispensing device according to claim 3, wherein
the backi
ng sheet (14) is sealed to one of the receptacle
units (20, 21) to form a plurality of sealed interior

subchambers (80, 81) therebetween, each of the subchambers in
communication with at least one of the openings formed by the

extension members.
A dispensing device according to claim 4, wherein
the backing sheet (14) and the receptacle units (20, 21) are

sealed together by heat sealing or by an adhesive.
A dispensing device according to claim 1, further
comprising an applicator member (97) for applying the

substance to a surface, the applicator member being attached
to an exterior surface of the receptacle units.
A dispensing device according to claim 6, wherein
the applicator member is a foam pad.
A dispensing device according to claim 1, wherein
the backing sheet is made of a deformable plastic coated

foil. 
A dispensing device (110) comprising:

(a) two receptacle units (120, 121), each of
the receptacle units including a peripheral

edge (125, 126) having a flange (130, 131)
extending therefrom, each of the receptacle

units having a distal end (146, 147) and a
proximal end, each of the proximal ends

being formed to provide at least one
extension member (164a-d, 165a-d)

protruding therefrom; and
(b) a backing sheet (114) with a first surface
(112) sealed to each of the receptacle

units at the peripheral flanges to form at
least one sealed interior chamber (180,

181) between each receptacle unit and the
backing sheet for containing a flowable or

solid substance, the backing sheet further
being releasable from the receptacle units

along a releasably attached portion of the
peripheral flanges of each receptacle unit

adjacent to the extension members sealed to
the backing sheet, the receptacle units

positioned on the first surface of the
backing sheet wherein the extension members

of the receptacle units overlap an axis
(170) extending between the receptacle

units and across a width of the dispensing
device;

wherein at least a portion of the releasably attached
portion of the backing sheet is separated from the extension

members of the first and second receptacle units by urging
together the distal ends (146, 147) of the receptacle units

to bend the dispensing device about the axis extending the
width of the dispensing device such that an opening to the 

interior chambers of the dispensing device is provided from
which the substance within the chambers are dispensable.
A dispensing device according to claim 9, wherein
at least a portion of the peripheral flange (130) of the

first receptacle unit (120) adjacent to the extension member
(164a) is connected to the peripheral flange (131) of the

second receptacle unit (121) with a score line (172)
thereinbetween for disconnecting the receptacle units, the

score line separating upon bending of the dispensing device
to force the distal ends of the dispensing device together.
A dispensing device according to claim 9, wherein
the peripheral edges define a plane.
A dispensing device (310), comprising:

(a) a backing sheet (314) with a first surface
and a second surface;
(b) an actuating member (324) including
peripheral edges, a distal end (347) and a

proximal end (351), the actuating member
being attached along its peripheral edges

to the first surface of the backing sheet;
at least a portion of the backing sheet

(314) being releasably attached along the
peripheral edges of the proximal end of the

actuating member; and
(c) a first receptacle unit (320) including
peripheral flanges, a distal end and a

proximal end, the proximal end being formed
to provide at least one extension member

(364a-d, 365a-d) protruding therefrom, the
peripheral flanges of the receptacle unit

sealed to the first surface of the backing
sheet to form at least one sealed interior 

chamber (380) thereinbetween for containing
a flowable or solid substance, at least a

portion of the backing sheet being
releasably attached along the peripheral

flanges of the proximal end of the
receptacle unit, the receptacle unit and

the actuating member positioned on the
backing sheet with the proximal ends

adjacent each other, the extension member
of the receptacle unit overlaps an axis

extending between the receptacle unit and
the actuating member and across the width

of the dispensing device;

wherein at least a portion of the backing sheet is
separable from the extension member of the receptacle unit

and the proximal end of the actuating member by urging together
the distal end of the opening member and the distal end of

the receptacle unit to bend the dispensing device about the
axis, so that an opening to the interior chamber of the

receptacle unit is provided and the substance within the
chamber is dispensable therefrom,

wherein the actuating member is adapted to cooperate with the first
receptacle unit (320) to separate the extension members

(364a-d, 365a-d) from the backing sheet (314) to uncover
openings (390a-d) in the first receptacle unit (320).
A dispensing device according to claim 12,
wherein the actuating member forms a second receptacle unit.
A dispensing device according to claim 12,
wherein at least a portion of the peripheral edge of the

receptacle unit adjacent to the extension member thereof is
connected to the actuating member with a score line

thereinbetween for disconnecting the receptacle unit and the 
actuating member, the score line separating upon bending of

the dispensing device.
A dispensing device according to claim 12,
further comprising a plurality of extension members (364a-d)

protruding from the proximal end of the receptacle unit.
A dispensing device according to claim 15,
further comprising a plurality of extension members (365a-d)

protruding from the proximal end of the actuating member.
A dispensing device according to claim 15,
wherein the backing sheet is sealed to the receptacle unit to

form a plurality of sealed interior subchambers (384a, 384b)
therebetween, each of the subchambers in communication with

at least one of the openings formed by the extension members.
A dispensing device according to claim 12,
further comprising means for applying the substance.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
