<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0954658</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HARD IMPACT RESISTANT COMPOSITE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H904	F41H500	E04C501	F41H504	E04C506	E04H904	E05G1024	E05G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	F41H	E04C	F41H	E04C	E04H	E05G	E05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H9	F41H5	E04C5	F41H5	E04C5	E04H9	E05G1	E05G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shaped article, at least one domain of which has a three-dimensionally reinforced composite structure comprising a matrix and a reinforcing system (2, 4, 5, 6), the reinforcing system comprising bodies such as bars, wires, cables or plates embedded in the matrix and extending three-dimensionally in first (4, 5), second (2) and third (6) dimensions therein, the reinforcing system being tension interlocked in at least one dimension in that reinforcement components extending in the first and/or second dimension are tension interlocked to reinforcement components extending in the same dimension(s), but at a transverse distance therefrom, by transverse reinforcement components extending in a dimension transverse to a plane or surface defined by the reinforcement in the first and/or second dimension. The matrix is preferably a dense cement-based matrix prepared from cement, microsilica, a concrete superplasticiser and water, or a metallic matrix. The shaped articles are capable of absorbing high energy with retention of a substantial degree of internal coherence, e.g. under exposure to high velocity impact.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AALBORG PORTLAND AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AALBORG PORTLAND A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACHE HANS HENRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACHE, HANS, HENRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a shaped article which is capable of resisting impact,
including high velocity impact and other high energy impact.A number of impact challenges, such as attacks with projectiles, shells, grenades,
missiles and bombs, have as their main purpose to penetrate and/or damage the objects
which they are aimed at. Another class of potentially damaging impact is accidental
events such as gas explosions, vehicle (ships, aeroplanes, cars, etc.) collision, impact
occurring during earthquakes, and the accidental dropping of articles, e.g. in the offshore
industry.Another type of impact is impact processing, such as impact hammering, explosion
shaping, etc. Another type of impact occurs in connection with quarrying of stone. For
example, large pieces of stone may fall onto trucks or other machinery, and high energy
impacts of this type can cause extensive damage.Impact challenges also occur in the form of high energy impact from e.g. explosives. For
example, bank vaults must be able to withstand an explosive impact of this type.In high velocity or high energy impact, the behaviour of materials is in many ways
fundamentally different from the behaviour under slow static influences - often resulting,
inter alia, in fatal failure or destruction of the articles in question, even where the articles
have very high load bearing capacity under static conditions. In high velocity or high
energy impact the behaviour of materials is in many ways also fundamentally different
from the behaviour under influence from high energy blasts - also resulting, inter alia, in
fatal failure or destruction of the articles in question, even where the articles have very
high load bearing capacity also under high energy blast conditions.It is important to differ between the above-mentioned three types of influences. The
influence from each of the three types of influences leads to very different types of forces
exerted to the materials and hence leads to the mentioned different behaviour of the
materials. The fundamentally different behaviour of materials depending on whether the 
influence is a slow static influence, a high energy blast influence or a high velocity or high
energy impact influence has been tested and demonstrated numeral times.For protection against damaging impact and for tools used for impacting processing,
articles having better resistance against impact than hitherto obtainable are desired.The present invention provides such articles. The articles of the invention can be
designed to provide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shaped impact-resistant article, at least one domain of which has a three-dimensionally
reinforced composite structure, the composite structure comprising a matrix of high strength concrete

and a reinforcing system,
the reinforcing system comprises a plurality of bodies (2,4,5,6) embedded in the

matrix and extending three-dimensionally in first, second and third dimensions therein, the
reinforcing system is tension interlocked in at least one dimension in that

reinforcement components (4) extending in the first and/or second dimension are tension
interlocked to reinforcement components (4) extending in the same dimension(s), but at a

transverse distance therefrom, by transverse reinforcement components (6) extending in
a dimension transverse to a plane or surface defined by the reinforcement in the first

and/or second dimension, 
characterised in that

the volume proportion of the reinforcing bodies in the reinforced composite
structure is at least 2%, the volume proportion in any specific direction is at least

0.5%, and the reinforcing bodies has a tensile strength of at least 200 MPa, preferably
at least 400 Mpa and 
in that
 the matrix is prepared from a submatrix comprising fine particles having a size of
0.5-100 µm, ultrafine particles having a size of from 50 Å to less than 0.5 µm, a dispersing

agent and water, said fine particles comprising cement particles, the ultrafine particles
comprising microsilica particles and the dispersing agent comprises a concrete

superplasticizer, and said matrix having a compressive strength of at least 80 MPa, a
modulus of elasticity of at least 40 GPa, and a fracture energy of at least 0.5 kN/m.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 1 wherein the volume proportion of
the reinforcing bodies in the reinforced composite structure is at least 4%, the volume

proportion in any specific direction being at least 0.75%.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 2 wherein the volume proportion of
the reinforcing bodies in the reinforced composite structure is at least 6%, the volume

proportion in any specific direction being at least 1%.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
number of reinforcing components in the reinforced composite structure domain is at least 

3, preferably at least 5, in any of the first, second and third dimensions of an arbitrary
rectangular reference coordinate system in the reinforced composite domain.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
ultimate strain of the reinforcing bodies is at least 2%, with the proviso that when the

reinforcing bodies have a tensile strength between 200 and 300 MPa then the ultimate
strain is at least 20%, and when the reinforcing bodies have a tensile strength between

301 and 400 MPa, then the ultimate strain is at least 15%.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
transverse reinforcement components tension interlock reinforcement components of

opposite outermost or substantially outermost planes or surfaces of the reinforcement,
each of said substantially outermost reinforcement planes or surfaces being defined by

reinforcement components extending in the first and/or second dimension.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 6 comprising reinforcement
components in the form of bars extending in the first and second dimensions, at least bars

of outermost opposite planes or surfaces of the reinforcement being tension interlocked
by transverse reinforcement components extending in the third dimension, the transverse

reinforcement components being e.g. in the form of bars, bands, cables or wires.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 6 comprising reinforcement
components in the form of bars extending in the first and/or second dimension, at least

bars of outermost planes or surfaces of the reinforcement being tension interlocked in at
least one direction by being fixed in perforations of perforated plates extending in the

second and third dimensions.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
matrix material has a compressive strength of at least 100 MPa, preferably at least 150

MPa, more preferably at least 200 MPa, more preferably at least 250 MPa and most
preferably at least 300 MPa.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the matrix material has a modulus of elasticity of at least 60 GPa, preferably at least 80

GPa, and more preferably at least 100 GPa. 
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the matrix material has a fracture energy of at least 1 kN/m, preferably at least 2 kN/m,

more preferably at least 5 kN/m, more preferably at least 10 kN/m, more preferably at
least 20 kN/m, and more preferably at least 30 kN/m.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the reinforcing bodies have a tensile strength of at least 700 MPa, preferably at least 1000

MPa, more preferably at least 1500 MPa, more preferably at least 2000 MPa, more
preferably at least 2500 MPa, and more preferably at least 3000 MPa.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the ultimate strain of the reinforcing bodies is at least 4%, preferably at least 6%, more

preferably at least 10%, more preferably at least 15%, more preferably at least 20%, and
more preferably at 30%.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the volume proportion of the reinforcing bodies in the domain which has the reinforced

composite structure is at least 8%, preferably at least 10%, more preferably at least 15%,
more preferably at least 20%, such as at least 25%, e.g. at least 30%, and the volume

proportion of the reinforcing bodies in any specific direction of the domain is at least 2%,
preferably at least 5%, e.g. at least 10%, such as at least 15%.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
number of reinforcing components in the reinforced composite structure domain is at least

8, such as at least 15, e.g. at least 20, in any of the first, second and third dimensions of
an arbitrary rectangular reference coordinate system in the reinforced composite domain.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
matrix comprises matrix particles and fibres held together by a binder, the content of

matrix particles and fibres in the matrix being at least 50% by volume, e.g. at least 60% by
volume, e.g. at least 70% by volume, e.g. at least 80% by volume, such as at least 85% or

90% by volume, and the content of fibres in the matrix being at least 1% by volume, e.g.

at least 2% by volume, e.g. at least 3% by volume, such as at least 5% or 10% by volume. 
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 16 wherein the matrix further
contains a strong aggregate comprising particles having a size of 100 µm - 0.1 m and a

strength corresponding to at least one of the following criteria:

1) a compaction pressure of above 30 MPa at a degree of compaction of 0.70, above 50
MPa at a degree of compaction of 0.75, and above 90 MPa at a degree of compaction of

0.80, as assessed by uniaxial die pressing on initially loosely packed particles of the
material having a size ratio between the largest and smallest particle substantially not

exceeding 4,
2) a Moh's hardness (referring to the mineral constituting the particles) exceeding 7, and
3) a Knoop indentor hardness (referring to the mineral constituting the particles)
exceeding 800.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 17, wherein the strong aggregate
particles are selected from topaz, lawsonite, diamond, corundum, phenacite, spinel, beryl,

chrysoberyl, tourmaline, granite, andalusite, staurolite, zircon, boron carbide, tungsten
carbide, silicon carbide, alumina and bauxite.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of claims 1-15, wherein the matrix
is based on a metal or alloy.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to claim 19, wherein the matrix is based
on aluminium or an aluminium alloy.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the reinforcing bodies are selected from the group consisting of bars, cables, wires and

plates.
A shaped impact-resistant article according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
the reinforcing bodies comprise steel bodies.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
