<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611048</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and arrangement for determining byte error rate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M1300	H03M1300	H04L100	H04L100	H04L120	H04L120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M13	H03M13	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus are disclosed for determining the byte error rate 
(ByER) of a received digital signal (S). In particular, a local byte clock signal (C) is 

generated (in 16) and a complement 
S
 of the received signal (by 16) (or clock signal) 
is compared (in 14) to the clock signal (or received signal). When both are the same 

logic value, as determined by a series of logic gates, an error is deemed to have 
occurred. The total number of errors N over a predetermined period of time T are 

then counted (by 18). The byte error rate is then determined from the relation 

N/T
C
 
(by 20). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN KHANH CONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN KHANH CONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods of and 
arrangements for determining the error rate of a received 
digital signal and, more particularly, determining the 
byte error rate (ByER) of such a signal. In digital data communication systems, a sequence of bits (i.e., a signal 
comprising binary digits) originates from a transmitter and is transmitted through a 
communications channel to a receiver. If the communication channel were perfect, 
the sequence of bits received at the receiver would be identical to the transmitted 
data bits. However, communications channels are not perfect and, because of the 
presence of noise and other spurious signals, the received data may very well not be 
the same as the transmitted data. Accordingly, systems have been designed to detect 
and correct errors occurring in sequences of received data. Such systems determine 
if some of the bits of the received data differ from the transmitted data, and 
thereafter correct the error or errors. There are many commercially available arrangements for monitoring the 
received bit stream and providing error correction, for one bit at a time. Indeed, 
many systems list as a criteria a maximum bit error rate (BER) as one specification 
to monitor system performance. However, as the systems evolve and the needs of 
the designers change, it is becoming more desirable to also monitor and correct for 
"byte" errors, where a "byte" is commonly defined as a string of eight bits. A need 
remains in the art, therefore, for a relatively simple way for monitoring the byte error 
rate of a digital communication system. The need remaining in the prior is adressed by the present invention 
which relates to methods of and arrangements for determining the error rate of a received digital signal and. 
more particularly, determining the byte error rate (ByER) of such a 
signal, as further defined by the appended claims. FIG. 1 contains a flowchart illustrating in particular the various steps 
utilized in practicing a method of the present invention; FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary arrangement embodying the 
invention for providing byte error rate determination;  FIG. 3 contains timing diagrams of various signals generated in 
accordance with the teachings of the present invention; FIG. 4 illustrates an alternative embodiment 
of the present invention, utilizing a series of NAND gates; and FIG. 5 illustrates yet another embodiment of 
the present invention, utilizing in particular a complement byte clock signal. In general, an error in the byte rate of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining the byte error rate in a received digital 
signal S, the method comprising the steps of: 


a) providing a byte clock signal C at a predetermined frequency; 
b) inverting either one of the received digital signal S and byte clock 
signal C (S or C) to form a complement signal; 
c) comparing the complement signal (S or C) to the other signal (C or S) 
and providing an output error signal E of logic value "1" when both said complement 

signal and said other signal comprise the same predetermined logic value; and 
d) counting each occurrence of the logic value "1" for error signal E and 
for providing as an output, after a predetermined period of time T, the total number 

N of said occurrences; and 
e) determining the byte error rate (ByER) of said received digital signal 
from the relation ByER = 

N/TC. 
The method as defined in claim 1 wherein 
   in performing step b), the complement of the received digital signal, 

denoted S is formed; 
   in performing step c), the complement received signal S is compared to 

the byte clock signal C, wherein the error signal E comprises a value of logic "1" 
when both said complement received signal S and byte clock signal C are logic "1" 

values. 
The method as defined in claim 1 wherein 
   in performing step b), the complement of the byte clock signal, denoted 

C is formed; 
   in performing step c), the received signal S is compared to the 

complement byte clock signal C, wherein the error signal E comprises a value of 
logic "1" when both said received signal S and complement clock signal C are logic 

"0" values. 
An arrangement for detecting the byte error rate (ByER) in a received 
digital signal S, the arrangement comprising 

   means (16) for generating a byte clock signal C at a predetermined 
frequency; 

   inverting means (12) for forming a complement of either one of the 
received digital signal S and byte clock signal C (S or C); 

   means (14) for comparing the complement signal (S or C) to the other 
signal (C or S) and providing an error signal E as an output when both said 

complement signal and said other signal comprise the same logic value; and 
   counting means (18) coupled to the output of the comparing means for 

incrementing at each occurrence of said error signal E and for providing as an 
output, after a predetermined period of time T, the total number N of occurrences, 

where the byte error rate for said received digital signal S is defined as 
N/TC. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 4 wherein the arrangement further 
comprises 

   computer means responsive to the byte clock signal C and the output 
signal N from the counting means for generating the elapsed time signal T and 

determining the byte error rate signal. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 4 or 5 wherein 
   the received digital signal S is applied as an input to the inverting means 

to form a complement received signal S; and 
   said complement received signal S and byte clock signal C are applied 

as separate inputs to the comparing means such that the error signal output from said 
comparing means comprises a value of logic "1" when both said complement 

received signal S and byte clock signal C are logic "1" values. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 4 or 5 wherein the inverting 
means comprises a NAND gate, with both inputs to said NAND gate coupled to 

receive the same input signal. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 7 wherein the received digital 
signal S is applied as both inputs to the NAND gate to form as the output therefrom 

 
the complement received signal S. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 7 wherein the byte clock signal C 
is applied as both inputs to the NAND gate to form as the output therefrom a 

complement clock signal C. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 4 or 5 wherein the comparing 
means comprises an AND gate. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 4 or 5 wherein the comparing 
means comprises 

   a first NAND gate coupled to receive as separate inputs the complement 
signal (S or C) and the other signal (C or S) and form as an output a complement 

error signal (E); and 
   a second NAND gate coupled to receive as both inputs to complement 

error signal output from said first NAND gate and provide as an output the error 
signal E. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 4 or 5 wherein 
   the byte clock signal is applied as the output to the inverting means to 

form a complement byte clock signal (C); 
   said complement byte signal (C) and received digital signal S being 

applied as separate inputs to the comparing means such that the error signal 
comprises a value of logic "1" when both said complement byte clock signal (C) and 

received signal (S) are logic "0" values. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 12 wherein said comparing means 
comprises 

   a NOR gate responsive at separate inputs to the complement byte clock 
signal and received data signal to provide an output (E) of logic "0" when both input 

signals comprise logic "0" values ; and 
   an inverter coupled to the output of said NOR gate for providing as an 

output the error signal of logic value "1" when the complement byte clock signal and 

received data signal are both logic "0" values. 
An arrangement for detecting the byte error rate (ByER) in a received 
 

digital signal S, the arrangement comprising 
   inverting means (12) responsive to the received digital signal S to form 

as an output a complement received signal S; 
   means (16) for generating a byte clock signal C at a predetermined 

frequency; 
   an AND gate (14) responsive at separate inputs to said complement 

received signal S and said byte clock signal C and providing as an output an error 
signal E, wherein error signal E will comprise a value of logic "1" only when both 

input signals are logic "1" values; and 
   counting means (18) responsive to said error output signal E from said 

AND gate for generating an increment at each occurrence of a logic "1" value and 
providing after a predetermined period of time T, an output signal N defined as the 

total number of occurrences, the byte error rate for said received digital signal being 
defined as 

N/TC. 
An arrangement for detecting the byte error rate in a received digital 
signal S, the arrangement comprising 

   a first NAND gate (32) coupled at both inputs to the received digital 
signal to form as an output a complement received signal S; 

   means (36) for generating a byte clock signal C at a predetermined 
frequency; 

   a second NAND gate (34) responsive at separate inputs to said 
complement received signal S and said byte clock signal C and providing as an 

output a complement error signal E of a logic value "0" when both input signals are 
logic "1" values; and 

   a third NAND gate (38) responsive at both inputs to said complement 
error signal E to form as an output the inverse thereof, defined as the error signal E: 

and 
   counting means (40) responsive to the error output signal E from said 

third NAND gate for generating an increment at each occurrence of a logic "1" value 
and providing, after a predetermined period of time T, an output signal N defined as 

the total number of occurrences, wherein the byte error rate for said received digital 
signal is defined as 

N/TC. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
