<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620738</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIBRINOLYSIS AND FIBRINOGENOLYSIS TREATMENT WITH PLASMIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3154	A61K3154	A61P700	A61P702	E01F9011	E01F9012	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	E01F	E01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61P7	A61P7	E01F9	E01F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORION THERAPEUTIC SYST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORION THERAPEUTIC SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASTON THOMAS G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REICH EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASTON, THOMAS, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REICH, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FIBRINOLYSIS AND FIBRINOGENOLYSIS TREATMENT WITH PLASMINThis invention relates to the treatment and prevention of thrombotic disorders.Background of the Invention Thromboembolic disease, i.e., blockage of a blood vessel by a blood clot, affects many adults and can be a cause of death. Most spontaneously developing vascular obstructions sire due to the formation of intravascular blood clots, also known as thrombi. Small fragments of a clot, emboli, may detach from the body of the clot and travel through the circulatory system to lodge in distant organs and initiate further clot formation. Heart attack, stroke, renal and pulmonary infarcts are well known consequences of thromboembolic phenomena.A blood clot is a gelled network of protein molecules within which are trapped circulating blood cells, platelets, and plasma proteins. A major protein component of a clot is fibrin, which forms a relatively insoluble network in the clot. Proteolytic enzymes, particularly fibrinolytic enzymes, have been used to dissolve vascular obstructions, since disruption of the fibrin matrix results in dissolution of the clot. Clots are formed when soluble fibrinogen, which is present in high concentrations in blood, is converted to insoluble fibrin by the action of thrombin. Fibrinolytic enzymes dissolve the fibrin matrix of a clot, and fibrinogenolytic enzymes digest the fibrin precursor fibrinogen. 

 Intravascular clots may be removed after their appearance by means of enzymes capable of dissolving fibrin (fibrinolytic enzymes); and the probability of clot formation can be reduced by lowering the concentration of circulating fibrinogen, using enzymes that degrade fibrinogen (fibrinogenolytic enzymes) . Plasmin, a naturally-occurring fibrinolytic and fibrinogenoly ic enzyme, is relatively unstable in the human circulatory system and, therefore, circulates primarily in its more stable inactive form, plasminogen. The activation of plas inogen to plasmin occurs by cleavage of a single arginyl-valine bond and is catalyzed by plasminogen activators. Urokinase and tissue plasminogen activator activate plasminogen by direct cleavage of the arginyl-valine bond.Streptokinase and staphylokinase are plasminogen activators of bacterial origin that activate plasminogen indirectly by forming a complex with plasminogen; this streptokinase-plasminogen complex behaves as a plasminogen activator that activates other plasminogen molecules by cleaving the arginyl-valine bond.Thromboembolytic therapies have involved the administration of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A fibrinolysis or fibrinogenolysis treatment process comprising the step of: parenterally introducing into the body of a human patient a therapeutic composition consisting essentially of human plasmin or mammalian mini- or micro-plasmin in fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically active form in an amount and for a time sufficient to permit said active plasmin to reach a concentration in the bloodstream of said patient to reduce the level of circulating fibrinogen.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein the amount of plasmin introduced into the patient and time during which the plasmin is introduced are sufficient to permit said active plasmin to reach a concentration about the site of an intravascular clot sufficient to lyse said clot.
3. The process of claim 1 wherein said amount and time are sufficient to permit said active plasmin to reach a concentration sufficient to digest circulating fibrinogen at a rate sufficient to prevent the formation of a blood clot.
4. The process of claim 1 comprising the step of converting fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically inactive plasminogen, or an analog thereof, to said fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically active plasmin ex vivo substantially coincident with parenteral introduction of said active plasmin into said body. 


 5. The process of claim 4 wherein said conversion is accomplished upon exposure of said fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically inactive plasminogen to an extracorporeal plasminogen activator.
6. The process of claim 5 wherein said conversion is accomplished upon exposure of said plasminogen to a physically contained plasminogen activator.
7. The process of claim 6 wherein said physically contained plasminogen activator is immobilized.
8. The process of claim 6 wherein said conversion is accomplished upon exposure of said plasminogen to a plasminogen activator that is covalently bonded to a matrix.
9. The process of claim 8 wherein said conversion is accomplished by exposure to a plasminogen activator covalently bonded to a matrix comprising a porous polymer membrane.
10. The process of claim 9 wherein said conversion is accomplished by exposure to a plasminogen activator covalently bonded to a matrix comprising a porous polymer membrane having the properties of nylon.
11. The process of claim 1 wherein said human plasminogen comprises one of glu-, lys-, mini- or micro-plasminogen, or an analog thereof, substantially free of elements that interfere with clot-lysing or fibrinogenolytic ability. 


 12. The process of claim 4 wherein said inactive human plasminogen is selected from the group comprising purified natural plasminogen, chemically synthesized plasminogen, and recombinant plasminogen.
13. The process of claim 5 wherein said conversion is accomplished by urokinase or tissue plasminogen activator or active analogs thereof.
14. The process of claim 1 wherein a stabilized, fibrinolytically or fibrinogenolytically inactive plasmin, or an active analog thereof, is converted to fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically active plasmin substantially coincident with said parenteral introduction by exposing said stabilized plasmin to a substance capable of removing a stabilizing inhibitor of active plasmin, wherein said removal results in reactivation of said plasmin.
15. The process of claim 14 wherein said stabilizing inhibitor comprises lauryl sulfate ions.
16. The process of claim 1 wherein prolonged thrombolytic therapy is required and said parenteral introduction of said active plasmin is continuous or intermittent for up to 28 days.
17. The process of claim 16, said introduction of said active plasmin being continuous or intermittent for up to 7 days. 


 18. A method of dissolving an intravascular thrombus in a human patient, the method comprising the step of administering parenterally to the patient a therapeutic composition consisting essentially of as an active ingredient a purified protein selected from the group consisting of miniplasmin, microplasmin, lys- plasmin, fibrinolytically active analogs thereof, and human plasmin, for a time and at a concentration sufficient to dissolve said thrombus.
19. Miniplasmin, microplasmin, lys-plasmin, or human plasmin for use as a pharmaceutical in fibrinolysis therapy by direct parenteral administration.
20. A method of reducing the risk of thrombus formation in a patient at risk for thrombus formation, the method comprising the step of administering parenterally to the patient a therapeutic composition consisting essentially of as an active ingredient a purified protein selected from the group consisting of miniplasmin, microplasmin, lys-plasmin, fibrinolytically active analogs thereof, and human plasmin, for a time and at a concentration sufficient to prevent the formation of a thrombus.
21. An enzymatically inactive plasmin composition comprising a plasmin preparation stabilized with hydrophobic ions characterized by being reactivatable upon removal of said ions.
22. The composition of claim 21 wherein said hydrophobic ions comprise an alkyl moiety having 8 to 20 carbon atoms attached to an ionic group. 


 23. The composition of claim 21 wherein said hydrophobic ions comprise an ion selected from the group consisting of sulfate, sulfonate, phosphate, quaternary ammonium, or combinations thereof.
24. The composition of claim 21 wherein said hydrophobic ions comprise lauryl sulfate ions.
25. The composition of claim 21 wherein said ions are present in amounts greater than about 0.05% by weight. 

AMEMDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 25 January 1993 (25.01.93); original claim 4 cancelled; original claims 1,17,18 and 19 amended; other claims unchanged but renumbered accordingly (5 pages)]
1. A fibrinolysis or fibrinogenolysis treatment process comprising the step of: parenterally introducing into the body of a human patient a therapeutic composition consisting essentially of huma plasmin or mammalian mini- or micro-plasmin in fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically active form in an amount and for a time sufficient to permit said active plasmin to reach a concentration in the bloodstream of said patient to reduce the level of circulating fibrinogen, wherein, substantially coincident with parenteral introduction of said active plasmin into said body, fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically inactive plasminogen, or an analog thereof, is converted to said fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically active plasmin ex vivo.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein the amount of plasmin introduced into the patient and time during which the plasmin is introduced are sufficient to permit said active plasmin to reach a concentration about the site of an intravascular clot sufficient to lyse said clot.
3. The process of claim 1 wherein said amount and time are sufficient to permit said active plasmin to reach a concentration sufficient to digest circulating fibrinogen at a rate sufficient to prevent the formation of a blood clot.
4. The process of claim 1 wherein said conversion is accomplished upon exposure of said fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically inactive plasminogen to an extracorporeal plasminogen activator. 


 5. The process of claim 4 wherein said conversion is accomplished upon exposure of said plasminogen to a physically contained plasminogen activator.
6. The process of claim 5 wherein said physically contain plasminogen activator is immobilized.
7. The process of claim 5 wherein said conversion is accomplished upon exposure of said plasminogen to a plasminogen activator that is covalently bonded to a matrix.
8. The process of claim 7 wherein said conversion is accomplished by exposure to a plasminogen activator covalently bonded to a matrix comprising a porous polymer membrane.
9. The process of claim 8 wherein said conversion is accomplished by exposure to a plasminogen activator covalently bonded to a matrix comprising a porous polymer membrane having the properties of nylon.
10. The process of claim 1 wherein said human plasminogen comprises one of glu-, lys-, mini- or micro-plasminogen, or an analog thereof, substantially free of elements that interfere with clot-lysing or fibrinogenolytic ability.
11. The process of claim 1 wherein said inactive human plasminogen is selected from the group comprising purified natural plasminogen, chemically synthesized plasminogen, and recombinant plasminogen.
12. The process of claim 4 wherein said conversion is accomplished by urokinase or tissue plasminogen activator or active analogs thereof. 


 13. The process of claim 1 wherein a stabilized, fibrinolytically or fibrinogenolytically inactive plasmin, or a active analog thereof, is converted to fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically active plasmin substantially coincident with said parenteral introduction by exposing said stabilized plasmin to a substance capable of removing a stabilizing inhibitor of active plasmin, wherein sai removal results in reactivation of said plasmin.
14. The process of claim 13 wherein said stabilizing inhibitor comprises lauryl sulfate ions.
15. The process of claim 1 wherein prolonged thrombolytic therapy is required and said parenteral introduction of said active plasmin is continuous or intermittent for up to 28 days.
16. The process of claim 15, said introduction of said active plasmin being continuous or intermittent for up to 7 days
17. A method of dissolving an intravascular thrombus in a human patient, the method comprising the step of administering parenterally to the patient a therapeutic composition consisting essentially of as an active ingredient a purified protein selected from the group consisting of miniplasmin, microplasmin, lys-plasmin, fibrinolytically active analogs thereof, and human plasmin, for a time and at a concentration sufficient to dissolv said thrombus, wherein, substantially coincident with said parenteral administration of said active ingredient to said patient, fibrinolyticall /fibrinogenolytically inactive plasminogen, or an analog thereof, is converted to said active ingredient ex vivo. 


 18. Plasmin selected from the group consisting of miniplasmin, microplasmin, lys-plasmin, or human plasmin for use as a pharmaceutical in fibrinolysis therapy by conversion from a inactive form to active plasmin substantially coincident with direct parenteral administration of active plasmin.
19. A method of reducing the risk of thrombus formation in patient at risk for thrombus formation, the method comprising th step of administering parenterally to the patient a therapeutic composition consisting essentially of as an active ingredient a purified protein selected from the group consisting of miniplasmin, microplasmin, lys-plasmin, fibrinolytically active analogs thereof, and human plasmin, for a time and at a concentration sufficient to prevent the formation of a thrombus, wherein, substantially coincident with said parenteral administration of said active ingredient to said patient, fibrinolytically/fibrinogenolytically inactive plasminogen, or a analog thereof, is converted to said active ingredient ex vivo.
20. An enzymatically inactive plasmin composition comprisin a plasmin preparation stabilized with hydrophobic ions characterized by being reactivatable upon removal of said ions.
21. The composition of claim 20 wherein said hydrophobic ions comprise an alkyl moiety having 8 to 20 carbon atoms attached to an ionic group.
22. The composition of claim 20 wherein said hydrophobic ions comprise an ion selected from the group consisting of sulfate, sulfonate, phosphate, quaternary ammonium, or combinations thereof.
23. The composition of claim 20 wherein said hydrophobic ions comprise lauryl sulfate ions. 


 24. The composition of claim 20 wherein said ions are present in amounts greater than about 0.05% by weight. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
