<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619638</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An electrical machine with a disk armature
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K1304	F16C1300	H02K2300	H02K326	H02K128	H01R3900	H01R3914	F16C1300	H02K2354	H02K2354	H02K128	H02K2368	H02K304	H02K1308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	F16C	H02K	H02K	H02K	H01R	H01R	F16C	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K13	F16C13	H02K23	H02K3	H02K1	H01R39	H01R39	F16C13	H02K23	H02K23	H02K1	H02K23	H02K3	H02K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an improvement of an electrical disc-rotor machine. To this end, a driveshaft (1) for power transmission from and to the rotor of the disc-rotor machine is proposed, which driveshaft (1) has at least one driver disc (9), which is at right angles to the shaft axis (15), for connection to the rotor (2) in a positively locking and/or force-fitting manner, the rotor (2) being a self-supported structure made of a plurality of laminate-like coil elements (4) which are arranged distributed over the circumference and are in each case conductively connected to one another radially on the outside and radially on the inside. The commutator (5) consists of an annular section (6), illustrated in Fig. 11, on the rotor end and is arranged between the rotor (2) and the driveshaft (1), on an insulation layer (8). Furthermore, a rotor is proposed which contains a plurality of current-carrying coil elements (which are insulated from one another and whose radial angular positions are rotated with respect to one another) in one or more different planes at right angles to the rotor axis, the coil elements each having at least one radial section which connects an outer and an inner coil element section, it being possible to combine at least two coil elements in each case to form a group which is distributed over the circumference of the rotor, and each coil element being conductively connected to the adjacent coil elements of the relevant group in each case located radially on the outside and possibly radially on the inside, the commutator being formed by those surfaces of the radially inner coil element sections which are located on one of the two rotor ends, and the coil element sections of the commutator having conically shaped surfaces so that the edges of the insulation gap between two respective adjacent coil element sections run parallel, at least in the entire contact region of the brushes. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KNOERZER KARL HEINZ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KNOERZER, KARL-HEINZ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOERZER KARL-HEINZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOERZER, KARL-HEINZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Rotor for an electric disk armature machine, comprising:

a drive shaft; (1)
and a commutator, (2)
wherein said drive shaft transmits (1) power from and to
said rotor of said electric disk armature machine, and

further wherein said rotor is a self-supporting construction
of a plurality of plate-like coil elements which are

distributed along a circumference and which are
interconnected radially outside and radially inside so as to

be conductive, and further wherein said commutator is formed
by an annular portion of one end side of said rotor, and

wherein an insulating layer is arranged between said rotor
and said drive shaft, caracterized in that at least one

driver disk is arranged vertically to a shaft axis for at
least one of a positive and a frictional connection with

said rotor and said plate like coil elements are formed from
metal sections and coil element portions of said commutator

have conically shaped surfaces so that the edges of an
insulating gap between every two adjacent coil element

portions extend parallel to one another at least in an
entire region of contact with brushes.
Rotor according to Claim 1, wherein said insulating layer
between said rotor and said drive shaft and driver disk,

respectively, is made of plastic.
Rotor according to Claim 1, wherein said insulating layer
between said rotor and said drive shaft and driver disk,

respectively, is made of a duroplastic.
Rotor according to Claim 3, wherein said duroplastic is made
of a fiberglass-reinforced epoxy resin mixture. 
Rotor according to Claims 2 to 4, wherein said insulating
layer is connected in a positivelocking manner with said at

least one driver disk via protuberances and cut out
portions.
Rotor according to at least one of the preceding claims,
wherein at least one of said at least one driver disk and

said insulating layer of said at least one driver disk has
driver projections which engage in an end side of said

rotor.
Rotor according to Claim 6, wherein said driver projections
are shaped corresponding to a configuration of portions of

said coil elements in a contacting region of said end side
of said rotor.
Rotor according to Claim 1, wherein a transmission
connection portion of said drive shaft has at least one

groove in ist circumference.
Rotor according to Claim 8, wherein said transmission
connection portion has a reduced cross section in a region

of said at least one groove.
Rotor according to Claim 9, wherein said reduced cross
section corresponds at least to a depth of said groove.
Rotor according to Claim 1, wherein only one of said at
least one driver disk is rigidly connected with said drive

shaft, and wherein a counterdisk is fastened on said drive
shaft so as to be axially displaceable and securable

opposite a surface of said at least one driver disk on a
rotor side in order to produce a press fit.
Rotor according to Claim 11, wherein said counterdisk has
an internal thread and engages therewith in a corresponding

external thread of said drive shaft. 
Rotor according to Claim 11, wherein said counterdisk
counterdisk is connected with a counterplate which covers

an end of said drive shaft on said counterdisk side and a
screw which projects into a central bore hole of said drive

shaft and engages in an internal thread therein and which
is countersunk in said counterdisk.
Rotor according to Claim 11, wherein said counterdisk is
covered by an insulating layer toward an end side of said

rotor which faces it.
Rotor according to Claim 1, wherein said drive shaft has at
least one of at least one bead and one groove for securing

at least one ball bearing.
Rotor according to Claim 13 and 15, wherein a ball bearing
is arranged between said counterdisk and said counterplate.
Rotor according to Claim 16, wherein a ball bearing on said
driver disk side is connected with one half of a stator

housing, and wherein a ball bearing on said counterdisk
side is connected with a brush holder, and further wherein

said brush holder is connected with the other half of said
stator housing.
Rotor according to Claim 1, wherein said plurality of
current conducting coil elements are turned relative to one

another in their radial angular position and are insulate
relative to one another and are arranged in said rotor in

one or more different planes vertical to a rotor axis,
wherein said plurality of current conducting coil elements

habe at least one radial portion which connects an outer
coil element portion with an inner coil element portion,

and further wherein at least two coil elements in each
instance can be combined to form a group which is

distributed along a circumference of said rotor, and 
further wherein each of said plurality of current

conducting coil elements is connected with adjacent coil
elements of a respective group radially outside and

radially inside so as to be conductive, and wherein said
commutator is formed by surfaces of radially inner coil

element portions lying on one of two end sides of said
rotor.
Rotor according to Claim 18, wherein ferromagnetic material
is arranged between radial portions of said coil elements.
Rotor according to Claim 19, wherein said ferromagnetic
material consists of dynamo sheets.
Rotor according to any of Claims 18 to 20, wherein said
coil elements are section plates.
Rotor according to Claim 21, wherein said section plates
are made of copper.
Rotor according to Claim 21, wherein said section plates
are held together by at least one clamping ring.
Rotor according to Claim 23, wherein said coil section
plates have at least one groove in the radially inner

portion for receiving one of said at least one clamping
ring.
Rotor according to Claim 21, wherein said section plates
are sealed with casting resin and are fixed in position

relative to one another.
Rotor according to Claims 21 and 23 or 21 and 25, wherein a
body of said rotor is formed by an entirety of section

plates which are fixed in position relative to one another. 
Rotor according to Claims 19 and 26, wherein a fiberglass
strip is wound one or more times around an entire

circumference of said rotor in a gap between different
radial planes of said coil elements so as to contact said

ferromagnetic material and is sealed with casting resin.
Rotor according to Claim 18, wherein said rotor is a disk
armature of a permanently excited electric motor.
Rotor according to Claim 18, wherein said rotor is a disk
armature of a permanently excited generator.
Rotor according to Claim 18, wherein said coil elements are
one of soldered and welded on a radially outer side with

the respective adjacent coil elements of a group of coil
elements.
Rotor according to Claims 21 and 30, wherein a U-shaped
section plate is slid over every solder joint and is one

of soldered and welded together with the latter.
Rotor according to Claim 18, wherein a fiberglass strip is
wound over an entire circumference of said rotor radially

outside and is sealed with casting resin.
Rotor according to at least one of the Claims 21 to 32,
wherein said section plates are split in width virtually

along their entire length so that every two adjacent coil
elements belonging to a same group, which are connected

radially inside so as to be conductive, are formed by one
and the same of said section plates.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
