<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631428</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pixel error diffusion method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N1405	H04N1405	G06T500	B41J252	G06T500	B41J252	H04N1387	G09G536	G09G536	H04N1387	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	G06T	B41J	G06T	B41J	H04N	G09G	G09G	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	G06T5	B41J2	G06T5	B41J2	H04N1	G09G5	G09G5	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Error distribution in printing and information 
processing systems is accomplished according to combined 

internal and external super-pixel error diffusion 
techniques, effective for distributing whole or 

fractional error contributions both within and without a 
selected super-pixel (210). For a particular super-pixel 

(210), error amounts of a selected internal subject pixel 
(211) are provided to another internal subject pixel 

(213) until a determined or selected final pixel error 
value within the selected super-pixel (210) has been 

determined. This final, internal error value is 
distributed fractionally or wholly among selected super-pixels 

within a predetermined super-pixel neighborhood. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGUIRE MICHAEL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGUIRE, MICHAEL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The field of this invention is that of continuous-tone colour and gray
scale (i.e. "con-tone") image representation and processing, and more
particularly that of error diffusion techniques in con-tone image representation
and processing with respect to the graphical and printing arts.State-of-the-art printing and graphics systems, whether based upon laser
jet technology or upon more recently developed thermal ink jet concepts, are
able to convert images initially represented as con-tone images into digital
representations which can be produced in print and on visual displays at
various resolution levels. Current popular resolution levels typically produce
about 300 or 600 full or partial tone dots per inch on paper, plastic, or
another selected physical surface of choice, corresponding to 118 to 236 dots
per cm. According to a typical digital conversion scheme, a continuous
physical image can be restructured in software as a matrix of point values for
digital processing after which the physical image is reconstituted and
reestablished as a two-dimensional array of full or partial tone dots of ink and
pigment or as photons of light on a display screen. If the selected tone of the
dot on the paper or on the display is coloured "black", then the dot can either
be a full-tone black dot, for example, or the absence of such a dot at a given
presentation position. Given a suitable resolution and depending, of course.
upon the distance of the 
viewer from the physical image being viewed, this composite graphical
representation or image can evoke the impression of a continuous, gray scale
image.Con-tone images are currently capable of digital processing to establish
full-tone dot images on paper by physical print operation or on a display
apparatus, according to user selection. Image enhancement can further be
accomplished by varying the size of the dots placed at particular matrix
positions. Additional image enhancements are possible by varying the
intensity or the tone fullness of the dots themselves. According to one toning
approach, namely half-toning, a considerable level of image enhancement can
be accomplished. According to this technique of digital half-toning, gray scale
and color tone images can be represented as discrete binary (black and white,
or color and white only) information elements in printer memory and
information processing systems. The half-toning techniques which have been
developed in the prior art aim to ensure the essential maintenance or
impression of the original physically viewable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for processing super-pixel representations of physical images
being processed for subsequent presentation by diffusing error values derived

by taking differences between input and output portions of the physical images
being processed, the error values being diffused from selected

super-pixels of predetermined dimensions and residing in predetermined
super-pixel neighbourhoods, and further from selected subject pixels

within the selected super-pixels, each of the subject pixels within the selected
super-pixels having an assigned error value, the method comprising, for each selected super-pixel, the steps

of:

a. distributing at least a portion of the error value of at least one selected
subject pixel (211) to at least one other subject pixel (213) within the

selected super-pixel (210), whereby a final resultant error value
is established for said at least one other subject pixel;
b. establishing a final pixel error value for the selected super-pixel
(210); and
c. distributing at least a portion of the final pixel error value to
selected super-pixels (220) within the predetermined super-pixel

neighbourhood of the selected super-pixel (210).
The method of claim 1, wherein the distribution of error within said
selected super-pixel (210) is accomplished by distributing the entire error

associated with a particular subject pixel (211) to another subject pixel (213)
within the selected super-pixel (210).
The method of claim 1, wherein the distribution of error among the
subject pixels (213) within said selected super-pixel (210) is accomplished

according to a predetermined, ordered sequence. 
The method of claim 1, wherein a portion of the error of a particular
subject pixel (213) within a super-pixel (210) is allocated to an adjacent

subject pixel (214) within the selected super-pixel (210).
The method of claim 1, wherein the error of each subject pixel (213)
within a selected super-pixel (210) is determined according to a predetermined

order of succession.
The method of claim 5, wherein the error of a subject pixel (212)
which is last in the predetermined order of succession is deemed to be the

final error value representative of the selected super-pixel (210), and the final
error is allocated to selected other super-pixels (220).
The method of claim 1, wherein a portion of the final pixel error value
to be distributed to other super-pixels (220) in the neighbourhood is applied to

each of the subject pixels of another super-pixel (220).
The method of claim 7, wherein the error portions allocated to the
subject pixels of a selected neighbouring super-pixel (220) are equally

allocated. 
The method of claim 7, wherein the distribution of
the final pixel error value is allocated fractionally to

neighboring super-pixels (220).
A system for processing super-pixel representations
of physical images being processed for subsequent

presentation by diffusing error values derived by taking
differences between input and output portions of the

physical images being processed, the error values being
diffused from selected super-pixels of

predetermined dimensions and residing in predetermined
super-pixel neighbourhoods, and further from

selected subject pixels within the selected super-pixels,
each of the subject pixels within the selected super-pixels

having an assigned error value, the system comprising

means for, for each selected super-pixel,

a. distributing at least a portion of the
error value of at least one selected subject pixel

(211) to at least one other subject pixel (213) within the
selected super-pixel (210), whereby a final

resultant error value is established for said
at least one other subject pixel;
b. establishing a final pixel error value
for the selected super-pixel (210); and
c. distributing at least a portion of the
final pixel error value to selected super-pixels

(220) within the predetermined super-pixel
neighbourhood of the selected super-pixel (210).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
