<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620328</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dispenser for dispensing a first fluid actuated by a pressurized second fluid
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03C106	E03C104	A47K512	E03C106	G01F1108	G01F1102	E03C1046	A47K500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03C	E03C	A47K	E03C	G01F	G01F	E03C	A47K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03C1	E03C1	A47K5	E03C1	G01F11	G01F11	E03C1	A47K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A volumetrically variable soap chamber (52) partially 
collapses in response to an initial increased pressure 

state imposed by initiation of water flow through a 
second chamber (50) and a predetermined quantity of 

liquid soap will be dispensed. The soap chamber (52) is 
replenished from a source of liquid soap (30) in response 

to a reduced pressure state in the soap chamber imposed 
by the cessation of water flow. Both chambers (50) and 

(52) are in particular segregated by a diaphragm (54). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a dispenser 
for dispensing a first and a second fluid, in 
particular liquid soap and water in public and commercial 
wash stations. Public and commercial wash stations usually 
include apparatus for dispensing powder or liquid soap. 
The soap powder dispensers often have a vertically 
translatable manually actuated closure member for 
exposing an aperture at the bottom of a soap powder 
container. The powder soap drops through the aperture 
and usually into the user's hands placed therebeneath. 
A dispenser of this type, while usually very effective, 
suffers from several drawbacks. First, a substantial 
amount of soap powder falls onto the underlying surface, 
whether it be a section of a wash basin, the floor or 
other element. This dropped soap creates a mess if it 
becomes moistened or wetted. Whether in powdered, wetted 
or liquid form, efforts must be made for periodic 
cleaning. Second, manual contact with the closure member 
is necessary. Such manual contact permits the spread of 
bacterial and viral contamination. Other soap powder 
dispensers are known which include a push button, a 
horizontally actuated member of a pivoting member for 
dispensing a quantity of powder soap ; again, manual 
contact is necessary. Liquid soap dispensers have been in use for 
many years. Dispensation of the soap will occur upon 
reciprocal translation of a plunger, a push button 
release mechanism or simply tilting the dispenser to  
 
force outflow of soap through an aperture. All of these 
liquid soap dispensers require manual actuation of one 
element or another. Such actuation serves as a vehicle 
for transmission of bacterial and viral contaminants to 
subsequent users. There also exist pneumatically actuated 
mechanisms for dispensing soap in response to a triggering 
signal. These devices require a relatively substantial 
amount of power, usually in the form of electrical 
power, to maintain the air or gas pressure necessary to 
operate the pneumatic dispenser. For practical reasons, 
batteries are not a viable source for the electrical 
power. Electrically operated motor/pump units are known 
for dispensing liquid soap. Because of the magnitude of 
the current drawn to operate the electric motor, battery 
operation is generally not considered a practical and 
viable solution. Because conventional electrical power (220 
volts AC) will create an electrical hazard in proximiLy 
to a wash basin, or the like, use of conventional 
electrical power to provide power for a soap
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dispenser for dispensing, through 
discharging means, a first fluid from a source of said 

first fluid (30) and a second fluid from a pressurised 
source (40) of said second fluid, the dispenser being 

actuated by the flow of said second fluid from the 
pressurized source (40) thereof and comprising : 


a) a first chamber (52) for receiving a quantity of 
first fluid from the source of said first fluid (30) 

and housing the quantity of first fluid prior to 
dispensation of the first fluid ; 
b) a second chamber (50) including an inlet (56) for 
pressurizing this second chamber (50) by means of 

second fluid from said pressurized source (40) and an 
outlet (58) different from said inlet (56) for 

accommodating said flow of second fluid from said 
pressurized source (40), through said second chamber 

(50), towards said discharging means ; 
c) means (54) for pressurizing said first chamber (52) 
in response to the increased pressure in said second 

chamber (50) ; 
d) means for dispensing said quantity of first fluid 
housed in said first chamber (52) through said 

discharging means upon initiation of the flow of 
second fluid by the pressure exerted thereon by sa
id 
pressurizing means (54) ; 
e) means (54) for reducing the pressure within said 
first chamber (52) and for drawing first fluid from 

the source of said first fluid (30) into said first 
chamber (52) to house first fluid therein in response 

to the reduced pressure ; and 
f) a fluid flow control valve (42) for controlling 
dispensation of said first and second fluids through 

said discharging means, 
 
characterised in that
  
 

said discharging means comprise a first nozzle for 
discharging said first fluid and a second nozzle for 

discharging said second fluid, said first nozzle being 
connected by a conduit (24) to said first chamber (52) 

whilst said second nozzle is connected by a separate 
conduit (60) to said second chamber, said fluid flow 

control valve (42) being further provided in a further 
conduit (20) between said second chamber (50) and said 

pressurized source of second fluid (40) in order to 
pressurize said second chamber (50) and to dispense said 

quantity of first fluid in response to initiation of 
said flow of second liquid, and the dispenser comprising 

further means for automatically actuating said fluid 
flow control valve including means (16) for detecting 

the proximity of a user. 
A dispenser according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said pressurizing means comprises a 

diaphragm (54) interconnecting said first chamber (52) 
and said second chamber (50). 
A dispenser according to claim 2, characterized 
in that said diaphragm (54) comprises a pair of 

membranes (90, 92) adjacent to but separated from one 
another. 
A dispenser according to claim 3, characterized 
in that it includes spacers (94) disposed 

intermediate said pair of membranes (90, 92) for maintaining 
said membranes (90, 92) separated from one 

another. 
A dispenser according to either one of the 
claims 3 and 4, characterized in that it includes a 

container (22) housing said first (52) and second (50) 
chambers and a space defined by said pair of membranes 

(90, 92) and said container (22), apertures (96) being 
provided in said container (22) for venting said space 

defined by said pair of membranes (90, 92).  
 
A dispenser according to any one of the 
claims 2 to 5, characterized in that said pressure 

reducing means comprise means (100) for urging said 
diaphragm (54) towards said second chamber (50) so as to 

establish a low pressure environment within said first 
chamber (52) upon cessation of the flow of second fluid 

to draw first liquid from said source of first fluid 
(30) into said first chamber (52). 
A dispenser according to any one of the 
claims 1 to 6, characterized in that said second chamber 

(50) is provided for being connected to a water source 
(40). 
A dispenser according to claim 7, characterized 
in that it is provided for being mounted in 

sanitary fittings such as wash basins, showers, urinals, 
toilets and in that it comprises a source (30) of a 

fluid sanitary product such as liquid soap, shampoo, a 
disinfectant or a deodorant. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
