<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MARINE TUNNEL PROPELLER JET PROPULSION UNIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63H11113	B63H1100	B63H11103	B63H1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63H	B63H	B63H	B63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63H11	B63H11	B63H11	B63H11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tunnel jet propulsion unit (11) for marine craft, wherein the passing water mass in the tunnel is converged by decreasing the cross-sectional flow area of the tunnel. The unit (11) comprises an intake section (1); an impeller section comprising a cylindrical housing (31), a rotatable hub (34) and a plurality of radially spaced impeller blades (36); a diffuser section comprising an inwardly tapered inside surface (39), a fixed hub (38) and a plurality of radially spaced diffuser blades (40); a discharge section (D); a bearing between the hubs (34) and (38); and means for rotating the rotatable hub (34). Additional features include an anti-balling by-pass valve (172) positioned upstream from the impeller (33) to relieve excessive water pressure on the hull if unit (11) handling capacity is exceeded and a trim adjusting mechanism in the discharge section (D) for adjusting the height of the unit outlet (30) with respect to the water surface. Also a nozzle (21) having a variable outlet orifice can be used to fine tune performance.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROINOWSKI STEFAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MARINE PROPULSION INC. BROINOWSKI, STEFAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MARINE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROINOWSKI STEFAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROINOWSKY, STEFAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a marine tunnel
propeller jet propulsion apparatus, and more particularly
to an impeller assembly and tunnel design for a marine
tunnel propeller jet propulsion unit.The use of jet propulsion devices for marine craft
is well known technology. Jet propulsion has many
advantages over the simple propeller, particularly in
terms of maneuverability, and jet propulsion energy
consumption is much more efficient. However, widespread
acceptance of jet propulsion for marine craft has not
occurred because of certain common problems associated
with marine jet propulsion. For example, marine jet
propulsion poses significant design problems because of
uncertain performance over a wide range of speeds, water
depth, sea conditions, etc.Excess water pickup at the jet propulsion unit inlet
may cause balling, i.e., excess water pressure between
the hull and the inlet because the unit is not able to
intake a sufficient volume of water during craft
maneuvers or poor sea conditions. Balling induces a high
drag characteristic adversely affecting the propulsive
efficiency.Cavitation is another common problem. Cavitation
represents an uneven load on the impeller. Cavitation
can be produced by excessive radial acceleration of the
fluid, excess swirl and turbulence of the fluid column,
and unintentional partial vaporization of the fluid
throughput associated with a vacuum produced by impeller
action.Accordingly, it would be desirable to design a jet
propulsion unit for marine vessels where each feature
synergistically work together to provide for a constant
column of water even at high output and where the water 
throughput is neither turbulent nor swirling in order to
eliminate cavitation effects. Furthermore, the unit
should have maximum flexibility to cope with the entire
speed range of the marine vessel and varying loading on
the unit without producing the above-mentioned balling
and cavitation effects.Finally, the unit ought to be efficient at
preventing intake of foreign matter, yet have provided
therefor a quick means for manually cleaning the intake
if fouling occurs.U. S. Patent 4,449,944 to Baker et al. discloses a
variable inlet device for a hydrojet boat drive
permitting efficient transition from low to high speed
operation of the boat. Installed in the "slot" of a "V"
bottomed hull, the drive features a low drag ram-scoop
with a blow-in door or panel which is responsive to
imbalance between internal flow pressure and external
slipstream pressure.U. S. Patent 3,543,713 to Slade
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A jet propulsion unit for a marine craft, comprising:

a converging intake section having convergently tapered walls for
receiving water from adjacent the unit, said walls having a smooth

surface to inhibit turbulence;
an impeller section for increasing the energy of water from said intake
section;
a diffuser section for promoting axial flow of water from said impeller
section;
a swivelable discharge section for discharging water from said diffuser
section as a substantially plug-flow directional water jet;
a cylindrical housing disposed in said impeller section having a inner
surface of generally uniform diameter;
a rotatable hub concentrically disposed in said cylindrical housing
having an outer surface when viewed in axial cross-section

comprising a concave portion and a convex portion, and an outer
diameter increasing from a minimum adjacent said intake section to a

maximum adjacent said diffuser section.
a plurality of radially spaced impeller blades affixed on said rotatable
hub and extending outwardly from said hub outer surface to adjacent

said cylindrical housing inner surface; said blades being inclined at
an angle with respect to a longitudinal axis of said rotatable hub;
an inside surface disposed in said diffuser section tapered inwardly from
a maximum diameter adjacent said impeller section to a minimum

diameter adjacent said discharge section;
a fixed hub concentrically disposed in said diffuser section and having
a convex outside surface tapered inwardly from a maximum diameter 

adjacent said impeller section to a distal
terminus adjacent said discharge section, said

fixed hub outside surface and said inside
surface defining an annulus in said diffuser

section having a generally converging cross-sectional
area;
a plurality of radially spaced diffuser vanes
extending from said fixed hub outside surface

to said diffuser section inside surface, said
diffuser vanes having at least a distal portion

being parallel to a longitudinal axis of said
fixed hub adjacent said discharge section;
a bearing disposed between said rotatable hub and
said fixed hub; and
means for rotating said rotatable hub with respect
to said fixed hub.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said intake
section includes an arm-hole duct upstream said

impeller and a removable plug piece having an outer
flange and an inner core end wherein said core end

has a contour surface corresponding with a wall of
said intake section to present a generally smooth,

continuous surface for fluid flow therethrough.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said intake
section further comprises one or more straightener

vanes securely affixed along an inside contour
surface.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein a transverse
inlet cross-sectional area of said intake section is

proportional to an inlet cross-sectional area of
said impeller section at a ratio of from about 1.5

to about 2.5:1.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein an outlet
cross-sectional area of said diffuser section is

proportional to an inlet cross-sectional area ratio
of said impeller section at a ratio of from about

0.50 to about 0.75:1. 
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein a bypass valve is positioned
upstream of said impeller blades for inhibiting balling.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said discharge section comprises
a removable nozzle attached to a housing by a quick connect fitting.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said discharge section comprises
an adjustable nozzle having a variable outlet orifice.
The propulsion unit of claim 8, wherein said nozzle is swivelable through
360° by a steering mechanism.
The propulsion unit of claim 9, wherein spoke vanes attach said steering
mechanism to said nozzle.
The propulsion unit of claim 7, wherein a discharge end of said nozzle
comprises a solid ring affixed thereto.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said discharge section further
comprises one or more straightener vanes.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said discharge section further
comprises a trim adjustment mechanism.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein an outlet cross-sectional area of
said discharge section is proportional to an inlet cross-sectional area of

said impeller section at a ratio of from about 0.25 to about 0.50:1.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said cylindrical housing is
interchangeable and said impeller section further comprises a wear

sleeve disposed between said inside diameter of said cylindrical housing
and said impeller blades.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, further comprising a regularly decreasing
cross-section area of the axial fluid flow from said intake section to said

discharge section.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said discharge section has an
outlet aligned to a craft hull and said water jet is discharged at or below

the water line of the craft.
The propulsion unit of claim 1, wherein said discharge section includes a
substantially constant diameter section and a nozzle section, said 

constant diameter section having a greater length than said nozzle
section.
The propulsion unit of claim 18, wherein said constant diameter section is
S-shaped in the forward direction.
The propulsion unit of claim 18, wherein said constant diameter has a
ratio of length to diameter greater than 1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
