<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623679</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Targeted multifunctional proteins
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K1600	C07K1646	C07K1600	C07K1646	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are a family of synthetic proteins 
having binding affinity for a preselected antigen, and 

multifunctional proteins having such affinity. The 
proteins are characterized by one or more sequences of 

amino acids constituting a region which behaves as a 
biosynthetic antibody binding site (BABS). The sites 

comprise V
H
-V
L
 or V
L
-V
H
-like single chains wherein the 
V
H
 and V
L
-like sequences are attached by a polypeptide 
linker, or individual V
H
 or V
L
-like domains. The 
binding domains comprise linked CDR and FR regions, 

which may be derived from separate immunoglobulins. 
The proteins may also include other polypeptide 

sequences which function, e.g., as an enzyme, toxin, 
binding site, or site for attachment to an 

immobilization media or radioactive atom. Methods are 
disclosed for producing the proteins, for designing 

BABS having any specificity that can be elicited by in 
vivo generation of antibody, for producing analogs 

thereof, and for producing multifunctional synthetic 
proteins which are self-targeted by virtue of their 

binding site region. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROMET AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROMET AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUSTON JAMES S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPPERMANN HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUSTON, JAMES S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPPERMANN, HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to novel compositions
of matter, hereinafter called targeted
multifunctional proteins, useful, for example, in
specific binding assays, affinity purification,
biocatalysis, drug targeting, imaging, immunological
treatment of various oncogenic and infectious
diseases, and in other contexts. More specifically,
this invention relates to biosynthetic proteins
expressed from recombinant DNA as a single
polypeptide chain comprising plural regions, one of
which has a structure similar to an antibody binding
site, and an affinity for a preselected antigenic
determinant, and another of which has a separate
function, and may be biologically active, designed to 
bind to ions, or designed to facilitate
immobilization of the protein. This invention also
relates to the binding proteins per se, and methods
for their construction.There are five classes of human antibodies.
Each has the same basic structure (see Figure 1), or
multiple thereof, consisting of two identical
polypeptides called heavy (H) chains (molecularly
weight approximately 50,000 d) and two identical
light (L) chains (molecular weight approximately
25,000 d). Each of the five antibody classes has a
similar set of light chains and a distinct set of
heavy chains. A light chain is composed of one
variable and one constant domain, while a heavy chain
is composed of one variable and three or more
constant domains. The combined variable domains of a
paired light and heavy chain are known as the Fv
region, or simply "Fv". The Fv determines the
specificity of the immunoglobulin, the constant
regions have other functions.Amino acid sequence data indicate that each
variable domain comprises three hypervariable regions
or loops, sometimes called complementarity
determining regions or "CDRs" flanked by four
relatively conserved framework regions or "FRs"
(Kabat et. al., Sequences of Proteins of
Immunological Interest [U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, third edition, 1983, fourth edition,
1987]). The hypervariable regions have been assumed
to be responsible for the binding specificity of
individual antibodies and to account for the
diversity of binding of antibodies as a protein class. Monoclonal antibodies have been used both as
diagnostic and therapeutic agents. They are
routinely produced according to established
procedures by hybridomas generated by fusion of mouse
lymphoid cells with an appropriate mouse myeloma cell
line.The literature contains a host of references
to the concept of targeting bioactive substances such
as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A single polypeptide chain comprising a linking sequence of a length of at least 10 amino
acid residues, the linking sequence connecting a first and a second non-naturally peptide-bonded,

biologically active polypeptide domain to form a single polypeptide chain
comprising at least two biologically active domains connected by said linking sequence, said

linking sequence comprising hydrophilic peptide-bonded amino acids exhibiting small and
unreactive side chains but no cysteine, the hydrophilic amino acids constituting a

hydrophilic sequence having a flexible unstructured configuration essentially free of
secondary structure in aqueous solution, the linking sequence having a plurality of glycine or

serine residues and spanning the distance between the C-terminal end of the first domain and
the N-terminal end of the second domain.
The polypeptide chain of claim 1, wherein said linking sequence comprises threonine.
The polypeptide chain of claim 1 or 2, further comprising said first domain connected by a
peptide bond to said N-terminal end of said linking sequence and a second domain

connected by a peptide bond to the C-terminal end of said linking sequence.
The polypeptide chain of claim 1, wherein said linking sequence comprises plural
consecutive copies of an amino acid sequence.
The polypeptide chain of claim 4, comprising the amino acid sequence (GlyGlyGlyGlySer)
3
.
The polypeptide chain of claim 1, wherein said linking sequence comprises one or a pair of
amino acid sequences recognizable by a site-specific cleavage agent.
DNA encoding the polypeptide chain of any of the preceding claims.
A polypeptide linker, the linker having a length of at least 10 amino acid residues and
linking two non-naturally linked polypeptide domains to form a multifunctional protein, said

linker exhibiting amino acids with small and unreactive side chains and comprising plural 
hydrophilic peptide-bonded amino acids constituting a hydrophilic sequence, said linker

spanning the distance between the C-terminal end of a first domain and the N-terminal end
of a second domain, wherein each said domain comprises a biologically active polypeptide

having a conformation suitable for biological activity independent of the biological activity
of the other domain.
A polypeptide linker, the linker having a length of at least 10 amino acid residues and
linking two non-naturally linked polypeptide domains to form a functional protein, said

linker exhibiting amino acids with small and unreactive side chains and comprising plural
hydrophilic peptide-bonded amino acids constituting a hydrophilic sequence, said linker

spanning the distance between the C-terminal end of a first domain and the N-terminal end
of a second domain, wherein said domains together comprise an immunologically reactive

binding site specific for a preselected antigen.
The polypeptide linker of claim 9, wherein said two domains mimic a v
H
 and v
L
 chain from
a natural immunoglobulin.
The polypeptide linker of claim 8 or 9, which linker

(a) comprises threonine, or
(b) is cysteine-free, or
(c) comprises a plurality of glycine or serine residues, or
(d) comprises plural consecutive copies of an amino acid sequence, or
(e) spans a distance of at least 4 nm (40 Ångstroms), or
(f) comprises the amino acid sequence GlyGlyGlyGlySerGlyGlyGlyGlySerGlyGlyGly
GlySer, or
(g) comprises one amino acid sequence or a pair of amino acid sequences recognizable
by a site-specific cleavage agent.
The polypeptide linker of claim 8, wherein at least one of said domains comprises an
enzyme, a toxin, a receptor, a binding site, a biosynthetic antibody binding site, a growth

factor, a cell-differentiation factor, a lymphokine, a cytokine, a hormone, a remotely
detectable moiety, or an anti-metabolite. 
The polypeptide linker of claim 8, wherein said first domain comprises a single chain
binding site and said second domain comprises an enzyme, a toxin, a receptor, a binding

site, a biosynthetic antibody binding site, a growth factor, a cell-differentiation factor, a
lymphokine, a cytokine, a hormone, or an anti-metabolite.
The polypeptide linker of claim 8, wherein at least one of said domains comprises a
polypeptide capable of sequestering an ion.
The polypeptide linker of claim 14, wherein the polypeptide comprises calmodulin,
methallothionein, a fragment thereof, or an amino acid sequence rich in at least one of

glutamic acid, aspartic acid, lysine, and arginine.
The polypeptide linker of claim 8 or 9, wherein the amino acids of said linker together
assume an unstructured polypeptide configuration in aqueous solution.
DNA encoding the polypeptide linker of claim 8 or 9.
Host cell transformed with and capable of expressing the DNA of claim 17.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
