<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0671009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROGRAMMABLE ELECTRICAL ENERGY METER AND METHODS THEREFOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1302	G01R2100	G06Q3000	G01R1300	G06Q3000	H02J1300	G01R21133	H02J1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G06Q	G01R	G06Q	H02J	G01R	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R13	G01R21	G06Q30	G01R13	G06Q30	H02J13	G01R21	H02J13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The meter includes a first processor (14) for determining electrical energy from voltage (12A, 12B, 12C) and current signals (18A, 18B, 18C) and for generating an energy signal (42, 44, 46, 48) representative of the electrical energy determination and a second processor (16) for receiving the energy signal and for generating an indication signal representative of said energy signal. An option connector (38) is connected to the first and second processors (14, 16), whereby the energy signal is provided to the option connector (38) and a communication connection (40) is provided between the option connector (38) and the second processor (16). It is also preferred to provide the option connector (38) with certain operation signals such as a power fail signal, a master reset signal, an end of demand signal, a KYZ signal, and the potential to communicate with various components of the meter, such as serial data communication, communication signals transmitted and received through an optical port and display signals. It is also preferred for the first processor (14) to include a comparator, connected to receive a precision voltage (22) and a reference voltage (28), wherein a comparator signal is generated whenever the reference voltage exceeds the precision voltage.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB POWER T 
&
 D CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB POWER T
&
D COMPANY INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEMMINGER RODNEY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNDAY MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEMMINGER, RODNEY, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNDAY, MARK, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field
of utility company meters for metering electrical energy.
More particularly, the present invention relates to both
electronic watthour meters and meters utilized to meter real
and reactive energy in both the forward and reverse
directions.Meters for metering the various forms of electrical
energy are well known. Utility company meters can be of three
general types, namely, electro-mechanical based meters (output
generated by a rotating disk), purely electronic component
based meters (output component generated without any rotating
parts) and a hybrid mechanical/electronic meter. In the
hybrid meter, a so-called electronic register is coupled,
usually optically, to a rotating disk. Pulses generated by
the rotating disk, for example by light reflected from a spot
painted on the disk, are utilized to generate an electronic
output signal.It will be appreciated that the use of electronic
components in electric energy meters has gained considerable
acceptance due to their reliability and extended ambient
temperature ranges of operation. Moreover, contemporary
electronic signal processing devices, such as microprocessors,
have a greater accuracy potential for calculating electrical
energy use than prior mechanical devices. Consequently,
various forms of electronic based meters have been proposed 
which are virtually free of any moving parts. Several meters
have been proposed which include a microprocessor.U.S. Patent No. 4,298,839 - Johnston, incorporated
herein by reference, discloses a programmable alternating
current electric energy meter having a radiation responsive
external data interface. The meter is shown to include a
metering sequence logic control circuit which in the preferred
embodiment is stated to be formed by a single-chip microcomputer,
type MK 3870 available from Mostek Corporation of
Carrollton, Texas. The logic control circuit is said to be
operative to calculate and accumulate different measured
parameters of an electrical energy quantity. Current and
voltage components are provided to the logic control circuit
from a convertor which produces current and voltage pulses at
a rate proportional to the rate of the particular electrical
energy consumed. The converter incorporates a rotating disk.U.S. Patent No. 4,467,434 - Hurley et al., discloses
a solid-state watt-hour meter which includes a current sensing
device and a voltage sensing device coupled to a Hall-effect
sensing and multiplying device. The Hall-effect device is
coupled to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for electronically metering electrical
energy, the electrical energy comprising voltage and

current characteristics, the apparatus comprising means
(12A-12C, 18A-18C) for providing voltage and current

signals representative of the voltage and current
characteristics, a first processor (14) for determining

electrical energy from the voltage and current signals
and generating an energy signal (42-48) representing the

electrical energy determination, and a second processor
(16) for generating an indication signal representing

the energy signal, 
characterised in that
 the apparatus
further comprises an option connector (38) connected to

the first processor (14) and to the second processor
(16), the energy signal being provided to the option

connector (38) and a communication connection being
provided between the option connector (38) and the

second processor (16).
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a power
supply (20-24), for generating a power signal, said

power signal being provided to said option connector
(38), whereby a power connection is provided.
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said power supply
comprises a semi-regulated power source (20), a

regulated power source (22) and a non-volatile power
source (24) and wherein an electrical ground is

provided, said option connector further having a
semi-regulated power connection, a regulated power

connection, a non-volatile power connection and an
electrical ground connection,
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein a reference
voltage (PF) is provided, wherein said power supply 

generates a precision reference voltage (VREF) and
wherein said first processor (14) comprises a comparator

(90), connected to receive said precision voltage and
said reference voltage, for comparing said reference and

precision voltages and for generating a comparator
signal (A) representative of such comparison.
The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising reset
circuitry (108), connected to said regulated power

source (22) and said non-volatile source (24), for
comparing said regulated power signal and said

nonvolatile power signal and for generating a reset
signal representative of such comparison.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a
display (30) for displaying said indication signal and a

state button (Fig. 8), said state button being connected
to said second processor (16), wherein said second

processor generates and provides a status signal to said
option connector (38) representative of the logic condition of

said state button.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said second
processor (16) generates an end of demand signal

representative of the end of a demand interval for
electrical energy and wherein said end of demand signal

is provided to said option connector (38).
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said second
processor (16) generates a KYZ signal in relation to

said energy signal, said KYZ signal being representative
of the flow of electrical energy and wherein said KYZ

signal is provided to said option connector (38).
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said second
processor (16) is capable of generating and receiving 

serial data signals, wherein said serial data signals
are provided to said option connector (38).
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a
display (30), c
onnected to receive said indication
signal, for displaying electrical energy information.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a
programmable read only memory (35) connected to said

first and second processors (14, 16), for storing data
used by said first and second processors and for storing

information generated by said first and second
processors.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a light
converter (40) for converting light to an electrical

signal, said light converter connected to said second
processor (16).
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said second
processor (16) is capable of generating and receiving

communication signals through said light converter (40),
wherein any generated or received communication signals

through said light converter are provided to said option
connector (38).
The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising an
electrical connection between said light converter (40)

and said option connector (38), wherein the provision of
said electrical signal to said second processor (16) can

be controlled through said electrical connection.
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said first
processor (14) comprises a first program, wherein said

first processor determines electrical energy and
generates said energy signal in response to said first 

program, wherein said first program can be modified in
response to a program signal transmitted by said second

processor (16) and wherein said program signal can be
provided to said second processor through said light

converter (40), whereby the determination of electrical
energy and the generation of said energy signal can be

modified in response to signals transmitted through said
light converter (40).
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a
display (30) connected to said second processor for

displaying said indication signal and said option
connector (38) being connected to said second processor

(16) so that a display connection is provided to provide
display information to said second processor (16) for

inclusion in said indication signal, whereby the content
of said indication signal can be controlled through said

display connection.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a power
supply (20-24), connected to said first and second

processor (14, 16), a display (30), connected to said
second processor (16), and a printed circuit board,

wherein said first and second processors, said power
supply, said option connector (38) and said display

define an electronics assembly mounted on said printed
circuit board.
A method for electronically metering electrical
energy, the electrical energy comprising voltage and

current characteristics, the method comprising providing
voltage and current signals representative of the

voltage and current characteristics, using a first
processor (14) to determine electrical energy from the

voltage and current signals and generate an energy
signal (42-48) representing the electrical energy 

determination, and using a second processor (16) to
generate an indication signal representing the energy

signal, 
characterised in that
 the method further
comprises providing the energy signal to an option

connector (38) connected to the first processor (14) and
to the second processor (16), the option connector (38)

having a communication connection to the second
processor (16).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
