<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635999</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR FORMING EXTRUDATES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21C304	A21C300	A21C1100	A21C1110	A23P112	A23P110	A23L1164	A23L1164	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21C	A21C	A21C	A21C	A23P	A23P	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21C3	A21C3	A21C11	A21C11	A23P1	A23P1	A23L1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN MILLS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL MILLS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORN FERRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER WANSEM MARTIN F J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORN, FERRY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER WANSEM, MARTIN F.J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to apparatus 
and methods for forming first and second, continuous, 
independent, extrudates, and particularly to apparatus 
and methods for simultaneously forming two dough sheets 
from a single cooker extruder for the preparation of a 
snack product by conventional deep fat frying. One type of snack product which has gained wide 
market acceptance is the "puffed" snack product. In 
certain methods of preparation, a cooked farinaceous 
dough is formed into a single continuous dough sheet. 
This dough sheet is then run through a piece forming 
apparatus which includes an opposed pair of rollers at 
least one of which has depressions which stamp out the 
desired shape and size pieces from the dough sheet. 
After formation of the dough pieces, the pieces are dried 
under controlled conditions from a moisture content of 
about 18% down to a moisture content of between 10% and 
15% to form a half product or pellet. The moisture 
content of the half product is sufficiently low to 
exhibit extended shelf stability. The snack product is  
 
prepared from the half product by conventional deep fat 
frying. The frying of the half product generates steam 
volumes inside of the half product to puff the half 
product resulting in a light, puffed snack product having 
surface corrugations. The sale of snack food products is a highly 
competitive business. The novelty of snack food products 
decline rapidly, as new and different types of snack 
foods are introduced to maintain or increase market share. 
Puffed snack products can be varied in various ways such 
as by changing the shapes, sizes, and surface corrugations 
of the pieces or by changing the composition of the dough 
from which the half products are prepared. Another 
variation is to have the puffed snack product of a hollow 
structure, with the hollow configuration resulting from 
the fabrication of the half products from a two-layer 
laminated dough sheet. One method of forming a laminated 
dough sheet is to fold a single continuous dough sheet 
into a two-plied dough sheet as set forth in U.S. 
application No. 699,039 filed May 13, 1991, now U.S. 
Patent No. 5,092,757. The continuous dough sheet is often formed by passing 
a plurality (such as 4) of spaced ropes of dough between 
sheet pressing rollers. The spaced ropes of dough are 
extruded from a cooker extruder onto a conveyor which 
delivers the ropes of dough to the sheet pressing rollers. 
Generally, the dough ropes are formed by forcing the dough 
through a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A die (24) for use with a single extruder (12) 
for extruding extrudate including a die head (20) having a 

distribution cavity (23), with the die (24) including a 
plurality of extrusion apertures (36) through which the 

extrudate flows and means (30, 32, 34) for attaching the die 
(24) to the die head (20), characterized in that the die (24) 

comprises first and second die plates (26), with each of the 
die plates (26) having front and back edges and being of a 

constant thickness, with the die plates (26) being integrally 
connected about their front edges at an obtuse angle relative 

to each other, with the attaching means (30, 32, 34) attaching 
the first and second die plates (26) to the die head (20) 

with the first and second die plates (26) forming a cavity 
extension in fluid communication with and extending outwardly 

from the distribution cavity (23) of the die head (20), with 
the plurality of extrusion apertures (36) extending through 

each of the first and second die plates (26) spaced from the 
front and back edges and through which the extrudate flows 

from the cavity extension. 
The die of claim 1 wherein the attaching means 
comprises, in combination: an ann
ular connection plate (30), 
with the back edges of the first and second die plates (26) 

being connected to the connection plate (30) with the first 
and second die plates (26) extending at an acute angle from 

the connection plate (30); and means (32, 34) for attaching 
the connection plate (30) to the die head (20). 
The die of claim 2 further comprising, in 
combination: first and second, triangular-shaped, top and 

bottom closure plates (28) connected to the top and bottom 
edges of the first and second die plates (26) and to the 

connection plate (30) generally perpendicular thereto. 
The die of any preceding claim wherein first, 
second, third, and fourth extrusion apertures (36) are 

located in each of the first and second die plates (26), 
with the first and second extrusion apertures (36) being 

spaced from the front edges an equal distance, with the 
third and fourth extrusion apertures (36) being spaced from 

the front edges an equal distance, with the first and third  
 

and the second and fourth extrusion apertures (36) being 
spaced from each other an equal distance. 
The die of claim 4 wherein the first and second 
extrusion apertures (36) are spaced from the front edges 

a distance substantially greater than the third and fourth 
extrusion apertures (36) are spaced from the back edges of 

the die plates (26). 
The die of claim 5 wherein the first and third 
extrusion apertures (36) are spaced from the top edges of the 

first and second die plates (26) a distance generally equal 
to the spacing of the second and fourth extrusion apertures 

(36) from the bottom edges of the first and second die plates 
(26) and which is less than one-half of the spacing between 

the first and second extrusion apertures (36). 
The die of any preceding claim wherein the centers 
of the extrusion apertures (36) extend generally perpendicular 

to the inner and outer faces of the first and second die 
plates (26). 
The die of any preceding claim wherein each of the 
extrusion apertures (36) comprises a first portion (38) of 

a generally constant cross-section extending from the outer 
face part way through the thickness of the die plates (26) 

and a second portion (40) extending from the first portion 
to the inner face of the die plates (26) of an expanding 

cross-section. 
The die of any preceding claim further comprising, 
in combination: first and second sheeting devices (18); 

first means (14, 16) for guiding the extrudate extruded 
through the extrusion apertures (36) of the first die plate 

(26) to the first sheeting device (18) at equally spaced 
intervals; and second means (14, 16) for guiding the 

extrudate extruded through the extrusion apertures (36) of 
the second die plate (26) to the second sheeting device 

(18) at equally spaced intervals, with the first and second 
sheeting devices (18) simultaneously forming two sheets. 
The die of claim 9 wherein the guiding means each 
include a conveyor (16) for conveying the extrudate to the 

sheeting device (18) and guide posts (14) mounted to the  
 

conveyor (16) opposite the sheeting device (18) for guiding 
the extrudate from the die plate (26) to the conveyor (16). 
Method for simultaneously forming two sheets 
from extrudate including the steps of: simultaneously 

extruding multiple extrudates from a single extruder (12), 
characterized in that the extrudate is simultaneously 

extruded in the form of ropes and in first and second groups, 
with each of the groups including a plurality of extrudate 

ropes, with the first and second groups of extrudate ropes 
extending at a non-parallel angle relative to each other 

in order to prevent operational failure of the extrusion 
of one of the first or second groups from detrimentally 

affecting the extrusion of the other of the first and second 
groups; simultaneously guiding the extrudate ropes of the 

first group onto a first conveyor (16) at equally spaced 
intervals on the first conveyor (16) and guiding the 

extrudate ropes of the second group onto a second conveyor 
(16) at equally spaced intervals on the second conveyor (16); 

simultaneously conveying the extrudate ropes of the first 
and second groups on the first and second conveyors (16); 

and simultaneously pressing the extrudate ropes of the first 
group into a first sheet and pressing the extrudate ropes 

of the second group into a second sheet. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the extruding step 
comprises the step of extruding the extrudate ropes parallel 

to each other in the first and second groups and with the 
non-parallel angle of the first and second groups being in 

the order of 60°. 
The method of claim 11 or 12 wherein the extruding 
step comprises the step of extruding first and second groups 

of first, second, third, and fourth extrudate ropes, with 
the first and third and the second and fourth extrudate 

ropes being in the same vertical planes and the first and 
third and the second and fourth being in the same horizontal 

planes. 
The method of any preceding claim 11-13 wherein the 
extruding step comprises the steps of: providing a die (24) 

on the single extruder (12), with the die (24) comprising,  
 

in combination: first and second die plates (26), with each 
of the die plates (26) having front and back edges and being 

of a constant thickness, with the die plates (26) being 
integrally connected about their front edges at an obtuse 

angle relative to each other and forming a cavity extension, 
and a plurality of extrusion apertures (36) extending 

through each of the first and second die plates (26) spaced 
from the front and back edges and through which the extrudate 

flows from the cavity extension; and simultaneously extruding 
the extrudate through the extrusion apertures (36) of the 

first and second die plates (26). 
The method of any preceding claim 11-14 wherein the 
guiding step comprises the steps of: providing a plurality 

of guide posts (14) mounted to the conveyor (16); and 
passing one of the extrudate ropes around one of the guide 

posts (14) and onto the conveyor (16). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
