<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620759</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR TREATMENT OF A FLOWABLE BASE MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G6900	C08G6904	B01J402	B01J402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G69	C08G69	B01J4	B01J4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHELS KLAUS JOSEF MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHELS, KLAUS, JOSEF, MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is directed to a process and an apparatus for treatment of a 
flowable base material and particularly to the dosed introduction of an also flowable 
additive into the base material to be processed in at least two successive process 
steps. In the production of polyamides, a polyamide salt solution is prepared 
from hexamethylene diamine and adipic acid and then is supplied to an evaporator 
and concentrated therein by evaporation of water. The evaporator can successively 
feed a plurality of main-treatment vessels, provided as autoclaves, for batchwise 
processing of the polyamide salt solution. The length of treatment in pretreatment 
vessels is considerably shorter than the length of treatment in one of the main-treatment 
vessels so that a pretreatment vessel can successively feed a plurality of 
main-treatment vessels. A typical additive for polyamides is titanium dioxide 
(TiO2). This additive changes the color impression of the polyamide, which by 
nature is opaque, and causes a whitish coloration. Further, however, the titanium 
dioxide influences the mechanical and chemical characteristics of the base material. 
In recent practice, the additive was introduced into the individual main-treatment 
vessels after filling the main-treatment vessel with the base material. When the 
additive is introduced, a portion of the additive, mixed with the base material, 
causes coating and fouling of the vessel surfaces. This leads to scaling or 
encrustations containing a high content of the additive, which subsequently peel off 
and thus contaminate the base material. Further, it has been tried to introduce the additive already into the 
pretreatment vessel. This, however, entails the disadvantage that the pretreatment 
vessel as a whole is fouled by the additive and that, if in a subsequent batch no 
additive or another concentration of the additive is needed, the heel from the 
previous batch is transferred into the subsequent batch.  
 It is an object of the invention to propose a process by which a base 
material can be provided with selectable quantities of an additive without 
occurrence of undefined impurities in the industrial system and the base material. In the method of the invention, the additive is introduced neither into the 
pretreatment vessel nor into the main-treatment vessel but is injected into the 
transfer line connecting to the main-treatment vessel. Introduction of the additive 
into the transfer line is carried out within the transfer phase in which the base 
material is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the introduction of an additive into a liquid 
base material which in a first process step is processed in a pretreatment 

vessel (10) and in a subsequent transfer phase (TP) is transferred into one of 
at least two main-treatment vessels (14) through a transfer line (13) 

associated to the respective main-treatment vessel, said process providing 
the addition of a liquid additive to the base material in a batch 

polymerization process, characterized in that, in an injection phase (IP), the 
additive is injected into the transfer line (13) of the respective main-treatment 

vessel (14), said injection phase (IP) beginning at a time after the 
beginning of the transfer phase (TP) and ending at a time prior to the end of 

the transfer phase. 
The process according to Claim 1, characterized in that the 
base material is a mixture of condensation polymer intermediates which in 

the first process step is concentrated by evaporation and in the second 
process step is polymerized. 
The process according to Claim 2, characterized in that the 
polymer intermediate is a polyamide salt and the additive is selected from 

the group containing titanium dioxide, nucleants, color concentrates, 
antifoam, viscosity promoters, chain blockers and catalysts. 
An apparatus for the introduction of an additive into a 
flowable base material, comprising a pretreatment vessel (10) with the outlet 

thereof being connectible respectively in a transfer phase (TP) to a transfer 
line (13) of one of a plurality of main-treatment vessels (14), characterized 

in that each of the transfer lines (13) has connected thereto a dosing line 
(25) provided with a dosing cylinder (33) for injecting additive into the 

transfer line (13) in art injection phase (IP), said dosing cylinder (33) having 
controlling means such that the injection phase (IP) begins at a time after 

the beginning of the transfer phase (TP) and ends at a time prior to the end 
of the transfer phase. 
The apparatus according to Claim 4, characterized in that a 
dosing pistol (35) of the dosing cylinder (33) is connected to a driving piston 

(38) of a drive cylinder (39) by a common piston rod (36) and that the drive 
cylinder (39) in the injection phase (IP) is connected to a pressure source 

(41 ) and outside the injection phase maintains a neutral state wherein its 
piston rod (36) is displaceable by the force of the dosing piston (35).  

 
The apparatus according to Claim 4 or 5, characterized in 
that a supply line (29a) coming from a tank (28) for additive is connected 

through a valve means (30,34) to an injection line (24) leading into the 
transfer line (13), said valve means (30,34) in the injection phase (IP) 

connecting the dosing cylinder (33) to the injection line (24) and outside the 
injection phase connecting the dosing cylinder (33) to the suppIy line (29a). 
The apparatus according to Claim 5, characterized in that 
the drive cylinder (39) is connected to the pressure source (41) by one single 

hydraulic line (40) and that the pressure source (41), being connected to a 
tank (42), can be bridged in the injection phase (IP) 
The apparatus according to Claims 4, 5, or 7 characterized in 
that the inner section of the drive cylinder (39) is smaller than that of the 

dosing cylinder (33).  
 
The apparatus according to Claims 4 to 8 
comprising a dosing device for supplying, in an injection 

phase (IP), a flowable additive into a transfer line (13) 
leading into a main-treatment vessel (14), comprising a 

dosing cylinder (33) connectible to an injection line (24), 
characterized in that a dosing piston (35) of the dosing 

cylinder (33) is connected to a driving piston (38) of a 
drive cylinder (39) by a common piston rod (36) and that the 

drive cylinder (39) in the injection phase (IP) is connected 
to a pressure source (41) and outside the injection phase 

maintains a neutral state wherein its piston rod (36) is 
displaceable by the force of the dosing piston (35). 
The apparatus according to Claim 10, characterized in 
that a supply line (29a) coming from a tank (28) for additive is connected 

through a valve means (30,34) to an injection line (24) leading into the 
transfer line (13), said valve means (30,34) in the injection phase (IP) 

connecting the dosing cylinder (33) to the injection line (24) and outside the 
injection phase connecting the dosing cylinder (33) to the supply line (29a). 
The apparatus according to Claim 9 or 10, characterized 
in that the drive cylinder (39) is connected to the pressure source (41) by one 

single hydraulic line (40) and that the pressure source (41), being connected 
to a tank (42), can be bridged during the injection phase (IP). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
