<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619909</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRINTED CONDUCTIVE INK ELECTROSTATIC SHIELD FOR ELECTROMAGNETIC DIGITIZERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B700	G01B700	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F3041	G06F3046	G06F3048	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B7	G01B7	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALCOMP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALCOMP INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDMEIER WALDO L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDMEIER, WALDO, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRINTED CONDUCTIVE INK ELECTROSTATICSHIELD FOR ELECTROMAGNETIC DIGITIZERSBackground of the Invention:This invention relates to digitizer systems and, more particularly, in an electromagnetic digitizer tablet having a grid of receptor wires disposed below a working surface over which a cursor emanating a magnetic field detected by the receptor wires is moved, to the improvement to reduce electrostatically- caused jitters in data from the receptor wires comprising a grounded electrically conductive shield disposed between the grid of receptor wires and the working surface, the grounded electrically conductive shield being of a material and thickness to pass the magnetic field without substantial attenuation while conducting any electrostatic energy forming thereon to ground. It also relates to digitizers as employed as part of the input/display device of a pen-driven computing system.In a digitizer system such as that indicated as 10 in Figure 1 , a cursor 12 connected to a tablet 14 by a connecting cable 16 is moved over a working surface 18 of the tablet 14 in order to input positional data to a computer (not shown) connected to the tablet 14. As shown in the cutaway drawing of Figure 2, the tablet 14 typically comprises a plastic upper surface 20 carrying a grid of electrical conductors 22 which interact with a coil 24 within the cursor 12 to provide the positional information required. In such systems, it is quite typical to provide a metallic shield 26 of aluminum, or the like, over the grid of conductors 22. The shield 26 acts to magnetically shunt and concentrate electromagnetic radiation from the coil 24 thereby eliminating problems of stray fields interacting with undesired wires at the peripheral edges of the grid of conductors 22 in particular. Where the tablet 14 is mounted in a case 27 as depicted in 

 Figure 3, the metallic shield 26' may be attached to the bottom of the case 27 as with adhesive or the like.While earlier digitizing systems 10, such as those of Figures 1, 2, and 3 employed printed circuit boards with the grid of conductors 22 formed thereon either as conductors according to printed circuit techniques or as actual wires physically connected to the circuitry of the printed circuit board, more recently the grid of conductors 22 has been formed on a sheet of mylar, or the like, employing silk-screening techniques with conductive inks. The mylar substrate containing the printed grid of conductors 22 is then wrapped over and around the edges of a supporting piece of insulating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims :
8
1. In an electromagnetic digitizer tablet having a grid of receptor wires disposed below a working surface over which a cursor emanating a magnetic field detected by the receptor wires is moved, the improvement to reduce electrostatically- caused jitters in data from the receptor wires comprising: a grounded electrically conductive shield disposed between the grid of receptor wires and the working surface, said grounded electrically conductive shield being of a material and thickness to pass the magnetic field without substantial attenuation while conducting any electrostatic energy forming thereon to ground.
2. The improvement to an electromagnetic digitizer tablet of claim 1 wherein: said grounded electrically conductive shield comprises a layer of conductive ink disposed between the grid of receptor wires and the working surface.
3. The improvement to an electromagnetic digitizer tablet of claim 2 wherein: a) the grid of receptor wires comprises conductive ink disposed on one side of an insulating substrate; and, b) said layer of conductive ink comprising said grounded electrically conductive shield is disposed on an opposite side of said insulating substrate.
4. The improvement to an electromagnetic digitizer tablet of claim 1 wherein: said grounded electrically conductive shield comprises a thin metal foil disposed between the grid of receptor wires and the working surface.
5. In an electromagnetic digitizer tablet system wherein a cursor emanating a magnetic field is moved over a working 


 surface of a tablet having a grid of receptor wires disposed under the working surface and the magnetic field is detected by the receptor wires, the improved tablet for reducing electrostatically-caused jitters in data from the receptor wires comprising: a) an insulating substrate having the grid of receptor wires disposed on one side thereof as conductive ink; and, b) a grounded electrically conductive shield disposed on an opposite side of said insulating substrate between the grid of receptor wires and a working surface of the tablet, said grounded electrically conductive shield being of a material and thickness to pass the magnetic field without substantial attenuation while conducting any electrostatic energy forming thereon to ground.
6. The improved tablet for an electromagnetic digitizer tablet of claim 5 wherein: said grounded electrically conductive shield comprises a layer of conductive ink disposed on said opposite side of said insulating substrate.
7. The improved tablet for an electromagnetic digitizer tablet of claim 5 wherein: said grounded electrically conductive shield comprises a thin metal foil disposed on said opposite side of said insulating substrate.
8. In an electromagnetic digitizer tablet system wherein a cursor emanating a magnetic field is moved over a working surface of a tablet having a grid of receptor wires disposed under the working surface and the magnetic field is detected by the receptor wires, the improved tablet for reducing 


 electrostatically-caused jitters in data from the receptor wires comprising: a) a flexible insulating substrate having the grid of receptor wires disposed on one side thereof as conductive ink; b) an electrically conductive shield disposed on an opposite side of said flexible insulating substrate as conductive ink; c) means for grounding said electrically conductive shield; and, 
*
 d) means for supporting said flexible insulating substrate whereby the magnetic field is passed through said electrically conductive shield without substantial attenuation while any electrostatic energy is conducted to ground by said electrically conductive shield.
9. In an electromagnetic digitizer tablet system wherein a cursor emanating a magnetic field is moved over a working surface of a tablet having a grid of receptor wires disposed under the working surface and the magnetic field is detected by the receptor wires, the . improved tablet for reducing electrostatically-caused jitters in data from the receptor wires comprising: a) a flexible insulating substrate having the grid of receptor wires disposed on one side thereof as conductive ink; b) an electrically conductive shield disposed on an opposite side of said flexible insulating substrate, said electrically conductive shield comprising a metal foil thin enough to pass the magnetic field therethrough without substantial attenuation while electrically conducting any electrostatic energy forming thereon; c) means for grounding said electrically conductive shield; and, d) means for supporting said flexible insulating substrate whereby the magnetic field is passed through said 


 metal foil of said electrically conductive shield without substantial attenuation while any electrostatic energy is conducted to ground by said metal foil of said electrically conductive shield.
10. In an input/display device for a pen-driven computing system including a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel with a backlighting panel behind a back surface of the LCD panel and an electromagnetic digitizer tablet system associated with the LCD panel wherein a cursor emanating a magnetic field is moved over a working surface of a tablet disposed behind the backlighting panel and wherein the tablet has a grid of receptor wires disposed under the working surface and the magnetic field is detected by the receptor wires, the improved tablet for reducing electrostatic interference from the LCD panel and the backlighting panel with data from the receptor wires comprising: a) a flexible insulating substrate having the grid of receptor wires disposed on one side thereof as conductive ink; b) an electrically conductive shield disposed on an opposite side of said flexible insulating substrate as conductive ink; c) means for grounding said electrically conductive shield; and, d) means for supporting said flexible insulating substrate behind the backlighting panel whereby the magnetic field is passed through said electrically conductive shield without substantial attenuation while any electrostatic energy is conducted to ground by said electrically conductive shield.
11. In an input/display device for a pen-driven computing system including a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel with a backlighting panel behind a back surface of the LCD panel and an electromagnetic digitizer tablet system associated 


 with the LCD panel wherein a cursor emanating a magnetic field is moved over a working surface of a tablet disposed behind the backlighting panel and wherein the tablet has a grid of receptor wires disposed under the working surface and the magnetic field is detected by the receptor wires, the improved tablet for reducing electrostatic interference from the LCD • panel and the backlighting panel with data from the receptor wires comprising: a) a flexible insulating substrate having the grid of receptor wires disposed on one side thereof; b) an electrically conductive shield disposed on an opposite side of said flexible insulating substrate; c) means for grounding said electrically conductive shield; and, . d) means for supporting said flexible insulating substrate behind the backlighting panel whereby the magnetic field is passed through said electrically conductive shield without substantial attenuation while any electrostatic energy is conducted to ground by said electrically conductive shield.
12. The improved tablet for an input/display device of a pen-driven computing system of claim 11 wherein: said grid of receptor wires and said electrically conductive shield are composed of a conductive ink.
13. In an input/display device for a pen-driven computing system including a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel forming a working surface with a backlighting panel behind a back surface of the LCD panel and an electromagnetic digitizer tablet having a grid of receptor wires disposed below the working surface over which a cursor emanating a magnetic field detected by the receptor wires is moved, the improvement to reduce electrostatically-caused jitters in data from the receptor wires comprising: 


 a grounded electrically conductive shield disposed between the grid of receptor wires and the working surface, said grounded electrically conductive shield being of a material and thickness to pass the magnetic field without substantial attenuation while conducting any electrostatic energy forming thereon to ground.
14. The improvement to an input/display device for a pen-driven computing system of claim 13 wherein: a) the grid of receptor wires is disposed behind the backlighting panel; and, b) said grounded electrically conductive shield is disposed between the backlighting panel and the grid of receptor wires.
15. The improvement to an input/display device for a pen-driven computing system of claim 14 wherein: said grounded electrically conductive shield is carried by a back surface of the backlighting panel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
