<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646279</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CAPACITIVE DISCHARGE CONTROL CIRCUIT FOR USE WITH ELECTROLYTIC FLUID TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F100	C02F100	C02F146	C02F146	C02F1461	C02F1461	C02F1467	C02F148	C02F148	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrolytic filter system (16) is disclosed for use in treating fluid provided by a fluid source (12) to a supplied environment (14). The system includes an electrolytic cell (18), whose operation is governed by a control circuit (20) to allow a desired average current to be applied to the cell substantially independent of variations in fluid resistivity, to allow the cell to simultaneously achieve, for example, the desired removal of contaminants, killing of biological materials, and alteration of the fluid's chemical characteristics, and to provide relatively high levels of energy to the fluid quickly and efficiently.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATER REGENERATION SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATER REGENERATION SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERICKSON ROBERT K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINZ FRANCOIS X
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERICKSON, ROBERT, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINZ, FRANCOIS, X.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CAPACΓΠVE DISCHARGE CONTROL CIRCUIT FOR USE WITH ELECTROLYTIC FLUID TREATMENT SYSTEMSField of the Invention This invention relates to electrolytic fluid treatment systems and, more particularly, to circuits for use in controlling such systems.Background of the Invention Electrolytic fluid treatment systems are widely used to, for example, remove impurities and contaminants from fluids. In such systems, the fluid to be treated is passed between one or more pairs of electrodes. An electric potential, applied to the electrodes, establishes an electric current between the electrodes. As a result, impurities in the fluid migrate and adhere to the electrodes, biological materials in the fluid are killed, and the fluid's chemical composition may be altered.One fluid that is commonly processed by electrolytic fluid treatment systems is water. The electrolytic treatment of water is, however, complicated by the widely varying water characteristics encountered from one water source to another. In that regard, the resistivity of water, which is inversely proportional to conductivity, commonly varies over a range extending from 30 to 1400 ohm-meter. Such resistivity variations may significantly alter the performance of an electrolytic filter system.More particularly, the interelectrode resistance is dependent upon the resistivity of the water flowing between the electrodes. With a fixed electric potential applied to the electrodes, current flow between the electrodes will vary in inverse proportion to the water's resistance. If water resistivity is relatively high, the current may be too low to achieve the desired treatment of the water. On the other hand, if 

water resistivity is relatively low, the current may be so high as to damage or otherwise decrease the life of system components.A variety of different systems have been developed that attempt to accommodate such variations in water resistivity. For example, circuits have been developed to expose water purification and ion generation systems to relatively constant load resistances, regardless of variations in water resistivity. In that regard, U.S. Patent No. 4,769,119 (Grundler) discloses a water ionizing device that includes several electrodes. If the resistivity of the water being ionized is relatively low, a relatively high resistance is introduced in series with the electrodes. On the other hand, if the water's resistivity is relatively high, a relatively low resistance is introduced in series with the electrodes. In either case, by keeping the system's
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A method of controlling the operation of an electrolytic system for use in the treatment of a fluid exhibiting a potentially variable characteristic, said method comprising the steps of: producing a plurality of pulses of electrical energy for application to the electrolytic system, the plurality of pulses exhibiting parameters including a pulse repetition rate, pulse duration, and pulse amplitude; evaluating the potentially variable characteristic of the fluid; controlling one of the parameters exhibited by the plurality of pulses in response to the evaluation of the potentially variable characteristic of the fluid.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein said step of evaluating comprises the step of producing an output representative of the fluid's resistivity.
3. The method of Claim 2, wherein said step of controlling is performed to allow the electrolytic system to treat the fluid substantially independent of variations in the fluid's resistivity.
4. The method of Claim 1, wherein said step of controlling comprises the step of controlling the pulse duration.
5. The method of Claim 1, wherein said step of producing said plurality of pulses comprises the steps of: storing electrical energy on a capacitor; and repetitively connecting the capacitor to, and disconnecting the capacitor from, the electrolytic system.
6. The method of Claim 5, wherein said step of storing electrical energy comprises the step of establishing a voltage across said capacitor at some initial level and wherein said step of repetitively connecting the capacitor to, and disconnecting the capacitor from, the electrolytic system includes the step of disconnecting the capacitor from the electrolytic system when the voltage across said capacitor has decayed to some subsequent level. 


 7. The method of Claim 6, wherein said step of repetitively connecting the capacitor to, and disconnecting the capacitor from, the electrolytic system is repeated at the pulse repetition rate.
8. The method of Claim 6, wherein the electrolytic system is for use in the treatment of more than one aspect of the fluid and wherein said initial level and subsequent level are selected to enhance the system's ability to treat the more than one aspect of the fluid.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein said initial level is roughly sixty volts and said subsequent level is roughly zero volts.
10. A method of electrolytically treating comprising the steps of: positioning the water between at least one pair of electrodes; producing a voltage across a capacitor; and selectively coupling the capacitor to the electrodes, causing the voltage across the capacitor to decay and a current to flow through the water between the at least one pair of electrodes.
11. The method of Claim 10, wherein said method is for electrolytically treating water in a manner that is relatively independent of variations in the electrical resistivity of the water, said method further comprising the steps of: sensing the resistivity of the water; and selectively disconnecting the capacitor from the electrodes when the voltage across the capacitor decays to a predetermined threshold, said steps of selectively coupling and selectively disconnecting being repeated at a predetermined repetition rate and being separated by an interval of time whose magnitude is dependent upon the sensed resistivity of the water.
12. A circuit for providing a desired electric current to the electrodes of an electrolytic fluid treatment system, substantially independent of variations in fluid passed between the electrodes and treated by the system, said circuit comprising: sensing means for sensing variations in the fluid passed between the electrodes; delivery means for delivering a plurality of electric current pulses to the electrodes, said electric current pulses exhibiting a pulse duration, pulse repetition rate, and pulse amplitude; and 


 control means, responsive to said sensing means, for controlling said delivery means to ensure that the desired electric current provided to the electrodes remains substantially independent of variations in the fluid passed between the electrodes.
13. The circuit of Claim 12, wherein said sensing means is for sensing variations in the resistivity of the fluid.
14. The circuit of Claim 13, wherein said sensing means is for sensing variations in the amplitude of the current pulses delivered to the electrodes.
15. The circuit of Claim 12, wherein each current pulse has a start point and an end point and the pulse amplitude decays from a start amplitude at the start point to an end amplitude at the end point, said control means being for controlling said delivery means to ensure that the pulse repetition rate and end amplitude are established at some predetermined levels.
16. The circuit of Claim 15, wherein said electrolytic fluid treatment system is for use in the treatment of more than one aspect of the fluid and wherein said start amplitude and said end amplitude are selected to enhance the system's ability to treat the more than one aspect of the fluid.
17. The circuit of Claim 16, wherein said start amplitude is roughly thirty amperes and said end amplitude is roughly zero amperes.
18. The circuit of Claim 15, wherein said control means is further for controlling the pulse duration exhibited by said current pulses in response to said sensing means to ensure that the average current provided to the electrodes remains substantially independent of variations in the resistivity of the fluid passed between the electrodes.
19. The circuit of Claim 12, wherein said delivery means comprises a capacitor for storing energy and switching means for selectively connecting said capacitor to and disconnecting said capacitor from the electrodes.
20. An electrolytic fluid treatment system, suitable for treating fluids comprising: at least one pair of electrodes, said electrodes defining a fluid flow path therebetween; 


 a capacitor for storing electrical energy for delivery to said pair of electrodes; a switching circuit for causing energy stored by the capacitor to be delivered to said pair of electrodes as a plurality of current pulses.
21. The system of Claim 20, wherein said fluid may exhibit a varying resistivity, said system further comprising: an ammeter for producing an output representative of the current pulses delivered to said pair of electrodes; a control circuit for controlling said switching circuit in response to the output of said ammeter.
22. The system of Claim 20, wherein said current pulses exhibit a plurality of characteristics and wherein said control circuit and switching circuit are for cooperatively controlling at least one of said plurality of characteristics.
23. The system of Claim 22, wherein said characteristics exhibited by said current pulses include duration, amplitude, and repetition rate and wherein said control circuit and switching circuit are for cooperatively establishing amplitude and repetition rate at some predetermined levels and for cooperatively establishing duration in response to the output of said ammeter.
24. A method of electrolytically filtering water comprising the steps of: passing the water between at least one pair of electrodes; and applying a varying voltage across the electrodes to effect the desired filtering of the water.
25. The method of Claim 24, wherein the electrolytic filter is for treating several aspects of the water and wherein said step of applying a varying voltage comprises applying a voltage varying between sixty volts and zero volts across the electrodes to treat the several aspects.
26. The method of Claim 24, wherein said step of applying a varying voltage across the electrodes comprises the steps of: producing a voltage across a capacitor; selectively coupling the capacitor to the electrodes, causing the voltage across the capacitor to decay; and selectively disconnecting the capacitor from the electrodes when the voltage across the capacitor decays to a predetermined threshold, said steps of selectively 


coupling and selectively disconnecting being repeated at a predetermined repetition rate and being separated by an interval of time whose magnitude is dependent upon the sensed conductivity of the water.
27. A system for electrolytically filtering water exhibiting several different characteristics to be treated, said system comprising; at least one pair of electrodes; and a circuit for applying a varying voltage across the electrodes to effect the desired treatment of the water.
28. The system of Claim 27, wherein said voltage varies between roughly sixty volts and zero volts.
29. The system of Claim 27, wherein said circuit comprises: a capacitor for storing a voltage; a switching circuit for coupling the capacitor to, and disconnecting the capacitor from, the pair of electrodes; and a control circuit for controlling the switching circuit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
