<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640269</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF CONTROLLING TRAFFIC IN A TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M322	H04M322	H04M336	H04M336	H04Q364	H04Q366	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04Q3	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of controlling a telecommunications network, which includes at least one local exchange connected by routes to one or more parent trunk exchanges each being one of a plurality of trunk exchanges interconnected by trunk routes, in which the method consists of applying focused overload control to at least one trunk exchange of the network when the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) along a primary traffic route from a parent trunk exchange to the local exchange exceed a certain threshold and the magnitude of a decrease in the average Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on the trunk primary traffic route to the parent exchange over a measurement period exceeds an other threshold. The focused overload controls are call gapping controls, and the measurement period is approximately five minutes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRABTREE IAN BARRY THE OLD COT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWAINE CHARLES ARNOLD WOODSIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRABTREE, IAN, BARRY 3 THE OLD COTTAGES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWAINE, CHARLES, ARNOLD WOODSIDE COTTAGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Method of controlling traffic 1n a telecommunication networkThis invention relates the control of a telecommunications network which includes at least one local exchange connected by routes to one or more parent trunk exchanges each being one of a plurality of trunk exchanges interconnected by trunk routes and to telecommunications networks so controlled. It is particularly concerned with the detection of focused overloads in such networks. Commonly a local exchange is associated with a home exchange, through which incoming calls to the local exchange are routed, and a security exchange, through which outward calls from the local exchange are routed, in normal operation. The security exchange is so called because it can also be used to route incoming calls to the local exchange if the home exchange fails. The security and home exchanges are collectively referred to as the parent exchanges of the local exchange. Exchanges other than the parent exchanges are referred to as far-end trunk exchanges of the local exchanges.Near real-time network traffic management (NTM) is an essential component of network management if optimal traffic performance in terms of call throughput is to be ensured. To give an indication of the volume of traffic which may be involved, BT' s trunk network in the United Kingdom currently handles approximately six million call attempts per hour during the busy periods which is equivalent to 1, 700 call attempts per second. Given such a volume of traffic it is essential that any networl- difficulties are detected and controlled as quickly aε possible. For r.xample, difficulties are often encountered by network traffic managers due to abnormal traffic patterns which can be caused by events such as 'phone-ins, tele-votes and public holidays (for example Christmas Day and New Year's Eve/Day). In all these cases traffic in the 

network varies widely from the normal level, sometimes quite spectacularly, and the network must be controlled to maintain the best overall network performance.With the introduction of digital switches such as System X it is possible to monitor closely the performance of each exchange and the routes between them and to the subscribers. BT' s Network Traffic Management System (NTMS) currently receives statistics on upwards of 37,000 routes from 490 exchanges in the UK every five minutes, which measurement period was chosen to be a long enough period to be able to obtain a statistically reliable measurement of the network performance whilst being short enough to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A method of controlling a telecommunications network, which includes at least one local exchange connected by routes to one or more parent trunk exchanges each being one of a plurality of trunk exchanges interconnected by trunk routes, characterised in that the method comprises applying focused overload control to at least one trunk exchange of the network when the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) along a primary traffic route from a parent trunk exchange to the local exchange exceed a first threshold and the magnitude of a decrease in the average Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on the trunk primary traffic route to the parent exchange over a measurement period exceeds a second threshold.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which the first threshold is set at approximately the high end of the maximum expected BCH range of the routes in the network.
3. A method as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2 in which the first threshold is 30.
4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the second threshold is set equal to the normal daily excursion of the value of the ASR of the routes in the network.
5. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which focused overload controls are applied only when the increase in the average value of the BCH along the trunk primary traffic routes into the respective home exchange over a measurement period exceeds a third threshold.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5 in which the third threshold is 40% greater than the long term BCH average over all the trunk primary traffic routes into the home exchange.
7. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the focused overload controls are call gapping controls.
8. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the focused overload controls are removed once the BCH from 


the home exchange to the local exchange fall below a fourth threshold.
9. A method as claimed in claim 8 in which the fourth threshold is five. 10. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the measurement period is approximately five minutes.
11. A method of controlling a telecommunications network as claimed in claim 1 in which focused overload control is applied to at least one far-end trunk exchange of the local exchange whenever the ASR from the far-end trunk exchange to a parent trunk exchange of the local exchange has stayed below a seventh threshold for the duration of a measurement period.
12. A telecommunications network including at least one local exchange which is connected by routes to one or more home trunk exchanges each being one of a plurality of trunk exchanges interconnected by trunk routes and control means for applying focused overload controls to the trunk exchanges of the network characterised in that there is included a system responsive to the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) along the primary traffic routes from a home trunk exchange to the local exchange and to the magnitude of a decrease in the average Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on the trunk primary traffic routes into the home exchange over a measurement period to output a signal indicating the need for focused overload controls to be applied to the network by the control means when the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) along the primary traffic routes from a home trunk exchange to the local exchange exceed a first threshold and the magnitude of a decrease in the average Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on the trunk primary traffic routes into the home exchange over a measurement period exceeds a second threshold.
13. A telecommunications network including at least one local exchange which is connected by routes to one or more home trunk exchanges each being one of a plurality of trunk 


exchanges interconnected by trunk routes and control means for applying focused overload controls to the trunk exchanges of the network characterised in that there is included a system responsive to the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) along the primary traffic routes from a home trunk exchange to the local exchange and to the magnitude of a decrease in the average Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on the trunk primary traffic routes into the home exchange over a measurement period to cause focused overload controls to be applied to the network by means of the control means when the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) along the primary traffic routes from a home trunk exchange to the local exchange exceed a first threshold and the magnitude of a decrease in the average Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on the trunk primary traffic routes into the home exchange over a measurement period exceeds a second threshold.
14. A method of controlling a network, which includes at least one local exchange connected by routes to one or more parent trunk exchanges each being one of a plurality of trunk exchanges interconnected by trunk routes, in which on detection of a focused overload at an exchange call gapping is applied to one or more of the exchanges of the network, the method being characterised i that call gapping of numbers of a local exchange is applied either: a) to an associated parent exchange whenever the Bids per Circuit per Hour (BCH) from the parent exchange to the local exchange is greater than a fifth threshold and the Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) on primary traffic routes from the parent exchange to the local exchange has stayed below a sixth threshold for the duration of a measurement period; or b) to a far-end trunk exchange of the local exchange whenever the ASR from the far-end trunk exchange to a parent trunk exchange of the local exchange has stayed below a seventh threshold for a measurement period. 


15. A method as claimed in claim 14 in which the call gapping is removed from a parent exchange once the ASR and Percentage Occupancy (OCC) have stayed above an eighth threshold and below a ninth threshold, respectively, for the duration of a measurement period.
16. A method as claimed in claim 15 which call gapping is removed from the far-end exchange once the ASR from the far-end trunk exchange to the parent exchange has stayed above the eighth threshold for the duration of a measurement period.
17. A method as claimed in any one of claims 14, 15 or 16 in which the fifth threshold is set to the lower end of the maximum handleable BCH range of the network and above the highest average BCH value of the exchanges in the network. 18. A method as claimed in any one of claims 14, 15 or 16 in which the fifth threshold is 10.
19. A method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 18 in which the sixth threshold is set to a value below the normal expected daily minimum of ASR for the network. 20. A method as claimed in claim 19 in which the sixth threshold is 20%.
21. A method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 20 in which the seventh threshold is set to a value approximately equal to the average normal ASR for exchanges in the network.
22. A method as claimed in claim 21 in which the seventh threshold is 45%.
23. A method as claimed in claim 15 in which the eighth threshold is set equal to the highest normal ACR value for the exchanges in the network.
24. A method as claimed in claim 23 in which the eighth threshold is 50%.
25. A method as claimed in claim 15 in which the ninth threshold is set esual to the highest normal OCC for the exchanges in the network. 


26. A method as claimed in claim 25 in which the ninth threshold is 80%.
27. A method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 26 in which the measurement period is approximately five minutes.
28. A method of controlling a telecommunications network in which a focused overload is detected by any one of the methods claimed in claims 1 to 10 and in which the focused overload is controlled by any one of the methods claimed in claims 13 to 27. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
