<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642709</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL EDGE PULSE WIDTH MODULATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K700	H03K708	H03M150	H03M156	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K7	H03K7	H03M1	H03M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDAN, EDWARD, PERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DUAL EDGE PULSE WIDTH MODULATION SYSTEMFIELD OF INVENTION This invention relates to an improved dual edge pulse width modulation system.BACKGROUND OF INVENTION There are three types of pulse width modulation leading edge modulation (LEM) , trailing edge modulation (TEM) , and dual edge modulation (DEM) . Typically LEM can be produced with one ramp, two comparators and a reference voltage which fixes the trailing edge of the pulse. TEM is accomplished by a similar arrangement but the reference voltage is at the beginning of the ramp to fix the leading edge of the pulse. These circuits produce but one pulse during every other clock cycle. As the ramp recovers, half of the clock cycle is unusable. In high speed applications two such circuits are used to provide a ramp during each half clock cycle so a sequence of alternate pulses is provided. To generate DEM two ramps and two reference voltages are used and in high-speed applications, again, two such circuits are used to obtain a sequence of alternating pulses. In another approach a phase locked loop (PLL) is employed with a triangular (dual ramp) waveform to obtain center justified DEM. While this approach does eliminate some of the redundancy of the prior arrangements it introduces the extra expense and complexity associated with PLLs. In addition, PLLs do not lend themselves to easy transition between formats LEM, TEM, DEM. The output of the PLL at lock may not line up exactly with other formats and so an offset adjust must be added. These offset adjusts are not always well controlled and need to be compensated.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONIt is therefore an object of this invention to provide an improved dual edge pulse width modulation system.It is a further object of this invention to provide such a dual edge pulse width modulation system which requires but one 

ramp to generate LEM, TEM and DEC.It is a further object of this invention to provide such a dual edge pulse width modulation system which uses but a single digital to analog converter (DAC) .It is a further object of this invention to provide such a dual edge pulse width modulation system which can utilize the full n bit capability of the DAC in generating DEM.It is a further object of this invention to provide such a dual edge pulse width modulation system which can utilize the full n bit capability in the DEM mode and in the LEM and TEM modes too.It is a further object of this invention to provide such a dual edge pulse width modulation system which can utilize but two ramps for high-speed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. A dual edge pulse width modulation system comprising: a ramp generator for generating a voltage ramp; an n bit digital to analog converter having a normal and an inverted output for establishing a leading edge and a trailing edge reference; comparator means, responsive to a said ramp and to said leading edge and trailing edge references, respectively, for defining the leading edge and the trailing edge of a pulse; and pulse generating* means for producing a pulse having the width determined by the defined leading and trailing edge.
2. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 1 further including control means for providing an operating current through said digital to analog converter to establish one of said leading and trailing edge references on one of said normal and inverted outputs and providing a bias current approximately equal to said operating current to establish the other of said leading and trailing edge references on the other of said normal and inverted outputs for enabling production of a pulse up to the full n bit width definable by said digital to analog converter without crossover of said leading edge and trailing edge references.
3. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 2 in which each of said currents is capable of establishing a voltage level at said outputs equivalent to approximately one half of the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter.
4. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 2 in which said bias current is slightly greater than said operating current to prevent coincidence of said leading and trailing edge references.
5. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 2 in which said control means includes an operating current source 


and a bias current source.
6. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 5 in which said control means further includes switching means for connecting said bias current source in parallel with said operating current source for enabling provision of a total current up to the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter.
7. A dual edge pulse width modulation system comprising: a ramp generator for generating a plurality of sequential voltage ramps; a corresponding plurality of n-bit digital to analog converters each having a normal and an inverted output for establishing a plurality of leading edge and trailing edge references; comparator means, responsive to said ramps and to said leading edge and trailing edge references, respectively, for defining the leading edge and the trailing edge of a plurality of pulses; and pulse generating means for producing a plurality of sequential pulses having the requested width determined by the defined leading and trailing edges.
8. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 7 further including control means for providing an operating current through each said digital to analog converter to establish one of said leading and trailing edge references on one of said normal and inverted outputs and a bias current approximately equal to said operating current to establish the other of said leading and trailing edge references on the other of said normal and inverted outputs for enabling production of a pulse up to the full n bit width definable by the associated said digital to analog converter without crossover of said leading edge and trailing edge references. 


 9. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 8 in which there are two ramps, two sets of leading and trailing edge references, two digital to analog converters, and there are generated alternating sequential pulses.
10. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 8 in which each of said currents associated with each of said digital to analog converters is capable of establishing a voltage level at said outputs equivalent to approximately one half of the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter.
11. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 8 in which said bias current is slightly greater than said operating current to prevent coincidence of said leading and trailing edge references.
12. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 8 in which said control means includes an operating current source and a bias current source associated with each said digital to analog converter.
13. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 12 in which said control means further includes switching means associated with each said digital to analog converter for connecting said bias current source in parallel with said operating current source for enabling provision of a total current up to the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter.
14. A dual edge pulse width modulation system comprising: a ramp generator for generating a voltage ramp; an n bit digital to analog converter having a normal and an inverted output for establishing a leading edge and a trailing edge reference; comparator means, responsive to a said ramp and to said leading edge and trailing edge references, respectively, for 



defining the leading edge and the trailing edge of a pulse; pulse generating means for producing a pulse having th width determined by the defined leading and trailing edge; control means for providing an operating current through said digital to analog converter to establish one of sai leading and trailing edge references on one of said normal and inverted outputs and providing a bias current approximately equa to said operating current to establish the other of said leading and trailing edge references on the other of said normal and inverted outputs for enabling production of a pulse up to the full n bit width definable by said digital to analog converter without crossover of said leading edge and trailing edge references.
15. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which each of said currents is capable of establishing a voltage level at said outputs equivalent to approximately one half of the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter.
16. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said bias current is slightly greater than said operating current to prevent coincidence of said leading and trailing edge references.
17. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said control means includes an operating current source and a bias current source.
18. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said control means further includes switching means for connecting said bias current source in parallel ith said operating current source for enabling provision of a total current up to the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter. 


 19. A dual edge pulse width modulation system comprising: a ramp generator for generating a plurality of sequential voltage ramps; a corresponding plurality of n bit digital to analog converters, each having a normal and an inverted output, for establishing a plurality of leading edge and trailing edge references; comparator means, responsive to a said ramp and to said leading edge and trailing edge references, respectively, for defining the leading edge and the trailing edge of a plurality of pulses; pulse generating means for producing a plurality of sequential pulses having the width determined by the defined leading and trailing edges; control means for providing an operating current through said digital to analog converter to establish one of said leading and trailing edge references on one of said normal and inverted outputs and providing a bias current approximately equal to said operating current to establish the other of said leading and trailing edge references on the other of said normal and inverted outputs for enabling production of a pulse up to the full n bit width definable by said digital to analog converter without crossover of said leading edge and trailing edge references.
20. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 19 in which there are two ramps, two sets of leading and trailing edge references, two digital to analog converters, and there are generated alternating sequential pulses.
21. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 19 in which each of said currents associated with each of said digital to analog converters is capable of establishing a voltage level at said outputs equivalent to approximately one half of the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter. 


 22. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 19 in which said bias current is slightly greater than said operating current to prevent coincidence of said leading and trailing edge references.
23. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 19 in which said control means includes an operating current source and a bias current source associated with each said digital to analog converter.
24. The dual edge pulse width modulation system of claim 23 in which said control means further includes switching means associated with each said digital to analog converter for connecting said bias current source in parallel with said operating current source for enabling provision of a total current up to the full n-bit capacity of said digital to analog converter. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
