<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for measuring drop-volume in ink-jet printers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J29373	B41J2926	B41J205	B41J2205	B41J2125	B41J205	G01B1128	B41J2125	G01B1128	B41J2205	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	G01B	B41J	G01B	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J29	B41J29	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	G01B11	B41J2	G01B11	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention involves to a method for measuring drop-volume 
in an ink-jet printhead (40). A series of print samples (70) 

comprised of multiple drops of ink are printed on a recording 
media (14). The number of ink drops per sample is reduced for 

subsequent print samples to produce a series of print samples with 
varying amounts of ink content. The samples include a solid 

character to help contrast the increasingly ink depleted regions. The 
series is visually or optically analyzed to detect changes in optical 

density among the individual print samples. From these changes, the 
drop-volume for an ink-jet printhead can be determined. A printing 

system for automatically self-analyzing and self-correcting for 
drop-volume is also described. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESNIAK CHRISTOPHER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESNIAK, CHRISTOPHER M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ink-jet printers.An ink-jet printer is a type of non-impact printer which forms
characters and other images by controllably spraying drops of ink
from a printhead. One conventional type of ink-jet printhead consists
of a replaceable cartridge or pen which is mounted to a movable
carriage. The pen controllably ejects liquid ink through multiple
nozzles in the form of annular drops which travel across a small air
gap and land on recording media. The ink drops dry shortly
thereafter to form in combination the desired printed images.One problem associated with ink-jet printers concerns the
amount of ink deposited from the pen during the formation of each
drop. The quantity of deposited ink, commonly referred to as the
"drop-volume" of the pen, can vary significantly from pen to pen.
This wide variation in drop-volume detrimentally impacts print quality,
ink dry time, and pen life. In general, variations in pen
drop-volumes are caused by tolerances inherent in manufacturing or
other pen characteristics. On the other hand, for any given pen, the
drop-volume remains fairly constant over the majority of the life of
that pen. Accordingly, it would be desirable to develop a technique
for detecting the drop-volumes of different pens. One prior approach to solving the above problem is simply to
produce pens according to tighter manufacturing tolerances. Pens
with higher precision specifications tend to have more consistent
drop-volumes. Unfortunately, this approach involves expensive
manufacturing equipment, thereby driving up the production cost of
such pens.Another proposed solution involves computing drop-volume by
measuring the optical density of a solid printed area of ink. It is
difficult, however, to obtain a precise reading of drop-volume from
optical density because there is substantial variability in the
measurement. The optical density of the printed solid area is
dependent on other factors apart from drop-volume, such as the
recording media and ink, and thus is less effective at isolating and
deriving the pen drop-volume.A related approach is to print a line of single ink drops and
measure its width. Pens having a comparatively high drop-volume
would produce a wider line, whereas pens having a comparatively low
drop-volume would yield a narrower line. This measurement,
however, tends to be noisy and often fails to produce repeatable
results.Another prior technique involves deducing drop-volume by
measuring the mass of the ink drops ejected from the pen. This
technique has a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for measuring drop-volume in an ink-jet
printhead (40), the printhead (40) depositing multiple drop
s of ink to
form images, the method comprising the following steps:


printing a series of print samples (70) on recording
media (14), individual print samples being formed by depositing

individual drops of ink;
the printing including changing the number of ink drops
deposited in the individual print samples within the series to produce

individual print samples with varying amounts of ink content;
analyzing the series of print samples, to detect changes in ink
content among the print samples; and
determining drop-volume for the ink-jet printhead (40) based
upon the detected changes in ink content among the print samples

within the series; wherein the method further comprises :
forming a character within the individual print samples to
define a first print sample area (76) covered by the character

and a second print sample area (78) not covered by the character;
and
changing the number of ink drops deposited within the second
print sample area (78) to selectively deplete the second print

sample area (78) of ink.
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of
changing the number of ink drops comprises depositing fewer ink

drops in subsequent print samples within the series so that the print
samples experience progressively greater ink depletion from initial

print samples of the series to later print samples of the series. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the printing step
comprises printing a series of print samples according to a set of

corresponding predefined print patterns, individual patterns defining a
desired number and position of ink drops for associated individual

print samples.
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of
analyzing the print samples comprises visually observing the series of

print samples to detect changes in optical density.
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of
analyzing the print samples comprises optically scanning the series of

print samples to detect changes in optical density. 
An ink-jet printing apparatus comprising:

a platen (12);
an ink-jet printhead (40) disposed adjacent to, but spaced from,
the platen (12) to permit passage of recording media (14)

therebetween, the ink-jet printhead (40) having multiple nozzles for
depositing drops of ink onto the recording media to form printed

images;
an optical sensor (50) having a light source oriented to emit
a light beam toward the platen and a light sensitive detector aligned

to detect reflected light;
a memory (68) storing a plurality of test print patterns (80)
which define a number and position of multiple ink drops to be

deposited by the printhead, individual best print patterns (80) having a
character region (82) and a depletion region (84) whereby the number

and position of ink drops to be deposited in the depletion regions
vary among the test print patterns;
the ink-jet printhead (40) being
provided with means adapted to print

during a test mode
a series of print samples (70) according to the test print

patterns stored in the memory (68), individual print samples having
first print sample areas (76) that are representative of the character

regions (82) of the test print patterns and second print sample
areas (78) that are representative of the depletion regions (84) of the

test print patterns, the printhead (40)
having means adapted to deposit

a substantially
constant number of ink drops within the first print sample areas (76)

and a varying number of ink drops within the second print sample
areas (78) so that the second print sample areas (78) experience 

selected varying degrees of ink depletion as compared to the first
print sample areas (76); and
the optical sensor (50) being operable during the test mode to
scan the print samples

and having detecting means adapted
to detect changes in optical density between

the first print sample areas (76) and the second print sample
areas (78).
An ink-jet printing apparatus according to claim 6 further
comprising:


a carriage (22) configured to move bidirectionally across the
platen (12), the carriage (22) being spaced from the platen (12) to

permit passage of the recording media (14) therebetween; and
the ink-jet printhead (40) and the optical sensor (50) being
mounted to the carriage to be operatively positionable over the

recording media.
An ink-jet printing apparatus according to claim 6 further
comprising:


a processor (69) operatively coupled to the optical sensor (50)
to derive a drop-volume for the ink-jet printhead (40) based upon

the optically detected changes in the scanned print samples.
An ink-jet printing apparatus according to claim 6 further
comprising:


a processor (69) operatively coupled to the optical sensor (50)
to derive a drop-volume for the ink-jet printhead (40) based upon

the optically detected changes in the scanned print samples; and
a control subsystem (60) connected to control operating
parameters of the ink-jet printing apparatus that relate to depositing ink

drops onto the recording media, the control subsystem (60)
automatically adjusting the system parameters in response to the

drop-volume derived by the processor (69) to yield a desired
drop-volume for the ink-jet printhead (40).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
