<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630468</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IN-LINE PARALLEL PROPORTIONALLY PARTITIONED BY-PASS METERING DEVICE AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F500	G01F500	G01F1500	G01F1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F5	G01F5	G01F15	G01F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method are disclosed for accurately and economically measuring fluid flow within a closed conduit system. The apparatus includes a means (12) for extracting a proportional amount of the fluid flow, a flowmeter (28) reduced in size from the main conduit system for measuring the flow of the extracted proportional amount of fluid, and a means (22) for returning the extracted portion of fluid to the fluid flow. The fluid flow is extracted and returned without disrupting the fluid flow. A means for promoting the extraction of the proportional amount of fluid flow is provided within said conduit between the means for extracting and returning the fluid flow.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGI L P FENELON PAUL J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGI, L.P. FENELON, PAUL J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENELON PAUL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENELON, PAUL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IN-LINE PARALLEL PROPORTIONALLY PARTITIONED BY-PASS METERING DEVICE AND METHODBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to the measurement of fluid flow. More particularly, the present invention is directed towards an in-line parallel partitioned by-pass metering device and method of measuring fluid flow within a closed conduit system. 5 Fluid flow measurement is widely practiced and fulfills an array of purposes including energy distribution, custody transfer, regulation, control and research. The measuring unit, i.e. "flowmeter", typically consists of a primary and a secondary device. The primary device is acted upon by the fluid directly, and the secondary device converts the primary device's response to the fluid into an observable quantity. Flowmeters are10 generally classified into those which measure quantity of fluid flow and those which measure rate.Because of the wide practice of fluid flow measurement, engineers have a greater choice when specifying a flowmeter than for perhaps any other process measuring, monitoring device. Currently, there are over one hundred types of flowmeters available,15 and expenditures on flowmeters exceed one billion dollars per year. Thus in choosing a flowmeter, an engineer will typically evaluate: (1) the degree of accuracy and/or precision required, (2) the suitability of the flowmeter to the particular application and conditions, and (3) the cost of the various alternative flowmeters and other limitations such as space requirements, and the like.20 The selection of a flowmeter requires an understanding of the flow behavior of fluids. First, a fluid is any matter which undergoes continuous deformation upon being subjected to shearing forces. Viscosity is that property of a fluid by which it offers resistance to deformation or shear. The response of a fluid subjected to shearing forces is "flow". The type of flow, whether laminar, turbulent, cavitational, or some combination,25 depends upon the fluid viscosity and other parameters of the fluid flow system. Second, a fluid in motion, i.e., flowing, possesses energy. This energy may be displacement or pressure energy, velocity or kinetic energy, potential energy, thermal or internal energy, or some combination of these forms of energy. Flowmeters utilize the energy of a fluid/•* in motion to monitor fluid flow. Therefore, an engineer must also consider the type of30 flow and the energy of the fluid flow when selecting a flowmeter.Flowmeters which measure quantity repeatedly measure a fixed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for measuring fluid flow within a closed conduit system comprising: means for extracting a portion of said fluid flow from a main conduit; means for measuring the flow of said extracted portion of said fluid flow outside said main conduit; and means for returning said extracted portion of fluid flow to said main conduit.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said extracted portion of said fluid flow is a known proportion of said fluid flow.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said means for measuring comprises a rate type flowmeter.
4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said means for measuring comprises a quantity type flowmeter.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for extracting is an inlet conduit substantially parallel to said main conduit whereby said portion of said fluid flow may be extracted in a non-disruptive manner.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for measuring said flow of said extracted portion of said fluid flow is separate and removed from said fluid flow within said main conduit.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for promoting said extraction of said portion of said fluid flow. 


 8. An apparatus for measuring fluid flow within a closed conduit system comprising: an inlet tube having a first and second end, said first end disposed within said fluid flow in a main conduit, said first end being operable for extracting a portion of said fluid flow; a flowmeter coupled to said second end of said inlet tube for measuring the flow of said extracted portion of said fluid flow outside said main conduit; and an outlet tube having a first and second end, said first end coupled to said flow meter to receive said extracted portion of said fluid flow after it has been measured and said second end disposed within said fluid flow in said main conduit, said second end being operable for returning said extracted portion of fluid to said fluid flow.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the cross-sectional area of said inlet tube is less than the cross-sectional area of said main conduit.
10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said flowmeter is suitably sized to measure the flow of said extracted portion of said fluid flow within said inlet tube.
11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein s%id first end of said inlet tube is oriented substantially parallel to said fluid flow within said main conduit.
12. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a first shut-off valve positioned along said inlet tube, and a second shut-off valve positioned along said outlet tube, said valves being operable to isolate said flowmeter from said fluid flow within said main conduit.
13. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising means for promoting said extraction of said portion of said fluid flow.
14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said flowmeter is constructed of plastic, ceramic or other non-toxic materials.
15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said promotion means is located between said first end of said inlet tube and said second end of said outlet tube. 


 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said promotion means comprises a reduced cross-sectional area within said main conduit. 

17. An apparatus for measuring fluid flow within a closed conduit system comprising: a main conduit for conducting said fluid flow to be measured; an inlet tube having a first end and a second end, said first end oriented substantially parallel to said fluid flow within said main conduit and said second end being located outside said main conduit, said first end being operable for extracting in a non- disruptive manner a known proportional amount of said fluid flow; a flowmeter coupled to said second end of said inlet tube for measuring the flow of said extracted proportional amount of said fluid flow; an outlet tube having a first end and a second end, wherein said first end of said outlet tube is coupled to said flowmeter to receive said extracted proportional amount of said fluid flow after it has been measured and said second end of said outlet tube disposed within said fluid flow in said main conduit downstream of said inlet tube, said second end of said outlet tube being operable for returning said extracted portion of fluid to said fluid flow in a non-disruptive manner; and means for promoting said extraction of said proportional amount of said fluid flow by said first end of said inlet tube, wherein said promotion means comprises a reduced cross-sectional area within said main conduit located between said first end of said inlet tube and said second end of said outlet tube.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said flowmeter is positioned external to said main conduit.
19. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a first shut-off valve positioned along said inlet tube, and a second shut-off valve positioned along said outlet tube, said valves being operable to isolate said flowmeter from said fluid flow within said main conduit.
20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said flowmeter comprises a primary measuring device to measure said extracted proportional amount of said fluid flow and a secondary display device calibrated to display the total fluid flow through said main conduit. 


 21. A method for measuring total fluid flow within a closed conduit system utilizing a reduced size flowmeter comprising the steps of: extracting a proportional amount of fluid from said fluid flow within a main conduit; measuring the flow of said extracted portion of said fluid with a reduced size flowmeter external to said fluid flow; returning said extracted portion of fluid to said fluid flow within said main conduit; determining the proportion of said extracted fluid to said fluid flow; and determining total fluid flow within said main conduit.
22. The method claim 21 further comprising the step of promoting said extraction of fluid from said fluid flow within said main conduit by providing a reduced cross-sectional area within said main conduit between the points of extracting and returning said proportional amount of said fluid flow.
23. The method of claim 21 wherein said proportional amount of fluid is extracted from and returned to said fluid flow within said main conduit in a non-disruptive manner. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
