<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633339</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and apparatus for forming fibers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04H156	D04H156	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04H1	D04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) for forming a nonwoven web (26) from a fiber 
forming thermoplastic polymer resin which includes a reservoir 

for supplying a quantity of melted fiber forming thermoplastic 
resin, a pump for pumping the molten resin to a fiber forming 

die (16) and a die for forming a discrete resin stream to flow 
therefrom. The die includes a first fluid passageway (20) for 

forming a stream of fluid, such as air, in contact with and 
substantially surrounding the formed flow of resin for a 

predetermined distance within the die (16) and an interrupt 
system (18) for selectively cycling the flow of resin on and 

off and clearing the resin from the fiber forming die (16). A 
receiving belt (26) collects the fibers (22) formed from the 

resin flow below the first fluid passageway spaced at a 
predetermined distance (A') from the die (16). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KIMBERLY CLARK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KIMBERLY-CLARK WORLDWIDE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN MARTIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODGE RICHARD N II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FETCKO JOHN T III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWLER LARRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAGNER ANN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN, MARTIN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODGE, RICHARD N. II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FETCKO, JOHN T. III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWLER, LARRY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAGNER, ANN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The manufacture of nonwoven fabrics is a highly
developed art. Generally, nonwoven webs or mats are made
by forming filaments or fibers of varying or specific
diameter and depositing them on a carrier in such a manner
so as to cause the filaments or fibers to overlap or
entangle as a web of a desired basis weight.Various means have been developed in an attempt to
control the form of the processed fibers which in turn
affects the properties of the formed web. For example,
U.S. Patent 2,571,457 to Ladisch, issued October 16, 1951
discloses a spray nozzle for forming filaments and/or
fibers in diameters of about one micron and smaller by
passing a polymer stream through the central orifice of a
nozzle with an elastic fluid such as air being caused to
spiral towards the vertex of a cone. U.S. Patent
3,017,664 to Ladisch, issued January 23, 1962 discloses a
fiber forming nozzle wherein a stream of polymer material
exits a nozzle orifice in the form of a tube, formation of
the tube being caused by the spreading of the polymer over
the outside wall of a circular body positioned in the
orifice. An elastic fluid rotating in a spiraling manner
around the film of polymer with a very high velocity
creates a vacuum between the film and elastic fluid. 
Fibers are picked up from the film of fiber forming liquid
and drawn out to fineness in the elastic fluid. Although
both Ladisch patents disclose a spiraling air which
surrounds the resin flow from an orifice, the emitted air
is transmitted through nozzle openings which do not
surround the polymer stream.U. S. Patent 3,543,332 to Wagner et al, issued
December 1, 1970, discloses the production of fibers
utilizing a spinning nozzle, the spinning nozzle having a
central orifice for forming a polymer stream and
additional orifices surrounding the central orifice for
the passage of fiber forming air.U. S. Patent 3,755,527 to Keller et al, issued August
28, 1973, discloses a process for producing meltblown
nonwoven synthetic polymer mats. The meltblown process
utilizes a plurality of extrusion orifices through which
a melted polymer resin is extruded. On each side of the
plurality of orifices is a hot air slot for supplying a
stream of hot gas in the form of a sheet on each side of
the plurality of fiber streams formed from the resin. To
produce fibers having diameters between 10 and 40 µm
combinations of die tip temperature, resin flow rate, and
resin molecular weight are selected to give an apparent
viscosity in the die holes from about 10 to 800 poise.*
The viscosity is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming fibers from a fiber forming resin
comprising the steps of:


(a) forming a flow of resin from a die housing having at
least one resin outlet orifice, said flow extending along

a first axis, wherein the resin outlet orifice is recessed
within the die housing, and
(b) fiberizing said resin to form fibers by flowing a
primary fiberization fluid in completely surrounding

contact with said flow of resin, said primary fiberization
fluid being spiraled about the polymer source as it is

extruded through the die tip, and said primary
fiberization fluid contacting said flow of resin at a

primary fluid flow angle of between about 15 and 60
degrees, said angle being measured as an interior angle

between the intersection of the first axis of said flow of
resin and a line tangent to the flow of said primary

fiberization fluid.
The process of claim 1 which includes the step of further
fiberizing said resin by contacting said resin with a

flow of a secondary fiberization fluid including at least
two fluid streams which each impinge upon said resin at a

secondary fluid flow angle of between about 1 and 45

degrees, said angle being measured as an interior angle
between the intersection of the first axis of said flow

of resin and a line tangent to the flow of said fluid
stream.
The process of one of the preceding claims wherein said
flow of resin is at a melt pressure of less than or equal

to 6900 kPa.
The process of one of the preceding claims wherein said
flow of resin is at a throughput of about 0.1 to 151 

grams per orifice per minute, preferably of about 0.75 to
38.0 grams per orifice per minute.
The process of one of the preceding claims, wherein said
primary fiberization fluid flows at a rate of about 57 to

1558 standard litres per minute, preferably at a rate of
about 57 to 708 standard litres per minute.
The process of one of the preceding claims which further
includes the step of angling said primary fiberization

fluid flow such that it spirals about said first axis of
said flow of resin.
The process of one of the preceding claims wherein said
primary fiberization fluid is at a pressure of between

about 6.9 and 317 kPa, preferably of between about 6.9
and 172 kPa.
The process of one of the preceding claims wherein said
primary fiberization fluid is at a temperature of between

about 137°C and 344°C.
The process of one of the preceding claims wherein said
at least one resin outlet orifice has a diameter of

between about 0.25 and 3.0 millimeters, preferably of
between about 0.5 and 1.0 millimeters.
The process of one of the preceding claims which further
includes the step of collecting said fibers in the form

of a nonwoven web.
The process of claim 10 wherein said collection of said
fibers in the form of a nonwoven web takes place at a

distance of from about 7.5 to 102 cm, preferably of from
about 15 to 64 cm from said resin outlet orifice. 
A process for forming fibers from a fiber forming resin
according to one of the preceding claims, comprising the

additional steps of:

(a) pumping a molten fiber forming resin into one or more
die assemblies, each of said assemblies having a

resin chamber for receiving said molten fiber forming
resin and a resin outlet orifice in fluid

communication with said chamber for discharging said
resin, each said assembly further including a

retractable plunger within said resin chamber having
a closed position wherein said plunger is in contact

with said resin outlet orifice to prevent flow of
said resin from said orifice and an open position

wherein said plunger is retracted from said resin
outlet orifice to allow the flow of said resin from

said orifice;
(b) retracting one or more of said plungers from said
closed to said open positions to intermittently form

flows of resin from said outlet orifices having said
plungers in an open position, said flows extending

along individual first axes;
(c) interrupting one or more of said flows of resin by
selectively cycling said plungers between said open

and closed positions.
The process of claim 12, wherein said interruption of
said flow of resin causes the formation of separate

nonwoven webs and/or the formation of a nonwoven web
having variations in its basis weight of at least 10

percent. 
An apparatus (10) for forming fibers (22) from a fiber
forming resin comprising:

A die housing (29) including a resin chamber for receiving
a supply of molten fiber forming resin, said chamber

having a resin outlet orifice (41) in fluid communication
therewith for emitting said molten resin in the form of a

flow, said flow defining a first axis (61), primary
fiberization means (43) completely surrounding said resin

outlet orifice (41) for drawing said resin into fibers
(22), 
characterized in that
 the resin outlet orifice is
recessed within the die housing, and in that said primary

fiberization fluid is spiraled about the polymer source as
it is extruded through the die tip.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said fiberization means
includes a fluid outlet port (43) in said die housing

completely surrounding said flow of resin from said resin
outlet orifice (41) and a primary fiberization fluid

emanating from said fluid outlet port (43) for fiberizing
said resin to form fibers (22) said primary fiberization

fluid contacting said flow of resin at a primary fluid
flow angle (D') of between about 15 and 60 degrees, said

angle being measured as an interior angle between the
intersection of the first axis (61) of said flow of resin

and a line tangent (51) to the flow of said primary
fiberization fluid.
The apparatus of claim 14 and 15 which further includes
secondary fiberization means (44) located exteriorly from

said primary fiberization means (43) for supplying a
secondary fiberization fluid which further fiberizes said

resin into fibers (22).
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said secondary
fiberization means comprises a secondary fiberization

fluid including at least two fluid streams which each
impinge upon said flow of resin at a secondary fluid flow

angle (E') of between about 1 and 45 degrees, said angle
being measured as an interior angle between the 

intersection of the first axis (61) of said flow of resin
and a line tangent (52) to the flow of said fluid stream.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said at least two fluid
streams are symmetrically spaced radically and

circumferentially about said first axis (61) exteriorly
from said fluid outlet port (41).
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 18, wherein said die
housing (29) has an external surface which defines a

plane with said resin outlet orifice (41) and said fluid
outlet port (43) lying substantially in the same plane

defined by said external surface of said die housing.
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 18, wherein said
fluid outlet port (43) lies substantially within a plane

(48) defined by said external surface of said die housing
and said resin outlet orifice (41) is recessed within

said die housing a distance (C') not exceeding 5
millimeters as measured from said plane (48).
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 20, wherein said
resin outlet orifice (41) has a diameter from about 0.25

to 3.0 millimeters.
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 21 wherein said
fluid outlet port (43) has a diameter between about 3 and

5 millimeters.
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 22 wherein said
primary fiberization fluid and said secondary

fiberization fluid are fed from separate supplies of
fluid.
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 23 wherein said die
housing (29) further includes a nozzle (31) located 

therein and at least partially surrounded by a
fiberization fluid chamber (33) which terminates in said

fluid outlet port (43)said nozzle (31) including said
resin chamber and said resin outlet orifice(41).
The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said nozzle (31) is
removably retained within said die housing (29).
The apparatus of claim 24 or 25 wherein said nozzle
exterior surface includes a first axial portion (68)

having a first predetermined radial extent and an axial

end portion (70) having a land surface (72) including
said resin outlet orifice (41) extending therethrough and

having a second predetermined radial extent which is less
than said first radial extent, said nozzle (31) including

a tapered axial portion (74) extending between said first
axial portion (68) and said axial end portion (70).
The apparatus of one of claims 24 to 26 wherein said
nozzle (31) has a nozzle exterior surface, said nozzle

exterior surface having a plurality of flutes (76)
adjacent said resin outlet orifice (41) to direct said

primary fiberization fluid.
The apparatus of claim 27 wherein nozzle (31) has a flute
attack angle (H') of about 7 to 60 degrees.
The apparatus of one of claims 27 and 28 wherein said
nozzle (31) has a flute spiral angle (G') of about 20 to

45 degrees.
The apparatus of one of claims 26 to 29, wherein said
nozzle (31) has a frustoconical angle (F') of about 15 to

60 degrees. 
The apparatus of one of claims 27 to 30 wherein said
tapered axial portion (74) including said plurality of

flutes (76) said flutes (76) extending into said land
surface.
The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said axial end portion
(70) includes a substantially cylindrical outer surface

including said flutes (76).
The apparatus of one of claims 14 to 32 which further
includes collection means (24) for receiving said fibers

(22) in the form of a nonwoven web (26).
An apparatus according to one of claims 14 to 33 for
intermittently forming fibers from a fiber forming resin

further comprising:

a die assembly located within said housing including said
resin chamber and on/off control means (37) for

selectively interrupting flow of said molten resin from
said resin outlet orifice (41).
The apparatus of claim 34 wherein said on/off control
means includes a plunger (37) within said resin chamber

having a closed position wherein said plunger (37) is in
contact with said resin outlet orifice (41) for

preventing flow of said molten resin from said orifice
(41) and an open position wherein said plunger (37) is

retracted from said orifice (41) to allow flow of said
molten resin from said orifice.
The apparatus of claim 34 or 35 wherein said die housing
(29) includes a hydraulic chamber, said plunger (37)

including an end portion extending into said hydraulic
chamber (96) including a piston (100) mounted thereon,

said chamber including hydraulic fluid ports (104, 106) 
opening into said hydraulic chamber for supplying varying

fluid pressure on each side of said piston (100) to
reciprocate said piston (100) within said hydraulic

chamber (96) to move said plunger (37) between said open
and closed positions.
An apparatus according to one of claims 14 to 36 for
forming a nonwoven web from a fiber forming resin further

comprising:

a plurality of die assemblies (16) located within said
housing, each die assembly (16) including a resin chamber

for receiving a supply of molten fiber forming resin,
each of said chambers having a resin outlet orifice (41)

in fluid communication therewith for emitting said molten
resin in the form of a flow, said flow extending

preferably along a first axis, on/off control means (37)
for selectively interrupting said flow of resin from at

least one of said resin outlet orifices (41) to vary the
density of said nonwoven web (26).
The apparatus of claims 24, 26 and 37 wherein said axial
end portion (70) has preferably a substantial cylindrical

outer surface having a land surface (72) and said axial
end portion (70) including a plurality of flutes (76),

said flutes (76) extending into said land surface (72)
and preferably are situated in the cylindrical outer

surface.
Use of the apparatus according to one of claims 37 and 38
for forming a nonwoven web of varying basis weight and/or

for forming individual nonwoven webs in a continuous
formation process.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
