<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628329</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Paired flying disks.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B6500	A63B6510	A63B6706	A63B6706	A63H3300	A63H3318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63H	A63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B65	A63B65	A63B67	A63B67	A63H33	A63H33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Paired flying disks utilizing in-flight aerodynamic 
induced separation. A second disk (20) is nested within a 

first disk (10) so that such can be easily thrown together as 
one flying disk and provide repeatable vertical 

separtion in flight. The outer or larger disk has vanes 
above corresponding openings (19) and/or holes employed in 

the body of the disk to divert air from the top side or 
other location to the underside thereof to assist the 

separation of the disks from one another in flight. 
After separation, both disks follow the same flight 

direction making it possible for a single person to 
consistently catch both of the disks. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTON TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'LEARY MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLFE STEVEN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'LEARY, MICHAEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLFE, STEVEN D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to aerodynamic toys which include 
two nested flying disks with one of the disks provided 
with aerodynamic vanes to improve separation of the 
disks during use. Flying disk toys have long been known to the prior 
art. These toys have become increasingly more popular 
due to the success of the toy sold under the trademark 
FRISBEE as described by U. S. Patent Nos. 3,359,678 and 
3,724,122. These flying disks are generally molded from 
a plastic material in the shape of a saucer having a 
curved convex upper surface and a corresponding concave 
lower surface with a thick rim at its periphery. The 
rim is typically thicker than the rest of the saucer in 
order to provide a gyroscopic action critical to the 
aerodynamic features of the toy. Throwing is usually 
performed by placing the thumb on the convex upper side 
and one or more fingers on the concave lower side, 
thereby grasping the rim, and with a wrist-snapping 
motion  
 
releasing the disk with a spin as it moves forward. Rotational 
motion and forward momentum cause the toy to fly or glide through 
the air. The recreational appeal of this toy is the fact that it 
exhibits definite aerodynamic characteristics and can be made to 
perform a number of various maneuvers depending upon the skill of 
the user. Several different kinds of games have been developed 
from the throwing and catching of this kind of flying disk. One variation in the use of flying disks is the throwing and 
catching of two flying disks at the same time. Such a use creates 
a variety of new games and fun between two or more persons. For 
example, a simple game is when two or more players, separated by 
about 75 to 100 feet, throw the two disks simultaneously to each 
other with the requirement that both disks be caught by one 
individual. Points are assigned according to the 
players'performance. Other games using both disks present unique 
challenges to a player's timing and coordination skills. One attempt at improving the performance of paired flying 
disks is the device shown in U.S. Patent No. 3,855,728 to William 
B. Hynds. This toy consists of two concentrically sized flying 
disks in which a smaller disk is nested within a larger disk in a 
manner which allows the disks to be thrown together. However, the 
inner disk is not held firmly to the outer disk and thus the disks 
may not be properly aligned at the initial release of a throw. 
This can cause premature separation or poor flight performance. 
Also, the separation generated by the undulated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Paired flying disks adapted to be tossed together to 
rotate through the air, including a first disk (10) 

having an upper surface (11) leading to a depending rim 
portion (13), and a second disk (20) adapted to be 

nested within said first disk (10) so that said disks 
may be tossed together to rotate through the air, 

characterized in that the first disk (10) has openings 
(19) formed in its upper surface (11) and means (18, 28, 

29) for forcing air through said openings during 
rotation of said disks for urging said disks to separate. 
Paired flying disks according to Claim 1, said disks 
including mating structures (12, 22) formed respectively 

thereon for enabling said discs to be aligned when 
nested together. 
Paired flying disks according to Claim 2, in which 

(a) the first disk has a circular substantially flat 
main body portion (11), said main body portion having a 

top side and an underside, and the depending rim portion 
(13) extends downwardly therefrom; 
(b) the second disk (20) removably received within said 
first disk has a circular main body portion (21) of a 

smaller diameter than that of said first disk, said main 
body portion of said second disk having a top side and 

 
an underside, and a downwardly extending rim (23) 

circumscribing said main body portion (21); 
(c) a bottom edge of said rim (23) of said second disk 
terminates above a horizontal plane of a bottom edge of 

said rim portion (13) of said first disk when said 
second disk is nested within said first disk with the 

top side of said main body portion (21) of said second 
disk flush against the underside of the flat main body 

portion of said first disk; 
and (d) the mating structures comprise at least one 
protuberance projecting downwardly from the underside of 

the body portion (11) of said first disk into at least 
one notch (22) formed on top side of the body portion 

(21) of said second disk to anchor said second disk 
within said first disk when said second disk is nested 

within said first disk with the top side of said main 
body portion (21) of said second disk flush against the 

underside of the body portion (11) of said first disk. 
Paired flying disks according to any preceding 
claims, wherein at least one cylindrical rib extends 

downwardly from the underside of said first disk (10) 
for aiding in securing said disks to one another when 

said second disk (20) is nested within said first disk 
and/or for giving the underside of the first disk (10) 

an aerofoil profile similar to that of the second disk 
(20) and/or to prevent an erratic separation of said 

disks during flight. 
Paired flying disks according to any preceding 
claim, in which the outer disk (10) has at least one 

vane (18, 28, 29) on its surface for increasing its 
aerodynamic drag so that it travels more slowly than the 

inner disk (20) after separation. 
Paired flying disks according to Claim 5, in which 
at least one of the vanes projects from the upper 

surface (11) adjacent a corresponding one of the 
openings (19) and constitutes the means for forcing air 

therethrough. 
A paired flying disk toy designed to be thrown 
through the air, comprising: 


(a) a first disk (10) having a circular substantially 
flat main body portion (11) having a top side and an 

underside, a downwardly extending rim (13) 
circumscribing said main body portion; 
(b) a second disk (20) removably received within said 
first disk having a circular main body portion (21) of a 

smaller diameter than that of said first disk, said main 
body portion of said second disk having a top side and 

an underside, a downwardly extending rim (23) 
circumscribing said main body portion (21); 
(c) a bottom edge of said rim (23) of said second disk 
terminating above a horizontal plane of a bottom edge of 

said rim (13) of said first disk when said second disk 
 

is nested within said first disk with the top side of 
said main body portion (21) of said second disk flush 

against the underside of the main body portion of said 
first disk; 
and (d) at least one protuberance projecting downwardly 
from the underside of the body portion (11) of said 

first disk into at least one notch (22) formed on top 
side of the body portion (21) of said second disk to 

anchor said second disk within said first disk when said 
second disk is nested within said first disk with the 

top side of said main body portion (21) of said second 
disk flush against the underside of the main body 

portion (11); 
 
enabling said disks to be thrown together for separating 

in flight. 
A toy in accordance with Claim 7, wherein said top 
side of the body portion (11) of said first disk has 

openings (19) for aiding in the separation of said disks 
while in flight by permitting air to be drawn into the 

underside of said first disk thereby pushing said disks 
apart. 
A toy in accordance with Claim 7 or 8, wherein at 
least one cylindrical rib (14-17) extends downwardly 

from the underside of said first disk (10) for aiding in 
securing said disks to one another when said second disk 

is nested within said first disk and/or for giving the 
 

underside of the first disk (10) an aerofoil profile 
similar to that of the second disk (20) and/or to 

prevent an erratic separation of said disks during 
flight. 
A method of using paired flying disks comprising the 
step of nesting an inner disk (20) inside the periphery 

of an outer disk (10) and tossing said discs so that 
they rotate together through the air, the disks being 

formed so as to separate when thrown through the air, 
   characterized in that the disks are formed with 

means for aligning them together in their nested 
position to resist separation, and in that the outer 

disk is formed with openings (19) through which air is 
forced in flight to increas
e the air pressure between 
the discs to urge separation thereof. 
A method of throwing a toy comprising paired flying 
disks according to any of Claims 1-9, such that the 

disks separate in flight and then fly at different 
speeds substantially to the same place. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
