<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR FORMING A LITHOGRAPHIC PATTERN IN A PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURING SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F720	H01L21027	H01L2102	G03F720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	H01L	H01L	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	H01L21	H01L21	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of printing a sub-resolution device feature (16) having first and second edges spaced in close proximity to one another on a semiconductor substrate (20) includes the steps of first depositing a radiation-sensitive material on the substrate, then providing a first mask image segment (11) which corresponds to the first edge. The first mask image segment is then exposed with radiation (10) using an imaging tool (12) to produce a first pattern edge gradient (14). The first pattern edge gradient defines the first edge of the feature in the material. A second mask image segment (13) is then provided corresponding to the second feature edge. This second mask image segment is exposed to radiation (10) to produce a second pattern edge gradient (17) which defines the second edge of the feature. Once the radiation-sensitive material has been developed, the two-dimensional feature is reproduced on the substrate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENGINEERING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN JANG FUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, JANG, FUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS, JAMES, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of lithography; more specifically, to
methods of manufacturing semiconductor integrated circuits by means of transferring
mask patterns onto the surface of a silicon substrate.Lithography, as used in the manufacture of integrated circuits (ICs), involves the
process of printing two-dimensional geometric shapes onto the surface of a
semiconductor substrate. These shapes make up the parts of the circuit, such as the
gate electrodes, contacts, vias, metal interconnects, and so on.As part of the IC lithographic process, a radiation-sensitive material, such as
photoresist, is usually applied to the silicon wafer and dried. The photoresist layer is
then exposed using the proper geometrical patterns through a photomask by means
of an imaging tool. The imaging tool utilizes some source of light or radiation to
expose the mask. After exposure, the wafer is usually soaked in a solution that
develops the exposed images in the photoresist. By way of example, these masking
patterns provide a way of developing electrical contacts on the silicon substrate.Quite commonly, the geometries used for fabricating IC devices are rectangular
in shape. When printing rectilinear geometries, certain problems arise, particularly at
the corner regions of the pattern. For example, during exposure to light or radiation
the photoresist integrates energy contributions from all surrounding areas. This 
means that the exposure dose in one vicinity of the wafer is affected by the exposure
dose in neighboring vicinities. This phenomenon is frequently referred to as the
proximity effect.Since a corner region in a photoresist pattern lacks neighboring regions, the
exposure dose in a corner will always be less than the exposure dose delivered to the
body or to an elongated side of the pattern. As a result, the corners of a developed
photoresist pattern will actually be somewhat rounded, rather than square, due to the
fact that less energy has been delivered to the corners than to the other areas of the
masking pattern.In low density circuits where device geometries are large, corner rounding has a
negligible effect on device behavior. However, in very large-scale integrated circuits
(VLSI), where device structures are much smaller (e.g., submicron), rounding effects
can wreak considerable havoc on the circuit's performance. For instance, rounding of
electrical contacts reduces the total area available for conduction, thereby resulting in
an increased contact resistance.Table 1, shown below,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of printing a two-dimensional rectangular feature
(25, 28, 38, 49) on substrate (20), said feature (26, 28,

38, 49) having four edges (A, B, C, D) spaced in close
proximity to one another, said method comprising the steps

of:

a) depositing a radiation-sensitive material (15) on said
substrate (20);
b) providing a single mask image (26) which has a large
enough dimension (CD) so that the four edges (A, B, C,

D) remain uncorrelated, yet are resolvable;
c) exposing said mask image (26) with radiation using an
imaging tool (12) to produce a first pattern edge

gradient (14), said first pattern edge gradient (14)
defining a first edge (A) of said two-dimensional

feature (25, 28, 38, 49) in said material (15),
appropriately offsetting said mask image (26);
d) exposing said mask image (26) with radiation using said
imaging tool (12) to produce a second pattern edge

gradient (17), said second pattern edge gradient (17)
defining a second edge (B) of said feature (25, 28, 38,

49) in said material (15); appropriately offsetting
said mask image (26);
e) exposing said mask image (26) with radiation using said
imaging tool (12) to produce a third pattern edge

gradient, said third pattern edge gradient defining a
third edge (C) of said feature (25, 28, 38, 49) in said 

material (15); appropriately offsetting said mask
image (26);
f) exposing said mask image (26) with radiation using said
imaging tool (12) to produce a fourth pattern edge

gradient, said fourth pattern edge gradient defining
the fourth edge (D) of said feature (25, 28, 38, 49) in

said material;
g) developing said radiation-sensitive material (15),
thereby reproducing said two-dimensional feature (25,

28, 38) on said substrate (20).
The method as defined in claim 1 wherein at least two (A,
B) of said four edges (A, B, C, D) are separated by a

distance which is less than or equal to the Rayleigh limit
of said imaging tool (12).
The method as defined in claim 2 wherein at least two of
said four edges (A, B, C, D) are orthogonal.
The method as defined in claim 3 wherein said feature (25,
28, 38, 49) comprises a device contact of an integrated

circuit having four corners.
The method as defined in claim 2 wherein said mask image
(26) is rectangular in shape, and includes at least one set

of parallel image segments.
The method as defined in claim 2 wherein said material (15)
comprises a negative-acting photoresist layer.
The method as defined in claim 2 wherein corresponding mask
image segments of said mask image (26) each have associated

therewith an additional sub-resolution edge segment (46), 
each of said additional segments (46) being spaced a

predetermined distance away from, and substantially
parallel to, said associated mask image segment, said

additional segments functioning to increase the slope of
said four uncorrelated edge gradients to enhance said

printing of said two-dimensional rectangular feature.
The method as defined in claim 7 wherein said predetermined
distance is approximately 1.1 times the Rayleigh limit of

said imaging tool.
The method according to claim 1 of printing a rectangular
feature (25, 28, 38, 49) onto a photoresist layer (15)

deposited over a semiconductor substrate (20), said
rectangular feature (25, 28, 38, 49) having four edges (A,

B, C, D) including two pairs of closely-spaced opposing
feature edges (A, B, C, D), said method comprising the

steps of:

decomposing said rectangular feature (25, 28, 38, 49) into
a rectangular mask image (26) having mask edges of a length

which is greater than or equal to the length of said two
pairs of opposing feature edges (A, B, C, D), said mask

edges being spaced apart a predetermined distance which is
greater than the spacing between said two pairs of opposing

feature edges (A, B, C, D);
successively exposing and offsetting each of said mask
edges with radiation using an imaging tool (12) to produce

four uncorrelated edge gradients (14, 17) defining said
four edges in said photoresist layer (15), said mask (26)

being offset relative to said substrate (20) between
exposures.
The method as defined in claim 9 wherein said spacing
between said opposing feature edges is less than or equal

to the Rayleigh limit of said imaging tool (12).
The method as defined in claim 10 wherein said
predetermined distance is greater than said Rayleigh limit.
The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said mask (26) is
offset a distance approximately equal to said predetermined

distance minus said spacing.
The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said rectangular
feature is a square.
The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said decomposing
step includes the step of calculating the length of said

mask edges as having a minimum dimension, D, which is given
by the equation


D = S + (λ/NA)

where S is the length of said feature edges, λ is the
wavelength of said radiation, and NA is the numerical

aperture of said imaging tool (12).
The method as defined in claim 10 wherein said two pairs of
mask edges (45) each have associated therewith an

additional sub-resolution edge segment (46), each of said
additional segments (46) being spaced a certain distance

away from, and substantially parallel to, said associated
mask edge (45), said additional segments functioning to

increase the slope of said first and second pattern edge
gradients (14, 17, 48), thereby enhancing said printing

said rectangular feature (25, 28, 38, 49). 
The method as defined in claim 15 wherein said certain
distance is approximately 1.1 times said Rayleigh limit.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein said photoresist
comprises a negative-acting resist layer.
In a process for fabricating an integrated circuit (IC) on
a silicon substrate (20) using a lithographic tool (12),

an imaging decomposition algorithm for printing an array of
square contacts having an edge dimension which is less than

or equal to the Rayleigh limit of said lithographic tool
comprising the steps of:


(a) calculating a minimum critical dimension (CD) for said
printing process based on said edge dimension;
(b) forming a plurality of decomposed image squares, each
of said corresponds to one of said contacts within said

array, said image squares having a dimension which is
greater than or equal to said minimum CD;
(c) calculating the minimum horizontal, vertical and
diagonal pitches required between adjacent contacts

within said array based upon a process of decomposing
each of said contacts by sequentially exposing each

edge of said image squares with radiation to produce
the corresponding edge (A, B, C, D) of said contacts on

said substrate (20), said squares being offset relative
to said substrate (20) prior to each subsequent

exposure in said sequence to align each of said image
square edges to said corresponding edges (A, B, C, D)

of said contacts; 
(d) identifying as belonging to a first set of contacts,
which is of said adjacent contacts in said array

violates said pitches, said contacts which are not
identified as belonging to said first set being

included in a second set;
(e) forming a first decomposed image mask comprising the
image squares corresponding to said second set of said

contacts; and
(f) forming a second decomposed image mask comprising the
image squares corresponding to said first set of said

contacts.
The algorithm as defined in claim 18 wherein said critical
dimension is defined by the equation


CD = S + (λ/NA)

where S is the length of said edges of said contacts, λ is
the wavelength of said radiation, and NA is the numerical

aperture of said lithographic tool.
The algorithm as defined in claim 19 wherein said minimum
horizontal and vertical pitches is defined as N, where N is

equal to CD, and said minimum diagonal pitch is defined as
M, where M is given by the equation


M = √2(λ/NA).
A method of printing a two-dimensional feature (25, 28, 38,
49) on substrate (20), said feature having first and second

edges spaced in close proximity to one another, said method
comprising the steps of: 


(a) depositing a radiation-sensitive material (15) on said
substrate (20);
(b) providing a first mask image segment on a first masking
layer which corresponds to said first edge;
(c) exposing said first mask image segment with radiation
using an imaging tool (12) to produce a first pattern

edge gradient (14), said first pattern edge gradient
(14) defining said first edge (A) of said two-dimensional

feature (25, 28, 38, 49) in said material
(15);
(d) providing a second mask image segment on a second
masking layer which corresponds to said second edge

(B), said second edge (B) being uncorrelated from said
first edge (A);
(e) exposing said second mask image segment with radiation
using said imaging tool (12) to produce a second

pattern edge gradient (17), said second pattern edge
gradient (17) defining said second edge (B) of said

feature (25, 28, 38, 49) in said material (15) so that
only one feature edge (A, B) is effectively exposed at

a time;
(f) developing said radiation-sensitive material (15),
thereby reproducing said two-dimensional feature (25,

28, 38, 49) on said substrate (20).
The method as defined in claim 21 wherein said first and
second edges (A, B) are separated by distance which is less

than or equal to the Rayleigh limit of said imaging tool. 
The method as defined in claim 22 wherein said first and
second edges (A, B) are orthogonal.
The method as defined in claim 23 wherein said feature (25,
28, 38, 49) comprises a device contact of an integrated

circuit, and said first and second edges define a corner of
said contact.
The method as defined in claim 22 wherein said material
(15) comprises a negative-acting photoresist layer.
The method as defined in claim 22 wherein said first and
second mask image segments each have associated therewith

an additional sub-resolution edge segment (46), each of
said additional segments (46) being spaced a predetermined

distance away from, and substantially parallel to, said
associated mask image segment, said additional segments

(46) functioning to increase the slope of first and second
patterned edge gradients (14, 17) to enhance said printing

of said two-dimensional feature (25, 28, 38, 49).
The method as defined in claim 26 wherein said
predetermined distance is approximately 1.1 times the

Rayleigh limit of said imaging tool.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
