<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623209</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIFOCAL OPTICAL APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B728	G02B728	G02B736	G02B736	G03B1336	G03B1336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B7	G02B7	G02B7	G02B7	G03B13	G03B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Optical apparatus including multifocal imaging apparatus defining a depth domain, sensor apparatus receiving light from a scene via the multifocal imaging apparatus (10) and image processing apparatus (14) for receiving an ouput of the sensor apparatus (12) and providing an in-focus image of the portion of the scene (11) falling within the depth domain.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOFERMAN ZIV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZACKS SHELEMYAHU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOFERMAN, ZIV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZACKS, SHELEMYAHU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOFERMAN ZIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZACKS SHELEMYAHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOFERMAN, ZIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZACKS, SHELEMYAHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIFOCAL OPTICAL APPARATUS The present invention relates to focusing optical systems.A significant limitation in the operation of many optical devices, such as but not limited to cameras, video recorders, microscopes and binoculars is their limited depth of field, i.e. the depth over which an object in a field of view remains in acceptable focus.Various techniques are employed to overcome operational limitations imposed by a limited depth of field. These include the use of auto-focus devices which quickly and automatically focus the device on a surface of an object of interest, which is located at a given distance from the device.It is also known to increase the depth of field by closing the optical aperture of a device. This technique has the disadvantage that the amount of light received from the object is correspondingly decreased, requiring a correspondingly longer exposure time.Post processing of an image to enhance its focus has been proposed and is employed, with very limited success.The present invention seeks to provideSUBSTITUTESHEET 

 optical apparatus capable of in-focus imaging of a significantly greater depth than that imaged by conventional optical apparatus.There is thus provided in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention optical apparatus including multifocal imaging apparatus defining a depth domain, sensor apparatus receiving light from a scene via the multifocal imaging apparatus and image processing apparatus for receiving an output of the sensor apparatus and providing an in-focus image of the portion of the scene falling within the depth domain.According to one alternative embodiment of the present invention the depth domain includes all planes falling between and parallel to first and second planes which are both orthogonal to the optical axis.According to another alternative embodiment of the present invention, the depth domain includes a first subdomain including all planes falling between and parallel to first and second planes which are both orthogonal to the optical axis and a second subdomain, disjoint to the first subdomain, which includes all planes falling between and parallel to third and fourth planes which are both orthogonal to the optical axis and which are not included in the first subdomain. According to another embodiment of the present invention, the domain includes more than two disjoint subdomains such as those described above.There is also provided in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention optical apparatus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 C L A I M S
1. Optical apparatus comprising: a multifocal imager defining a depth domain; a sensor receiving light from a scene via said multifocal imager; and an image processor for receiving an output of said sensor and for providing an in- focus image of the portion of the scene falling within the depth domain.
2. Optical apparatus according to claim 1, and wherein said image processor operates in real time.
3. Optical apparatus according to claim 1, and wherein said image processor operates off line with respect to said sensor.
4. Optical apparatus according to claim 3, and wherein said sensor comprises photographic film. 5. Optical apparatus according to claim
3, and wherein said image processor comprises an image digitizer operative to provide a digital representation of the scene to the image processor. 6. Optical apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, and wherein said multifocal imager defines a plurality of surfaces each arranged to receive light from a scene, each of said plurality of surfaces having a different focal length.
7. Optical apparatus according to claim 6, and wherein said sensor receives light from the scene via each of said plurality of surfaces, such that a different part of said light from said scene received via each of said plurality of surfaces is in focus.
8. Optical apparatus according to claim 


 7, and wherein said image processor is operative to provide a composite image built up using in- focus parts received from each of said plurality of surfaces. 9. Optical apparatus according to any of claims 1-8, and wherein said imager comprises a lens.
10. Optical apparatus according to any of claims 1-8, and wherein said imager comprises a mirror system.
11. Optical apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, and wherein said imager has an invertible transfer function and said image processor comprises a computational unit for inverting the transfer function, thereby to restore sharp details of said scene.
12. Optical apparatus according to claim 11, and wherein said transfer function includes no zeros for predetermined domains of distance from the imager.
13. Optical apparatus according to claim 11, and wherein said transfer function includes no zeros.
14. Optical apparatus according to claim 11, and wherein the absolute value of said transfer function has a predetermined lower bound which is sufficiently large to permit image restoration.
15. Optical apparatus according to claim 11, and wherein the absolute value of said transfer function has a predetermined lower bound which is sufficiently large to permit image restoration for a predetermined domain of distances from the imager. 16. An image processing method comprising the steps of: providing a digital representation of 


 a viewed scene comprising at least two scene locations whose distances from the point of view are nonegual; dividing the digital representation of the viewed scene into a multiplicity of digital representations of a corresponding plurality of portions of the viewed scene and separately sharpening each of the multiplicity of digital representations; and assembling the multiplicity of sharpened digital representations into a single sharpened digital representation. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said step of dividing and sharpening comprises the steps of: operating a plurality of restoration filters on each of the multiplicity of digital representations; and selecting, for each individual one of the multiplicity of digital representations, an individual one of the plurality of restoration filters to be employed in providing the sharpened digital representation of the individual one of the multiplicity of digital representations.
18. Video camera apparatus comprising an imager defining a depth domain and a sensor receiving light from a scene via said imager for generating video images, wherein the imager comprises a multifocal imager, and wherein the video camera apparatus also comprises an image processor for receiving an output of said sensor and for providing an in-focus image of the portion of the scene falling within the depth domain.
19. Electronic still camera apparatus 


 comprising an imager defining a depth domain and a sensor receiving light from a scene via said imager for generating electronic still images, wherein the imager comprises a multifocal imager, and wherein the electronic still camera apparatus also comprises an image processor for receiving an output of said sensor and for providing an in-focus image of the portion of the scene falling within the depth domain.
20. Camcorder apparatus comprising an imager defining a depth domain and a sensor receiving light from a scene via said imager for generating video images, wherein the imager comprises a multifocal imager, and wherein the camcorder apparatus also comprises an image processor for receiving an output of said sensor and for providing an in- focus image of the portion of the scene falling within the depth domain.
21. Film camera development apparatus comprising: a multifocal-combining image processor operative to receive a multifocal representation of a scene and to provide an in-focus representation of a portion of the scene falling within a predetermined depth domain.
22. Microscope apparatus comprising: an objective lens comprising a multifocal imager defining a depth domain; a sensor receiving light from a scene, having more than two dimensions, via said multifocal imager; and an image processor for receiving an output of said sensor and for providing an in- focus image of a plurality of planes within the
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 scene which fall within the depth domain.
23. Apparatus for internal imaging of the human body comprising: a multifocal imager defining a depth domain, which is configured for insertion into the human body; a sensor receiving light from an internal portion of the human body via said imager; and an image processor for receiving an output of said sensor and for providing an in- focus image of the internal portion of the human body falling within the depth domain.
24. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the multifocal imager is operative to provide an image, including a superposition of in-focus contributions of a plurality of planes, to a single sensor.
25. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the multifocal imager is operative to provide an image, including a superposition of in-focus contributions of an infinite number of planes.
26. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises a single sensor.
27. An imaging method comprising the steps of: providing a multifocal imager defining a depth domain; sensing light from a scene via said multifocal imager; and receiving an output of said sensor and image processing the output, thereby to provide an in-focus image of the portion of the scene falling within the depth domain.
28. Apparatus substantially as shown and described hereinabove.
SUBSTITUTESHEE 


29. Apparatus substantially as illustrated in any of the drawings.
30. A method substantially as shown and described hereinabove. 31. A method substantially as illustrated in any of the drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
