<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image displaying apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06N300	G06F1502	G06T720	G06T1570	G06T1100	G06T720	A63F1310	G06F1502	G06T1570	G06T1100	G06N300	A63F1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06N	G06F	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	A63F	G06F	G06T	G06T	G06N	A63F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06N3	G06F15	G06T7	G06T15	G06T11	G06T7	A63F13	G06F15	G06T15	G06T11	G06N3	A63F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image displaying apparatus stores plural image data 
(13) and displays one of the image data, which image data 

represent a growing plant (animal) (13) or represent a 
series of motions of an animal. The apparatus further 

stores plural element data (13) for growing the plant 
(animal). When one of the element data (13) is selected, 

another image data of the plant (animal) is displayed in 
place of the previously displayed imaged data to show how 

the plant (animal) grew up thank to the selected element 
data. The apparatus is provided with a sensor for 

detecting motion of a user. Detecting the motion of the 
user, the apparatus displays new image data representing a 

motion of the animal in place of the previously displayed 
image data to show how the animal reacts to the user's 

motion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an image display control apparatus and an image display
controlling method used in an electronic appliance which displays previously stored
image data. In more detail, the invention relates to apparatus and methods for
displaying living beings which grow. In an image displaying apparatus of a conventional
electronic appliance for displaying an image of a character
such as, for example, an animal, the displayed character
image is modified or moved on the image displaying
apparatus in response to an operation of a particular key.For example, images of a dog that wags its head may be
selectively displayed on the image displaying apparatus by
selectively operating cursor keys (up, down, left and right
keys).However, in the conventional image displaying
apparatus, an instruction based on particular mechanical
operation is required to modify or move the displayed
character image. Therefore, the conventional image
displaying apparatus inherently has a drawback that the
character image displayed thereon can not be moved or
modified in accordance with an instruction given by an
user's sense. M. Bremer, SimLife User's Manual, Maxis, Orinda, CA, 1992 describes a software
simulating an ecosystem by imitating the evolution process. After installation of
the software to a hard disk the user is allowed to create ecological systems and to
simulate and control evolution. Additionally, the user may create and modify
plants and animals at the genetic level. Different items for different stages of plant
or animal life exist (seeds/flowers or child/adult). Additionally, the world design
may be changed by controlling parameters like the average weather variation,
average temperature, food and water sources, etc.JP-A-58 153 985 discloses a pocket-sized electronic device
using ROMs for storing images of a growing animal.It is the object of the invention to provide an image display control apparatus
capable of displaying an image of a living being which can be moved or changed
by the user with sense as if he is with his pet such as a dog and a corresponding
image display controlling method.This object is solved by the subject matters of independent claims 1 and 12.Preferred embodiments are defined by the subject matters of the dependent
claims. The present invention
will be more fully understood from the description, when
taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in
which:
Fig. 1 is a circuit diagram of a first electronic
notebook incorporating an image
displaying apparatus according to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pocket-sized image display control apparatus comprising:

living being image storing means (13) of read-only type for storing a plurality of
images of a living being, each image representing one of a plurality of predetermined

growth stages of the living being;
living being image display means (16) for displaying one of the living being
images;
designation data storing means (14, M) for storing designation data (M) which
designates one of said plurality of living being images representing a growth stage to be

displayed;
growth element image storing means (13) of read-only type for storing a plurality
of growth element images;
growth element image selecting means (12, 12b, B4) for selecting at least one of
said plurality of growth element images by a user;
growth element data storing means (14, 14c-14e) for storing growth element data
indicating the at least one selected growth element image;
first display control means (11, B7, B9, B10) for detecting whether the growth
element data stored in the growth element data storing means coincides with

predetermined data, for updating (M + 1) said designation data stored in the designation
data storing means
 when it is detected that the growth element data coincide with the
predetermined data, and for reading out the designated living being image representing

another growth stage other than that of a living being image being displayed for displaying it.
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the living being image representing
another growth stage is a living being image representing the next growth stage. 
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of growth element
images includes images of different kinds of growth elements.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the plurality of growth
element images includes images representing different amounts of a growth element.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising:

   growth element image display means (16) for displaying said plurality of growth
element images.
The apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising:

   second display control means (11, B10) for detecting whether said growth
element data stored in the growth element data storing means coincides with said

predetermined data, for keeping said designation data unchanged
when it is determined that said growth element data does not coincide with

said predetermined data (B7), and for reading out a living being image representing a
growth stage designated by said unchanged designation data for displaying it.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the growth element
images are stored in bitmap format.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the data indicating the at
least one selected growth element data are numerical data corresponding to said

plurality of growth element images.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the growth element
image selecting means comprises keys (12, 12a) to be operated by a user.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the pocket-sized image
display control apparatus is a portable electronic apparatus, and the living being image

storing means, the growth element image storing means, the growth element data storing
means, the designation data storing means, and the display control means are

incorporated in the portable electronic apparatus, and the living being image display 
means and the growth element image selecting means are provided on the exterior of

the portable electronic apparatus.
The apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the living being images
are images of animals or plants.
An image display controlling method for sequentially displaying one of a plurality
of images of a living being on a display section (16) of a pocket-sized device, the plurality

of living being images being stored in a read-only memory (13), the method comprising
the steps of:


displaying (B3) a plurality of growth element images on the display section;
selecting (B4) at least one of said plurality of growth element images by a user;
detecting (B7) whether growth element data indicating the at least one selected
growth element image coincides with predetermined data;
updating (B9) designation data (M + 1) so as to designate a living being image
representing another growth stage when the growth element data coincide with the

predetermined data; and
reading out (B10) the living being image representing the another growth stage
designated by said updated designation data from the read-only memory for displaying it.
The method according to claim 12, wherein the living being image representing
another growth stage is a living being image representing the next growth stage.
The method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the plurality of growth element
images include images of different kinds of growth elements.
The method according to one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the plurality of growth
element images include images representing different amounts of a growth element.
The method according to one of claims 12 to 15, further detecting whether said
growth element data coincides with said predetermined data, keeping the designation

data unchanged when it is determined that said growth element data does not coincide with said
predetermined data (B7), and reading out a living being image designated by said

unchanged designation data from the read-only memory for displaying it (11, B10). 
The method according to one of claims 12 to 16, wherein the growth element
images are images in bitmap format.
The method according to one of claims 12 to 17, wherein the data indicating the at
least one selected growth element data are numerical data corresponding to said

plurality of growth element images.
The method according to one of claims 12 to 18, wherein the step of selecting at
least one growth element image includes the step of operating keys (12, 12a) by a user.
The method according to one of claims 12 to 19, wherein the pocket-sized display
control apparatus is a portable electronic apparatus.
The method according to one of claims 12 to 20, wherein the living being images
are images of animals or plants.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
