<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611858</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Grating for swimming-pool overflow water drain channels
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04C242	E04H412	E04H400	E04C230	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04C	E04H	E04H	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04C2	E04H4	E04H4	E04C2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
It comprises a number of modules (1) which are juxtaposed 
and which are connected together. It is characterized in 

that each module (1) is provided on both opposed side 
surfaces thereof with respective pairs of resilient fingers 

(6, 7) with the peculiarity that the pair of fingers (7) of 
one side edge are provided with respective spigots (11) and 

the pair of fingers (6) of the other side edge are provided 
with respective orifices (9) in which the said spigots (11) 

are engaged, determining the resilient side coupling of the 
modules (1) forming the grating. It is contemplated that 

each side of the modules (1) shall have a finger (6'a, 7'a) 
with spigot (11) and a finger (6', 7') having an orifice 

(9). It is also a feature to provide the grating with a 
termination (14) where it is terminated with a 

transversally cut module (1a). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a grating for swimming-pool 
overflow water drain channels. As is known, swimming-pools are built with a drain 
channel around them, which is closed with a grating 
allowing people to walk over them and which allows the 
water overflowing from the swimming-pool and generally 
spread by the users of the swimming-pool to pass. This 
water is collected by the drain channel and directed to the 
pertinent drain. There are several types of grating, nevertheless most 
of them are formed by plastics material modules which are 
juxtaposed along the channel. These modules sometimes are simply placed side by side 
but it is better to connect them to each other, there being 
several means for this purpose. The German patent DE-A-2602114 has an object a grating 
made up also with modules juxtaposed and comprising 
some means for being copupled together side by side, 
and consisting of elastic hooks provided at one 
module end and penetrating into openings of the 
juxtaposed module. There may also be mentioned among the coupling means those formed 
by double metal pins which are inserted in orifices in the 
side edges of the modules. The generally known systems have not properly solved 
the problem of the expansion of the modules in times of hot 
weather. Since these modules are of plastics material, they 
expand considerably, and since this expansion is not 
completely absorbed by the gaps provided for this purpose 
(which may not be greater than 8 mm) and because of the low 
resilience of said modules, they ride up against each other 
with the consequent drawbacks that this represents. Another problem with the known gratings is that it is 
difficult to solve their correct coupling to arcuate 
channels, in which case the problem of the expansion is 
increased, since the square or rectangular modules have 
their side edges closer together and even touching in the 
inner arc of the curve. Where double pins are used for coupling the modules 
forming a curve, pins with the couple of spigots in  
 
different spacings must be used, which hinders the assembly 
of the grating since for each coupling operation the 
corresponding pin has to be selected. These and other drawbacks of the known gratings have been 
solved by the new grating of the present invention. It is a feature of this grating that it is formed from 
modules having integral coupling means whereby no accessory 
is required. These coupling means are provided in highly 
resilient portions of the modules, with this notable 
resilience
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A grating for swimming-pool overflow water drain 
channels, comprising a number of modules (1) which are 

juxtaposed and comprising some means for coupling together side by side, 
characterized in that each module (1) is provided on both 

opposite side edges thereof and in its end regions with the formation of 
respective pairs of resilient fingers (6, 7) parallel to said side edges and separated thereto 

wherein the pair of fingers (7) of one side are 
provided at their free ends with respective spigots (11) and the pair of 

fingers (6) of the other side are provided with respective 
orifices (9) in which the said spigots (11) are engaged, 

providing thereby resilient lateral coupling of the modules 
(1) forming the grating. 
The grating for swimming-pool overflow water drain 
channels of claim 1, wherein the resilient fingers (7) 

having a spigot (11) have the free end (10) thereof widened 
and extending from the side edge of the module, the spigot 

(11) being formed on said outstanding portion. 
The grating for swimming-pool overflow water drain 
channels of claim 1, wherein the resilient fingers (6) 

having the orifice (9) have the free edge (8) thereof 
slightly widened where the orifice (9) is located, said 

orifice being open at the side (13). 
The grating of claim 1, wherein each side wall of 
the modules (1) is provided with a finger (6'a, 7'a) having 

a spigot (11) and a finger (6', 7') with orifice (9), said 
orifice (9) and spigot (11) alternating on one side 

relative to those of the other side edge and so that the 
axis of engagement of said orifices and said spigots is 

provided in a plane intermediate the adjacent fingers (6', 
7'a, 6'a, 7') of the juxtaposed modules (1).  

 
The grating of claim 5, wherein the modules (1') 
for a highly curved drain channel are provided in plan view 

with a trapezoidal form having curved edges. 
The grating of claim 5, wherein the grating is 
provided with a termination (14) where the grating 

terminates with a transversally cut module (1a), consisting 
of a section (15) which is juxtaposed to the end of the cut 

portions (2'a) of the module (1a), said ends resting on 
supports (16) laterally projecting from said section, on 

the side thereof facing the end of the cut portions (2'a), 
the said supports (16) coinciding with slits (3a) 

separating the portions (2'a) of the module (1a). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
