<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647239</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANGIOTENSIN IV PEPTIDES AND RECEPTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K500	C07K5103	C07K700	C07K714	C07K14435	C07K14705	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K5	C07K5	C07K7	C07K7	C07K14	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A unique and novel angiotensin AT4 receptor and AIV ligand system for binding a small N-terminal hexapeptide fragment of Angiotensin II (referred to as AIV, with amino acid sequence Val1-Tyr2-Ile3-His4-Pro5-Phe6) is disclosed. AIV ligand binds saturably, reversibly, specifically, and with high affinity to membrane AT4 receptors in a variety of tissues, including heart, lung, kidney, aorta, brain, liver, and uterus, from many animal species. The AT4 receptor is pharmacologically distinct from classic angiotensin receptors (AT1 or AT2). The system employs AIV or C-terminally truncated or extended AIV-like peptides (e.g. VYIHPFX) as the signaling agent, and the AT4 plasma membrane receptor as the detection mechanism. The angiotensin AT4 receptor and receptor fragments (including the receptor binding site domain) are capable of binding a VYIHPF angiotensin AIV N-terminal peptide but not an angiotensin AII or AIII N-terminal peptide, i.e., DRVYIHPF or RVYIHPF, respectively. Also disclosed are processes for isolating angiotensin AT4 receptor and AIV angiotensinase, identifying angiotensin AIV agonists and antagonists, and constructing diagnostic assays to specifically measure AIV and AI-specific angiotensinase in biological fluids.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARDING JOSEPH W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT JOHN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARDING, JOSEPH, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT, JOHN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANGIOTENSIN IV PEPTIDES AND RECEPTORField of the Invention This invention relates to the polypeptide ligand NYTHPF (angiotensin IN or AIN) and to related peptide ligands and polyaminoacid ligands that bind to, activate and/or antagonize a novel angiotensin AT4 receptor. The ligands comprise at least three of the Ν-terminal amino acids of AIN, or AT4 receptor binding equivalents or analogs thereof. Engagement of the receptor by its ligand triggers acute physiological effects (e.g., vasodilation) and long-term effects in cells (e.g., hypertrophic growth).Background of the Invention The renin-angiotensin system has wide-ranging actions on numerous tissues in the body affecting blood pressure (pressor activity) and cardiovascular and electrolyte homeostasis. It is currently believed that angiotensins All and Affl are derived via enzymatic cleavage in the cascade depicted in Figure 1, steps 1, 2, and 3 (1). (Numbering herein of the amino acid residues in Al, All, AIII, and AIN is according to that appearing in Figure 1.) The renin-angiotensin cascade is thought to begin with the action of renin on angiotensinogen to release angiotensin I (Al), a biologically inactive decapeptide. Angiotensin II (All), the bioactive octapeptide, is thought to be formed by the action of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) on circulating Al (2). Des-AspAH (Angiotensin III; Am) is derived from All, and certain reports have suggested possible activities for AHI in the adrenal gland (3) and brain (4). It has been reported that All and AUI are inactivated by enzymatic degradation through a series of smaller inactive fragments (5). Fragments smaller than AIII have been thought, for the most part, to be biologically inactive and of little physiological significance (6). This assumption has been based on the lack of pressor and certain endocrine activities (i.e., aldosterone release) of small angiotensin fragments (7) and the finding that Ν-terminal deleted fragments, i.e., smaller than AIII, reportedly 

exhibit low binding affinity for angiotensin Al or All receptors (known as ATI and AT2, respectively) as determined in radiolabeled ligand studies (8).Certain studies have used ATI^g) as one of several controls in structure- activity studies of ATI and AT2 receptors (9,10). An All receptor having components with molecular weights of 60-64kDa and 112-115kDa has reportedly been cloned from adrenal cortical cells as well as rat smooth muscle (11).In general, AIIπ-8) has been found to be much less active than All or AIII with regard to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A substantially purified angiotensin AT4 receptor, or fragment thereof having a binding affinity with a K
d
 of below about 3 x 10
"6
M for an AIN ligand having the sequence NYTHPF and having a binding affinity with a K
d
 greater than l x lO
"6
M for AII or Am.
2. An AT4 receptor or fragment thereof of Claim 1 which comprises a polypeptide having a molecular size of about 60kD to about 200kD on SDS-PAGE.
3. An AT4 receptor or fragment thereof of Claim 1 , wherein the receptor exhibits a binding affinity to VYTHPF with a K-
j
 less than about 3 x 10
"8
M.
4. An AT4 receptor binding site polypeptide comprising a first subdomain capable of binding an AIN ligand having a penultimate Ν-terminal norleucine residue, and a second subdomain capable of binding a C-terminal region of said AIN ligand, wherein the first subdomain comprises both a hydrophobic pocket conforming closely to the space filled by norleucine and a negatively charged amino acid side chain capable of electrostatic interaction with the primary amine group of the norleucine, and wherein binding of an amino acid at the second subdomain alters the binding affinity at the first subdomain.
5. An AIN ligand capable of binding the AT4 receptor of Claim 1 with a binding affinity having a K
d
 of below about 3 x 10
"6
M, said ligand comprising a compound of the formula: 


 wherein R is a substituted or unsubstituted amino acid residue having a neutral or positively charged aliphatic side chain Z
1}
 said amino acid being selected from among N, I, L, A, G, F, P, M, K, norvaline, norleucine, and ornithine,
R
2
 is a substituted or unsubstituted neutral nonpolar amino acid residue selected from among Y, W, Ν, Q, F or C,
R3 is a substituted or unsubstituted neutral polar amino acid residue selected from among G, A, N, I, L, F, P, or M, and
X is nothing, R4, R4-R5, or ^-Rs-Rg, wherein R4 is a substituted or unsubstituted basic amino acid residue selected from the group consisting of K, R and H, R5 is a substituted or unsubstituted neutral polar amino acid residue selected from the group consisting of G, A, N, I, L, F, P, and M, and R^ is a substituted or 


unsubstituted neutral polar amino acid residue selected from the group consisting of G, A, N, I, L, F, P, M, and polyamino acid residues containing one or amino acid residues which do not prevent binding of the AIN Ugand with the AT4 receptor.
6. An AIN ligand of Claim 5 wherein Z
j
 comprises an aliphatic chain of 4 carbon atoms in length.
7. An AIN ligand of Claim 5 wherein the amino acid residues are linked by peptidic linkages.
8. An AIN ligand of Claim 5 which comprises one or more non-peptidic linkages between adjacent amino acid residues.
9. An AIN ligand of Claim 5 which in which one or more of R
4
, R
5
, and -^comprises a D-amino acid residue.
10. An AIN ligand of Claim 5 comprising an Ν-terminal sequence of NYHTPF, NYIHP, NYIH, NYI, KYIHPF, KYIHP, KYIH or KYI.
11. An AIN Ugand of Claim 5 comprising a first Ν-terminal L-amino acid residue having a flexible aliphatic carbon side chain and a primary amine, and a second L-amino acid residue having a phenolic side chain, wherein the first and the second amino acid residues are chemically bonded through a carbon nitrogen bond that comprises a planar or non-planar rigid or non-rigid bond having a bond length substantially equivalent to a carbonyl bond.
12. An AIN Ugand of Claim 11, wherein the flexible aliphatic side chain comprises 


 or CH
3
(CH
2
)y-, wherein x and y are integers from 1 to 10.
13. An AIN Ugand of Claim 11, wherein x or y is 3 or 4.
14. An AIN ligand of Claim 11, wherein R^ is selected from the group consisting of norleucine, norvaline, ornithine, lysine.
15. An AIN ligand of Claim 11 , wherein R
2
 is tyrosine.
16. An AIN ligand of Claim 12, selected from the group consisting of NorLeu YIHPF, ΝorNalYIHPF, OrnYIHPF, KYIHPF, VYIHPF. 


 17. An AIV antagonist or agonist capable of binding the receptor or fragment of Claim 1 with a K
d
 of below about 3 x 10
"6
M.
18. A method of inhibiting proliferation of a vascular smooth muscle cell in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
19. A method of inducing proliferation of an endothelial cell in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
20. A method of inducing increased production of an endothelial cell relaxing factor in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
21. A method of increasing renal blood flow in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
22. A method of inhibiting an activity induced by All or Am in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
23. A method of enhancing AIV activity in a host in need thereof, comprising administering to the host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV agonist ligand of Claim 5.
24. A method of enhancing memory or learning in a host in need thereof comprising administering to the host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV agonist ligand of Claim 5.
25. A method of inhibiting AIV activity in a host in need thereof, comprising administering to the host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV antagonist ligand of Claim 5.
26. A method of inhibiting All-mediated aldosterone release from an adrenal cortical cell in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5. 


 27. A method of altering catecholamine release from an adrenal medullary cell in an animal host in need thereof, comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
28. A method of potentiating cardiocyte growth in an animal host in need thereof, comprising comprising administering to said host a therapeutically effective dosage of an AIV ligand of Claim 5.
29. A method of identifying the presence of an inhibitor of AIV ligand binding to an AT4 receptor in a biological fluid, comprising the steps of: a) adding an amount of an AIV ligand effective to produce measurable receptor binding to a first cell culture comprising an AT4 receptor to form a control mixture; b) adding said AIV ligand and a sample of said biological fluid or fraction thereof to a second cell culture comprising AT4 receptor; c) measuring the level of binding of said AIV ligand to the cells in the first and second cultures; and d) determining the presence of an inhibitor of AIV ligand to the AT4 receptor when the level of binding in the second culture is significantly lower than in the first culture.
30. An antibody capable of specifically binding to AIV, but not to AH or
AΠI.
31. A method of determining the presence or amount of AIV in a sample, comprising contacting the sample with an antibody of Claim 30 and then determining the amount AIV bound or unbound to the antibody as an indication of the presence or amount of AIN in the sample.
32. A method of isolating and substantially purifying an AT4 receptor to remove ATI and AT2 receptors, comprising the steps of: a) selecting cells expressing an AT4 receptor; b) preparing a membrane preparation of said cells in the presence of protease inhibitors, wherein said protease inhibitors are capable of inhibiting greater than 90% of angiotensin hydrolysis in the membrane preparation; 


 c) solubilizing said AT4 receptor in said membrane preparation with a zwitterionic detergent under conditions that favor solubilization of said AIN receptor but not an AT
j
 or AT
2
 angiotensin receptor; d) heat-treating said solubilized preparation under conditions suitable for destroying said AT
j
 and AT
2
 receptors; and, e) fractionating said solubiUzed AT4 receptor preparation and identifying fractions capable of binding said AIN ligand, but not said Al or AH ligands. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
