<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634918</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EYE GOGGLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B3300	A63B3300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B33	A63B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a pair of goggles (10) which can be used for a variety of recreational activities, such as swimming, cycling, ball games etc. The goggles comprise a pair of eyepieces and a nosepiece (15). Each eyepiece has a lens (17) and rim (18), each rim having a first connecting structure (33) and a headstrap connecting structure (24) to receive a headstrap. The nosepiece has a pair of second connecting structures (35, 39), and a bridge structure (38) disposed between and integral with the second connecting structure. Each second connecting structure (35, 39) is complementary to a respective first connecting structure (33) of the pair of eyepieces and forms an essentially rigid interfence fit therewith. Inner portions of the second connecting structure and outer portions of the bridge means are contiguous and inclined at respective angles to each other at a rigid joint which is sufficiently stiff to resist deformation when subjected to normal loads occurring during use. In this way, the angles between the second connecting structure and the outer portions of the bridge means remain essentially unchanged during normal use.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP PLASTICS MFG LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP PLASTICS MFG. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASLBECK JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASLBECK, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EYE GOGGLESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to eye goggles, in particular to a pair of eye goggles which can be used to protect the eyes in a variety of recreational activities, such as swimming, cycling and ball games where eye protection is usually worn.In many recreational activities, it is prudent to wear eye protection, for example to protect the eyes from chemicals in pool water when swimming, from insects or road dirt during cycling, or from fast moving balls in ball games such as racquetball and squash. Other recreational activities requiring goggles include snow boarding, skiing, mountaineering, sailing etc. where additional protection from UV rays is required, as well as protection from wind-driven snow, rain, spray, etc. For the many activities mentioned above, separate prior art goggles would be required, each one being adapted for the specialized activity. To the inventor's knowledge, no prior art goggles exist which can be used for all the activities listed above. For example, when considering the first three activities only, the protective goggles used in ball games would be inappropriate for swimming as they would leak, and for cycling would probably be uncomfortable for long usage, and might be prone to permit entry of road dust. Prior art swimming goggles are inappropriate for cycling due to relatively poor peripheral vision and optical distortion. Prior art cycling goggles are not strong enough to prevent injury when impacted by a ball, and also are not waterproof for full immersion in water. Similar limitations exist for most specialized prior art 

goggles used in activities for which they were not designed.In addition, a common problem with prior art swimming goggles relates to an interconnecting nosepiece which extends between eyepieces of the goggles. A common type of nosepiece is a relatively thin and flexible strap which is received within complementary openings provided in peripheral rims of the eyepieces. The strap has opposite outer ends provided with "barb-like" stepped projections which cooperate with the openings in the eyepieces to locate the nosepiece with respect to the eyepieces. The stepped projection at end portions of the nosepiece permit incremental adjustment of spacing between the eyepieces so as to accommodate persons having eyes at different widths. The flexibility of such straps is considered by some to be an advantage as it permits independent variations between the orientation of each eyepiece with respect to the nosepiece, so as to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Eye goggles comprising:
a) a pair of eyepieces, each eyepiece having a lens and a peripheral rim extending around the lens, each peripheral rim having a first connecting means and a headstrap connecting means to receive a headstrap,
b) a nosepiece having a pair of second connecting means and a bridge means disposed between and integral with the second connecting means, each second connecting means being complementary to a respective first connecting means of the pair of eyepieces, inner portions of the second connecting means and outer portions of the bridge means being contiguous and inclined at respective angles to each other at a rigid joint which is sufficiently stiff to resist deformation when subjected to normal loads occurring during use, so that the said angles between the second connecting means and the outer portions of the bridge means remain essentially unchanged during normal use.
2. Goggles as claimed in Claim 1 in which:
a) each second connecting means of the nosepiece is an essentially straight projection,
b) each first connecting means of the eyepieces is a socket means to receive the respective projection, the socket means being located in the 



 peripheral rim of the respective eyepiece.
3. Goggles as claimed in Claim 2 in which:
a) each projection of the second connecting means has a projection inner portion and a projection outer portion disposed about a respective projection plane so as to be generally aligned with each other,
b) each outer portion of the bridge means has a width which is greater than width of the adjacent projection inner portion so as to provide at least one engaging shoulder to engage the peripheral rim of the eyepiece, the said widths being as measured parallel to the projection plane.
4. Goggles as claimed in Claim 3 in which:
a) the peripheral rim of the each eyepiece has a socket opening therein to serve as the socket means, the socket opening having an opening rim portion extending therearound on a side of the eyepiece adjacent the lens,
b) the engaging shoulder of the bridge means is generally complementary to a portion of the opening rim portion so as to assist in reducing movement between the nosepiece and eyepieces.
5. Goggles as claimed in Claim 4 in which:
a) the opening rim portion is generally plane,
b) the engaging shoulder is similarly plane. 


6. Goggles as claimed in Claim 3 in which:
a) each projection has oppositely disposed first and second broad faces and oppositely disposed upper and lower narrow faces, space between the narrow faces defining the width of the projection,
b) the bridge means has upper and lower edges, local spacing between the said edges at the outer portions of the bridge means defining the width of the outer portions of the bridge means,
c) the upper and lower narrow faces of each projection being disposed inwardly from the upper and lower edges of the adjacent outer portion of the bridge means to provide upper and lower engaging shoulders extending outwardly from the upper and lower narrow faces respectively of each projection.
7. Goggles as claimed in Claim 6 in which:
a) the upper and lower engaging shoulders are generally coplanar with each other, b) the peripheral rim of each eye piece has a socket opening therein to serve as the socket means, the socket opening having a generally plane opening rim portion extending therearound on a side of the eye piece adjacent to lens, the rim being generally complementary to the upper and lower engaging shoulders.
8. Goggles as claimed in Claim 6 in which:
a) spacing between the first and second broad faces of each projection inner portion defines 


 transverse thickness of the said inner portion,
b) spacing between inner and outer faces of the outer portion of the bridge means defines local thickness of the outer portions of the bridge means, which thickness is greater than the transverse thickness of the inner portion of the projection to provide an outer shoulder extending between the outer face of the bridge means and an adjacent outer face of the outwardly facing projection.
Goggles as claimed in Claim 8 in which:
a) the said upper, lower and outer engaging shoulders extending between adjacent portions of a particular projection and the bridge means are generally coplanar with each other.
b) the peripheral rim of each eye piece has a socket opening therein to serve as a socket means, the socket opening having a generally plane opening rim portion extending therearound on a side of the eye piece adjacent the lens, the rim being generally complementary to the three engaging shoulders.
10. Goggles as claimed in Claim 1 further including:
a) latch means for restricting separation of the bridge means from the eyepieces, the latch means cooperating with the second connecting means of the nosepiece and the first connecting means of the eyepieces. 


11. Goggles as claimed in Claim 2 in which:
a) at least one of the connecting means of a complementary pair of connecting means further includes a latch means for restricting separation of the connecting means of each pair.
12. Goggles as claimed in Claim 2 in which:
a) the bridge means has an engaging shoulder adapted to engage the peripheral rim of the eyepiece,
b) the latch means includes a step located on the projection, and a latch shoulder extending into the socket means, the step and latch shoulder being engageable with each other when the projection is fully received in the socket means, so as to hold the engaging shoulder against the peripheral rim of the eyepiece in an interference fit to augment retention of the projection within the socket opening.
13. Goggles as claimed in Claim 11 in which:
a) each second connecting means of the nosepiece is an essentially straight projection,
b) each first connecting means of the eyepieces is a socket means to receive the respective projection, the socket means being located in the peripheral rim of the respective eyepiece,
c) each latch means is resiliently deformable and is adapted to temporarily deform from an initial unstrained extended position to a retracted position as the projection is inserted into or 


 removed from the respective socket, the latch means then resiliently moving towards the said initial unrestrained extended position after complete insertion into the socket.
14. Goggles as claimed in Claim 13 in which:
a) the peripheral rim of the each eyepiece comprises a socket opening therein to serve as the socket means, the socket opening having an opening rim portion extending therearound on a side of the eyepiece adjacent the lens, the socket opening having inner and outer ends, the inner end being adjacent the socket rim and the outer end having a latch shoulder, b) the projection of each second connecting means comprises oppositely disposed first and second broad faces disposed generally parallel to the respective projection plane, the first face having a step thereon positioned to cooperate with the latch shoulder of the socket opening to form the latch means, the second face having clearance means for permitting deformation of the outer portion of the projection to facilitate engagement and disengagement of the latch shoulder from the step.
15. Goggles as claimed in Claim 14 in which:
a) each socket opening has a pair of oppositely facing first and second broad faces, the first face having the latch shoulder extending transversely across at least a portion of the first face. 


 b) the said steps extends transversely across at least a portion of the first broad face of the respective projection, and the second face of each projection has an axially extending centrally located rib disposed between a pair of clearance portions, the rib being adapted to contact the second broad face of the socket opening to provide a fulcrum about which the projection can partially rotate with respect to the socket means, so as to facilitate engagement and disengagement of the step of the projection with the shoulder of the socket opening.
16. Goggles as claimed in Claim 4 in which:
a) at least one of the connecting means of a complementary pair further includes a latch means for restricting separation of the connecting means of each pair.
17. Goggles as claimed in Claim 16 in which:
a) each second connecting means of the nosepiece is an essentially straight projection,
b) each first connecting means of the eyepiece is a socket means to receive the projection, the socket means being located in the peripheral rim of the respective eyepiece,
c) each latch means is resiliently deformable and is adapted to temporarily deform from an initial unstrained extended position to a retracted position as the projection is inserted into or removed from the respective socket, the latch means then resiliently moving toward the said initial unstrained extended position after 


 complete insertion into the socket.
18. Goggles as claimed in Claim 17 in which:
a) the peripheral rim of each eyepiece comprises a socket opening therein to serve as a socket means, the socket opening having an opening rim portion extending therearound on a side of the eyepiece adjacent the lens, the socket opening having inner and outer ends, the inner end being adjacent the socket rim and the outer end having a latch shoulder,
b) the projection of each second connecting means comprises oppositely disposed first and second broad faces disposed generally parallel to the respective projection plane, the first face having a step thereon positioned to cooperate with the latch shoulder of the socket opening to form the latch means, the second face having clearance means for permitting deformation of the outer portion of the projection to facilitate engagement and disengagement of the latch shoulder from the step.
19. Goggles as claimed in Claim 18 in which:
a) the step of each projection is spaced from the adjacent axially aligned engaging shoulder of the bridge means by a local step spacing, which spacing is essentially equal to a corresponding local shoulder spacing between the latch shoulder and an adjacent axially aligned portion of the opening rim portion, to provide an interference fit between the oppositely facing engaging shoulder and the step to augment retention of the 


 projection within the socket opening.
20. Goggles as claimed in Claim 19 in which:
a) the step of a particular projection is located on one broad face of the particular projection, and the corresponding engaging shoulder is adjacent an oppositely facing broad face of the said projection.
21. Goggles as claimed in Claim 19 in which:
a) the first broad face of the projection having the step faces inwardly towards the opposite projection, the second broad face facing outwardly,
b) the said at least one engaging shoulder includes an outer shoulder disposed between an outer portion of the bridge means and the second broad face,
c) each socket opening has a pair of oppositely facing first and second broad faces, the first face having the latch shoulder facing outwardly of the eyepiece, and adjacent to engage the step,
d) the opening rim portion of the socket opening engaging the outer shoulder of the bridge means on a side of the select opening opposite to the latch shoulder, so that pairs of surfaces on opposite sides of the projection and socket opening are held in intimate contact with each other to augment retention of the projection within the socket means, and yet to disengagement of the latch means. 


22. Goggles as claimed in Claim 4 in which:
a) each projection has faces which taper slightly from the inner portion of the projection to the outer portion of the projection,
b) the socket opening has faces which taper slightly from adjacent the opening rim portion to an outer end of the socket opening, taper of the faces of the socket opening being complementary to the taper of the faces of the respective projection to augment retention of the projection within the socket opening.
23. Goggles as claimed in Claim 1 in which:
a) the bridge means has upper and lower edges, local spacing between the edges defining local width of the bridge means, the bridge means being narrower adjacent a central portion thereof than outer portions thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
