<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628369</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods for obtaining cutting tools, and cutting tools obtained by these methods
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23C510	B23P1528	B23D6500	B23D6500	B23C510	B23P1528	B23D6100	B23D6104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23C	B23P	B23D	B23D	B23C	B23P	B23D	B23D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23C5	B23P15	B23D65	B23D65	B23C5	B23P15	B23D61	B23D61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the case of cutting tools with welded cutting 
inserts, the method is characterized in that the cutting 

inserts are cut such that the distance between two 
adjacent cuts is between 1 mm and 5 mm, and the cutting 

inserts (15) are placed on the body (16) of the tools (10) 
such that the layer of polycrystalline diamond only 

occupies the part which is furthest away from the centre 
of said body (16). 
In the case of cutting tools with interchangeable 
cutting inserts or blades (19), the method is 

characterized in that the cutting inserts (19) are cut and 
arranged on the support or head (22) of the tools, 

preferably such that the layer (2) of polycrystalline 
diamond only occupies the part which is furthest away from 

the centre of said support or head (22). 
It also refers to the machining and 
dimensioning of said cutting inserts or blades. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERRAMIENTAS PREZISS S L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERRAMIENTAS PREZISS, S.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARRARONS LOSSE PEDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARRARONS LOSSE, PEDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods for
obtaining cutting tools, in particular cutting tools with
cutting inserts of polycrystalline diamond.
A method comprising the steps of the
preamble of claim 1 is known from
EP-A-506 238.It also refers to the tools obtained by said
methods.The cutting tools currently used for working
materials such as wood and the like consist essentially of
a body with peripheral housings in which are housed
cutting inserts of hard metal or the like. These cutting
inserts are the part of the tool that carries out the
machining of the material such as wood or the like. The
hardness of said hard metals, such as tungsten carbide, is
greater than the steels traditionally used and as a result
they are subject to less wear.Diamond is harder than said metals and has
therefore also been used for cutting inserts. More
particularly, the cutting inserts are made of a hard metal
such as tungsten carbide and polycrystalline diamond. The
polycrystalline diamond constitutes the attacking surface
and is arranged on the hard metal which acts as a support.
Therefore, only part of the cutting insert is made of
diamond, as this is the most expensive material.Methods for obtaining cutting tools are known and
consist of cutting the cutting inserts of the tools from a
plate consisting of a layer of polycrystalline diamond
arranged on a hard metal support, in a first phase cutting
a plurality of portions, each of which corresponds to a
plurality of cutting inserts, and in a second phase
cutting said portions into the individual cutting inserts; 
machining the body of the tools to form the housings for
the cutting inserts; inserting said cutting inserts into
housings in the body of the tools; welding them thereto;
and, if necessary, machining the cutting inserts to obtain
the required dimensions.In the known embodiments, the layer of
polycrystalline diamond occupies the entire front surface
of the cutting insert, and therefore the amount of diamond
used in each cutting insert represents a considerable
proportion of the cutting insert as a whole. As a result,
the cost of the cutting insert is relatively high.This embodiment has the further drawback that, as
the cutting insert wears with use, only the outermost part
which is in contact with the material being machined is
eliminated, a considerable amount of the polycrystalline
diamond remaining unused.Furthermore, the height of the cutting insert is
limited in order to economize on the polycrystalline
diamond and, as a result, the fixing surface of

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for obtaining cutting tools which
consists of:


a) cutting the cutting inserts of the tools (10)
from a plate (1) consisting of a layer of polycrystalline

diamond (2) arranged on a hard metal support (3), cutting
in a first phase a plurality of portions

(4,5,6,7;11,12,13,14) each of which corresponds to one or
more cutting inserts (8;15) and cutting in a second phase

said portions into the individual cutting inserts (8;15),
b) inserting said cutting inserts into housings in
the body (9;16) of the tools (10),

   characterized in that the cutting inserts (15) are
arranged on the body (16) of the tools (10) such that the

layer of polycrystalline diamond only occupies the part
which is furthest away from the axis (16a) of rotation of

the tool (10).
A method according to claim 1, characterized in
that the cutting inserts (15) are cut such that the

distance between two adjacent cuts is between 1 mm and 5
mm.
A method according to claim 1 or 2,
characterized in that consists of:


c) machining the body of the tools (10) to form
the housings for the cutting inserts (15), and
d) welding this cutting inserts (15) thereto.
A method according to claim 1 to 3,
characterized in that the thickness of the layer (2) of

polycrystalline diamond is between 0.5 and 1.5 mm,
preferably 1 mm, and the thickness of the hard metal

support (3) is between 5 and 15 mm, preferably 8 mm.
A method according to claim 1 to 4,
characterized in that the plate (1) is cut during the first

phase along an inclined plane which forms an acute angle
with the plane at right angles to the surface of the 

plate, enabling the attack angle A of the tool (10) to be
defined for different positions of the cutting insert.
A method according to claim 5 in which the
housings for the cutting inserts consist of a rear part

and a lower part, characterized in that the housings are
machined into the body (16) of the tool such that the

lower part of the housing, and a plane at right angles to
the rear part of the housing and parallel to the axis of

the tool, form an angle G which is equal to the acute
cutting angle.
A method according to claim 6, characterized
in that the acute cutting angle is between 9° and 30°

according to the different attack angles A of the tool.
A method according to claim 7, characterized
in that th
e acute cutting angle is 24°.
A method according to claim 6, characterized
in that the lower part of the housing is machined to an

accuracy of 0.02 mm.
A method according to claim 6, characterized
in that the cutting inserts (15) are inserted into their

respective housings and welded with controlled pressure in
order to achieve a radial projection of 0.1 mm.
A method according to claim 10, characterized
in that the peripheral machining of the cutting inserts

(15), in order to give the layer (2) of polycrystalline
diamond the required dimensions, is carried out by

electro-erosion using less power and for a longer time
than the power and time used for machining the hard metal.
A method according to any of the previous
claims, characterized in that the front faces (17) of the

cutting inserts (15) are machined to form concave teeth. 
A method according claim 1 or 2,
cha
<
racterized in that it consists of:

c) drilling one or more bores (20,21) in the
cutting inserts or blades (19) for fixing them to the

support or head (22).
d) arranging the cutting inserts or blades (19) on
the support or head (22) of the tools, being removably

mounted.
A method according to claim 13, characterized
in that the thickness of the layer (2) of polycrystalline

diamond is between 0.5 and 1.5 mm and the thickness of the
hard metal support (3) is between 10 and 15 mm.
A method according to claim 14, characterized
in that the total height of the plate (1) comprising the

layer (2) of polycrystalline diamond and the hard metal
support (3), is 10.7 mm.
A method according to claim 15, characterized
in that the plate (1) is cut during the first phase along

an inclined plane which forms an acute angle of 30° with 
the plane at right angles to the surface of the plate (1).
A cutting tool with interchangeable cutting
inserts or blades, said cutting inserts or blades being

removably mounted on the tools on a support or head (22),
obtained by the method of claims

13 to 16.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
