<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640238</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLASH-CLEAR OF RAM ARRAY USING PARTIAL RESET MECHANISM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C700	G11C720	G11C800	G11C816	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C7	G11C7	G11C8	G11C8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reset mechanism for a random access memory array comprises an auxiliary reset circuit, which does not require modification of the contents of the memory itself. For a random access memory capable of storing M, N-bit words, the auxiliary mechanism includes a plurality of M reset state circuits that are respectively associated with the M words of memory. The reset state circuit preferably comprises an additional "resetable" memory cell for each word of memory, which is integrated within the structure of the memory itself. In order to reset one or more words of memory, the associated reset state circuits are placed in a reset state-representative condition. The state of each reset state circuit is used to controllably mask (e.g. is logically ANDed with) the contents of its associated word of memory, whenever that word is read out. If the reset memory cell has been cleared, then regardless of the contents of its associated word in memory, the mask will cause the addressed memory word to be ouput as all zeros. Whenever a new word value is written to memory, its associated reset state circuit is simultaneously accessed and a valid or non-reset representative "1" bit is stored in that reset state circuit. Subsequently, when that word is read out from memory, the ("1") value of the mask bit stored in its associated reset cell will cause the contents of the word to be output as it is.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDETA DAVID S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONGWAY CHARLES WILLIAM TULL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG WILLIAM RONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDETA, DAVID, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONGWAY, CHARLES, WILLIAM, TULL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, WILLIAM, RONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLASH-CLEAR OF RAM ARRAY USING PARTIAL RESET MECHANISMFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates in general to semiconductor memory circuits and is particularly directed to a mechanism for effectively resetting a random access memory by the incorporation of an auxiliary reset control circuit array of reduced circuit capacity, the components of which are separate from, but associated with, the respective words of the random access memory.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe resetting of a random access memory customarily involves clearing or ,zeroing/ the contents of all of the storage locations or cells of the memory, typically by addressing each storage location and writing a '0' into, each cell in response to the occurrence of a reset control signal. Because the transient peak current required to clear the entire memory array is quite large and may entail several clock cycles of the memory access clock, such a mechanism is undesirably slow and necessitates a substantial amount of semiconductor real estate in which to form the attendant current driver.One approach to solve this problem, described in the U.S. patent to Liou et al 4,789,967, is to segment the resetting process into sub-portions or blocks of memory, in an effort to provide some degree of reduction in both reset current requirements and to provide a degree of improvement in reset speed (by resetting only selected portion or portions of memory of interest) . Unfortunately, the resetting mechanism described in the Liou et al patent still requires applying a reset current directly to the memory itself, so that even though less than the entire memory may be selectively accessed, the reset operation still involves modifying the contents of a plurality of memory cells in each of the blocks of memory to be reset. 

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with the present invention, rather than modify or clear the contents of each storage location of one or more segments or blocks of memory for the purpose of an overall reset or a partial reset of memory, an auxiliary reset mechanism, which is separate from and does not require modification of the contents of the memory itself, is employed. In general, the memory with which the present invention may be employed may comprise any read/write technology, such as NMOS, PMOS, CMOS, bipolar, GaAs, and magnetic circuits.For a random access memory capable of storing M, N-bit words, the inventive auxiliary mechanism preferably comprises a plurality of M reset state circuits that are respectively
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED
1. In a multiple cell memory formed of an array of transistor-configured memory cells, each cell comprising cross-coupled inverter circuits to which normal and complementary bit line ports are coupled and a select port to which a word line is coupled, the improvement wherein selected ones of said memory cells further include a reset transistor coupled to said cross-coupled inverter circuits, and wherein said memory further includes a reset link coupled to the reset transistors of said selected ones of said memory cells, said reset link having the property of sequentially propagating a reset signal applied thereto among said selected ones of said memory cells, so as to cause said selected ones of said memory cells to be sequentially reset.
2. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said memory is formed of MOSFET-configured memory cells, and each reset transistor comprises a MOSFET having a respective source/drain region that corresponds to a source/drain region of a MOSFET of said memory cell, and an insulated gate conductive layer overlying a portion of said memory between said source/drain region of said MOSFET and a reference potential node and being connected to said reset link.
3. The improvement according to claim 2, wherein said memory is formed of MOSFET-configured memory cells, and said reset link is comprised of resistive material.
4. The improvement according to claim 2, wherein said memory is formed of MOSFET-configured memory cells, and said reset link is comprised of polysilicon material.
5. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said memory is a random access memory formed of an array of dual port, CMOS-configured memory cells. 


 6. In a multiple cell memory formed of a matrix of rows and columns of MOSFET-configured memory cells, each MOSFET- configured memory cell comprising cross-coupled MOSFET inverter circuits to which normal and complementary bit line ports, associated with bit line columns of the matrix, are coupled, and a select port to which a respective row word line of the matrix is coupled, the improvement wherein each MOSFET- configured memory cell of a selected column of said matrix includes a reset MOSFET coupled to the cross-coupled inverter circuits of said each MOSFET-configured memory cell, and wherein said memory further includes a reset link coupled to the reset MOSFETs of the memory cells of said selected column, said reset link having the property of sequentially propagating a reset signal applied thereto among the memory cells of said selected column, so as to cause the memory cells of said selected column to be sequentially reset.
7. The improvement according to claim 6, wherein said memory is a random access memory formed of an array of dual port, CMOS-configured memory cells.
8. In a multiple cell memory formed of an array of M, N-bit memory cells, each of said memory cells being coupled to an N-bit output link to provide an N-bit output word in response to said each memory cell being addressed, the improvement comprising a plurality of M reset state circuits each of which is associated with a respective one of the M memory cells of
'"
said array, and a mask circuit coupled to memory array and said reset state circuits and being operative to controllably output an N-bit output word accessed from one of the respective memory cells of said array in accordance with the state of the reset state circuit associated with said one of the respective memory cells of said array. 


 9. The improvement according to claim 8, wherein said memory is a random access memory formed of an array of dual port, CMOS-configured memory cells.
10. The improvement according to claim 8, wherein said plurality of M reset state circuits is formed integrally with said array and is formed of an additional column of said array of memory cells, each memory cell of said additional column of said array being a resetable memory cell.
11. The improvement according to claim 10, wherein each of the memory cells of said memory array includes MOSFET- configured cross-coupled inverter circuits, and each resetable memory cell of said additional column includes an additional MOSFET having a source/drain region that corresponds to the source/drain region of a MOSFET within said each resetable memory cell, and an insulated gate conductive layer overlying a portion of said each resetable memory cell between the source/drain region of said additional MOSFET and a reference potential link, said insulated gate conductive layer being connected to a reset link to spaced apart portions of which respective additional MOSFETs of said additional column are connected.
12. The improvement according to claim 11, wherein said reset link is comprised of resistive material.
13. The improvement according to claim 11, wherein said reset link is comprised of polysilicon material.
14. The improvement according to claim 11, wherein successive portions of said reset link are connected to reset MOSFETs of successive rows of said additional column of memory cells. 


 15. A method of operating a multiple memory cell array, said memory containing an array of M, N-bit memory cells, said memory cells being coupled to an N-bit output link that is accessed to output an N-bit output word, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a plurality of M reset state circuits in association with respective ones of the M memory cells of said array;
(b) controllably causing one or more of said M reset state circuits to acquire a reset state-representative condition; and
(c) in the course of accessing an N-bit data word from said memory cell array, masking the accessed N-bit data word with the state of a reset state circuit associated with the memory cell from which said N-bit data word is accessed, so the contents of an N-bit data word is output in dependence the state of its associated reset state circuit.
16. A method according to claim 15, wherein said memory is a random access memory formed of an array of dual port, CMOS-configured memory cells.
17. A method according to claim 15, wherein step (a) comprises incorporating said plurality of M reset state circuits as an additional column of resetable memory cells of said array.
18. A method according to claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises sequentially propagating a reset signal among the resetable memory cells of said additional column, so as to cause the resetable memory cells of said additional column to be sequentially reset. 


 19. A method according to claim 18, further including the step of (d) in the course of writing a data word into a selected memory cell of said array, placing its associated resetable memory cell in a non-reset condition. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
