<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611449</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ASSAY METHODS FOR BIOMOLECULES AND SOLID SUPPORT THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33544	G01N33545	G01N33569	G01N33569	G01N3700	G01N3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N37	G01N37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods of performing an assay for biomolecules and solid supports for use in such assays are disclosed. An activated polymeric material is used as a solid support for binding biomolecules. In a preferred form, the support is made of a generally hydrophobic, nonporous polymer which has been activated by treatment with solvents or by mechanical means to enhance the binding characteristics of the support. The support can be made of a copolymer, such as a copolymer of polystyrene and polybutadiene. Detection of bound biomolecules is preferably performed by means of staining reactions and gray level scanning. Emulsifying agents, such as detergents, can be applied to the surface of the support to substantially inhibit additional materials from being bound to the support.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYTECH BIOMEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JIRIKOWSKI GUSTAV F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYTECH BIOMEDICALS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JIRIKOWSKI, GUSTAV F.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JIRIKOWSKI GUSTAV F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JIRIKOWSKI, GUSTAV, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ASSAY METHODS FOR BIOMOLECULES AND SOLID SUPPORT THEREOF.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to methods of performing assays for biomolecules using polymeric supports, and is particularly directed to assay methods using polymeric supports which have enhanced binding characteristics.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONImmunoassay is a class of scientific techniques used to detect small amounts of biomolecules in biological samples. These techniques are widely used in medical diagnostic procedures, such as blood tests and the like, to detect specific proteins ("antigens"). Conventional methods of immunoassay rely on the selective reaction of a particular protein with an antigen. For example, it is well known that animals develop a specific antibody to combat a particular foreign antigen. Because the antibody has a highly specific chemical configuration, it reacts selectively with the antigen and not with other proteins. The reaction of the antibody with the antigen ("precipitation") binds the antigen so that it can be further processed and, ultimately, destroyed or removed from the system. Such antibody-antigen reactions give rise to the well-known immune response in animals, by which animals are able to resist infections to which they have been previously exposed.SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 This ability of antibodies to selectively bind to antigens can also be used to detect antigens present in a biological sample. For example, when a patient has a particular illness, one or more characteristic antigens will be present in the blood. An antibody to that antigen will selectively bind to the antigen. A common type of immunoassay which relies on this effect is the "antibody capture assay." To detect an antigen in particular sample, the antigen is first immobilized by attaching it to a solid support. A support often used for this purpose is a "microtiter plate", which is a plastic plate made of clear polystyrene or polyvinylchloride. The plate is molded with 96 depressions or wells in which biological samples are held for testing. When a sample is added to a well in the plate, antigens in the sample are bound or attached to the support r and are thereby immobilized. This binding is not a chemical reaction but, rather, is believed to result from a physical or noncovalent interaction between the polystyrene matrix and the antigen. Once the antigen is bound to the support, an antibody known to be specific to that antigen is allowed to react with, and bind to, the immobilized antigen. It is then possible to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1
. A method of performing an assay for biomolecules comprising: providing a solid support made of a polymeric material, said solid support having a region which has been activated by increasing the exposed surface area of said region, binding a biomolecule to be detected to the activated region of the solid support, and detecting the presence of the biomolecule once it is bound to the solid support.
2. The method of claim 1 in which the solid support has been activated by treating said region with a solvent to partially dissolve the polymeric material and open the polymer matrix.
3. The method of claim 2 in which the solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, acids, bases, olefins, linear and cyclic hydrocarbons, and halogenated hydrocarbons.
4. The method of claim 1 in which the solid support has been activated by mechanical means.
5. The method of claim 1 in which the polymeric material comprises a member of the group selected from polystyrene and polyvinylchloride.
6. The method of claim 1 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer.
7. The method of claim 6 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer of styrene and butadiene. 


 8. The method of claim 1 in which the activated region is opaque.
9. The method of claim 1 in which the biomolecule is detected by using a staining dye to indicate the presence of the biomolecule and using gray Lev
el
 scanning to measure the intensity of staining .
10. The method of claim l in which the biomolecule is detected by using a substantially water-insoluble staining dye.
11. The method of claim 1 in which the biomolecule is a member of the group selected from proteins, nucleic acids, amino acids, peptides, polypeptideε, amines, monoamines, nucleotides, and polynucleotides.
12. The method of claim 1 in which the biomolecule is covalently bound to the surface of the activated region of the support .
13. The method of claim 12 in which the biomolecule is embedded in the activated region of the support by exposing the activated region of the support binding the biomolecule to ultraviolet light.
14. The method of claim 1 in which the support is formed in the shape of a substantially flat plate.
15. A method of performing an assay for biomolecules comprising: providing a solid support made of a polymeric material, binding a biomolecule to be detected to the solid support, applying an emulsifiying agent to the surface of the solid support after the biomolecule is bound to the solid support to substantially inhibit additional materials
SUBSTI 


 from being bound to the support, and detecting the presence of the biomolecule once it is bound to the solid support.
16. The method of claim 15 in which the polymeric material comprises a member of the group selected from polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinylchloride, polya ide, polycarbonate, epoxides, methacrylates, and polymelamine.
17. The method of claim 15 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer.
18. The method of claim 17 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer of styrene and butadiene.
19. The method of claim 15 in which the emulsifying agent is a detergent.
20. The method of claim 15 in which the biomolecule is detected by using a staining dye to indicate the presence of the biomolecule and using gray level scanning to measure the intensity of staining.
21. The method of claim 15 in which the biomolecule is a member of the group selected from proteins, nucleic acids, amino acids, peptides, polypeptides, amines, monoamines, nucleotides, and polynucleotides.
22. A method of performing an assay for biomolecules comprising: providing a solid support made of a copolymeric material, binding a biomolecule to be detected to the solid support, and detecting the presence of the biomolecule once it is bound to the copolymeric solid support. 


 23. A solid support for performing an assay for biomolecules comprising: a polymeric material having an activated region for binding a biomolecule to be detected, the polymeric material in said activated region having an increased amount of exposed surface area, said polymeric material being formed so that the presence of the biomolecule can be detected once the biomolecule is bound to the support.
24. The solid support of claim 23 in which the activated region is created by treating said region with a solvent to partially dissolve the polymeric material.
25. The solid support of claim 24 in which the solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, acids, bases, olefins, linear and cyclic hydrocarbons, and halogenated hydrocarbons.
26. The solid support of claim 23 in which the activated region is created by mechanical means.
27. The solid support of claim 23 in which the polymeric material comprises a member of the group selected from polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinylchloride, polyamide, polycarbonate, epoxides, methacrylates, and polymelamine.
28. The solid support of claim 23 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer.
29. The solid support of claim 28 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer of styrene and butadiene.
30. The solid support of claim 23 in which the activated region is opaque. 


 31. The solid support of claim 23 in which the support is formed in the shape of a substantially flat plate.
32. The solid support of claim 31 in which the support includes a plurality of activated regions formed as depressions in the substantially flat plate.
33. The solid support of claim 31 in which the support is formed in the shape of a microtiter plate.
34. The solid support of claim 23 in which the support is formed in the spape of a reaction vessel.
35. The solid support of claim 34 in which the support is formed in the shape of a reaction tube.
36. The solid support of claim 23 in which the support is formed in the shape of a bead of polymeric material.
37. The solid support of claim 23 in which the support is formed as a thin foil of polymeric material.
38. The solid support of claim 23 in which the support is formed as a fiber of polymeric material. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 22 March 1993 (22.03.93); original claims 6,22 and 28 cancelled; original claims 1,5,7,15,17,18,
27 and 29 replaced by amended claims 1,5,6,14,16,17,21,25 and 26; claims 8-14,16,19-21,24-26 and 30-38 unchanged and renumbered as claims
7-14,15,18-20,22-24 and 27-35; other claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1. A method of performing an assay for biomolecules comprising: providing a solid support having a region which has been activated by increasing the exposed area of said region, said solid support being made of a copolymer or a polymer blend of two or more polymers which are differently affected by the activation process, binding a biomolecule to be detected to the activated region of the solid support, and detecting the presence of the biomolecule once it is bound to the solid support.
2. The method of claim 1 in which the solid support has been activated by treating said region with a solvent to partially dissolve the polymeric material and open the polymer matrix.
3. The method of claim 2 in which the solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, acids, bases, olefins, linear and cyclic hydrocarbons, and halogenated hydrocarbons.
4. The method of claim 1 in which the solid support has been activated by mechanical means.
5. The method of claim 1 in which the copolymer or the polymer blend comprises a member of the group selected from polystyrene and polyvinylchloride.
6. The method of claim 1 in which the support is made of a copolymer or a polymer blend of styrene and butadiene. 


 applying an emulsifiying agent to the surface of the solid support after the biomolecule is bound to the solid support to substantially inhibit additional materials from being bound to the support, and detecting the presence of the biomolecule once it is bound to the solid support.
15. The method of claim 14 in which the polymeric material comprises a member of the group selected from polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinylchloride, polyamide, polycarbonate, epoxides, methacrylates, and polymelamine.
16. The method of claim 14 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer or a polymer blend.
17. The method of claim 16 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer or a polymer blend of styrene and butadiene.
18. The method of claim 14 in which the emulsifying agent is a detergent.
19. The method of claim 14 in which the biomolecule is detected by using a staining dye to indicate the presence of the biomolecule and using gray level scanning to measure the intensity of staining.
20. The method of claim 14 in which the biomolecule is a member of the group selected from proteins, nucleic acids, amino acids, peptides, polypeptides, amines, monoamines, nucleotides, and polynucleotides.
21. A solid support for performing an assay for biomolecules comprising: 


 a polymeric material having an activated region for binding a biomolecule to be detected, the polymeric material being of a copolymer or a polymer blend of two or more polymers which are differently affected by an activation process, the polymeric material in said activated region having an increased amount of exposed surface area, said polymeric material being formed so that the presence of the biomolecule can be detected once the biomolecule is bound to the support.
22. The solid support of claim 21 in which the activated region is created by treating said region with a solvent to partially dissolve the polymeric material.
23. The solid support of claim 22 in which the solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, acids, bases, olefins, linear and cyclic hydrocarbons, and halogenated hydrocarbons.
24. The solid support of claim 21 in which the activated region is created by mechanical means.
25. The solid support of claim 21 in which the copolymer or a polymer blend comprises a member of the group selected from polypripylene, polystyrene, polyvinylchloride, polyamide, polycarbonate, epoxides, methacrylates, and polymelamine.
26. The solid support of claim 21 in which the polymeric material is a copolymer or a polymer blend of styrene and butadiene.
27. The solid support of claim 21 in which the activated region is opaque. 


 28. The solid support of claim 21 in which the support is formed in the shape of a substantially flat plate.
29. The solid support of claim 28 in which the support includes a plurality of activated regions formed as depressions in the substantially flat plate.
30. The solid support of claim 28 in which the support is formed in the shape of a microtiter plate.
31. The solid support of claim 21 in which the support is formed in the spape of a reaction vessel.
32. The solid support of claim 31 in which the support is formed in the shape of a reaction tube.
33. The solid support of claim 21 in which the support is formed in the shape of a bead of polymeric material.
34. The solid support of claim 21 in which the support is formed as a thin foil of polymeric material.
35. The solid support of claim 21 in which the support is formed as a fiber of polymeric material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
