<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0088118</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR APPLICATION IN BLOOD VESSELS OR OTHER DIFFICULTLY ACCESSIBLE LOCATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F201	A61F201	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	A61F288	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device comprising a helically shaped spiral spring (36) and means (40, 41) for bringing the spring (36) to expand from a first state of a certain diameter to a second state of larger diameter and vice versa, characterized thereby that said means (40, 41) are arrnged to rotate the ends (38, 39) of the spring (36) relative to each other with maintained length of the spring so that the transition from said first state to said second state takes place by reducing the number of spring turns within said length and the corresponding increase of the pitch of the spring, or to supply to a given length of the spring further spring material at at least one end of the said length of the spring so that the transition from said first state to said second state takes place independent of pitch and number of spring turns within the said length; and a method for transluminal implantation of an intravascular prosthesis using the said device.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALLSTEN HANS IVAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALLSTEN, HANS IVAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAASS DIERK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAASS, DIERK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEVICE FORAPPLICATIONINBLOOD VESSELS OR OTHERDIFFICULTYACCESSIBLELOCATIONSTECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a device which can be applied within for example blood vessels of the body of a living animal or a living human being. The device comprises a helically shaped coil spring that can be expanded from a first state of a certain diameter to a second state of larger diameter ana vice versa. The invention is particularly useful for mechanical transluminal implantation by means of an expanding, self-fixating appliance for blood vessels, respiratory tracts or the like. By means of the device of the present invention also the inner walls of damaged blood vessels or other organs may be lined with artificial tissue which may be porous.In surgical and other medicinal techniques there is sometimes a need of inserting and expanding a device in for example blood vessels, urinary tracts or other difficultly accessible places which has for its function to widen the said vessel or tract, the device being optionally left in position to provide for permanent widening. The device according to the present invention may be used in many medicinal applications and, as examples, there may be mentioned utilization in different types of aneurism reflected by seme form of vessel widening, or the opposite, stenosis, which involves contraction of blood vessels. More particularly, the invention thus may be used to support and keep open vessels of venous systems, to support artificial vessel elements, to close pathological vessel failures, to bridge pathological vessel dilatations and ruptures in interior vessel walls or to stabilize bronchial tubes 

or bronchi. The device of the present invention may also be designed to act as a filter* for thromboses, for example by application in Vena Cava Inferior to prevent the formation cf lung emboliae. However, the invention is not limited to the applications mentioned herein which must be considered as solely exem lifying.BACKGROUND ART.In U.S. patent specification "5,868,956 there is described a device which after insertion into for example blood vessel may be. expanded. The active part of this device is based en the use cf metal alloys having so-called '*ιr,emor3r function", i.e. a material which when heated will recover its initial eon- figuration. In this prior art the heating of the material is provided b3* electrical hearing, the device being inserted at the location of interest. However, this known technique possesses the essential disadvantage that electrical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
PATENT CLAIMS:
1. Devicε comprising a helically shaped spiral spring (1; 36; 78; 80-82) and means for bringing the spring to expand from a first state (Fig. ; 5) of a certain diameter to a second εtate (Fig. 2; 4) of largεr diameter and vice versa, characterized therεby that said means (35 
>
 51) are arranged to rotate the ends (38, 39) of the spring relative to each other with maintained length (L) of the spring (1; 36) so that the transition from said first state to said εecond εtate takeε placε by reducing the number of εpring turns within said length (L) and the corresponding Increase of the pitch (s) of the __pring, or to supply to a given length (L4) of the spring (1, 52) further εpring material (B) at at least one end of the said length (L4) of the spring (1) so that the transition from said first state to said εecond εtate takeε placε indεpεndent of pitch and number of spring turns within the said lεngth (L4).
2. Device according to claim 1, characterized thereby that one end (38) cf the spring (36) is attached to a shaft (42a) which is centrally arranged Inside the spring, wherεas its othεr εnd (39) is connεcted to a sleevε (42b) surrounding thε shaft (42a), whεrεby through rotation of thε shaft and/or thε sleeve relative to each other reduction cr increaεε of thε diameter of the εpring (36) iε provided.
3.. Device according to claim 1 or 2, characterized thereby that the spring material (29) as seen in axial croεs section haε a radiallj- flattened shape to reduce the risk for εpring ccllapεε.
4. Dεvicε acccrding to any preceding claim, charaeterizεd by a stocking (73) of strεtchablε tiεεuε εurrounding thε εpring intεndεd for Implantation together with the εpring.
>
 


 5. Device according to any of clai ε 1 to 4, characterized thereby that the spring material (78) is provided with radial through-rεcesseε (79) between which axial and tranεvεrεε minor sεctions remain, whereby the expansive or contractional capacity of the spring will be increased.
6. Dεvicε according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterized thereby that the spring is composed of a co-extεnsivε doublε εpiral or εpring wherein the εpiral elε entε (8θ, 8l) are connectεd by means of tangentially distributed and axially extending cross embεrs (82).
7. Dεvicε according to claim 3
.
 5 or 6, charact- erized therεby that thε tranεvεrεe sections or crosε mεmbεrs (82) arε providεd with a eεntrally positionεd radially oriεntεd shouldεr (85, 86) whεrεby adjacεnt spring turns can overlap.
8. Device according to claim 7, characterized by a stocking (84) of porous tissue surrounding the individual turns of the spiral (78; 80-82) in sub¬ stantially the whole length of the spiral material.
9- Devicε according to any prεcεding claim, charactεrized thereby that the spring (90) iε designed to act as a filter after application by having at at least one end (91) thereof a diminishing diameter.
10. Device according to claim 9
.
 characterized thereby that the distance between the turns of thε diminishing εnd (91) of thε εpring (90) defining the flow pasεage is about 3 Em.
11. Device acccrding to claim 6 or 7, charact- εrizεd by a εtocking (83) of porous tissue surrounding thε individual turns (80, 8l) of thε spiral in the whole length of the εpiral material and extending laterally outεide the εpiral matεrial thεrεby providing ovεrlap
OMPI WIFO 


within adjacent turns of the spiral.
12. Device acccrding to any of elaimε 1-10, characterized by an axially extending and elongatεd mεmber (94) coεxtεnsive with the pεriphεry of the spring which is attached to the spring at one location {96) , and by a stretchablε stocking (95) of porous matεrial surrounding thε spring which iε attachεd tc εaid mεmbεr (94) and which is intended to be Implanted togethεr with thε spring.
13- Dεvicε according to any prεceding claim, characterized by a cylindrical tubular carrier body (37) arranged within the coil spring (36) comprising a central part (47) and being provided with end sections (40, 4l) at the ends (58, 39) of the spring rotatable relative to each other, the ends (58, 39) of the spring (36) being eonnectεd to thε rεεpective end εections (40, 41), and means (42, 43, 44) with the help of which the said end εectionε (40, 41) can bε rotated relative to each other to expand cr to contract thε εpring (36).
1-4. Dεvice according to claim 13, characterized in that εaid means comprise coaxial members (42) connectεd to the one end section (4l), the interior element (42a) of thε said members extending through the carrier body (37) and being at the end connected to thε other εnd εection (40), rotators (43, 44) being arranged at thε outεr frεε end of the coaxial members-
15- A method for tranεluminal implantation of an intravascular proεtheslε, ccmpriεing introducing into thε vessel at one location a device according to any of the preceding claims with the spring in contracted state, tranεluminally transferring the device to another location of the vessel, expanding the spring within the vessel at said other location to bring about
(^ 


sεlf-fixation of same, and, after relεaεing thε spring, removing the device save the εpring from the vesεel.
16. A method according to claim 15 including thε εtεp of εεlecting a εpring of a diameter in unleaded εtate εomewhat larger than the internal diameter of the vεεsel at .said other location so as to provide for an internal prεεεurε of thε εpring againεt thε innεr wallε of thε vεssεl.
OMPI 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
