<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649319</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR DESTROYING SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, PARTICULARLY HYPODERMIC NEEDLES AND SCALPELS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1902	A61M532	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1900	A61M532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61M	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61M5	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The apparatus for destroying surgical instruments (20), particularly hypodermic needles and scalpels has a box-like body which forms a plate (2) for the insertion of the surgical instruments (20) to be destroyed. The plate (2) is arranged at a unit (11, 12) for the removal and traction of the instruments (20) in order to insert the instruments (20) and place them against a panel (60) made of an electrically conducting material. The panel (60) and the removal and traction unit (11, 12) are respectively electrically connected to opposite poles of an electric current generator. There is also an insertion sensor for activating the removal and traction unit (11, 12) when the instruments (20) to be destroyed are inserted through a hole (3) in the insertion plate (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for 
destroying surgical instruments, particularly hypodermic 
needles and scalpels. As is known, especially in the health- and beauty-care 
sectors, there is the problem of neutralizing and 
eliminating disposable surgical medical instruments such as 
blades, scalpels, needles, pointed instruments and the like 
which are normally used in medical, dental or beauty-care 
treatments or for epidermal use and which, during their use, 
have been in contact with the patient's blood. In order to 
avoid risks of contagion or cross-contamination, for medical 
and paramedical personnel and for anyone who may come into 
contact with the used instruments, it is necessary to 
neutralize and destroy these instruments. Devices which melt metallic surgical instruments by 
means of the flow of electric current of appropriate 
intensity have already been marketed for performing this 
operation. Known from US-A-5,076,178 is an apparatus for 
destroying syringe needles comprising a housing having an 
orifice for the insertion of needles, crimping means for 
crimping syringe needles to substantially seal the syringe 
and means for establishing an electric current through the 
needles. However, US-A-5,076,178 shows an apparatus having an 
orifice for the insertion of only needles and moreover it is  
 
necessary to carry out some manual operations in order to 
ensure the performance of the method of destruction. 
Therefore the apparatus is not useful for destroying 
scalpels and moreover, requires that an operator performs 
the operations manually until the needles are destroyed. Also known from GB-A-2 211 420 is an electric needle 
destroyer, which is able to destroy needles by means of the 
flow of electric current. Even the apparatus herein 
described requires manual interventions until the needles 
are completely destroyed. In known devices, in practice, it is necessary to 
insert the instrument to be destroyed into the device while 
continuing to apply a slight pressure until the instrument 
is completely destroyed. This operation is a source of considerable dangers, 
since it not possible to assuredly prevent accidental 
contact with the instrument during the destruction 
operation, producing lesions with the possibility of 
contagion; furthermore, the instrument to be destroyed may 
inadvertently be removed from the device before it is 
completely destroyed, thus eliminating certainty in the 
neutralization of the potential dangers deriving from the 
instrument. This is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for destroying surgical instruments, 
particularly hypodermic needles and scalpels, comprising a 

boxlike body (1) which includes an insertion plate (2) for 
the reception of the surgical instruments to be destroyed 

and a panel (60) made of an electrically conducting material 
said panel being electrically 

connected to the first pole of an 
electric current generator, characterized in that said panel (60) 

is being arranged on a traction and removal unit (10), which is 
electrically connected to the second pole of said generator, and is 

adapted to receive said instruments, remove them, for 
example from a syringe or from a scalpel's handle, and to 

push them against said panel so as to provoke a melting 
current dicharge through the instruments, and in that an 

insertion sensor (50, 51) is further provided for activating 
said traction and removal unit as soon as the instruments 

are inserted in said insertion plate. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said insertion plate (2) is provided with a hole (3) 

for the insertion of needles and with a slot (4) for the 
insertion of scalpels and blades. 
Apparatus according to the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said unit (10) for the removal and 

traction of the instruments to be destroyed comprises first 
(11) and second (12) rollers which rotate in mutually 

opposite directions and are supported by first (13) and 
second (14) frames which are mutually pivoted at the motion 

transmission shaft, elastic means being furthermore provided 
which act between said frames and the fixed structure of the 

apparatus framework in order to create an elastic contrast  
 

for the coupling of said rollers by contact. 
Apparatus according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises motor means (30) 

equipped with a reduction unit and connected to a bevel gear 
(31) which meshes with bevel pinions (32-33) respectively 

keyed on half-shafts (15a-15b) which constitute the rotation 
axis of said frames (13-14), a toothed gear (40) being 

connected to each one of said half-shafts, a toothed belt 
(41) winding around said gear (40) and meshing with a 

toothed pinion (42) keyed on the shaft (12a) of the related 
roller (12). 
Apparatus according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said insertion sensor 

comprises an optical emitter (50) for emitting a light beam 
which is arranged at the instrument insertion region (3-4) 

and a receiving photocell (51) which drives the contact for 
actuating said motor. 
Apparatus according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said activation sensor 

comprises a toggle contact (57) drivable upon a surgical 
instrument to be destroyed making a connection between said 

insertion plate (2) and said rollers (11-12), which are 
connected to different poles of an electric generator. 
Apparatus according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises a sliding contact 

(61) for the electrical connection of said rollers (11-12). 
Apparatus according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises a cutting unit 

provided with a cutting frame (70) oscillatably mounted and 
actuated by eccentric elements (71) moved by the actuation  

 
shafts of the supporting frames of said rollers. 
Apparatus according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said frame supports a striker 

block (75) arranged at an anvil (76) located inside said 
box-like body substantially at said insertion plate (2) 

below said insertion holes, said striker block (75) being 
electrically connected to the same electrical connection 

pole as said panel in order to cut the needle by melting and 
compression. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
