<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645069</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIAGNOSTIC METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR A CABLE TELEVISION INTERDICTION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N7173	H04N7173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENTIFIC ATLANTA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENTIFIC-ATLANTA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORSETTI PAUL JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH HIMANSHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSTAGI VIBHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THATCHER W BRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORSETTI, PAUL, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH, HIMANSHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSTAGI, VIBHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THATCHER, W., BRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DIAGNOSTIC METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR A CABLE TELEVISION INTERDICTION SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONTechnical FieldThe present invention generally relates to a cable television (CATV) interdiction system and, more particularly, to a CATV interdiction system including an improved method and apparatus for diagnosing various types of problems in a remote interdiction uni Description of the Prior ArtThe cable television industry has recently resorted to new technologies and has taken a second look at technologies developed in the early stages of development of cable television including negative and positive trap technology and interdiction systems to remove equipment off the subscriber's premises. A CATV interdiction system manufactured by Scientific- Atlanta, Inc. , and described by U.S. Patent No. 4,912,760, evidences one product manufacturer's response to such concerns. Precipitating the removal of equipment from the subscribers' premises has been the provision of television channel conversion equipment within the new television receivers sold today and the predominance of so-called cable ready receivers. In other words, the converter portions of converter/decoders are in many instances no longer required. Also, removal of equipment from the subscribers' premises accomplishes a removal of equipment from the hands of pirates. The interdiction system described by U.S. 4,912,760 promotes the removal of all CATV equipment from a CATV service subscriber's premise except for equipment for certain special service applications such as pay per view services. 

 Most embodiments promoted by manufacturers of interdiction systems con¬ sist of a pole-mounted or side of building mounted enclosures located outside the subscriber's premises designed to serve four or more subscribers. This enclosure contains at least one microprocessor controlled oscillator and switch control electronics to secure several television channels. Control is accomplished by injecting an interfering or jamming signal into unauthorized channels from this enclosure.In the Scientific- Atlanta system to improve efficiency and to save costs, each of a plurality of oscillators may be used to jam several premium television channels in a continuous band of frequencies selected from the broadband 50-550 megahertz (MHz) or other spectrum. This technique not only reduces the amount of hardware required, but also maximizes the system flexibility. The oscillator output jamming signal frequency is periodically moved from channel to channel. Consequently,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. In a television communication system including a headend for transmitting a broadband television signal and a remote unit coupled to said headend for receiving the broadband television signal from said headend through a communication link, a method for operating said remote unit comprising the steps of:
(a) detecting at least one error condition associated with said remote unit;
(b) encoding a television signal responsive to the detection of at least one error condition; and
(c) outputting the encoded television signal for display on a television receiver.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said step of encoding comprises the steps of alternately connecting and disconnecting the television signal to an output terminal of said remote unit.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the remote unit has a plurality of error conditions associated therewith, and said step of detecting comprises detecting at least one of said plurality of the error conditions.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein each error condition corresponds to a predetermined code, and wherein said step of encoding further comprises encoding the television signal according to a predetermined code corresponding to the detected at least one error condition.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein each error conditfon has a predetermined priority, and said step of encoding comprises encoding the television signal according to a predetermined code corresponding to a detected error condition having a highest predetermined priority.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said remote unit is an interdiction apparatus located remote from said television signal receiving apparatus.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a tamper condition indicative of unauthorized tampering with 


said remote unit, a refresh timer timeout condition indicative of a failure of communication between said headend and said remote unit, a home power count exceeded condition indicating that power supplied to the remote unit has been removed and restored more than a predetermined number of occasions, and a voltage controlled oscillator failure condition.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the tamper condition has a higher priority than the refresh time timeout condition, the voltage controlled oscillator failure condition, and the home power count exceeded condition.
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the refresh time timeout condition has a higher priority than the voltage controlled oscillator failure condition and the home power count exceeded condition.
10. The method according to claim 7, wherein the voltage controlled oscillator failure condition has a higher priority than the home power count exceeded condition.
11. The method according to claim 3 , wherein each error condition has a predetermined number associated therewith and said step of encoding further comprises the steps of:
(i) disconnecting the television signal from an output terminal of said remote unit during a first time period, and
(ii) alternately connecting the television signal to and disconnecting the television signal from said output terminal during a second time period thereby applying a pulsed television signal having a number of pulses to said output terminal, wherein the number of pulses in the pulsed television signal corresponds to the predetermined number associated with the detected at least one error condition.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein said first time period is 7 seconds in length.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein said step of alternately connecting and disconnecting comprises the steps of: connecting the television signal to said output terminal for approximately 1.5 seconds, and 


 disconnecting the television signal from said output terminal for approximately 1.5 seconds.
14. The method according to claim 11, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a tamper condition indicative of unauthorized tampering with said remote unit.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a refresh timer timeout condition indicative of a failure of communication between said headend and said remote unit.
16. The method according to claim 11, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a home power count exceeded condition indicating that power supplied to the remote unit has been removed and restored more than a predetermined number of occasions.
17. The method according to claim 11, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a voltage controlled oscillator failure condition.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein said remote unit comprises an interdiction unit.
19. The method according to claim 1 , wherein said communication link comprises a cable television distribution system.
20. In a television communication system including a headend for broadcasting a broadband television signal and a remote unit coupled to said headend for receiving the broadband television signal from said headend through a communication link and for outputting a television signal for display on a television signal receiving apparatus, a method for operating said remote unit comprising the steps of:
(a) detecting at least one of a plurality of error conditions associated with said remote unit, each error condition having a predetermined number associated therewith;
(b) controlling a light-emitting device coupled to said remote unit to be OFF during a first time period responsive to the detection of at least one error condition; and 


 (c) pulsing said light-emitting device ON and OFF a number of times during a second time period responsive to the detection of at least one error condition, wherein the number of times said light-emitting device is pulsed ON and OFF corresponds to the predetermined number associated with the detected at least one error condition.
21. The method according to claim 20, wherein said light-emitting device comprises a light emitting diode (LED).
22. A remote unit adapted for use in a television communication system comprising: an input terminal for receiving a broadband television signal from a headend through a communication link; a detector for detecting at least one error condition associated with said remote unit; encoding means coupled to said input terminal and said detector for encoding a television signal in response to a detection of at least one detected error condition by said detector; and an output terminal coupled to said encoding means for outputting the encoded television signal for display on a television receiving receiver.
23. The remote unit according to claim 22, wherein a plurality of error conditions are associated with said remote unit, and said detector comprises detecting means for detecting at least one of said plurality of error conditions.
24. The remote unit according to claim 23 , wherein each error condition corresponds to a predetermined code, and wherein said encoding means encodes the television signal according to a predetermined code corresponding to the at least one detected error condition.
25. The remote unit according to claim 24, wherein each error condition has a predetermined priority, and wherein said encoding means encodes the television signal according^ to a predetermined code corresponding to a detected error condition having a highest predetermined priority.
26. The remote unit according to claim 24, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a tamper condition indicative of unauthorized tampering 


with said remote unit, a refresh timer timeout condition indicative of a failure of communication between said headend and said remote unit, a home power count exceeded condition indicating that power supplied to the remote unit has been removed and restored more than a predetermined number of occasions, and a voltage controlled oscillator failure condition.
27. The remote unit according to claim 26, wherein the tamper condition has a higher priority than the refresh time timeout condition, the voltage controlled oscillator failure condition, and the home power count exceeded condition.
28. The remote unit according to claim 26, wherein the refresh time timeout condition has a higher priority than the voltage controlled oscillator failure condition and the home power count exceeded condition.
29. The remote unit according to claim 26, wherein the voltage controlled oscillator failure condition has a higher priority than the home power count exceeded condition.
30. The remote unit according to claim 22, wherein each error condition has a predetermined number associated therewith and said encoding means comprises: means for disconnecting said television signal from said output terminal during a first time period, and means for alternately connecting the television signal to and disconnecting the television signal from said output terminal a number of times during a second time period thereby applying a pulsed television signal having a number of pulses to said output terminal, wherein the number of times said television signal is pulsed corresponds to the predetermined number associated with the at least one error condition detected by said detector.
31. The remote unit according to claim 30, wherein said disconnecting means and said means for alternately connecting and disconnecting alternately perform their respective functions.
32. The remote unit according to claim 30, wherein said first time period is 7 seconds in length. 


 33. The remote unit according to claim 30, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a tamper condition indicative of unauthorized tampering with said remote unit.
34. The remote unit according to claim 30, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a refresh timer timeout condition indicative of a failure of communication between said headend and said remote unit.
35. The remote unit according to claim 30, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a home power count exceeded condition indicating that power supplied to the remote unit has been removed and restored more than a predetermined number of occasions.
36. The remote unit according to claim 30, wherein said plurality of error conditions includes a voltage controlled oscillator failure condition.
37. The remote unit according to claim 22, wherein said remote unit is an interdiction unit.
38. The remote unit according to claim 22 , wherein said communication link comprises a cable television distribution system.
39. The remote unit according to claim 22, wherein said encoding means comprises a switching circuit for alternately connecting and disconnecting the television signal to said output terminal.
40. A remote unit adapted for use with a television communication system including a headend for broadcasting a television signal to said remote unit through a communication link, said remote unit also adapted for outputting a television signal for display on a television signal receiving apparatus, said remote unit comprising: a detector for detecting at least one of a plurality of error conditions associated with said remote unit, each error condition having to a predetermined number associated therewith; means for controlling a light-emitting device coupled to said remote unit to be OFF during a first time period responsive to the detection of at least one error condition by said detector; and 


 means for pulsing said light-emitting device ON and OFF a number of times during a second time period, wherein the number of times said light- emitting device is pulsed ON and OFF corresponds to the predetermined number associated with the at least one detected error condition detected by said detector. 41. The remote unit according to claim 40, wherein said light-emitting device comprises a light emitting diode (LED). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
