<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634329</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic roll wrapper removing apparatus and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B6900	B65B6900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B69	B65B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and apparatus for cutting a wrapper on a 
cylindrical roll in which a blade has a pointed tip joined to 

an inclined edge extending outwardly and an opposite smooth 
surface, the blade being moved under the outer wrap of the 

wrapper but outward of the material of the roll and continuing 
to be moved along a predetermined path along the length of the 

roll, with the inclined edge cutting the outer wrapper. The 
blade is positioned perpendicular to the roll and 

circumferentially from the outer end of the wrapper. In a 
preferred embodiment a longitudinal bubble is formed in the 

outer wrap of the wrapper and the blade tears through the 
crown of this bubble. Also in the preferred embodiment, a 

gathering device is provided for removing and flattening the 
cut wrapper. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT ENTERPRISES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENTERPRISES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER STEVEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORNBLASER NORMAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER, STEVEN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORNBLASER, NORMAN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to apparatus and method 
for automatically removing the wrapper from a cylindrical 
roll such as a roll of paper such as newsprint paper. This application is a continuation-in-part of 
United States Patent Application Serial No. 07/744,292, 
filed August 13, 1991. Paper rolls are wrapped with one or more layers 
of heavy wrapping paper to protect the surface of the 
outer layers of paper on the roll. The wrapped roll 
usually (but not always) includes "heads," namely, a disk 
of paperboard at each end of the roll, which must be 
removed by another process, manually or mechanically. The 
remaining wrapper is referred to as the "sleeve." For the 
purposes of this application the paper on the roll will be 
described as newsprint paper although the invention 
pertains to any roll protected by a wrapper. Various ways 
have been employed to cut the wrapper from the roll. One 
technique is for a workman to merely take a knife, press 
the blade inwardly against the outer surface of the 
wrapper at one end of the roll and slice through the 
wrapper from end to end on the roll. This technique can 
be injurious to the workman and frequently results in some 
of the newsprint paper being cut also. This newsprint 
paper is then wasted. Another manual technique for cutting the wrapper 
is to start a blunt sloped knife under the outer wrapper 
and manually push the knife from one end of the roll to  
 
the other through the wrapper. This technique tends to be 
more certain of not cutting the newsprint but is time-consuming 
and if the workman is not careful the cutting 
tool can also engage the newsprint damaging the outer 
layers of newsprint paper. Attempts have been made to automate the wrapper 
cutting procedure. Generally, these automated techniques 
have used a motor driven rotary cutting blade which is 
lowered onto the wrapper and moved from one end of the 
roll to the other. The rotary cutting blade tends to 
frequently cut through the wrapper, into the newsprint 
paper damaging the newsprint paper. In automated handling of rolls it is desirable 
to not only save labor but reduce the waste caused by 
manual or powered cutting tools cutting into the newsprint 
paper. The saving of two or three wraps of newsprint 
paper often adds up to savings of tens of thousands of 
dollars in a single year. It is also desirable to put the 
heavy wrapper removed into a convenient form for handling 
and disposal. Disposal is typically by baling for 
recycling. It is an object of this invention to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of cutting and removing a wrapper from 
a cylindrical roll having a protective wrapper around 

substantially the entire surface of the circumference of the 
roll, comprising: 

   positioning a cylindrical roll with a wrapper having 
an outer surface at a wrapper removing station; 

   rotating the roll about its longitudinal axis at the 
removing station until the outer end of the wrapper is located 

with respect to a predetermined cutting path to position two 
spaced portions of the outer surface of the wrapper on 

opposite sides of the cutting path; 
   pushing against said two separated portions in a 

radial and tangential direction toward each other along a 
curved plane to pinch the wrapper and form an outwardly raised 

bubble having an exposed crown extending above said curved 
plane; 

   moving a blade through the bubble to cut the wrapper 
by cutting through the bubble; and 

   removing the cut wrapper. 
The method of claim 1, said blade moving step 
including applying a cutting force with the blade from 

underneath the crown of the bubble and radially outwardly of 
the crown of the bubble along said predetermined cutting path 

starting at one end of the roll and along the length of the 
roll along said predetermined cutting path. 
The method of claim 1, said step of pushing 
against the two separated portions including pushing 

simultaneously along the entire length of the roll. 
The method of claim 2, said step of pushing 
against the two portions including pushing simultaneously 

along the entire length of the roll. 
The method of claim 1, said wrapper having at 
least one outermost overlapping wrap and forming the bubble in 

said overlapping wrap, said blade having a narrow tip sloping 
radially outwardly of the roll along a cutting edge, said step 

of moving the blade beneath the crown of the bubble including 
inserting the tip under the bubble and cutting the wrapper by 

moving the cutting edge through the crown of the bubble spaced 
outwardly from the next innermost wrap and from one end of the 

roll to the opposite end of the roll to tear the wrapper from 
end-to-end of the roll. 
The method of claim 1, said step of removing 
the cut wrapper including directing a stream of air past the 

cut end of the wrapper in a direction from the wrapper 
connection to the roll past the cut end of the wrapper to 

guide the wrapper to a removing location and simultaneously 
rotating the wrapped roll to free the wrapper from the roll 

while gathering the cut wrapper. 
The method of claim 1, said roll being a roll 
of paper, including the step of sensing the presence of paper 

in the roll attached to the cut wrapper and cutting the roll 
paper from the cut wrapper at a location spaced from the 

wrapper predetermined cutting path. 
The method of claim 1, said step of removing 
the cut wrapper including directing air past the cut end of 

the wrapper including directing air past the cut end of the 
wrapper to guide the wrapper to a removing location and 

simultaneously rotating the roll to free the wrapper from the 
roll while gathering the cut wrapper, and said step of 

gathering the cut wrapper including entwining the wrapper on 
prongs and pulling the entwined wrapper off the prongs when 

the entire wrapper has been gathered by pinching the entwined 
wrapper between opposed counter rotating rollers. 
The method of claim 1, including sensing the 
location of the outer end of the wrapper and inserting the 

blade under the bubble at a fixed circumferentially spaced 
distance from the sensed outer end of the wrapper. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the location of 
the outer edge of the wrapper is sensed by moving the outer 

edge past a hook switch actuator, and catching the edge 
against the actuator to signal the location of the outer edge 

at the actuator. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the outer edge of 
the wrapper protrudes radially outwardly of the roll and 

wherein the location of the outer edge of the wrapper is 
sensed by moving the outer edge past a light source, the light 

source directed at a right angle to the edge to cast a shadow 
beyond the edge as the edge passes the light source, and 

detecting the shadow out by the edge to signal the location of 
the outer edge. 
The method of claim 6, further including 
rotating the roll to move the cut end of the wrapper along 

with the roll, and engaging the cut end with a brush rotating 
in a direction opposite to the rotational direction of the 

roll to lift the cut end further off the roll. 
The method of claim 12, including directing a 
second stream of air at the cut edge in a direction opposite 

the rotational direction of the roll to also lift the cut end 
off the roll. 
The method of claim 1, said step of removing 
the cut wrapper including: 

   rotating the roll to move the cut end of the wrapper 

along with the roll, and engaging the cut end with a brush 
rotating in a direction opposite to the rotational direction 

of the roll to lift the cut end further off the roll; and
 

   including directing a second stream of air at the 
cut edge in a direction opposite the rotational direction of 

the roll to also lift the cut end off the roll. 
The method of claim 14, said step of removing 
the cut wrapper including entwining the cut wrapper into a 

coil, removing the coil by pulling the coil axially of the 
length of the coil, and flattening the coil. 
Apparatus for cutting and removing a wrapper 
from a cylindrical roll having opposite ends having a wrapper 

covering substantially the entire surface of the circumference 
of the roll with at least one outer overlapping wrap having an 

outer surface comprising: 
   means for rotating a wrapped roll about its 

longitudinal axis; 
   blade means for cutting through the wrapper, the 

blade means being located along a cutting path; 
   means for pressing at two spaced locations on either 

side of the cutting path against the outer surface of the 
outer overlapping wrap both radially inwardly of the roll and 

tangentially of the roll, and toward each other to pinch the 
wrap radially outwardly to form an exposed bubble radially 

outwardly of the pressing means and having an exposed crown; 
   means for moving the blade means along the length of 

the bubble to cut the wrapper by engaging the bubble with the 
blade means; and 

   means for removing the cut wrapper. 
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said 
pressing means extend the full length of the roll to form a 

single bubble along the full length of the roll. 
The apparatus of claim 16, said blade means 
having a single stationary blade with a sloped cutting edge 

facing radially outwardly and toward an end of the roll, said 
means for moving the blade including moving the edge of the 

 
blade under the crown of the bubble to apply a radially 

outwardly directed cutting force to the bubble. 
The apparatus of claim 16, including means for 
sensing the outer end of the wrapper on the roll and means for 

locating the blade means a predetermined distance along the 
circumference of the roll from the sensed outer end of the 

wrapper. 
The apparatus of claim 19, said means for 
sensing the outer edge including hook means for engaging the 

outer edge and signalling the location of the outer edge. 
The apparatus of claim 16, said roll being a 
roll of paper, including means for sensing the presence of the 

paper from the roll attached to the cut wrapper as the wrapper 
is being removed, and means for separating the paper from the 

cut wrapper. 
The apparatus of claim 16, said means for 
removing the cut wrapper including wrapper gathering means and 

means for directing air along the cut wrapper for lifting and 
guiding the wrapper to the wrapper gathering means. 
The apparatus of claim 16, said means for 
locating the outer end of the wrapper including a light source 

directed to strike the outer end of the wrapper and sensing 
means for detecting a shadow caused from the light striking 

the outer end of the wrapper where it joins the next inner 
wrap. 
The apparatus of claim 16, said means for 
removing the cut wrapper including gathering means for 

entwining the wrapper into a coil and roller means for 
engaging the coil, pulling the coil off the entwining means, 

and flattening the coil for disposal. 
The apparatus of claim 16, said means for 
pressing the wrap to form a bubble including urethane pads 

having a 45 durometer (Shore A). 
The apparatus of claim 16, said means for 
pressing the wrap to form a bubble including pads, and means 

for pivoting the pads along a pivot radius, into engagement 
with the wrap, said pads each having a wrap engaging surface 

curved to the radius of the pivot radius. 
The apparatus of claim 25, said means for 
pressing the wrap to form a bubble including pads, and means 

for pivoting the pads long a pivot radius, into engagement 
with the wrap, said pads each having a wrap engaging surface 

curved to the radius of the pivot radius. 
Apparatus for gathering a cut wrapper from a 
roll, at least two spaced parallel prongs, means for rotating 

said prongs for gathering an end of a cut wrapper and coiling 
the wrapper into a coil, collecting rollers disposed on 

opposite sides of said coil, means for moving said collecting 
rollers against the coil and rotating said rollers to pull the 

coil off the prongs. 
The apparatus of claim 28, at least one of said 
collecting rollers having protruding points for penetrating 

the coil to assist in pulling the coil off of the prongs. 
The apparatus of claim 29, including a set of 
pinching rollers, said collecting rollers being between the 

prongs and the pinching rollers and moving the coil into the 
pinching rollers, and means for rotating the pinching rollers 

and moving them toward each other to flatten the entire length 
of the coil for convenient disposal. 
The apparatus of claim 28, including a set of 
pinching rollers, said collecting rollers being between the 

 
prongs and the pinching rollers and moving the coil into the 

pinching rollers, and means for rotating the pinching rollers 
and moving them toward each other to flatten the entire length 

of the coil for convenient disposal. 
Apparatus for cutting and removing a wrapper 
from a cylindrical roll having a wrapper with at least one 

overlapping wrap around the circumference of the roll, 
comprising: 

   roll support rollers for rotating a wrapped roll 
about its longitudinal axis; 

   a single stationary blade with a narrow point and an 
outwardly sloping cutting edge; 

   a blade driver bar moving the blade with the point 
forward along the length of the roll along a cutting path; 

   a pair of urethane pads spaced along either side of 
the cutting path along the full length of the roll; 

   pivot arms pivotally mounting the pads; 
   pressing means for pushing the pads against the 

overlapping wrap and pivoting the arms toward one another to 
form a bubble having a crown spaced radially outwardly of the 

pads; 
   said pads having wrap engaging surfaces curved to 

the radius of pivoting of the pivot arms for engaging the wrap 
regardless of the diameter of the roll for firm frictional 

contact with the wrap; and 
   the blade driver moving the blade through the crown 

of the bubble and spaced from the remainder of the roll. 
Apparatus for cutting and removing a wrapper 
from a roll of printing paper with the wrapper having an inner 

end attached to the printing paper, comprising: 
   means for moving a cutter along and beneath the 

wrapper to form a cut wrapper; 
   means for removing the cut wrapper from the roll; 

   means for detecting the presence of printing paper 
attached to the inner end of the cut wrapper; and

 
   means for separating the printing paper from the cut 

wrapper. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
