<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637168</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control device and control method for image input apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N718	H04N718	H04N715	H04N5232	H04N5232	H04N715	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control device for an image input apparatus 
which is equipped with an optical system having a 

magnification varying lens, includes a monitor for 
displaying input images, an input device which enables an 

arbitrary position on a display screen of the monitor to 
be designated, a calculation device for calculating the 

distance between a predetermined position on the display 
screen and the arbitrary position on the basis of zooming 

information of the optical system, and a controller for 
controlling the image input apparatus in accordance with 

the calculation results obtained by the calculation 
device. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAHARA HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAHARA, HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a control device for
an image input apparatus and, more specifically, to a
control device which is suitable for remotely operating a
camera as in the case of a video conference system.With the improvement of computers in terms of
image processing capability, there have been proposed
various techniques in which camera operations, such as
zooming, panning and tilting, are performed by operating a
computer while the photographic image is being displayed
on a monitor screen of the computer. In particular, in a
video conference system, it is desirable that the
orientation (pan, tilt), magnification, etc., of the
camera at the other end of the communications line be
remotely controllable. For that purpose, there has been
proposed in GB-A-2 215 568, for example, a system in which camera operation
factors, which are to be controlled by using a mouse or
the like, are displayed on a part of the monitor screen.However, in the above system, it is rather
difficult to perform fine adjustment. Moreover, it is by
no means easy to determine which factor is to be
controlled, and to what degree, so that the operator has
to depend on trial-and-error methods. When a camera is to
be remotely controlled as in the case of a video
conference system, the time lag involved in transmitting 
the control signal must also be taken into account. In
addition, the image is subjected to high-efficiency coding
before being transmitted. Thus, the image quality is
generally rather poor when the image information changes
fast as in the case of panning, thereby making the camera
operation still more difficult. In other words, a fine
adjustment is impossible. Moreover, document US-A-4 720 805 discloses a computerized
control system for the pan and tilt functions of a motorized
camera head, wherein a video camera is mounted on the camera
head which is controllably movable in accordance with control
signals for performing a remote control of the camera.
Specifically, the picture of an object taken by the camera is
evaluated and displayed on a specific display screen, either in
the form of a regular TV monitor or in the form of a digitizing
tablet. The user of the remotely controlled camera system
monitors the object image displayed on the respective display
means and initiates a control sequence for repositioning the
camera by touching the screen of the monitor with his finger or
the digitizing tablet with an electronic stylus to determine an
arbitrary position on the display means. The camera system
follows the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of controlling by a control device the orientation of an image
input apparatus equipped with an optical system having a

variable magnification lens,

   said method comprising the steps of:

(a) displaying input images on a display means,
(b) designating by an input means an arbitrary position
on a display screen of said display means, and
(c) calculating using a calculating means a distance between
a predetermined position and said designated arbitrary position

on the display screen,

   
characterized by the steps of
(d) converting by said calculating means said calculated
distance into an actual amount of movement on the basis of

magnification information from said variable magnification lens, and
(e) controlling the orientation of said image input
apparatus by operating a panhead thereof on the basis of the

actual amount of movement.
Method according to claim 1, characterized by the step
of causing the optical axis of said optical system to move in

such a way that said arbitrary position on said display screen
comes to coincide with said predetermined position.
Method according to claim 2, characterized in that
said predetermined position on said display screen is the

center of said display screen.
Method according to claim 3, characterized by the step
of causing said variable magnification lens to move in the

direction of an optical axis of said optical system. 
Method according to claim 2, characterized by the step
of designating by said input means a plurality of arbitrary

positions.
Method according to claim 5, characterized by the step
of calculating the distance between a middle position of said

plurality of arbitrary positions and said predetermined
position.
Method according to claim 6, characterized by the step
of causing the optical axis of said optical system to move in

such a way that said middle position of said plurality of
arbitrary positions on said display screen comes to coincide

with said predetermined position.
Method according to claim 3, characterized by the
steps of


calculating by said calculating means the distance
between the center of said display screen and said arbitrary

position, and
causing by said control means the orientation of said image input apparatus to change such that a displayed image moves in
such a way that said arbitrary position on said display screen

comes to coincide with the center of said display screen.
Method according to claim 1, characterized by the step
of transferring a movement command from said control device to

said image input apparatus via a communications interface (40) for providing control of said
image input apparatus.
A control device for controlling the orientation of an image input apparatus which
is equipped with an optical system (12) having a variable magnification

lens (12a), said control device comprising:

(a) display means (50) for displaying input images, 
(b) input means (42) which enables an arbitrary position
on a display screen of said display means (50) to be

designated,
(c) calculation means (32) for calculating the distance
between a predetermined position on said display screen and

said designated arbitrary position on said display screen, and
(d) a
panhead (23) for varying the orientation of said image input

apparatus,

   
characterized in that
(e) said calculation means (32) converts said calculated
distance into an actual amount of movement on the basis of

magnification information from said variable magnification lens
(12a), and
(f) a control means (28) is provided for controlling the
orientation of said image input apparatus via said panhead on the basis of the

actual amount of movement.
A control device according to claim 10, characterized
in that said control means (28) causes the optical axis of said

optical system (12) to move in such a way that said designated
arbitrary position on said displays screen comes to coincide

with said predetermined position.
A control device according to claim 11, characterized
in that said predetermined position on said display screen is

the center of said display screen.
A control device according to claim 10, characterized
by further comprising a zoom means (12a, 14) for zooming input

images, wherein said zoom means (12a, 14) causes said
magnification varying lens (12a) to move in the direction of an

optical axis of said optical system (12). 
A control device according to claim 10, characterized
in that said input means (42) enables a plurality of arbitrary

positions to be designated.
A control device according to claim 14, characterized
in that said calculation means (32) calculates the distance

between a middle position of said plurality of designated
arbitrary positions and said predetermined position.
A control device according to claim 15, characterized
in that said control means (28) causes the optical axis of said

optical system (12) to move in such a way that said middle
position of said plurality of designated arbitrary positions on

said display screen comes to coincide with said predetermined
position.
A control device according to claim 10, characterized
in that said calculation means (32) calculates the distance

between the center of said display screen and said designated
arbitrary position, and said control means (28) causes the orientation of said image input apparatus to change such that a

displayed image moves in such a way that said designated
arbitrary position on said display screen comes to coincide

with the center of said display screen.
A control device according to claim 17, characterized

in that said calculation means (32) calculates said distance in
accordance with an angle of view of said optical system (12).
A control device according to claim 17, characterized
in that said control means (28) is adapted for transmitting a

movement command from said control device to the image input
apparatus via a communications interface (40).
A control device according to claim 10, characterized
in that said input means (42) includes a mouse.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
