<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE DIMENSIONAL OPTICAL VIEWING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2722	G02B2722	G02B2726	H04N1300	H04N1300	H04N1304	H04N1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	H04N13	H04N13	H04N13	H04N13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical viewing system produces a simulated three dimensional image (122) having one or more foreground layers on a substantially transparent field, and one or more background features projected to appear behind the foreground layer(s). The device can utilize two video monitors (12, 14) or one monitor (100) wherein the foreground and background are presented in distinct adjacent areas (112, 114). A full silvered mirror (118) can reflect the background to the observer (130) through a half silvered mirror (116) which transmits the background and reflects the foreground, the foreground appearing to the observer (130) as closer than the background. A display surface (110) can be oriented horizontally and the foreground and background layers projected in horizontally divided areas (126, 128) of the display surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASS JOHN S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASS ROBERT E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASS JOHN S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASS ROBERT E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASS JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASS ROBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASS JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASS ROBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THREE DIMENSIONAL OPTICAL VIEWING SYSTEM Background of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to an optical viewing syste that produces a simulated three dimensional image which can b viewed by individuals.2. Prior ArtHumans have binocular vision for perceiving three dimensiona scenes, that is, scenes having depth as well as height and width. A single viewing apparatus such as a single human eye, can perceiv scenes only two dimensionally. The perception of depth in a thre dimensional space is due to the difference in the angle or relativ position of features of the scene at different distances from th viewer, in views taken from two spaced points of view, also know as parallax.It is known to simulate a three dimensional image using dua two dimensional media. Two images of the same scene are prepared, each being a two-dimensional view of the three dimensional scene, but the two being taken from laterally spaced positions. Whe viewing one image with one eye and the other image with the othe eye, the viewer perceives the image to have depth, in the sam manner that the user's eyes perceive depth in actual thre dimensional scenes.An individual can view such a specially processed o configured dual two dimensional image through special eyeglasses. For example, the dual images can be superimposed on one two dimensional viewing area and separated using light polarization. One of the dual two-dimensional images is presented in light polarized at one angle, and the other is presented in light polarized 90° out of phase with the first. The observer views the superimposed images through eyeglasses which have lenses polarized in a complementary manner to separate the dual images such that one is presented to each eye. Each lens transmits one form of polarized light and inhibits passage of the other form of polarized light. The eyes of the viewer essentially receive images of the three dimensional scene from different perspectives, and the brain 

 interprets the dual two dimensional images as one scene having depth.Various optical systems for producing three dimensional images in this manner are known, such as systems using lenticular lenses and films, and other stereoscopic systems which include lenses or prisms for transmitting the two images separately, one to each eye. Normally, stereoscopic scenes are static. However, moving pictures can also be accomplished. The two images can be projected from a single two dimensional projection, and separated by use of complementary colors,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We claim:
1. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three dimensional image of a scene having foreground features at a relatively closer apparent distance from an observer superimpose on background features at a relatively greater apparent distance from the observer, the system comprising: means for producing at least two images, each of the two images including a presentation of features substantially at predetermined distance from the observer and the predetermined distances for the two images being unequal; optical processing means operable to present said at least two images over one another such that the foreground features are superimposed on the background features as presented to the observer, and wherein the at least two images are presented at different apparent distances from the observer.
2. The optical viewing system according to claim 1, wherein the optical processing means comprises at least one half silvered mirror inclined at an angle over a display screen representing features at said closer apparent distance, whereby an observer viewing through the half silvered mirror sees an image of the features at the closer apparent distance reflected by the half silvered mirror, disposed over an image transmitted through the half silvered mirror.
3. The optical viewing system according to claim 1, wherein the optical processing means comprises a mirror disposed to reflect toward the observer an image representing said background features, and further comprising at least partly transparent means for projecting the foreground features between the mirror and the observer.
4. The optical viewing system according to claim 3, wherein the at least partly transparent means includes a half silvered mirror and wherein the full mirror and the half silvered mirror are arranged to reflect adjacent coplanar display screen areas. 


 5. The optical viewing system according to claim 4, wherein the adjacent coplanar display screen areas are distinct areas of a one display screen simultaneously displaying the foreground image and the background image side by side, and the half silvered mirror and the full mirror are respectively disposed over said foreground image and said background image, whereby upon viewing through the half silvered mirror and the full mirror said foreground image is superimposed on the background image at a closer apparent distance to an observer.
6. The optical viewing system according to claim 1, wherein said at least two images are each two-dimensional images.
7. The optical viewing system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said at least two images is a three-dimensional holographic image.
8. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three dimensional image of a scene having foreground features at a relatively closer apparent distance from an observer superimposed on background features at a relatively greater apparent distance from the observer, the system comprising: means for producing at least two two-dimensional images adjacent one another on distinct areas of a two-dimensional display, each of the two two-dimensional images including a presentation of features substantially at a predetermined distance from the observer in the scene and the predetermined distance for respective said two-dimensional images being unequal; optical processing means operable to present said at least two two-dimensional images over one another such that the foreground features are superimposed on the background features as presented to the observer, and wherein the at least two two-dimensional images are presented at different apparent distances from the observer.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 9. The optical viewing system according to claim 8, wherein the optical processing means comprises at least one half silvered mirror inclined at an angle over one of said distinct areas of the display screen representing features at said closer apparent distance, whereby an observer viewing through the half silvered mirror sees an image of the features at the closer apparent distance reflected by the half silvered mirror, disposed over an image transmitted through the half silvered mirror.
10. The optical viewing system according to claim 8, wherein the optical processing means comprises a mirror inclined at an angle over the display screen over one of said distinct areas of the display screen representing said background features, and further comprising at least partly transparent means for projecting the foreground features between the mirror and the observer.
11. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three dimensional image, comprising: first means for generating and displaying an image via a first display means; second means for generating and displaying an image on a second display means, the second display means being a substantially transparent display means, whereby an observer can view through unoccupied areas of the second display means; wherein each of said display means is located at different, predetermined locations along an optical viewing path and wherein the image displayed by said first means for generating and displaying is projected through said second means for generating and displaying.
12. The optical viewing system according to claim 11, wherein said first means for generating and displaying comprises a video monitor.
13. The optical viewing system according to claim 9, further comprising a multiple source audio system, said multiple audio 


 sources being spaced apart and arranged to playback audio signals in coordination with sequential two dimensional images produced by said first and second means for generating and displaying.
14. The optical viewing system according to claim 11, wherein said first means for generating and displaying includes an image projector and said second means for generating and displaying includes a controllable pixel display spaced therefrom, said controllable pixel display being substantially transparent such that the image produced by the controllable pixel display is overlaid upon the image produced by said image projector.
15. The optical viewing system according to claim 14, wherein the controllable pixel display comprises a liquid crystal panel having a field of pixel elements which are controllably rendered opaque.
16. The optical viewing system according to claim 14, wherein the controllable pixel display comprises a positive pixel display panel having a field of pixel elements which are controllably illuminated.
17. The optical viewing system according to claim 14, wherein the image produced by the image projector is directed by a further means for generating and displaying through said controllable pixel display.
18. A recording system operable to produce a plurality of images for simulating a three dimensional scene, comprising: at least two image recorders, each being operable to record a respective image signal, each said recorder being coupled to an output of a corresponding image sensing apparatus; optical means for separating images at different depths of a three dimensional scene, for presentation of the images exclusively to one of the image sensing apparatus, whereby the images at said
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


different depths can be projected over one another to simulate the three dimensional scene.
19. The recording system according to claim 18, wherein the optical means for separating the images comprises at least two polarizing filters aligned out of phase, the at least two polarizing filters being disposed between at least one of the images and a respective one of the image recorders, for excluding said at least one of the images from said respective one of the image recorders.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 23 April 1993 (23.04.93); original claims 1,5,7,8,11-14,17,18 amended; original claims 2-4 cancelled; new claims 20-35 added; remaining claims unchanged (11 pages)]
1. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three dimensional image of a scene having foreground features at a relatively closer apparent distance from an observer superimposed on background features at a relatively greater apparent distance from the observer, the system comprising: means for producing at least two images, each of the two images including a presentation of features substantially at a predetermined distance from the observer and the predetermined distances for the two images being unequal; optical processing means operable to present said at least two images over one another such that the foreground features are superimposed on the background features as presented to the observer, and wherein the at least two images are presented at different apparent distances from the observer; said optical processing means comprising a mirror disposed to reflect toward the observer an image representing said background features, and further comprising at least partly transparent means for projecting the foreground features between the mirror and the observer; wherein the at least partly transparent means includes a half silvered mirror and wherein the full mirror and the half silvered mirror are arranged to reflect adjacent coplanar display screen areas.
2. [Canceled]
3. [Canceled] 



 4. [Canceled]
5. The optical viewing system according to Claim 1, wherein the adjacent coplanar display screen areas are distinct areas of one display screen simultaneously displaying the foreground image and the background image side by side, and the half silvered mirror and the full mirror are respectively disposed over said foreground image and said background image, whereby upon viewing through the half silvered mirror and the full mirror said foreground image is superimposed on the background image at a closer apparent distance to an observer.
6. The optical viewing system according to Claim 1, wherein said at least two images are each two-dimensional images.
7. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three dimensional image of a scene having foreground features at a relatively closer apparent distance from an observer superimposed on background features at a relatively greater apparent distance from the observer, the system comprising: means for producing at least two images each of the two images including a presentation of features substantially at a predetermined distance from the observer and the predetermined distances for the two images being unequal; optical processing means operable to present said at least two images over one another such that the foreground features are superimposed on the background features as presented to the observer; 


 wherein the at least two images are presented at different apparent distances from the observer and at least one of said at least two images is a three dimensional holographic image.
8. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three dimensional image of a scene having foreground features at a relatively closer apparent distance from an observer superimposed on background features at a relatively greater apparent distance from the observer, the system comprising: means for producing at least two two-dimensional images adjacent to one another on distinct areas of a single two- dimensional display, each of the two two-dimensional images including a presentation of features substantially at a predetermined distance from the observer in the scene and the respective predetermined distances for said two two-dimensional images being unequal; optical processing means operable to present said at least two two-dimensional images over one another such that the foreground features are superimposed on the background features as presented to the observer, and wherein the at least two two- dimensional images are presented at different apparent distances from the observer.
9. The optical viewing system according to claim 8, wherein the optical processing means comprises at least one half silvered mirror inclined at an angle over one of said distinct areas of the display screen representing features at said closer apparent distance, whereby an observer viewing through the half silvered 


 mirror sees an image of the features at the closer apparent distance reflected by the half silvered mirror, disposed over an image transmitted through the half silvered mirror.
10. The optical viewing system according to claim 8, wherein the optical processing means comprises a mirror inclined at an angle over the display screen over one of said distinct areas of the display screen representing said background features, and further comprising at least partly transparent means for projecting the foreground features between the mirror and the observer.
11. An optical viewing-system for producing a simulated three dimensional image, comprising: first means for displaying an image on a first electronic display device; at least one second means for displaying an image on at least one second electronic display device, said at least one second electronic display device being a substantially transparent display device, whereby an observer can view through transparent areas of the second electronic display device; wherein each of said display devices is located at different, predetermined locations along an optical viewing path and wherein the image displayed by said first electronic display device is projected through said at least one second electronic display device. 



 12. The optical viewing system according to claim 11, wherein said first electronic display device comprises a video monitor.
13. The optical viewing system according to claim 11, further comprising a multiple source audio system, said multiple audio sources being spaced apart and arranged to play back audio signals in coordination with sequential two dimensional images produced by said first and second electronic display devices.
14. The optical viewing systems according to claim 11, wherein said first electronic display device includes an image projector and said second electronic display device includes a controllable pixel display spaced therefrom, said controllable pixel display being substantially transparent such that the image produced by the controllable pixel display is overlaid upon the image produced by said image projector.
15. The optical viewing system according to claim 14, wherein the controllable pixel display comprises a liquid crystal panel having a field of pixel elements which are controllably rendered opaque.
16. The optical viewing system according to claim 14, wherein the controllable pixel display comprises a positive pixel display panel having a field of pixel elements which are controllably illuminated.
17. The optical viewing system according to claim 14, wherein the image produced by the image projector is directed by a further display device through said controllable pixel display. 


 18. A recording system operable to produce a plurality of images for simulating a three dimensional scene, comprising: at. least two image recorder channels, each being operable to record a respective image signal, each said recorder channel being coupled to an output of a corresponding image sensing apparatus; optical means for separating images at different depths of a three dimensional scene, for presentation of the images exclusively to one of the image sensing apparatus, whereby the images at said different depths can be projected over one another to simulate the three dimensional scene.
19. The recording system according to claim 18, wherein the optical means for separating the images comprises at least two polarizing filters aligned out of phase, the at least two polarizing filters being disposed between at least one of the images and a respective one of the image recorders, for excluding said at least one of the images from said respective one of the image recorders.
20. The recording system according to claim 18, wherein said at least two image recorder channels are synchronized with each other.
21. The recording system according to Claim 18 wherein the image signals from a first recorder channel are stored on a first side of an optical disk and the image signals from a second recorder channel are stored on a second side of said optical disk. 


 22. An optical viewing system according to claim 8, further comprising a multiple source audio system, said multiple audio sources being spaced apart and arranged to play back audio signals separately in coordination with the at least two two- dimensional images produced by said single two-dimensional display.
23. An optical viewing system for producing a simulated three-dimensional image comprising: at least one first means for displaying a two-dimensional image on a first electronic display device at a first predetermined distance from an observer; at least one second means for displaying a three-dimensional holographic image at a second predetermined distance from an observer, said holographic image superimposed over said two- dimensional image in a viewing path to create a three-dimensional composite image when viewed by an observer.
24. The optical viewing system of claim 23, wherein said first means for displaying a two-dimensional image is a video monitor and said first predetermined distance is greater than said second predetermined distance.
25. The optical viewing system of claim 23, wherein said first means for displaying a two-dimensional image includes a
* controllable pixel display being substantially transparent and the first predetermined distance is less than the second predetermined distance such that the image produced by the 


 controllable pixel display is overlaid upon the three-dimensional holographic image.
26. The optical viewing system of claim 23, wherein said first means for displaying a two-dimensional image includes a controllable pixel display being substantially transparent and the irst predetermined distance is greater than the second predetermined distance such that the image produced by the controllable pixel display is overlaid upon the three-dimensional holographic image.
27. The optical viewing system according to claim 11 wherein a pixel masking array is provided between said first electronic display device and said at least one second electronic display device, said pixel masking array provided to mask at least a portion of an image displayed on said first electronic display device, whereby darker colored images displayed on said first electronic display device are prevented from bleeding through and interfering with opaque but light-colored images displayed on said at least one second electronic display device.
28. The optical viewing system according to claim 11, wherein means are provided for comparing opaque but light-colored pixels displayed on said at least one second electronic display device with pixels displayed on said first electronic display device, and means are provided for selectively altering darker pixels displayed on said first electronic display device to minimize 


bleed-through of darker pixels on said first electronic display device into lighter pixels on said second electronic display device.
29. The optical viewing system according to claim 11, further comprising: at least two optical disk data storage devices for storing background and foreground images to be displayed; optical disk controllers for generating control signals to selectively retrieve foreground and background images from said at least two optical disk data storage devices; input control means for indicating foreground and background images to be displayed; and microprocessor means for interfacing between said input control means and said optical disk controllers; wherein said foreground images stored on one of said at least two optical disk data storage devices are provided to said at least one second electronic display device and background images stored on one of said at least two optical disk data storage devices are provided to said first electronic display device.
30. The optical viewing system according to claim 29, wherein background and foreground images to be displayed are randomly selected by said microprocessor.
31. The optical viewing system according to claim 29, wherein at least one of said at least two optical disk data storage devices provides an image to be displayed on at least one 


 of said first and said second electronic display devices when one of said optical disk data storage devices is being accessed.
32. The optical viewing system according to claim 8, further comprising: at least two optical disk data storage devices for storing background and foreground images to be displayed; optical disk controllers for generating control signals to selectively retrieve foreground and background images; input control means for designating foreground and background images to be displayed; and microprocessor means for interfacing between said input control means and said optical disk controllers; wherein said foreground images stored on one of said at least two optical disk data storage devices are provided to a first area on said two-dimensional display and background images stored on one of said at least two optical disk data storage devices are provided to a second area on said two-dimensional display.
33. The optical viewing system according to claim 32, wherein background and foreground images to be displayed are randomly selected by said microprocessor.
34. The optical viewing system according to claim 33, wherein at least one of said at least two optical disk data storage devices provides an image to be displayed on at least one of said first and second areas on said two-dimensional display 


when one of said optical disk data storage devices is being accessed.
35. A multiple source audio system for use in conjunction with an optical viewing system for producing a simulated three- dimensional image of a scene, the system comprising: multiple audio sources being spaced apart and arranged to play back audio signals in coordination with foreground features at a relatively closer apparent distance from an observer and background features at a relatively greater apparent distance from the observer. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
Claims 1 and 5-19, as amended, and new Claims 20-33 appear in this application. The limitations of canceled Claims 3 and 4 have now been incorporated into independent Claim 1. Claims 2-4 have been canceled. Claim 7 has been amended to place it in independent form. Applicants have also made certain minor ghcungøs to Claims 8, ll-14, 17 and IS.
The claims are believed to be patentably distinguishable ever the various references cited in the International Search Report of October 13, 1992. significantly, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,
&
91,305 to Fader, 3,515,454 to Paganelli, U.S. Patent No. 3-079,959 to Johnston and 4,190,856 to Ricks, do not disclose a three-dimensional optical viewing system cap-able of utilizing standard television broadcast and receiving equipment and standard television bandwidths for achieving a three-dimensional effect.
With regard to U.S. Patent Nos. 4,559,556 to WiUins and 4
>
T4Q,836 to craig, each of these references recite inventions 


which require the use of special eyewear. Applicants' invention »ιag ires no such eyewear..
Claim 7 is also distinguishable from the references cited by tϋe Examiner. Claim 7 relates to use of a hologram in « π^unction with a two-dimensional display to achieve an enhanced tø-pee-dimensional effect. None of the cited references disclose such a system. ciaim ll has been amended to more clearly indicate that the tirpt and second display means in the invention are electronic devices. Claim 11 has also been amended to indicate that their may be a plu ality of second electronic display devices for providing foreground or middle ground information. Claims 12-14 and 17 have been amended to be consistent with Claim 11.
In Claim 18, the language has been amended to indicate that at least two image recorder channels are provided.
New Claim 20 has been added to claim additional detail pertaining to an image recording system. New Claim 21 is directed to a multiple source audio system in combination with the invention as recited in independent Claim 8. Claim 21 also rβώiteβ further detail concerning a recording format system.
NSw Claim 22 recites the audio system of the invention in combination with the split screen embodiment of Claim 8.
New Claims 23-25 are further recitations of the invention relating to claim 7 involving the use of two-dimensional video display screens with three-dimensional holographic images. Claim 26 has been amended in a similar manner. 


 New Claims 27 and 28 recite two alternative means for preventing bleed-through
.
of darker background images through lighter foreground images.
Claims 29-31 are directed to a system in accordance with Claim il wherein background and foreground images may be stored e optical disks and can be displayed in a manner selected by a user. Claims 32-34 parallel Claims 29-31, but depend from Claim 8;rather than Claim 11.
New Claim 35 recites an audio system according to the presen invention for use with three dimensional viewing systems of all kinds.
Applicants herewith submit retyped pages 24-34 which include the amended Claims 1 and 5-19, and new claims 21-35. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
