<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632959</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coating drum for cooked pasta
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21C900	A23P108	A23G326	A21C1500	A21C904	A21C1500	A23L100	A23L116	A23L100	A23G302	A23P108	A23L116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21C	A23P	A23G	A21C	A21C	A21C	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23G	A23P	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21C9	A23P1	A23G3	A21C15	A21C9	A21C15	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23G3	A23P1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A double walled drum (10) of concentric cylinders (12,14) having end 
seals 

and insulation (16) between the cylinders (12,14). The drum (10) is open 
at both 

ends and rotates on its center longitudinal axis which is pitched 
from the horizontal with the entrance on the high side. Diameter 

restrictions at the entrance (26) and discharge ends (28) of the drum 
increase product residence time. Lifters (30,34) at the entrance (26) 

end 
discharge (28) end push flexible strandular food subject to microbial 

spoilage such as strands of cooked pasta away from the entrance and 
out the discharge. Pins (32) are mounted perpendicular to the inner 

cylinder wall and point to the central axis of the drum. Liquids 
such as acid and oil are sprayed onto the food in the drum from a 

spray bar (42) or spray manifold. The pins (32) continuously lift and 
separate the strands of food while it moves through the drum (10), and 

mix the liquid and product, resulting in a uniform coating. 
This process and apparatus produce a uniformly coated flexible 
strandular food such as spaghetti with minimal temperature loss. 

The food is free flowing and not tangled at the discharge of the 
drum (28). Surges from upstream equipment are suppressed, producing a 

uniform flow to downstream equipment. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BORDEN FOODS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BORDEN FOODS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERRITT CARLETON GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORMAN CARL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERRITT, CARLETON GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORMAN, CARL M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a coating drum and associated
method for coating of flexible strand-like foods susceptible to
microbial spoilage such as that of strand-like cooked pasta or
fabricated protein products, e.g., spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, etc.
and particularly for such pasta products which are cooked and then
coated with an acid and oil before packaging in an airtight container
as part of a ready to eat meal having extended shelf life.Apparatus comprising a drum for the coating of food products
are known. US-A-3,959,498 describes an apparatus for use in
manufacturing a candy-coated cereal product. The apparatus
comprises a cylindrical drum open at both ends with one of the
openings being the entrance and the other being the discharge and
means for rotating the drum on its centre longitudinal axis. The
discharge opening of the drum has a tapered restricted diameter.
The cylindrical drum has lifters at the entrance and discharge for
pushing the product away from the entrance towards and out of the
discharge end.U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/991,454 relates to a
packaged fully cooked meal having an extended shelf life. Such meal
comprises a fully cooked starchy foodstuff and an edible acid that is
uniformly dispersed in said foodstuff.In the coating of cooked strand-like pasta in the above
described invention with the use of continuous apparatus, it was
found that the strands would ball up in the coater, the coating was
not uniform, and surges in the coater from the blancher would affect 
the acidity as well as the uniformity of the quality of product to be
packaged. Additionally, it was difficult to maintain a sufficiently high
temperature through the coater and downstream apparatus such as
that for transferring product to the packaging equipment.The inability to maintain the high temperature from the
blancher to the packaging equipment or to isolate the pasta from
contact with the atmosphere required that the pasta be subjected to
pasteurisation, sterilisation or freezing for storage stability after being
packaged in an airtight container.Coating on a batch basis has shortcomings in addition to the
amount of time and labour involved. Thus, cooked pasta becomes
gummy if held more than about two minutes after draining. Also,
the temperature drop during batch coating is excessive.Continuous coating drums generally contain flights or baffles
to tumble or turn the product. This, however, causes balling up of
the cooked strand-like pasta and affects the uniformity of acid as
well as other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus comprising:

A. an elongated drum (10)
having an entrance (26) at one end and a discharge (28) at the other

end;
B. means (60,62) for rotating the drum about its
longitudinal axis;
C. the discharge end (28) having a reduced diameter;
D. lifters (30) positioned within the entrance (26) of the
drum for pushing goods into said drum; and
E. lifters (34) for pushing goods out of said drum at the
discha
rge end; characterised in that
the drum is thermally insulated and

there is provided a plurality of
pins (32) extending generally radially inward from the inner surface

of the drum for picking up and separating goods accumulated on the
lower portion of the drum and carrying the goods to a higher position

in the drum and permitting the goods to fall back toward the bottom
during rotation thereof while the goods move toward the discharge

end (28), said pins (32) being longitudinally intermediate the
entrance and discharge lifters (30, 34).
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the thermally
insulated drum (10) comprises a double walled cylindrical drum with

thermal insulation (16) provided between the walls (12, 14).
An apparatus according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
the pins (32) are mounted perpendicular to the inner cylinder wall

pointing to the central axis of the drum along the length of the drum
between the entrance and discharge lifters (30, 34). 
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3, including
a fluid spray means (42, 44 and 52, 54) within the drum.
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein means (42, 44)
are provided in the drum for spraying a first liquid adjacent the drum

entrance and means (52, 54) are provided for spraying a second
liquid adjacent the discharge end of the drum.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein
the drum entrance has a restricted opening (36).
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein
the drum cylinder (10) is divided into three longitudinal zones

wherein the first zone is at the entrance lifters (30), the third zone is
at the discharge lifters (34), and the second zone is between the first

and third and is longer than the sum of the length of both the first
and third zones and contains the pins (32) while being devoid of

lifters.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein
the drum is inclined from its longitudinal axis with the discharge

being at the lower end.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
the drum discharge is conical with a reduced diameter opening and

having lifters (34) within the conical portion for pushing material out
of the drum; the length along the drum axis between the entrance

lifters and the discharge lifters being greater than two thirds of the
total length of the drum. 
An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the distance
between the entrance and discharge lifters (30 and 34, respectively)

is at least three quarters of the total length of the drum and wherein
the pins (32) extend along the inside surface of the drum from

adjacent the entrance lifters to the discharge lifters; and the drum
has means associated therewith for tilting the drum by at least one

degree from the horizontal with the high end being at the entrance.
A method of treating flexible strand-like food susceptible to
microbial spoilage, which comprises:


A. placing said food in the entrance of an elongated
thermally insulated rotating drum open at its entrance and discharge

ends and wherein the diameter of the discharge end is restricted;
B. urging the food further into the drum by lifters within
the entrance;
C. lifting and separating the food with radially disposed
pins within the drum periphery;
D. contacting the food with an edible acid while the food
moves through the drum toward the discharge end and the pins

continue to separate and mix the acid and product resulting in a
uniform coating of said liquid on said food;
E. engaging the food with discharge lifters attached to the
drum for discharge from the drum; and
F. maintaining the food in the drum at a temperature of at
least 165°F (64°C).
A method according to claim 11, wherein the food is cooked
pasta, the edible acid is sprayed into the drum, and the drum is tilted

with the entrance being the higher end.
A method according to either claim 11 or claim 12, wherein a
coating of an edible oil is also applied to the food in the drum.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the edible oil is
applied to the food by spraying.
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein
the food in the drum is maintained at a temperature of at least 170°F

(77°C).
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein
the edible acid imparts a pH of from 3.5 to 4.6 to the food.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the edible acid
imparts a pH of from 4.0 to 4.6 to the food and wherein the

temperature is maintained at from 170°F to 212°F (77° - 100°C).
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein
food discharged from the drum is packaged in airtight containers and

the food is maintained at a temperature of at least 170°F (77°C)
from the time it enters the drum until it is placed in the containers. 
A method according to claim 18, wherein the entrance
diameter of the drum is reduced with an annular dam and the

accumulation of food in the drum between the dam and the
restricted discharge smoothes out surges in feed to the drum.
A method according to any one of claims 11 to 19, wherein
the food is cooked strand-like pasta having a strand length of from 5

to 12 (12.7 to 30.5cm) inches.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
