<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638318</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compositions for increasing the image contrast in diagnostic investigations of the digestive tract
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4922	G01R3328	A61K4922	G01R3328	A61K4900	A61K4900	A61K4918	A61K4726	A61K4906	A61K4726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	G01R	A61K	G01R	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K49	G01R33	A61K49	G01R33	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K47	A61K49	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Suspensions of echogenic particles in aqueous bioadhesive carriers 
effectively improve imaging by echography of the digestive tract. Affinity of 

the compositions for the gastric mucosa can be adapted to the needs by 
appropriately selecting the carrier in function to its inherent bioadhesive 

capacity. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns innocuous ingestible or enterally
administrable compositions which can be used as contrast enhancer media
in ultrasonic echography imaging of the gastro-intestinal tract of animal
and human patients.It is well known that echography belongs to investigative diagnosis
techniques which enable the direct electronic visualization of internal
organs in living beings and is therefore powerful help and guide in
prognosis, medical treatment and surgery. These techniques can often
advantageously supplement or replace X-ray tomography as well as the use
of radio-active tracer compounds which may have obvious undesirable
side-effects.It is also well known that contrast echography relies on the
administration to patients of dispersions or suspensions of echogenically
responsive particles, e.g. microbodies containig air or a gas in a medium,
and thereafter, applying ultrasonic waves which become reflected by said
microbodies to provide desired echographic signals. In this connection, it
has been recognized that air or gas-filled microspheres, e.g. microbubbles or
microballoons, suspended in a liquid are exceptionally efficient ultrasound
reflectors for echography. In this disclosure the term "microbubble"
specifically designates air or gas globules in suspension in a liquid which
generally results from the introduction therein of air or a gas in divided
form, the liquid preferably also containing surfactants or tensides to control
the surface properties and the stability of the bubbles. The term of
"microcapsule" or "microballoon" designates preferably air or gas bodies
with a material boundary envelope, e.g. a polymer membrane wall. Both
microbubbles and microballoons are useful as ultrasonic contrast agents. 
For instance injecting into the blood-stream of living bodies suspensions of
gas microbubbles or microballoons (in the range of 0.5 to 10 µm) in a carrier
liquid will strongly reinforce ultrasonic echography imaging, thus aiding in
the visualization of internal organs. Imaging of vessels and internal organs
can strongly help in medical diagnosis, for instance for the detection of
cardiovascular and other diseases.For ultrasonic imaging of the digestive tract, the particulate contrast
agents in the form of gas-filled microspheres or particles are usually
administered orally or rectally, preferably with a carrier.In Biomaterials 11 (1990), 713-717, M.A. Wheatley et al. have reported
the preparation of polymer-coated microspheres by ionotropic gelation of
alginate. The reference
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Administrable composition for enhancing contrast in the
ultrasound imaging of the digestive tract of patients,

comprising a physiologically acceptable carrier phase in
admixture with or chemically bonded to contrast enhancing

ultrasonically responsive particles, characterized in that said
carrier phase comprises water-insoluble, water-swellable, gel-forming

bioadhesive luminal coating materials, and optionally
water-soluble non-bioadhesive polymers, said composition having

controllable transit time through the GI-tract and adhesion to
selected portions thereof, thus forming luminal linings or

coatings having specific imaging contrast response enabling
improved visualization of the oeso-gastro-duodenal tract.
The composition of claim 1, in which the carrier phase
comprises bioadhesive pectins or carbohydrates substituted with

groups selected from one or more of carboxy, sulfate, sulfonate,

phosphate and phosphonate, these groups being either free or in
the form of salts with alkali or alkaline-earth metals.
The composition of claim 1, wherein the carrier phase
comprises polymers and copolymers of acrylic acid cross-linked

with polyfunctional allyl acrylates or polyfunctional allyl
ethers of glycols and sugars
The composition of claim 1, in which the carrier phase
comprises luminal coating compounds selected from magnesium

alginate, pectin, hydroxylated polysaccharides, attapulgite and
montmorillonite clays.
The composition of claim 1, in which the contrast
enhancing particles are dispersed in an aqueous solution of one

or more of said water-soluble non-bioadhesive polymers, the
amount of said particles relative to said water-soluble polymer,

measured dry, not exceeding 5%.
The composition of claim 5, in which the water-soluble
polymer is selected from dextran, polyvinyl-pyrrolidone (PVP), 

carboxymethyl-cellulose (CMC), hydroxypropyl-cellulose and other
water-soluble non-metabolizable polymers.
The composition of claim 1, in which the ultrasound
responsive particles are air- or gas-filled microspheres bounded

by a polymer envelope.
The composition of claim 7, in which the microsphere
envelope is of poly-L-lactic acid.
The composition of claim 1, in which the particles are
chemically bonded to the bioadhesive carrier material by means

of reactive functions of the carrier and of the particles.
The composition of claim 1, in which the particles are
chemically bonded to the bioadhesive carrier material by means

of a chemical coupler having at least two reactive functions,
one of which binds to the particles and another binds to the

carrier
The composition of claim 10, in which the particles are
magnetic and one reactive function of the coupler is a

trialkoxysilane function which binds to the particles with
formation of a silicon-containing bond.
The composition of claim 10, in which the carrier is a
polymer or copolymer of acrylic acid and, optionally other

olefinic monomers, and in which said another function of the
coupler comprises an ethylenically unsaturated double bond

copolymerized with said polymer or copolymer of acrylic acid.
A method for manufacturing ingestible compositions to
be used as contrast enhancing agents in the ultrasonic imaging

of the digestive tract of humans and animals, said compositions
comprising echogenically responsive particles bound to a carrier

phase consisting of a water-insoluble mineral or organic
substrate, characterized in selecting a coupler with at least

two reactive functions, grafting the coupler to the particles
through one of said reactive functions and binding said grafted 

particles to said carrier phase through another of said reactive
functions.
The method of claim 13, in which the organic substrate
is a polymer or copolymer of acrylic acid and, optionally, other

copolymerizable monomers, characterized in copolymerizing said
acrylic acid with said grafted particles, said other reactive

function of the coupler having a double bond becoming then
copolymerized with the acrylic acid.
The use of bioadhesive copolymers of acrylic acid and
polyfunctional allyl ethers as a carrier phase of echogenically

responsive particles in the ultrasound imaging of the GI-tract.
The use of bioadhesive copolymers of acrylic acid and
polyfunctional allyl ethers in the manufacture of echogenic

contrast agents for imaging the GI-tract.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
