<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648249</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
UV-ABSORBING POLYMER LATEX.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L3300	C08L3314	C09D532	C09D532	C09D13306	C09D13306	C09D13314	C09D13314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08L	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L33	C08L33	C09D5	C09D5	C09D133	C09D133	C09D133	C09D133	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Aqueous latices adapted to forming visible light transparent, coherent polymeric films, e.g. in laminates, as protective coatings or as adhesives, comprising colloidal particles of a UV-absorbing polymer less than 5 micrometers in diameter. Useful UV-absorbing polymer include homopolymers and copolymers of vinyl-functionalized monomer of benzotriazole or benzophenone and mixtures with plasticizer and/or coalescing agent. Plasticizer and coalescing agents are useful for providing polymer with reduced glass transition temperature to facilitate coalescence of polymer particles into coherent films. Useful additives for the latices of this invention include wetting agents, surfactants, and crosslinking agents, anti-oxidants and radical scavengers. The latices of this invention are particularly useful in providing clear, thin coatings on windows, tags, labels, flooring, tents, awnings, containers and other UV-susceptible substrates.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONSANTO CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONSANTO COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAZAVI HOMAUNE AZGHADI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAZAVI, HOMAUNE, AZGHADI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 UV-ABSORBING POLYMER LATEX Disclosed herein are aqueous latices of UV- absorbing polymer adapted to forming laminate coatings of visible light transparent, coherent polymeric film and methods of making and using such latices and laminates. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONJapanese Ko ai 57-45169 and 58-38269 disclose solvent polymerization of copolymers containing UV-absorbing monomer units useful as coating additives. Specifically disclosed copolymers comprise up to about 22 mole percent (about 30 weight percent) benzotriazole UV-absorbing monomer units an a non-UV-absorbing co onomer such as methyl ethacry- late, styrene or butyl acrylate.U.S. Patent 4,528,311 discloses optically clear UV-absorbing copolymers comprising up to 20 weight percent of 2-hydroxy-5-acrylyloxyphenyl-2H- benzotriazoles for UV-absorbing films that afford 85% absorption at 400 nanometers and 1 millimeter thickness.U.S. Patent 4,576,870 discloses coextruded laminates comprising UV-absorbing polymer coatings (10-100 microns thick) comprising up to 20 weight percent of 2-hydroxyphenylbenzotriazole monomers.U.S. Patents 4,785,063 and 4,892,915 disclose incorporation of 2-(2-hydroxy-5-acryloyl- oxyalkyl)-phenyl-2H-benzotriazoles UV-absorbing copolymerizable additives at low levels, e.g. at about 2 percent, in acrylate coatings which are cured by E- beam radiation.U.S. Patent 4,927,891 discloses acrylic coating resins with up to 20 weight percent hydrazide functionalized light stabilizers, e.g. hindered amine light stabilizers, 2-hydroxybenzophenones, 2-(2- hydroxyphenyl)-2H-benzotriazoles, aryl salicylates and oxalanilides. 

 EPO 0 282 294 discloses optically clear silicone polymers containing vinylsilylalkoxy arylben- zotriazole monomer units.U.S. Patents 3,745,010 and 3,761,272 disclose emulsion polymerized, UV-absorbing benzotria¬ zole acrylate copolymers useful in photographic appli¬ cations, e.g. to protect photographic film against UV radiation. Copolymers, e.g. of methylmethacrylate or butylacrylate and 2-70% benzotriazole-functionalized methacrylates, are useful at up to 40% by weight inUV-absorbing layers. For instance, glass coated with gelatin and emulsions of such UV-absorbing copolymers provided photographic filters having a maximum absorp¬ tion at 352 nm. U.S. Patents 4,612,358 and 4,652,656 disclose UV-absorbing copolymers of 20-60 percent benzotriazole-functionalized acrylamides useful for protective layers for UV sensitive plastics. Bulk polymerized copolymers comprised methyl methacrylate and 20 weight percent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An aqueous latex adapted to forming visible light transparent, coherent polymeric films less than 25 micrometers thick comprising colloidal particles of a UV-absorbing polymer dispersed in a substantially aqueous medium, wherein said particles are less than 5 micrometers in diameter, and wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of: (i) homopolymers of vinyl-functionalized monomer of benzotriazole or benzophenone,
(ii) copolymers of vinyl-functionalized monomer of benzotriazole or benzophenone and at least one other vinyl monomer,
(iii) mixtures of said homopolymers or copolymers and plasticizer therefor,
(iv) mixtures of said homopolymers or copolymers and coalescing agent therefor, and
(v) mixtures of said homopolymers or copolymers and plasticizer and coalescing agent therefor, wherein said coalescing agent comprises a volatile solvent for said polymer added in an amount to swell the polymer and thereby reduce the glass transition temperature of the polymer in the latex to less than 50 °C, and wherein said latex contains one or more of the following additives:
(a) a wetting agent in an amount sufficient to provide said latex with a surface tension of less than 45 dynes/cm
2
, wherein said wetting agent is selected from the group consisting of (i) volatile C
2
 to C
6
 alkyl alcohols, and (ii) non-volatile nonionic and anionic surfactant,
(b) a thickening agent in an amount sufficient to provide the latex with a viscosity greater than 40 centipoises when measured at 25 " C with a Brookfield No. 1 spindle at 5 rpm;
(c) a crosslinking agent for said polymer,
(d) an anti-oxidant and
(e) radical scavenger. 


 2. A latex according to claim 1 wherein said dispersed particles have a diameter less than 1 micrometer.
3. A latex according to claim 2 wherein said dispersed particles have a diameter between 0.05 and
0.5 micrometers.
4. A latex according to claim 1 wherein said wetting agent is an alkyl alcohol selected from n- propanol and n-butanol or a non-volatile surfactant selected from nonionic alkaryl polyether alcohol and anionic alkaryl polyether sulfonate and wherein said wetting agent is in an amount sufficient to provide said latex with a surface tension of less than 43 dynes/cm
2
. 5. A latex according to claim 4 wherein said wetting agent is in an amount sufficient to provide said latex with a surface tension of less than 41 dynes/cm
2
.
6. A latex according to claim 1 comprising less than 1 percent by weight of a thickening agent selected from the group consisting of polyacrylic acid and salts thereof, a methylcellulose and water soluble polyurethane and wherein said thickening agent is in an amount sufficient to provide said latex with a viscosity greater than 100 centipoises when measured at 25 °C.
7. A latex according to claim 6 wherein said thickening agent is in an amount sufficient to provide a viscosity greater than 200 centipoises when measured at 25 °C.
8. A latex according to claim 7 wherein said thickening agent is in an amount sufficient to provide a viscosity greater than 300 centipoises when measured at 25 °C. 9. A latex according to claim 1 comprising up to 20 percent by weight of a coalescing agent selected from the group consisting of diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether, 


tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether, diethylenene glycol monobutyl ether, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether, propylene glycol monobutyl ether and N-methyl- 2-pyrrolidone; and wherein the polymer in said emulsion has a glass transition temperature less than 30 °C.
10. A latex according to claim 1 wherein said plasticizer is selected from the group consisting of alkyl adipate esters, aryl adipate esters, alkyl aryl adipate esters, alkyl benzoate esters, aryl benzoate esters, alkyl aryl benzoate esters, alkyl phthalate esters, aryl phthalate esters, alkyl aryl phthalate esters, alkyl citrate esters, alkyl phosphate esters, aryl phosphate esters, alkyl aryl phosphate esters. 11. A latex according to claim 1 wherein said crosslinking agent is selected from the group consisting of ammonium zirconylcarbonate, calcium acetate, zinc oxide, unsaturated fatty acids, multifunctional epoxies, multifunctional isocyanates, methylated urea-formaldehyde resin, methylated melamine-formaldehyde resin alkyd resins.
12. A latex according to claim 1 wherein said copolymer comprises between 40 and 80 weight percent of an acrylate or methacrylate-functionalized monomer of benzotriazole or benzophenone.
13. A latex according to claim 12 wherein said other vinyl monomer is an acrylate monomer selected from methylmethacrylate, ethyl acrylate, ethyl methacrylate, butyl acrylate, butyl methacrylate, 2- ethylhexyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, decylmethacrylate, styrene, vinyl acetate and glycidyl methacrylate. 14. A latex according to claim 13 wherein said copolymer, when essentially devoid of coalescing agent, has a glass transition temperature in the range of -50 °C to 150 °C. 


 15. A latex according to claim 1 comprising sufficient wetting, thickening and coalescing agents to provide non-sagging wet films of said latex on a vertical sheet comprising polycarbonate, polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinylchloride, polystyrene, polymethylmethacrylate or ABS, that dry to coherent films of said polymer in a substantially uniform thickness less than 5 micrometers.
16. A laminate comprising a UV-sensitive substrate coated with an adherent, coherent, UV- resistant vinyl polymeric film comprising:
(i) 20 to 100 percent by weight UV-absorbing monomer units of vinyl-functionalized benzotriazole or vinyl-functionalized benzophenone and 0-80 weight percent of at least one other vinyl monomer, and
(ii) one or more additives selected from the group consisting of plasticizer, crosslinker, nonionic surfactant wetting agent, anionic surfactant wetting agent and thickening agent. 17. A laminate of claim 16 having an adhesive layer on the opposite side of said substrate from said
UV-resistant vinyl polymeric film .
18. A laminate of claim 16 having an adhesive layer on said UV-resistant vinyl polymeric film . 19. A laminate according to claim 16 wherein said UV-resistant vinyl polymeric film is adhesive. 20. A laminate according to claim 16 wherein said visually informative, UV-sensitive substrate is transparent. 21. A laminate according to claim 16 wherein said substrate is a polymeric textile or molded article.
22. A UV-blocking light-transmitting substrate comprising a crystalline, glass or plastic windowpane, container or film, wherein said substrate is coated with an adherent, coherent, UV-resistant vinyl polymeric film comprising: 


 (i) 20 to 100 percent by weight UV-absorbing monomer units of vinyl-functionalized benzotriazole or vinyl-functionalized benzophenone and 0-80 weight percent of at least one other vinyl monomer, and (ii) one or more additives selected from the group consisting of plasticizer, crosslinker, nonionic surfactant wetting agent, anionic surfactant wetting agent and thickening agent.
23. An ink, cosmetic or polymer resin formulation comprising dispersed latex of UV-resistant vinyl polymer comprising:
(i) 20 to 100 percent by weight UV-absorbing monomer units of vinyl-functionalized benzotriazole or vinyl-functionalized benzophenone and 0-80 weight percent of at least one other vinyl monomer, and
(ii) one or more additives selected from the group consisting of plasticizer, crosslinker, nonionic surfactant wetting agent, anionic surfactant wetting agent and thickening agent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
