<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621968</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROMOTIONAL GAME METHOD AND APPARATUS THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F504	A63F504	A63F1300	A63F1300	G06F1900	G06F1900	G07F700	G07F700	G07F712	G07F712	G07F1732	G07F1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	G06F	G06F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F5	A63F5	A63F13	A63F13	G06F19	G06F19	G07F7	G07F7	G07F7	G07F7	G07F17	G07F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A patron inserts a coded game card (32, 38) into a game machine (10) which reads the code and determines whether the game card has been played within a designated time period. If the game card has been played within such period, the game machine is not permitted to operate and a message will be generated. If the card has not been played within the time period, the game machine operates and randomly positions a number of product and/or service representations (17) with respect to one another. Prescribed combinations of the representations permit the patron to win a prize. Symbols (19), which may include symbols representing a business identity, may optionally be employed as wild cards in forming the prescribed combinations. In addition to bearing a unique game card code, the game card can also contain establishment codes which permit a game card to be played only at particular establishments. Other game cards can be specially coded to provide maintenance instructions to the game machine.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UC NWIN SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UC'NWIN SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNHAUT CHARLES I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN LEOPOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRINDELL ROBERT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNHAUT, CHARLES, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN, LEOPOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRINDELL, ROBERT, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION A PROMOTIONAL GAME METHOD AND APPARATUS THEREFORA portion of the disclosure of this paten document contains material which is subject to copyrigh protection. The copyright owner has no objection to th facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent documen or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Paten and Trademark Office patent file or records, bu otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The present application is a continuation-in part application of application Serial No. 07/821,988 filed on January 16, 1992. Technical FieldThe present invention relates to games and, more particularly, relates to games in which prizes ar awarded. Still more particularly, the present inventio relates to games in which the prizes awarded are the products displayed as a result of playing the game. Background Art It is customary for all types of businesses to promote their products and services by offering those products and services at more attractive prices. Such promotions typically involve the use of coupons, such as buy one-get one free coupons, coupons redeemable for products or services at reduced prices or for free, rebate coupons, etc. These promotional techniques are, at best, only marginally effective at promoting the goods and services of businesses and, accordingly, the extraordinary expense in conducting these promotions is hardly justified. Thus, in promotions employing coupons, the coupons are typically distributed through newspapers, magazines and mass mailings to households, and therefore mostly reach consumers who are totally disinterested in the particular product or service being promoted. Of those consumers that may potentially be interested in the particular product or service, many cannot be bothered or do not remember to clip the coupon from the newspaper or magazine and bring it to a store 

 for redemption. Other consumers may collect the coupons, but fail to redeem same prior to their expiration dates. These burdens placed on consumers result in low coupon redemption rates and, hence, inefficient and ineffective promotional programs by businesses.Other promotional techniques which are frequently employed by businesses are similarly inefficient in that they are not targeted to narrowly defined groups of potential customers. Accordingly, these promotional schemes, which include contests, sweepstakes, free product giveaways, etc., suffer from drawbacks similar to those encountered when using coupons. In order to overcome the poor results which have been obtained with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A promotional gaming method for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by the steps of providing a game machine which can be played for no consideration; establishing at least two separate series of images on said game machine, at least one of said series including representations of products, services or a combination of products and services; upon play by a patron, randomly moving said at least two series with respect to one another so that an image in one of said series will be aligned at a reference point with an image in another one of said series to form one of various combinations, and wherein select ones of said various combinations are winning combinations; and awarding a prize to said patron if one of said winning combinations is formed upon play by said patron, said prize being selected from the group consisting of said products or services whose representations are in said winning combination, a product or service which is related to said products or services whose representations are in said winning combination, and a product or service which is available from said establishment.
2. A method according to claim 1 further. characterized by the steps of distributing game cards to patrons, each one of said game cards being coded with a game card code to identify the game card and an establishment code to identify said establishment; and automatically reading said game cards when inserted into said game machine and initiating said random movement step responsive to said establishment code meeting predetermined criteria.
3. A method according to claim 1 further characterized by the steps of distributing game cards to patrons, each one of said game cards being coded with a game card code to identify the game card; and automatically reading said game cards when inserted into 


 said game machine and initiating said random movement step responsive to the reading of said game cards.
4. A method according to claims 2 or 3 characterized in that said game card code is read by said game machine upon insertion of a game card into said game machine and is stored within said game machine for a selectable period of time.
5. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that said game card code of an inserted game card is compared with all previously stored game card codes and the initiation of said random movement step is prevented if said game card code of said inserted game card is found to have been stored a selected number of times by said game machine within said selectable period of time.
6. A method according to claim 5 characterized in that when initiation of said random placement step is prevented, a display is made of each time said inserted game card was used within said selectable period of time.
7. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of establishing said at least two separate series of images so that said representations of at least one of said products or services are present in two of said series, and said winning combinations include a match formed by aligning at said reference point a representation of a product or service in one of said two series with a representation of said product or service in another of said two series.
8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of establishing said at least two separate series of images so that at least one of said series includes at least one wild card symbol consisting of a manufacturer symbol, and wherein 


 at least one of said winning combinations includes said at least one wild card symbol.
9. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of establishing at least three separate series of images, at least one of said series including at least one wild card symbol consisting of a manufacturer symbol, said representations of at least one of said products or services being present in at least two of said series, said winning combinations including a match formed by aligning at said reference point a representation of a product or service in one of said series with a representation of said product or service in another of said series, and at least one of said winning combinations including said at least one wild card symbol.
10. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of displaying a visual representation of a peripheral surface of each of at least two individual wheels in said game machine, each of said wheels containing one of said series of images, and wherein said step of randomly moving said at least two series includes the step of causing said individual wheels to rotate independently in said visual representation with respect to one another and then stop so that said various combinations of said images on said at least two wheels can be read out at said reference point.
11. A promotional gaming method for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by the steps of providing a game machine which can be played for no consideration; establishing at least two separate series of images on said game machine including partial representations of products, services or a combination of products and services; upon play by a patron, randomly moving said at 


 least two series with respect to one another so that an image in one of said series will be aligned at a reference point with an image in another one of said series to form one of various combinations, and wherein select ones of said various combinations are winning combinations, select ones of said winning combinations including a match formed by aligning a partial representation of a product or service in each one of said at least two series to display a complete representation of said product or service; and awarding a prize to said patron if one of said winning combinations is formed upon play by said patron, said prize being selected from the group consisting of said product or service whose partial representations form said complete representation, a product or service which is related to said product or service whose
'
 partial representations form said complete representation, and a product or service which is available from said establishment. 12. A method according to claim 11 characterized in that . said establishing step includes the step of establishing said at least two separate series of images so that at least one of said series includes at least one wild card symbol, and wherein at least one of said winning combinations includes said at least one wild card symbol.
13. A promotional game apparatus for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by display means (14) for establishing a reference point (15) and at least two separate series (16, 18, 20) of images (17), at least one series including representations of products, services or a combination of products and services, said at least two series being independently movable with respect to one another and with respect to said reference point so that an image in one of said series can be aligned at said reference point with an image in another one of said series to form various combinations, 


 select ones of said various combinations being winning combinations; movement means for moving said at least two series with respect to one another so as to form said various combinations randomly; activating means 5 which requires no consideration for activating said movement means; means for signaling that one of said winning combinations has been formed; and means (24) for awarding a prize upon the formation of said one of said winning combinations, said prize being selected from the 0 group consisting of said products or services whose representations are in said winning combination, a product or service which is related to said products or services whose representations are in said winning combination, and a product or service which is available from said establishment.
14. The promotional game apparatus according to claim 13 characterized in that at least one of said series (16, 18, 20) includes at least one wild card symbol (19) consisting of a manufacturer symbol, and wherein select ones of said winning combinations include said at least one wild card symbol.
15. A promotional game apparatus for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by display means (14) for establishing a reference point (15) and at least two ^=r-- separate series (16, 18, 20) of images (17), at least one series including-- representations of products, services or a combination of products and services, said at least two series being independently movable with respect to one another and with respect to said reference point so that an image in one of said series can be aligned at said reference point with an image in another one of said series to form various combinations, select ones of said various combinations being winning combinations; movement means coupled to said display means for moving said at least two series independently with respect to one another so as to form said various combinations randomly; activating means which requires 


 no consideration for activating said movement means; reading means connected to said movement means for reading a code on a game card (32, 38) and for signaling said movement means to move said at least two series in response to said code; detection means for determining when one of said winning combinations has been formed at said reference point; and means (24) responsive to said detection means for indicating the award of a prize upon the formation of said one of said winning combinations, said prize being selected from the group consisting of said products or services whose representations are in said winning combination, a product or service which is related to said products or services whose representations are in said winning combination, and a product or service which is available from said establishment.
16. The promotional game apparatus according to claim 15 characterized in that said code includes a first portion comprising a game card code for identifying said game card and a second portion comprising an establishment code for identifying the establishment at which said game card may be used, and said reading means reads said first and second portions of said code and signals said movement means to move said at least two series randomly in response to predetermined establishment codes._ 
^
_-
^
-
^
A^A
~~
^"-zχ Ax_: 


 characterized by the steps of establishing two types of operating cards, a first type of said operating cards each having a game code for actuating a game and a second type of said operating cards each having a maintenance code for actuating a non-game maintenance function; reading said operating cards when inserted into said game machine; and actuating said game machine to play said game responsive to the reading of an operating card of said first type and actuating said game machine to perform one of said non-game maintenance 


 functions responsive to the reading of an operating card of said second type.
18. A method according to claim 17 characterized in that said step of reading said operating cards includes the step of reading said operating cards of both said first and second types using a single card reader in said game machine.
19. A method according to claim 17 characterized in that said step of actuating said game machine to perform one of said non-game maintenance functions includes the step of transferring game- operating data from an external data source to an internal memory in the game machine only in response to the reading of said maintenance code on a selected one of said operating cards of said second type.
20. A method according to claims 17, 18 or 19 characterized in that said actuating step includes the step of actuating a non-game maintenance function which alters a feature of said game responsive to the reading of said maintenance code on a selected one of said operating cards of said second type.
21. A promotional game apparatus characterized by play means for playing a game; operating means for performing non-game maintenance functions in the game apparatus; a first group of operating cards (32, 38) coded with a game code; a second group of operating cards (32, 38) each coded with a different maintenance code, each one of said maintenance codes identifying a distinct maintenance function; and reading means for reading said game codes and said maintenance codes and for signaling said play means to play said game upon reading said game code on one of said first group of operating cards and for signaling said operating means to perform a selected one of said maintenance functions upon reading said maintenance code on one of said second group of operating cards. 



 22. A promotional game apparatus according to claim 21 characterized in that said play means comprises display means (14) for establishing a reference point
(15) and at least two separate series of images (16, 18, 20) , at least one series including representations of products, services or a combination of products and services, said at least two series being independently movable with respect to one another and with respect to said reference point so that an image in one of said series can be aligned at said reference point with an image in another one of said series to form various combinations, select ones of said various combinations being winning combinations, and movement means for moving said at least two series with respect to one another so as to form said various combinations randomly, whereby said reading means signals said movement means to move said at least two series upon reading said game codes; and said operating means comprises means for performing one of said maintenance functions which alters a feature of said game responsive to the reading of said maintenance code on a selected one of said operating cards in said second group.
23. A promotional game apparatus according to claim 21 or 22 further characterized by internal storage means; receiving means for receiving externally stored data; and transfer means for transferring said externally stored data from said receiving means to said internal storage means, wherein one of said maintenance codes signals said operating means to actuate said transfer means. 


 [received by the International Bureau on 3 May 1993 (03.05.93); original claims 1,6,11,13,15 and 17 amended; other claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1. A promotional gaming method for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by the steps of providing a game machine which is played for no consideration; establishing at least two separate series of images on said game machine, at least one of said series including representations of products, services or a combination of products and services; upon play by a patron, randomly moving said at least two series with respect to one another so that an image in one of said series will be aligned at a reference point with an image in another one of said series to form one of various combinations, and wherein select ones of said various combinations are winning combinations; and awarding a prize to said patron if one of said winning combinations is formed upon play by said patron, said prize being selected from the group consisting of said products or services whose representations form said one of said winning combinations, a product or service which is related to said products or services whose representations form said one of said winning combinations, and a retail product or service which is available from said establishment. 2. A method according to claim 1 further characterized by the steps of distributing game cards to patrons, each one of said game cards being coded with a game card code to identify the game card and an establishment code to identify said establishment; and automatically reading said game cards when inserted into said game machine and initiating said random movement step responsive to said establishment code meeting predetermined criteria.
3. A method according to claim 1 further characterized by the steps of distributing game cards to patrons, each one of said game cards being coded with a game card code to identify the game card; and automatically reading said game cards when inserted into 


 said game machine and initiating said random movement step responsive to the reading of said game cards.
4. A method according to claims 2 or 3 characterized in that said game card code is read by said game machine upon insertion of a game card into said game machine and is stored within said game machine for a selectable period of time.
5. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that said game card code of an inserted game card is compared with all previously stored game card codes and the initiation of said random movement step is prevented if said game card code of said inserted game card is found to have been stored a selected number of times by said game* machine within said selectable period of time.
6. A method according to claim 5 characterized in that when initiation of said random movement step is prevented, a display is made of each time said inserted game card was used within said selectable period of time.
7. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of establishing said at least two separate series of images so that said representations of at least one of said products or services are present in two of said series, and said winning combinations include a match formed by aligning at said reference point a representation of a product or service in one of said two series with a representation of said product or service in another of said two series.
8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of establishing said at least two separate series of images so that at least one of said series includes at least one wild card symbol consisting of a manufacturer symbol, and wherein 


 least two series with respect to one another so that a image in one of said series will be aligned at reference point with an image in another one of sai series to form one of various combinations, and wherei select ones of said various combinations are winnin combinations, select ones of said winning combination including a match formed by aligning a partia representation of a product or service in each one o said at least two series to display a complet representation of said product or service; and awardin a prize to said patron if one of said winnin combinations is formed upon play by said patron, sai prize being selected from the group consisting of sai product or service whose partial representations for said complete representation, a product or service whic is related to said product or service whose partial representations form said complete representation, and retail product or service which is available from sai establishment. 12. A method according to claim 11 characterized in that said establishing step includes the step of establishing said at least two separate series of images so that at least one of said series includes at least one wild card symbol, and wherein at least one of said winning combinations includes said at least one wild card symbol.
13. A promotional game apparatus for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by display means (14) for establishing a reference point (15) and at least two separate series (16, 18, 20) of images (17), at least one series including representations of products, services or a combination of products and services, said at least two series being independently movable with respect to one another and with respect to said reference point so that an image in one of said series can be aligned at said reference point with an image in another one of said series to form various combinations, 


 select ones of said various combinations being winning combinations; movement means for moving said at least two series with respect to one another so as to form said various combinations randomly; activating means which requires no consideration for activating said movement means; means for signaling that one of said winning combinations has been formed; and means (24) for awarding a prize upon the formation of said one of said winning combinations, said prize being selected from the group consisting of said products or services whose representations form said one of said winning combinations, a product or service which is related to said products or services whose representations form said one of said winning combinations, and a retail product or service which is available from said establishment.
14. The promotional game apparatus according to claim 13 characterized in that at least one of said series (16, 18, 20) includes at least one wild card symbol (19) consisting of a manufacturer symbol, and wherein select ones of said winning combinations include said at least one wild card symbol.
15. A promotional game apparatus for inducing potential customers to come to a particular establishment characterized by display means (14) for establishing a reference point (15) and at least two separate series (16, 18, 20) of images (17), at least one series including representations of products, services or a combination of products and services, said at least two series being independently movable with respect to one another and with respect to said reference point so that an image in one of said series can be aligned at said reference point with an image in another one of said series to form various combinations, select ones of said various combinations being winning combinations; movement means coupled to said display means for moving said at least two series independently with respect to one another so as to form said various combinations randomly; activating means which requires 


no consideration for activating said movement means; reading means connected to said movement means for reading a code on a game card (32, 38) and for signaling said movement means to move said at least two series in response to said code; detection means for determining when one of said winning combinations has been formed at said reference point; and means (24) responsive to said detection means for indicating the award of a prize upon the formation of said one of said winning combinations, said prize being selected from the group consisting of said products or services whose representations form said one of said winning combinations, a product or service which is related to said products or services whose representations form said one of said winning combinations, and a retail product or service which is available from said establishment.
16. The promotional game apparatus according to claim 15 characterized in that said code includes a first portion comprising a game card code for identifying said game card and a second portion comprising an establishment code for identifying the establishment at which said game card may be used, and said reading means reads said first and second portions of said code and signals said movement means to move said at least two series randomly in response to predetermined establishment codes.
17. A method for operating a game machine characterized by the steps of establishing two types of operating cards, a first type of said operating cards each having a game code for playing a game and a second type of said operating cards each having a maintenance code for actuating a non-game maintenance function; reading said operating cards when inserted into said game machine; and actuating said game machine to play said game responsive to the reading of an operating card of said first type and actuating said game machine to perform one of said non-game maintenance 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
