<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630528</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONSTANT VOLTAGE FUEL CELL WITH IMPROVED REACTANT SUPPLY AND CONTROL SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M804	H01M804	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M8	H01M8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for providing a substantially constant output voltage from a fuel cell, notwithstanding output current variations, is disclosed. The voltage and secondarily the current of the cell is determined at least periodically. The pressure of the reactant gas in the fuel cell is then regulated so substantially the nominal voltage is maintained. The temperature in the fuel cell may also be regulated to maintain the nominal output voltage. Also, a method and apparatus for minimizing the parasitic power drain in an electric power generation system is disclosed. The fuel cell is fed with a reactant gas by a compressor driven by parasitic power drawn from the fuel cell. The method is carried out by determining that the output current of the fuel cell has changed, and changing one or more or the pressure, the mass flow rate and the reactant utilization ratio of the reactant in the fuel cell, thereby changing the amount of the parasitic power drawn from the electrical power output to drive the compressor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to 
electrochemical fuel cells. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to a fuel cell based 
electric power generation system having an improved 
reactant supply and control system. Electrochemical fuel cells generate electrical 
energy by converting chemical energy derived from a 
fuel directly into electrical energy by the 
oxidation of the fuel in the cell. A typical fuel 
cell includes an anode, a cathode and an 
electrolyte. Fuel and an oxidant are supplied to 
the anode and cathode, respectively. At the anode, 
the fuel permeates the electrode material and reacts 
at the anode catalyst layer to form cations, which 
migrate through the electrolyte to the cathode. At 
the cathode, the oxidant (for example, oxygen or an 
oxygen containing gas supply) reacts at the cathode 
catalyst layer to form anions. The anions formed at 
the cathode react with the cations to form a 
reaction product. The fuel cell generates a useable 
electric current and the reaction product is removed 
from the cell. In electrochemical fuel cells employing 
hydrogen as the fuel and oxygen-containing air (or 
pure oxygen) as the oxidant, a catalyzed reaction at 
the anode produces hydrogen cations from the fuel 
supply. An ion exchange membrane facilitates the  
 
migration of hydrogen ions (protons) from the anode 
to the cathode. In addition to conducting hydrogen 
cations, the membrane isolates the hydrogen fuel 
stream from the oxidant stream comprising oxygen 
containing air. At the cathode, oxygen reacts at the 
catalyst layer to form anions. The anions formed at 
the cathode react with the hydrogen ions that have 
crossed the membrane to form liquid water as the 
reaction product. The anode and cathode reactions in such fuel 
cells are shown in equations (1) and (2) below: 
Anode reaction: H₂ → 2H⁺ + 2e⁻Cathode reaction: 1/2 O₂ + 2H⁺ + 2e⁻ → H₂OSolid polymer fuel cells generally contain a 
membrane electrode assembly ("MEA") consisting of a 
solid polymer electrolyte or ion exchange membrane 
disposed between two electrodes formed of porous, 
electrically conductive sheet material. The 
electrodes are typically formed of carbon fiber 
paper, and are generally impregnated or coated with 
a hydrophobic polymer, such as polytetrafluoroethylene. 
The MEA contains a layer of catalyst at 
each membrane/electrode interface to induce the 
desired electrochemical reaction. A finely divided 
platinum catalyst is typically employed. The MEA is 
in turn disposed between two electrically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for regulating the utilization of 
a reactant gas in an electric power generation 

system comprising at least one fuel cell, an input 
to said fuel cell of a reactant gas comprising at 

least one reactant constituent and optionally at 
least one inert constituent, and an output from said 

fuel cell of the reactant gas and an electrical 
output characterized by a voltage and a current, 

said method comprising the steps of: 

A. selecting for said fuel cell a 
reactant utilization ratio, said ratio 

defined as the amount of the reactant 
constituent delivered to said reactant 

input per unit time divided by the 
amount of the reactant constituent 

consumed in said fuel cell per unit 
time; 
B. determining a mass flow rate of the 
reactant gas through the fuel cell 

which will provide the selected 
reactant utilization ratio; 
C. measuring the actual mass flow rate of 
the reactant gas at the reactant gas 

input and the output current of said 
fuel cell; and 
D. regulating the mass flow rate of the 
reactant gas at the reactant gas 

output of said fuel cell, responsive 
to the output current and the mass 

flow rate measured at said reactant 
gas input, to substantially maintain 

said determined mass flow rate. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said 
reactant constituent is oxygen. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said 
reactant gas is air. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said 
reactant constituent is hydrogen. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said 
reactant gas is selected from the group consisting 

of hydrogen gas, natural gas reformate, methanol 
reformate, combinations thereof, and recycled 

products thereof. 
The method of claim 1, comprising the 
further step of recycling at least a portion of the 

reactant constituent received at said fuel cell 
output to said fuel cell input. 
The method of claim 1, comprising the 
further step of maintaining the reactant gas within 

said fuel cell at a predetermined pressure. 
A method of providing a substantially 
constant output voltage, notwithstanding output 

current variations, in an electric power generation 
system comprising at least one fuel cell, an input 

to said fuel cell of a reactant gas, and an 
electrical output characterized by a voltage and a 

current, said method comprising the steps of: 

A. selecting a nominal output voltage for 
said fuel cell, 
B. at least periodically determining the 
actual voltage and optionally the  

 
current delivered by the electrical 

output of said fuel cell, and 
C. regulating the pressure of the 
reactant gas in said fuel cell, in 

response to the voltage and 
optionally in response to the current 

of the electrical output, so 
substantially said nominal voltage is 

maintained at the electrical output. 
The method of claim 8, comprising the 
further step of regulating the temperature of said 

fuel cell, in response to the voltage and optionally 
the current of the electrical output, so 

substantially said nominal voltage is maintained at 
the electrical output. 
A method of minimizing the drain of 
parasitic power, being the power diverted from a fuel 

cell's electrical output to operate pumps, control 
systems and other supporting apparatus of a fuel cell 

system, in an electric power generation system, 
comprising at least one fuel cell having a variable 

electrical power output, a reactant gas input to said 
fuel cell, and a compressor driven by parasitic power 

drawn from said electrical power output for 
pressurizing the reactant gas within said fuel cell, 

said method comprising the steps of: 

A. determining that the output current 
of said fuel cell has changed, and 
B. changing the mass flow rate while 
maintaining substantially constant 

the pressure and reactant utilization 
ratio of the reactant in said fuel 

cell, in response to changes in said 
output current, thereby changing the 

amount of said parasitic power drawn  
 

from said electrical power output to 
drive said compressor. 
The method of claim 10, wherein step (B) 
comprises changing the pressure and the mass flow 

rate while maintaining substantially constant the 
reactant utilization ratio of the reactant in said 

fuel cell, in response to changes in said output 
current, thereby changing the amount of said 

parasitic power drawn from said electrical power 
output to drive said compressor. 
The method of claim 10, wherein step (B) 
comprises changing the pressure, the mass flow rate 

and the reactant utilization ratio of the reactant 

in said fuel cell, in response to changes in said 
output current, thereby changing the amount of said 

parasitic power drawn from said electrical power 
output to drive said compressor. 
A variable power output electric power 
generation system comprising: 


A. at least one fuel cell including an 
input of a reactant gas comprising a 

reactant constituent and optionally an 
inert constituent, an output of the 

reactant gas, and apparatus for 
reacting the reactant constituent to 

produce as an output electric power 
characterized by a voltage and a 

current; 
B. apparatus for determining a mass flow 
rate of the reactant gas which will 

provide a desired reactant constituent 
utilization ratio, said ratio defined  

 
as the amount of said reactant 

constituent delivered to said reactant 
gas input per unit time divided by the 

amount of the reactant constituent 
consumed in said fuel cell per unit 

time; 
C. a current sensor for measuring the 
output current of said fuel cell, said 

sensor generating a measured current 
signal; 
D. a mass flow rate sensor at the 
reactant gas input of said fuel cell 

for measuring the mass flow rate of 
the reactant gas, said mass flow rate 

sensor generating a measured flow rate 
signal; and 
E. a valve at said reactant gas output of 
said fuel cell for maintaining the 

determined mass flow rate of the 
reactant gas, said valve responsive to 

said measured current signal and said 
measured mass flow rate signal. 
The power generation system of claim 13, 
wherein water vapor is present in the reactant gas 

as it exits the reactant gas output, and further 
comprising recovery apparatus provided downstream of 

said reactant gas output for recovering water from 
the reactant stream, and wherein said valve at said 

reactant gas output is located downstream of said 
recovery apparatus. 
A voltage-regulated, variable-current 
electric power generation system comprising:  

 

A. at least one fuel cell including a 
reactant gas input and an electrical 

output characterized by a voltage and 
a current; 
B. apparatus responsive to the output 
voltage and optionally to the output 

current of said fuel cell for 
determining a pressure and optionally 

a temperature of the reactant gas in 
said fuel cell which will maintain 

the output voltage of said system at 
a predetermined level; and 
C. apparatus for substantially 
maintaining the determined pressure 

of the reactant gas in said fuel 
cell. 
A variable power output electric power 
generation system comprising: 


A. at least one fuel cell having a 
reactant gas input and an electrical 

output characterized by a voltage and 
a current; 
B. a compressor driven by power drawn 
from said electrical power output for 

pressurizing the reactant gas within 
said fuel cell; and 
C. apparatus for changing one or more of 
the pressure, the mass flow rate and 

the reactant utilization ratio of the 
reactant gas in said fuel cell, in 

response to changes in said output 
current of said fuel cell, thereby 

changing the amount of said power 
drawn from said electrical power 

output to drive said compressor. 
Apparatus for simultaneously regulating the 
mass flow rate and pressure of a reactant gas in an 

electric power generation system comprising at least 
one fuel cell having a reactant gas input for 

receiving a reactant gas and a reactant output for 
discharging the reactant gas and an electrical 

output characterized by a voltage and a current, 
said apparatus comprising: 


A. apparatus for maintaining the reactant 
gas at a predetermined pressure at 

said reactant gas input; 
B. apparatus for measuring said output 
current; 
C. apparatus for measuring the mass flow 
rate of the reactant gas at said 

reactant gas input; and 
D. apparatus for regulating the mass flow 
rate of the reactant gas at the 

reactant output of said fuel cell, 
responsive to said measured output 

current and said measured mass flow 
rate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
