<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631689</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THRESHOLD ADJUSTMENT IN VERTICAL DMOS DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21265	H01L21336	H01L2902	H01L2910	H01L2966	H01L2978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SILICONIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SILICONIX INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS RICHARD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, RICHARD, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THRESHOLD ADJUSTMENT IN VERTICAL DMOS DEVICESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention pertains to a method for adjusting a semiconductor device threshold voltage during device fabrication, and more particularly to adjusting the threshold voltage of a vertical double diffused MOSFET ("VDMOS") transistor during fabrication by high energy ion implantation through the gate thereof.Description of Related ArtThe threshold voltage Vt for MOSFET transistors is defined as the voltage Vg, applied between gate and source, below which the MOS transistor drain-to-source current 1^ becomes zero. The threshold voltage for n-channel and p- channel devices are denoted Vta and Vφ, respectively. The threshold voltage is a function of a number of parameters, including the gate material, the gate insulation material, the gate insulator thickness, the channel doping, the impurities at the silicon-insulator interface, and the voltage V,b between the source and substrate.In particular, in double diffused transistors, the net channel concentration is formed by the sequential diffusion of source and body implants self-aligned to a polysilicon gate. Without the use of self-alignment to the gate, an unacceptable variation in Vt will result. Reduction in the threshold voltage of a DMOS transistor may be achieved by lowering the body implant dose, which reduces the effective channel concentration, or by driving the source deeper to compensate a greater portion of the 

body doping profile. Another approach is to make the body diffusion shallow relative to the source diffusion, so that the body diffusion concentration is compensated by the source diffusion concentration.Adjusting the threshold by these means is limited by a number of potentially adverse or catastrophic complications in the device. As the net body concentration is reduced, the likelihood of punch through breakdown is exacerbated. This limitation can be particularly troublesome in lower voltage DMOS (e.g. 20 volt to 60 volt breakdowns) where the depletion spreading in the body from the reverse-biased drain to the body junction is significant. Beyond punch through problems, lighter net body doping results in an increase in the parasitic bipolar gain of the bipolar transistor formed by the source acting as the emitter, the body acting as the base, and the drain acting as the collector. In an n- channel vertical DMOS, a parasitic NPN transistor is present, whereas in a p-channel DMOS, a parasitic PNP transistor is present. The effect of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of forming a threshold-adjusted vertical diffused field-effect transistor from a semiconductor body having a first region of a first conductivity type, the method comprising the steps of: forming a gate, which comprises a patterned conductive gate layer, over an upper surface of the first region; introducing a first dopant of a second conductivity type opposite to the first conductivity type into part of the first region through its upper surface, the gate acting as a mask to substantially prevent the first dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer; diffusing the first dopant outward to form a second region of the second conductivity type situated laterally within the first region and extending partway under the gate layer; introducing a second dopant of the first conductivity type into part of the second region through its upper surface to define a location for a third region of the first conductivity type situated laterally within the second region, the gate acting as a mask to substantially prevent the second dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer, a channel of the transistor being situated in the second region along its upper surface below the gate layer and extending from the first region to material of the third region outside the second region, conduction by minority carriers in the channel being subject to electrostatic control of the gate layer; implanting ions containing a third dopant of the first conductivity type through the gate and into the channel such that nearly all the ions which enter the gate lodge in the channel; and 



 forming contacts to the gate layer and the first region.
2. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the gate includes a thin insulative layer situated between the gate layer and the first region.
3. A method as in Claim 2 further including the step of diffusing the second dopant to form the third region.
4. A method as in Claim 2 wherein the semiconductor body is silicon, the gate layer is doped polysilicon, the insulative layer is silicon dioxide, the gate has a thickness of about 0.5 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy greater than about 210 keV.
5. A method as in Claim 2 wherein the semiconductor body is silicon, the gate layer is doped polysilicon, the insulative layer is silicon dioxide, the gate has a thickness of about 0.3 - 0.8 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy of about 150 - 350 keV.
6. A method as in Claim 2 wherein the semiconductor body is silicon, the gate layer is doped polysilicon, the insulative layer is silicon dioxide, the gate has a thickness of about 0.6 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy of about 230 - 320 keV and at a dose of about 7xlO
π
 - 9.2x10"atoms/cm
2
.
7. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the implanting step is performed at a dose such that the transistor is an enhancement-mode device.
8. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the implanting step is performed at a dose such that the transistor is a depletion-mode device. 


 9. A method of forming a threshold-adjusted P- channel VDMOS field-effect transistor, the method comprising the steps of: forming a patterned conductive gate layer on an insulative layer situated along an upper surface of a main P-type region of a semiconductor body; introducing an N-type dopant into part of the main region through its upper surface, the gate and insulative layers acting as a mask to substantially prevent the N-type dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer; deeply diffusing the N-type dopant to form an N- type body region situated laterally within the main region and extending partway under the gate layer up to the insulative layer; introducing a first P-type dopant into the body region through its upper surface, the gate and insulative layers acting as a mask to substantially prevent the P- type dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer; deeply diffusing the first P-type dopant to form a P-type source region situated within the body region, a channel of the transistor situated in the body region along its upper surface below the gate layer and extending from the source region to material of the main region outside the body region, conduction by minority carriers in the channel being subject to electrostatic control of the gate layer; implanting ions containing a second P-type dopant through the gate and insulative layers and into the channel such that nearly all the ions which enter the gate layer lodge in the channel; and forming contacts to the gate layer, the source region, and the main region.
10. A method as in Claim 9 wherein the gate and insulative layers have a composite thickness of about 0.3 


- 0.8 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy of about 150 - 350 keV.
11. A diffused field effect device comprising: a body region disposed in a semiconductor body proximate to a surface thereof, a first junction being formed between the periphery of said body region and said semiconductor body; a source region disposed in said body region, the periphery of said source region being spaced from the first junction and forming a second junction with said body region; a drain region disposed in said semiconductor body; and a gate disposed over a surface of said semiconductor body and insulated therefrom, said gate further being disposed over at least a portion of the body region between the first junction and the second junction to control electrostatically conduction by minority carriers in a doped and threshold adjusted channel region of said body region at a specified operation condition of the field effect device; wherein a threshold adjust dopant is generally localized in said channel region.
12. A field effect device as in Claim 11 wherein the distribution of the threshold adjust dopant peaks in a layer generally parallel to said gate.
13. A field effect device as in Claim 12 wherein the peak of the distribution of said threshold adjust dopant 


is within said channel region and proximate to said surface.
14. A field effect device as in Claim 13 wherein said source and drain regions are p-type doped regions, said body region is an n-type doped region, and said threshold adjust dopant is p-type.
15. A field effect device as in Claim 14 wherein said drain is disposed on a surface of said semiconductor body opposite said first-mentioned surface.
16. A field effect device as in Claim 13 wherein said source and drain regions are n-type doped regions, said body region is a p-type doped region, and said threshold adjust dopant is n-type.
17. A field effect device as in Claim 16 wherein said drain is disposed on a surface of said semiconductor body opposite said first-mentioned surface.
18. A field effect device as in Claim 13 wherein said threshold adjust dopant is present at a concentration for establishing both a positive threshold at a zero gate bias and an off-condition of the field effect device at a gate bias within the specified operating condition of the field effect device.
19. A field effect device as in Claim 13 wherein said threshold adjust dopant is present at a concentration for establishing both a negative threshold at a zero gate bias and an off-condition of the field effect device at a gate bias within the specified operating condition of the field effect device. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 30 August 1993 (30.08.93); original claims 11-19 cancelled; original claims 1 and 9 amended; new claims 11-32 added; other claims unchanged (8 pages)]
1. A method of forming a threshold-adjusted vertical diffused field-effect transistor from a semiconductor body having a first region of a first conductivity type, the method comprising the steps of: forming a gate, which comprises a patterned conductive gate layer, over an upper surface of the first region; introducing a first dopant of a second conductivity type opposite to the first conductivity type into part of the first region through its upper surface, the gate acting as a mask to substantially prevent the irst dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer; diffusing the first dopant outward to form a second region of the second conductivity type situated laterally within the first region and extending partway under the gate layer; introducing a second dopant of the first conductivity type into part of the second region through its upper surface to define a location for a third region of the first conductivity type situated laterally within the second region, the gate acting as a mask to substantially prevent the second dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer, a channel of the transistor being situated in the second region along its upper surface below the gate layer and extending from the third region to material of the first region outside the second region, conduction by minority carriers in the channel being subject to electrostatic control of the gate layer; implanting ions containing a third dopant of the first conductivity type through the gate and into the channel such that nearly all the ions which enter gate layer material overlying the channel lodge in the channel; and 



 forming contacts to the gate layer and the first region.
2. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the gate includes a thin insulative layer situated between the gate layer and the first region.
3. A method as in Claim 2 further including the step of diffusing the second dopant to form the third region.
4. A method as in Claim 2 wherein the semiconductor body is silicon, the gate layer is doped polysilicon, the insulative layer is silicon dioxide, the gate has a thickness of about 0.5 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy greater than about 210 keV.
5. A method as in Claim 2 wherein the semiconductor body is silicon, the gate layer is doped polysilicon, the insulative layer is silicon dioxide, the gate has a thickness of about 0.3 - 0.8 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy of about 150 - 350 keV.
6. A method as in Claim 2 wherein the semiconductor body is silicon, the gate layer is doped polysilicon, the insulative layer is silic ,
™
 dioxide, the gate has a thickness of about 0.6 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy of about 230 - 320 keV and at a dose of about 7x10" - 9.2x10"atoms/cm
2
.
7. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the implanting step is performed at a dose such that the transistor is an enhancement-mode device.
8. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the implanting step is performed at a dose such that the transistor is a depletion-mode device. 


 9. A method of forming a threshold-adjusted P- channel VDMOS field-effect transistor, the method comprising the steps of: forming a patterned conductive gate layer on an insulative layer situated along an upper surface of a main P-type region of a semiconductor body; introducing an N-type dopant into part of the main region through its upper surface, the gate and insulative layers acting as a mask to substantially prevent the N-type dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer; deeply diffusing the N-type dopant to form an N- type body region situated laterally within the main region and extending partway under the gate layer up to the insulative layer; introducing a first P-type dopant into the body region through its upper surface, the gate and insulative layers acting as a mask to substantially prevent the P- type dopant from directly entering material of the semiconductor body below the gate layer; deeply diffusing the first P-type dopant to form a P-type source region situated within the body region, a channel of the transistor situated in the body region along its upper surface below the gate layer and extending from the source region to material of the main region outside the body region, conduction by minority carriers in the channel being subject to electrostatic control of the gate layer; implanting ions containing a second P-type dopant through the gate and insulative layers and into the channel such that nearly all the ions which enter gate material overlying the channel layer lodge in the channel; and forming contacts to the gate layer, the source region, and the main region.
10. A method as in Claim 9 wherein the gate and 


insulative layers have a composite thickness of about 0.3 - 0.8 micron, and the implanting step is done at an energy of about 150 - 350 keV.
11. A field effect transistor comprising: a body region situated in a semiconductor body along a major surface thereof, a first PN junction being formed between the semiconductor body and the body region at its periphery; a source situated in the body region along said surface, a second PN junction spaced apart from the first PN junction being formed between the body region and the source region at its periphery; a drain situated in the semiconductor body along said surface and extending to meet the body region; and a gate comprising a conductive gate layer disposed over said surface and electrically insulated from the semiconductor body, the conductive gate layer lying over at least part of the body region between the two PN junctions to electrostatically control conduction by minority carriers in a threshold adjusted channel of the body region at a specified operational condition of the transistor, a threshold adjust dopant being vertically localized generally in the channel, the threshold adjust dopant also being present in the semiconductor body laterally outside the body region, the depth of the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant into the semiconductor body below said surface being non-uniform laterally along said surface.
12. A transistor as in Claim 11 wherein the depth of the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant reaches a greater value in the source than in the channel.
13. A transistor as in Claim, 12 wherein the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant within the channel lies in a layer generally parallel to said 


surface.
14. A transistor as in Claim 13 wherein the threshold adjust dopant is of the same conductivity type as the source and drain.
15. A transistor as in Claim 14 wherein: the source and drain are p type; and the body region, except possibly for part of the channel containing the threshold adjust dopant, is n type.
16. A transistor as in Claim 13 wherein the threshold adjust dopant is present at a concentration for establishing both a positive threshold at a zero gate bias and an o -condition of the transistor at a gate bias within the specified operating condition of the transistor.
17. A transistor as in Claim 13 wherein the threshold adjust dopant is present at a concentration for establishing both a negative threshold at a zero gate bias and an off-condition of the transistor at a gate bias within the specified operating condition of the transistor.
18. A transistor as in Claim 11 wherein the body region includes a more heavily doped portion that extends into the semiconductor body to a greater distance than the remainder of the body region.
19. A transistor as in Claim 11 wherein the semiconductor body comprises a substrate and an overlying epitaxial layer of largely the same conductivity type as the substrate but doped to a lighter level.
20. A transistor as in Claim 19 wherein the drain comprises the substrate and material of the epitaxial 


 layer outside the body region.
21. A structure created from a semiconductor body having a major surface, the structure comprising a pair of like-polarity field effect transistors each comprising: a body region situated in the semiconductor body along said surface, a first PN junction being formed between the semiconductor body and the body region at its periphery; a source situated in the body region along said surface, a second PN junction spaced apart from the first PN junction being formed between the body region and the source region at its periphery; a drain situated in the semiconductor body along said surface and extending to meet the body region; and a gate comprising a conductive gate layer disposed over said surface and electrically insulated from the semiconductor body, the conductive gate layer lying over at least part of the body region between the two PN junctions to electrostatically control conduction by minority carriers in a threshold adjusted channel of the body region at a specified operational condition of the transistor; where a threshold adjust dopant is vertically localized generally in the channels, the threshold adjust dopant also being present in the semiconductor body laterally outside the body regions, the drains being continuous with each other to form a common drain in which the threshold adjust dopant is present in a region extending fully between the two first PN junctions.
22. A structure as in Claim 21 wherein the depth of the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant into the semiconductor body below said surface is non-uniform laterally along said surface.
23. A structure as in Claim 22 wherein the depth of 


the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant reaches a greater value in the sources than in the channels.
24. A structure as in Claim 23 wherein the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant within each channel lies in a layer generally parallel to said surface.
25. A structure as in Claim 24 wherein the threshold adjust dopant is of the same conductivity type as the sources and drains.
26. A structure as in Claim 25 wherein: the sources and drains are p type; and the body regions, except possibly for parts of the channels containing the threshold adjust dopant, are n-type.
27. A structure as in Claim 24 wherein the semiconductor body comprises a substrate and an overlying epitaxial layer of largely the same conductivity type as the substrate but doped to a lighter level.
28. A field effect device as in Claim 27 wherein the common drain comprises the substrate and material of the epitaxial layer outside the body regions.
29. An enhancement-mode field effect transistor comprising: — a body region situated in a semiconductor body along a major surface thereof, a first PN junction being formed between the semiconductor body and the body region at its periphery; a source situated in the body region along said surface, a second PN junction spaced apart from the first PN junction being formed between the body region and the source region at its periphery; 


 a drain situated in the semiconductor body along said surface and extending to meet the body region; and a gate comprising a conductive gate layer disposed over said surface and electrically insulated from the semiconductor body, the conductive gate layer lying over at least part of the body region between the two PN junctions to electrostatically control conduction by minority carriers in a threshold adjusted channel of the body region at a specified operational condition of the transistor, a threshold adjust dopant being vertically localized generally in the channel at a non-zero doping level low enough to enable the transistor to operate in the enhancement mode.
30. A transistor as in Claim 29 wherein the threshold adjust dopant is also present in the semiconductor body laterally outside the body region, the depth of the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant into the semiconductor body below said surface being non-uniform laterally along said surface.
31. A transistor as in Claim 30 wherein the depth of the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant reaches a greater value in the source than in the channel.
32. A transistor as in Claim 31 wherein the peak concentration of the threshold adjust dopant within the channel lies in a layer generally parallel to said surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
