<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0049299</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARTICLES, SUCH AS PALLETS, MOLDED FROM WOOD FLAKES AND A METHOD OF MOLDING SUCH ARTICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B27N500	B65D1900	B27N500	B65D1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B27N	B65D	B27N	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B27N5	B65D19	B27N5	B65D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An article having non-planar portions, such as a pallet 
(10) having a substantially flat deck member (12) and a 

plurality of hollow leg members (16) projecting integrally 
from the deck member, is molded as a one-piece unit from a 

loosely-felted, layered mat formed from a mixture of a 
resinous particle board binder and flake-like wood particles. 

The wood flakes have an average length of about 1-1/4 to 
about 6 inches, preferably about 2 to about 3 inches, an 

average thickness of about 0.005 to about 0.075 inch, 
preferably about 0.015 to about 0.025 inch, and an average 

width of 3 inches or less and no greater than the average 
length. Each layer of wood flakes in the mat lies substantially 

flat on a plane generally parallel to the major plane thereof 
and are randomly oriented to each other. The mat is placed 

between the male (34) and female (36) dies of a mold or 

press and compressed therein to substantially the desired 
shape under temperature and pressure conditions sufficient 

to bond the flakes together. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF CONTROL OF MICHIGAN TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAATAJA, BRUCE A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMILTON, JAMES F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILPELA, TAUNO B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUND, ANDERS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 ARTICLES, SUCH AS PALLETS, MOLDED FROM WOOD FLAKES
 AND A METHOD OF MOLDING SUCH ARTICLES.


 This invention relates to articles molded from flakelike wood particles and, more particularly, to such articles having non-planar portions, such as material handling pallets and the like. The invention also relates to the method of molding such articles.


 It is well known to manufacture flat or substantially flat structural boards or so-called particle board from comminuted wood by mixing the wood particles with a suitable resinous binder, such as a synthetic thermosetting resin, forming the mixture into a multi-layered mat and then compressing the mat between heated platens to set the binder and bond the wood particles together.


 Molding of pallets and other articles including nonplanar portions presents problems of little or no concern in the manufacture of flat or substantially flat particle board. For instance, one difficulty involved in molding pallets is the necessity to pull or draw a plurality of hollow legs having acceptable crushing strengths from a substantially flat mat of wood particles without adversely affecting the strength of the deck member or the legs.


Consequently, the above type process for manufacturing particle board heretofore has not been employed to manufacture pallets or other similar articles from wood particles.


 According to one aspect of the invention there is provided a molded article including a body portion having a major plane and at least one non-planar portion  extending in a direction away from the major plane, said body and non-planar portions being formed as a one-piece unit characterised in that it comprises a layered mixture of a resinous particle board binder and flake-like wood particles having an average length of about 1-1/4 inch to about 6 inches, an average thickness of about 0.005 to about 0.075 inch, and an average width of about 3 inches or less and no greater than the width, each layer of said wood particles forming at least said body portion lying substantially flat in a plane generally parallel to the major plane with said wood particles therein being randomly oriented.


 The present invention also provides a molded article in the form of a pallet comprising a deck member having a major plane, and a plurality of hollow leg members projecting integrally from said deck member, each of said leg members having a bottom wall spaced from said deck member and one or more side walls integrally connecting said bottom wall with said deck member and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS 1. A molded article including a body portion having a major plane and at least one non-planar portion extending in a direction away from the major plane, said body and nonplanar portions being formed as a one-piece unit characterised in that it comprises a layered mixture of a resinous particle board binder and flake-like wood particles having an average length of about   1-1/4    inch to about 6 inches, an average thickness of about 0.005 to about 0.075 inch, and an average width of about 3 inches or less and no greater than the width, each layer of said wood particles forming at least said body portion lying substantially flat in a plane generally parallel to the major plane with said wood particles therein being randomly oriented.



2. A molded article in the form of a pallet comprising a deck member having a major plane, and a plurality of hollow leg member projecting integrally from said deck member, each of said leg members having a bottom all spaced from said deck member and one or more side walls integrally connecting said bottom wall with said deck member and inclining outwardly from said bottom wall toward said deck member characterised in that said deck and leg members form a one-piece unit comprising a layered mixture of a resinous particle board binder and flake-like wood particles having an average length of about 1-1/4 to about 6 inches, an average thickness of about 0.005 to about 0.075 inch, and an average width of about 3 inches or less and no greater than the  average length,

 each layer of said wood particles forming at least said deck member lying substantially flat in a plane generally parallel to the major plane with said wood particles therein being randomly oriented 3. A pallet according to claim 2 characterised in that said side walls extend at an angle of about   780    or less relative to the major plane of said deck member, and the average thickness of said sidewalls is about 70-110% of the average thickness of said deck member.



4. A method for molding an article having a major plane and at least one non-planar portion extending in a direction away from the major plane, said method being characterised by the steps of
 (a) providing flake-like wood particles having

 an average length of about 1-1/4 inch to about 6 inches,

 an average thickness of about 0.005 to about 0.075 inch,
 and an average width of about 3 inches or less and no

 greater than the length;
 (b) admixing a resinous particle board binder

 with the wood particles;
 (c) depositing a loosely-felted, layered mat

 formed from said mixture on one open part of a mold
 including two separate parts defining a mold chamber

 having the shape of the article, the wood particles
 in each layer of the mat lying substantially flat in

 a plane generally parallel to the major plane and being  
 randomly oriented;


 and
 (d) closing the mold and applying sufficient

 heat and pressure on said mat to compress it   into   
 substantially the desired shape and size of the

 article and to bond the wood particles together to
 form a unitary structure.




5. A method according to claim 4 characterised in that said article is a pallet having a deck member including a major plane and a non-planar portion comprising a plurality of hollow leg members projecting integrally from said deck member, each of said leg members having a bottom wall spaced from said deck member and side walls integrally connecting said bottom wall to said deck member and inclining outwardly from said deck member toward said bottom wall, and that said pallet is molded between male and female dies each hollow leg member being formed in a separate cavity of the female die.



6. A method according to claim 5 characterised by forming said loosely-felted mat with a substantially uniform thickness outside the mold, depositing a mound of said mixture atop said mat at locations corresponding to locations of each female die cavity, and placing said mat between the male and female dies with the mounds generally aligned with respective female die cavities.  



7. A method according to claim 5 characterised by substantially filling each of the female die cavities with said mixture, forming said loosely-felted mat with a substantially uniform thickness outside the mold, and placing said mat between the male and female dies.



8. An article according to any of claims 1 to 3 or a method according to any of claims 4 to 7 characterised in that the average thickness of the wood particles is about 0.015 to about 0.025 inch, the average length of the particles is about 2 inches to about 3 inches, the average width of the particles is about 1/16 inch to about 3 inches.

 


9. A method according to any one of claims 4 to 8 characterised in that the pressure applied to the mat in step (d) is within the range of about 300 to about 700 psi, the temperature applied to the mat during step (d) ranges from abient up to about   4500F.   



10. A method according to any one of claims 4 to 9 characterised in that the wood particles are dried to a moisture content of about 6% ur less prior to step (b), and the amount of binder admixed with the wood particles during step (b) is within the range of about 2 to about 15 weight %, as solids based on the dry weight of the wood particles, the binder including an organic polyisocyanatehaving at least  two active isocyanate groups per molecule, and that a liquid wax composition is also admixed with the wood particles during step (b). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
