<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTARY SCANNER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N106	H04N106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high quality, relatively inexpensive rotary scanner provides both transmission and reflection scanning of documents mounted on a rotary drum. The drum translates with respect to an imaging lens located adjacent the drum and on the exterior thereof. A first illuminating (92) element surrounding the imaging lens illuminates the document on the drum for reflection scanning; a second illuminating element (162) mounted on a cantilevered arm extending along the axis of the drum illuminates the document for transmission scanning. Focusing of the image is performed either automatically or under the control of the user. A high resolution and wide dynamic range is provided by a set of photomultiplier tubes which receive light from the imaging lens by way of an aperture wheel which provides apertures of selectable size in accordance with the desired resolution. User replaceable lamp modules allow the precise positioning of high intensity replacement lamps without need for a technician.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOWTEK INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOWTEK, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMAN RICHARD F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAGEE MARK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARANKA MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMAN, RICHARD, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAGEE, MARK, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARANKA, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, RICHARD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ROTARY SCANNERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONA. FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to scanners for providing a digitized image of a document and, more particularly, to a high quality but inexpensive rotary scanner.B. PRIOR ARTScanners are increasingly utilized for digitizing both materials such as letters, memoranda, photographs, or the like, as well as transparencies; for ease of reference, these will all be referred to hereinafter simply as "documents" or "a document".There are two principal types of scanners, namely, flat bed scanners and rotary scanners. Flat bed scanners mount the document on a flat surface or "bed" and scan the document from side to side and line by line to form the desired image which is then in a form suitable for high speed processing. The scanning apparatus in flat bed scanners is often complex and requires careful adjustment in order to maintain image quality. Further, the scanning resolution is often limited both in resolution and in dynamic range by the nature of the linear array used for detection, and thus scanners of this type are found most often in the "low end" price range of scanners.Rotary scanners, in contrast, mount the document on a drum and provision is made for relative motion between the drum and a scanning head which forms the digitized image. Because the relative motion is primarily rotational in nature, high scanning rates can be achieved, and systems of this type are commonly used in commercial operations. However, they are generally much more expensive than flat bed scanners, and this has restricted their use. 

 Quality scanners typically use high intensity light sources to illuminate the source being scanned. These light sources generally have a relatively short life, and thus require frequent replacement. Because the alignment of the light source within the optical system frequently is critical, the replacement is generally performed by a trained technician from the scanner manufacturer, and this increases the cost of maintenance of the system.In order to efficiently collect light reflected from, or transmitted through, a document, a lens of high numerical aperture is desirable. However, such lenses have a very narrow depth of focus, and the common variation of document thickness from source to source can cause unacceptable variations in focus.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTIONA. ObjectsAccordingly, it is an object of the invention to provide an improved rotary scanner.Further, it is an object of the invention to provide an improved rotary scanner that is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A rotary scanner for scanning both transmissive and reflective documents, comprising:
A. means for releasably mounting a drum for motion along a drum axis and for rotation about said axis, said drum being transparent and adapted to receive a document on the exterior surface thereof for scanning,
B. an analyzer lens mounted adjacent to, and on the exterior of, said drum for imaging an area of said document,
C. a first means for illuminating said imaging area from the exterior of said drum,
D. a second means for illuminating said imaging area from the interior of said drum,
E. means mounting said analyzer lens for motion toward and away from said drum to enable focusing of said lens with respect to said image area.
2. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 in which said drum mounting means comprises first and second separable carriage segments mounted for translation along a bed, said segments being releasably coupled to each other by spring means, and further includes means for driving one of said segments along said drum axis.
3. A rotary scanner according to claim 2 which includes a lever mounted on one of said carriage segments, said lever being movable to separate said segments to enable mounting or demounting of a drum thereon.
4. A rotary scanner according to claim 2 in which said drum includes a radially extending slot on an end face thereof 



and in which said drum mounting means includes a driving pin for engagement with said slot for rotating said drum.
5. A rotary scanner according to claim 4 in which said driving pin is mounted on a first of said carriage segments and is urged into said slot by said spring means.
6. A rotary scanner according to claim 4 in which said slot has inwardly sloping walls parallel to said radial direction.
7. A rotary scanner according to claim 6 in which said slot has V-shaped walls parallel to said radial direction.
8. A rotary scanner according to claim 6 in which said pin has a curved end face for essentially point contact with said walls.
9. A rotary scanner according to claim 6 in which said pin is mounted for substantially point contact with said walls at a leading and trailing face thereof.
10. A rotary scanner according to claim 4 in which said drum includes a centrally located hole in said end face and in which said drum mounting means includes a shaft for engagement with said hole through a resilient sealing ring.
11. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 in which said analyzer lens mounting means includes:
(1) a carriage mounting said lens thereon,
(2) means for driving said carriage from a motor,
(3) means for selecting a source for motor drive signals from sources including user-generated signals and signals derived from one or more photodetectors receiving light from said document. 


 12. A rotary scanner according to claim 11 in which said user-generated signals include signals generated at a source remote from said scanner.
13. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 in which said first illuminating means comprises means surrounding said analyzer lens and mounted for movement therewith.
14. A rotary scanner according to claim 13 in which said first illuminating means comprises a ring removably secured to said analyzer lens and projecting light onto the focal spot of said lens.
15. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 in which said second illuminating means includes an illuminator lens for projecting light onto the focal spot of said analyzer lens through said drum.
16. A rotary scanner according to claim 15 which includes means mounting said illuminator lens for movement transverse to the optical axis of said analyzer lens.
17. A rotary scanner according to claim 16 which further includes means for moving said illuminator lens along the optical axis thereof to enable focusing of the illumination beam.
18. A rotary scanner according to claim 15 in which the numerical aperture of said illuminator lens is less than that of said analyzer lens whereby the focal spot of said illuminator lens remains within the field of view of said analyzer lens despite limited misalignment between the optical axes of said lenses.
19. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 in which said first and second illuminating means include first and second 


sources of illumination, respectively, each source of illumination comprising;
(1) a high intensity lamp,
(2) means mounting said lamp on a base, said base having a pair of locator elements therein for mating with a corresponding pair of locator elements on a base of said scanner, and in which said scanner base includes means for mounting illumination transmission elements in fixed relation to each said base, said lamp and said lamp base being replaceable as a unit to ensure alignment of said lamp with said transmission element.
20. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 which further includes a reference strip for providing white and dark references for scanning, said strip comprising:
(1) an outer layer of a highly reflective commercial base white material,
(2) an intermediate layer of a plastic material coated with a highly light-absorbent coating,
(3) a layer of an adhesive for securely fastening the strip to the drum.
21. A rotary scanner for both transmissive and reflective documents, comprising:
A. a drum mounted on a carriage for translation along a drum axis,
B. a cantilevered arm extending along said drum axis and having a transmittance illuminating source mounted at a free end thereof for illuminating a selected portion of the surface of the drum through said drum,
C. an analyzer lens mounted adjacent the drum and on the exterior thereof for analyzing said selected portion,
D. means for positioning a field stop of selectable size in the image plane of said analyzer lens, 


 E. a plurality of photodetectors for selectively receiving light transmitted through said field stop by said lens.
22. A rotary scanner according to claim 21 in which said field stop positioning means comprises indexing means having a plurality of stops thereon, said indexing means being indexable to select a desired field stop.
23. A rotary scanner according to claim 22 which includes a relay lens for transmitting the aperture image to said photodetectors at substantially constant size.
24. A rotary scanner according to claim 21 which includes a light source for providing pre-aligned and pre- focused illumination to said document, said light source comprising:
(a) a base for mounting on said scanner, said base having a plurality of locator elements for precisely fixing the position of said base with respect to said scanner, and at least one releasable connector for releasably securing said base to said scanner,
(b) a bracket extending from said base for mounting a lamp thereon, said bracket being translatable and rotatable with respect to said base in directions parallel to said base.
25. A rotary scanner according to claim 24 which includes means defining an aperture in said bracket and a plurality of fingers surrounding said aperture for holding said lamp in a position facing said aperture for transmission of light therethrough.
26. A rotary scanner according to claim 24 which includes at least first and second of said light sources mounted side by side and providing illumination scanning a document in reflective and transmissive mode, respectively. 


 27. A rotary scanner according to claim 21 in which said transmittance illuminating source includes a lens imaging an illuminating beam onto the exterior surface of said drum, and means for adjusting the focal position of said beam on said drum.
28. A rotary scanner according to claim 21 including means mounting said analyzer lens for motion along the optical path thereof, and means for setting the position of said lens along said path in response to the output of said photodetectors when operating in a focusing mode.
29. A rotary scanner according to claim 28 in which said position setting means comprises a motor for moving said lens and a controller energizing said motor to drive said lens to a position corresponding to the maximum rate of change of said detector outputs.
30. A rotary scanner according to claim 21 in which said carriage includes first and second carriage segments movably mounted on said base and connected for simultaneous translation therealong to effectuate line-by-line scanning of a document.
31. A rotary scanner according to claim 30 including an arm mounted on one of said carriage segments and rotatable to force said carriage segments apart, and a spring interconnecting said carriages and biasing said carriages toward each other.
32. A rotary scanner for both transmissive and reflective documents, comprising:
A. a drum mounted on a carriage for translation along a drum axis,
B. means for illuminating a focal area on said drum from both the interior and the exterior of said drum, 


 C. an analyzer lens mounted adjacent the drum and on the exterior thereof for analyzing said selected portion,
D. means for positioning a field stop in the image plane of said analyzer lens, the field stop being selected from a plurality of field stops, and
E. a plurality of photomultuplier tubes for selectively receiving light transmitted through said filed stop by said lens.
33. A rotary scanner according to claim 32 including a relay lens adjacent said field stop and transmitting to said tubes an image of relatively constant size from said analyzer lens despite the size of said aperture.
34. A rotary scanner according to claim 32 in which the ratio of said field stop areas is selectable over a range of up to 1600:1.
35. In a document scanner having a rotary drum, the improvement comprising coupling means for driving said drum, said coupling means comprising an end plate for said drum having formed therein a radially-extending V-shaped slot for substantially point-contact engagement with a driving pin for applying a driving force to said drum.
36. A rotary scanner according to claim 35 in which said pin has a rounded end face for contact with said slot.
37. A rotary document scanner for scanning documents, comprising:
A. a drum being adapted to receive a document on the exterior surface thereof for scanning;
B. means for releasably mounting the drum for motion along a drum axis and for rotation about said axis, comprising first and second separable carriage segments mounted for 


translation along a bed, said segments being releasably coupled to one another by spring means, and further including means for driving one of the segments along said drum axis; and
C. one or more holding fingers, having an axis in parallel with the drum axis, at least one finger positioned on each of the carriage segments, such that the fingers contact the peripheral ends of the drum while the drum is being loaded into position between the carriage segments.
38. A rotary document scanner according to claim 37 wherein each carriage includes two holding fingers.
39. A rotary document scanner according to claim 37 in which said drum comprises also includes end plates mounted on the outer ends of said drum, and in which the lengths of the fingers are chosen to extend inward beyond the innermost dimension of the end plate.
40. A rotary document scanner according to claim 37 in which the holding fingers are positioned far enough below the drum to clear the outer diameter of the drum while the drum is mounted on the carriage.
41. A rotary document scanner according to claim 39 in which said end plates also contain a radially-extending V- shaped slot for substantial point-contact engagement with a driving pin for applying force to said drum.
42. A rotary scanner according to claim 1 in which said second means for illuminating said imaging area includes a fiber optic cable having a scrambler placed over the end thereof.
43. A rotary scanner according to claim 42 in which said scrambler is a plate comprising a thin glass disk of a diameter 


equal to the that of the fiber optic cable and butted against it in a fitting that securely holds the scrambler to the cable,
44. A rotary scanner according to claim 43 in which the front face of said scrambler is roughened to form a diffusing surface which causes illuminating light passing through this surface to be spread out in a more uniform spatial distribution. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
