<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647509</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hand held power operated shears
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B712	B26B1500	B25B700	B26B1500	B26B1300	B26B1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B26B	B25B	B26B	B26B	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B7	B26B15	B25B7	B26B15	B26B13	B26B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Hand held fluid operated shears (20) comprises first and 
second blades (22,24). The blades (22,24) are pivotally connected for 

movement of one relative to the other about an axis (AA). The 
shears (20) include a thumb-receiving handle (64) and a finger-receiving 

handle (66). One of the handles (66) is supported for 
pivoting about the axis (AA) independently of both blades (20,22). 

The other handle (64) is fixed relative to the first blade (24). A 
fluid actuator (88) is coupled between the fixed handle (64) and 

the second blade (22). A fluid operated servo mechanism (82) is 
controlled by the second blade (22) and the pivoted handle (66) to 

control operation of the fluid actuator (88) to move the 
second blade (22) relative to the first blade (24) in coordination 

with the movement of the pivoted handle (66). The rate of 
movement of the second blade (22) decreases relative to the 

rate of movement of the pivoted handle (66) as the second 
blade (22) moves from an open position at an acute angle 

relative to the first blade (24) to a closed position where it 
overlies the first blade (24). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BETTCHER INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BETTCHER INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAYMOND HERRMANN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAYMOND, HERRMANN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to improved
power operated shears that are useful for industrial
cutting applications. In particular, the improved shears
of the present invention are suitable for use in the food
processing industry to cut and trim meat, and especially
to cut poultry. The invention relates to a hand held power operated tool
according to the preamble of claim 1, as known from US-A-2743707.Hand held manually operated conventional scissors
have been used for cutting and trimming meat and other
food products. Conventional scissors also have been used
in a variety of other industries for cutting sheet
material, such as cloth, textiles or thin metals. It was
necessary for an operator of the conventional scissors to
use a relatively large cutting effort and often the
operator's wrist was at an unnatural orientation.
Repetitive use at such orientation and large cutting
effort could cause injury to the operator's wrist. To
reduce the effort needed to operate such conventional
scissors, power operated shears have been devised.Most known power operated shears have various
shortcomings. For example, most such shears do not have
a similar physical arrangement to conventional scissors
and the blade movement cannot be controlled to the same
extent and in the same way as conventional manually
powered shears.Powered cutters for the pruning of plants have been
devised that operate similar to manually powered pruning
cutters. However, the structures of the powered cutters
do not lend themselves to a conventional manually powered
scissor type of arrangement which is typically used for 
cutting meat, poultry, cardboard, heavy cloth and the
like, and the powered movement of the blades is not
controlled in a manner ideal for scissors having
relatively long blades. In such manually powered shears,
a thumb ring and a finger loop extend in a direction
traverse to the extent of a pair of relatively straight
cutting blades. Also, many powered cutters provide a
"snap action" cut, in which operation of a trigger causes
a blade to close against or across another blade. The
speed of closing or the extent of closing, or both, are
not controllable by the operator once the closing action
begins. Thus, a need exists for power operated or power
assisted cutting shears that are arranged, operated and
controlled in a manner similar to that of conventional
manually-operated scissors.The present invention is directed to hand held power
operated shears. The power operated shears of the
present invention overcome the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hand held power operated tool (20), said tool
comprising:


first and second members (24, 22) for
performing a desired task upon relative movement from a

first position towards a second position;
a frame (62) for supporting said members for
relative movement;
a first handle (64) fixed with respect to
said frame (62) and a second relatively movable handle

(66), said second handle (66) supported for movement
indep
endently of said members and movably secured to said
frame (62);
an actuator (88) for moving said second
member (22) relative to said first member (24);

   
characterized by
 a servo mechanism (82)
controlled by said second member (22) and said second

handle (66) to control operation of said actuator (88) to
move said second member (22) relative to said first

member (24) in coordination with the movement of said
second handle (66); wherein said servo mechanism (82)

responds to a change in a position of said second handle
(66) with respect to said frame (62) to cause said

actuator (88) to move said second member (22) relative to
said first member (24) in proportion to the change in the

position of said second handle (66) with respect to said
frame (62).
The tool set forth in claim 1 wherein said
actuator is fluid operated and includes a piston located

within a chamber in said actuator, said piston being
movable upon the introduction of fluid pressure in said

chamber on one side of said piston, a rod (166) connected
to said piston effects pivotal movement of said second

member in response to movement of said piston. 
The tool set forth in claim 1 wherein said
second member is pivotable about an axis (AA) and further

includes a pivot portion (118) on said second handle for
supporting said second handle for pivotal movement about

the axis and a finger receiving handle portion offset
from said pivot portion in a direction parallel to the

axis, said finger receiving handle portion offset in a
direction to pivot in a plane relatively closer to the

plane in which said second member pivots than the plane
containing said pivot portion of said second handle.
The tool set forth in claim 1 wherein said
servo mechanism (82) is constructed and arranged to pivot

said second member (22) relative to said first member
(24) at a rate that decreases in response to a change in

position of said second member (22) relative to said
second handle (66) as said second member (22) moves from

the first position towards the second position.
The tool set forth in claim 1 wherein said
servo mechanism is constructed and arranged to move said

second blade through a greater angle than the angle
traversed by said second handle.
The tool as set forth in claim 1 wherein said
tool comprises hand held fluid operated shears in which

said first and second members comprise first and second
blades for cutting upon relative pivotal movement.
The tool set forth in claim 1 further including
a difference link connected with said second blade, said

second handle and said servo mechanism, said difference
link constructed and arranged to establish a

progressively decreasing rate of pivotal movement of said
second blade relative to a movement of said second handle

as said second blade moves from the open position towards
the closed position.
The tool set forth in claim 7, wherein said 
difference link is a substantially L-shaped member with a

first leg having a length greater than the length of a
second leg, the ratio of the length of the first leg to

the length of the second leg is in the range of 1.3:1 to
1.7:1.
The tool as set forth in claim 1 further
including a member link (340) coupled with the second

member and rotatable about the axis through the means
pivotally connecting the first and second members and

further including a difference link coupled between the
pivotal handle and the member link, the servo mechanism

includes a movable control element (400) to control the
operation of the fluid actuator, the control element

coupled to the difference link at a location intermediate
two locations where the difference link is coupled to the

pivoted handle and the member link. 
The tool as set forth in claim 9 wherein the location where the control
element is coupled to the difference link is displaced to one side of a straight line

extending between the two locations where the difference link is coupled to the
pivoted handle and the member link.
The tool as set forth in claim 9 wherein the coupling between the
control element and the difference link is offset from a straight line between the two

locations a distance that establishes a rate of movement of the second member
relative to the first member that varies as the member angle between the second

member and the first member changes.
The tool as set forth in claim 9 wherein the coupling between the
control element and the difference link is offset from a straight line between the two

locations a distance that establishes a rate of movement of the second member
relative to the first member that changes from a ratio of member movement to

movement of the pivotal handle which is greater than 5 when the acute angle
between the members is between about 35 and 45 degrees to a ratio of 2 or less when

the acute angle between the members is between about 0 and 8 degrees.
The tool set forth in claim 1 further including a safety device (86) for
selectively permitting or interrupting power flow to said actuator and a safety control

lever (202) extending into an opening of one of said handles, said safety control lever
movable from a first position extending into said opening to interrupt power flow to

said actuator and a second position located outside of said opening when an
operator's thumb is, or fingers are, received in the opening to allow power flow to

said actuator.
The tool as set forth in claim 1 wherein said servo mechanism (82)
comprises a control valve (84) for controlling fluid flow to said fluid actuator, said

control valve comprising a valve body (422) defining an elongated chamber (424), two
oppositely facing pistons (426, 428) are independently movable within the chamber, a

reciprocable valve stem (446) partially surrounded by said pistons, a first port (482) to 
the chamber located between the pistons and serving as a fluid inlet to the chamber,

second and third ports (484, 486) to the chamber for exhausting fluid from the
chamber and closable by a respective piston, and fourth and fifth ports (502, 504) to

the chamber each located longitudinally outward of a respective piston for
communicating fluid to and from the fluid actuator, the pistons prevent fluid flow to

and from the fourth and fifth ports when the valve stem is in a neutral first position,
and allow fluid flow to and from the fourth and fifth ports when the valve stem is in a

position other than the first position.
The tool as set forth in claims 13 and 14 including a frame integral with
said handle and wherein the safety valve and control valve are located within the

frame.
The tool as set forth in claim 15 wherein the safety device comprises a
first-class lever pivoted in the frame at a location along the length of the safety valve

to amplify an applied force, and wherein the lever is biased into the opening by the
safety valve.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
