<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644598</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image sensor device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27146	H01L27146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The semiconductor image sensor element comprises a transistor gate 
potential well 102, a virtual potential well 100 adjacent the transistor gate 

potential well 102, a clear gate barrier 104 adjacent the virtual potential well 
100, a clear drain 30 adjacent the clear gate barrier 104, and a charge sensor 

28 for sensing charge levels in the transistor gate potential well 102. The 
charge levels are responsive to light incident on the device. Charge is stored 

in the virtual potential well 100 during charge integration. After charge 
integration, the charge is transferred into the transistor gate potential well 

102 from the virtual potential well 100 for charge detection by the charge 
sensor 28. After charge detection, the charge is transferred from the 

transistor potential well 102 to the clear drain 30. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HYNECEK JAROSLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HYNECEK, JAROSLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to image sensor devices, and more 
particularly relates to bulk charge modulated image sensors. Without limiting the scope of the invention, its background is 
described in connection with bulk charge modulated device (BCMD) image 
sensors, as an example. A BCMD photocell is a device used in high 
performance image sensors for conversion of photon generated charge to an 
output signal. The photocell is a MOS phototransistor that has a potential 
well formed under the transistor channel. When the MOS phototransistor is 
illuminated, photogenerated charges are stored in the potential well. As 
charge accumulates in this potential well, the transistor threshold is 
modulated. This modulation is detected by a suitable signal processing 
circuit. The circuit is sensitive only to the threshold changes caused by light. 
This is important for elimination of random cell-to-cell fixed pattern noise 
otherwise induced by the fixed transistor threshold variations. A typical prior art BCMD photocell has a vertical overflow drain. This 
device is described in Hynecek, J, "Bulk Charge Modulated Transistor 
Threshold Image Sensor Elements and Method of Making", U.S. Patent 
4,901,129, issued Feb. 13, 1990. The typical prior art device is reset by 
pulsing the gate voltage so that the charge flows out of the charge well down 
to the substrate.  It has been discovered that a whole sensor reset in a bulk charge 
modulated device (BCMD) with a vertical overflow drain is difficult to 
accomplish. Generally, and in one form of the invention, the semiconductor image 
sensor element comprises a transistor gate potential well, a virtual potential 
well adjacent the transistor gate potential well, a clear gate barrier adjacent 
the virtual potential well, a clear drain adjacent the clear gate barrier, and a 
charge sensor for sensing charge levels in the transistor gate potential well. 
The charge levels are responsive to light incident on the device. Charge is 
stored in the virtual potential well during charge integration. After charge 
integration, the charge is transferred into the transistor gate potential well 
from the virtual potential well for charge detection by the charge sensor. 
After charge detection, the charge is transferred from the transistor gate 
potential well to the clear drain. This invention provides several advantages. One advantage is easier 
fabrication and process parameter control. The photocell is built in bulk 
substrate not in a CMOS well. Another advantage is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image sensing device comprising: 
a semiconductor substrate of a first conductivity type; 

a semiconductor region of a second conductivity type formed in the 
substrate; 

a transistor channel of a first conductivity type formed in the 
semiconductor region, the transistor channel including a transistor 

gate well for charge carriers of the second conductivity type, the 
transistor gate well formed at a substantial depth from the surface of 

the transistor, the charge carriers formed responsive to incident light; 
a source region of a first conductivity type formed in said 

semiconductor region and surrounded by the transistor channel, the 
source region operable to sense a change in threshold voltage of the 

transistor channel responsive to the collection of the charge carriers in 
the transistor gate well; 

a transistor drain region of the first conductivity type formed in the 
semiconductor region surrounding the transistor channel, the 

transistor drain region creates a virtual well in the semiconductor 
region for collecting the charge carriers during charge integration; 

a clear gate barrier region formed in the semiconductor region adjacent 
the virtual well; and 

a clear drain region of the second conductivity type formed in the 
semiconductor region adjacent the clear gate barrier region, the clear 

drain region operable to clear the charge carriers from the transistor 
gate well and the virtual well. 
The device of claim 1, further comprising: 
an insulator region formed over the surface of the semiconductor 

region; and 
a transistor gate electrode formed over the insulator region and 

overlying the transistor channel. 
The device of claim 2, further comprising a clear gate electrode formed 
over the insulator region and overlying the clear gate barrier region. 
The device of claim 3, further comprising acceptor implants in the 
semiconductor region below the clear gate electrode. 
The device of any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising donor implants 
in the semiconductor region below the transistor drain region. 
The device of any preceding claim, further comprising a first 
conductive contact coupled to the transistor source region and a second 

conductive contact coupled to the clear drain region. 
The device of any preceding claim, wherein a charge level in the 
transistor gate potential well is sensed by the transistor source region. 
The device of claim 7, wherein charge is transferred from one potential 
area to another potential area by changing the voltages on the clear 

gate electrode and the transistor gate electrode. 
The device of any preceding claim, further comprising a CMOS device 
in the semiconductor substrate spaced apart from the image sensing 

device. 
The device of claim 9, wherein the CMOS device comprises: 
a second semiconductor layer of a second conductivity type in the 

semiconductor substrate and spaced apart from the first semiconductor 
layer; 

a third semiconductor layer of a first conductivity type in the second 
semiconductor layer; 

a first MOS transistor in the second semiconductor layer; 
a second MOS transistor in the third semiconductor layer connected to 

the first MOS transistor to form CMOS transistors. 
A semiconductor image sensor element comprising: 
a transistor gate potential well; 

a virtual potential well adjacent the transistor gate potential well; 
a clear gate barrier adjacent the virtual potential well; 

a clear drain adjacent the clear gate barrier; 
a charge sensor for sensing charge levels in the transistor gate 

potential well, the charge levels responsive to light incident on the 
device, whereby charge is stored in the virtual potential well during 

charge integration, after charge integration, the charge is transferred 
into the transistor gate potential well from the virtual potential well 

for charge detection by the charge sensor, and, after charge detection, 
the charge is transferred from the transistor gate potential well to the 

clear drain. 
The device of claim 11, further comprising a first voltage source region 
in the second semiconductor layer and a second voltage source region 

in the third semiconductor layer such that a voltage source having a 
first polarity can be connected to the second semiconductor layer and a 

second voltage source having a second polarity can be connected to the 
third semiconductor layer. 
A method for fabricating an image sensing device comprising: 
forming a semiconductor substrate of a first conductivity type; 

forming a semiconductor layer of a second conductivity type in the 
substrate; 

forming a transistor drain region of the first conductivity type in the 
semiconductor layer, the transistor drain region forming a virtual well 

for carriers of the second conductivity type; 
forming a transistor source region of a first conductivity type in the 

semiconductor layer and spaced apart from the transistor drain region 
and surrounded by the transistor drain region; 

forming a clear drain region of a second conductivity type in the 
semiconductor layer and spaced apart from the transistor drain region 

and on the opposite side of the transistor drain region than the 

transistor source region; 
forming an insulating layer on the semiconductor layer; 

forming a transistor gate electrode on the insulating layer, the 
transistor gate electrode is located above a portion of the 

semiconductor layer that surrounds the transistor source region and is 
surrounded by the transistor drain region, the transistor gate electrode 

 
forming a transistor gate potential well for carriers of the second 

conductivity type; 
forming a clear gate electrode on the insulating layer, the clear gate 

electrode is located above a portion of the semiconductor region that is 
between the transistor drain region and the clear drain region, the 

clear gate electrode forming a clear gate barrier between the transistor 
source region and the clear drain region. 
The method of claim 12, further comprising forming the semiconductor 
substrate as P type and the semiconductor layer as N type. 
The method of claim 12 or claim 13, further comprising forming the 
transistor drain region and the transistor source region as P+ type, 

and the clear drain region as N+ type. 
The method of any of claims 12 to 14, further comprising forming the 
clear gate electrode and the transistor gate electrode of polysilicon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
