<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629388</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Two-piece ostomy appliance with face-plate bistable coupling ring
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F5445	A61F5445	A61F5448	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-piece ostomy appliance (10) comprising a pouch component (11) 
and a faceplate component (12). The faceplate component has disposed 

thereon a dual-state, bistable coupling ring (20) with a latching 
member (25) for sealingly engaging the periphery of an opening in the 

pouch component. The coupling ring has an annular base (21) defining 
a central opening and a contact face thereon surrounding the 

central opening. An annular collar (23) extends from the base and a 
bistable latching member is joined to the collar along an 

annular hinge line (28), the latching member providing a contact 
surface and being pivotable about said hinge line. The latching 

member pivots about the hinge line between a stable, 
substantially untensioned first state wherein the latching 

member projects generally axially away from the collar and a 
stable, tensioned second state wherein the latching member 

extends in a reverse directon towards the annular base with said 
contact face of the latching member being positioned for tight 

engagement with the annular base's contact face or with the 
annular periphery of the pouch component clamped between the 

base and the latching member. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLISTER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLISTER INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
METZ MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
METZ, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a face plate for a two-piece 
collection system of the type as described in the preamble of 
claim 1, and to a two-piece collection system having a face 
plate of the type as described in the preamble of claim 6. A face plate and a two-piece collection system of this type 
are described in US-A-4 419 100. This document describes a 
two-piece collection system, comprising a face plate and a 
pouch removably attached to one another by a first coupling 
ring provided on the face plate, and a second coupling ring 
provided on the pouch. The coupling ring of the face plate 
has an annular base defining a central opening, an annular 
collar extending from the base, and a latching member 
attached to the collar. The latching member is flexible and 
includes an essentially circumferentially outwardly facing 
contact surface. The contact surface is adapted to engage a 
corresponding inwardly facing contact surface of the coupling 
ring provided on the pouch. When the pouch is to be attached 
to the face plate, the coupling ring of the pouch is to be 
shifted over the coupling ring of the face plate thereby 
bending and/or compressing the latching member radially 
inwardly towards the opening for providing an elastic fit. 
For removing the pouch, the two coupling rings must be 
separated by tearing off the coupling ring of the pouch from 
the coupling ring of the face plate. When doing so, the 
latching member will automatically return to its single 
stable position, ready to receive another pouch. Thus, the 
coupling ring of the pouch must be sufficiently stiff and 
strong to compress and to hold compressed, the elastic 
latching member of the coupling ring of the face plate. US-A-5 167 653 describes two-piece collection system having a 
face plate and a pouch. Both the face plate and the pouch are 
provided with coupling rings to be engageable with one another 
by snap action. Once snapped into another, both rings form a 
destable hinge. The coupling ring on the pouch is that ring 
which performs the two stable positions and is formed of a 
relatively stiff, flexible plastic material.  
 Two-piece ostomy couplings generally require axial 
compressive forces to secure a pouch ring onto a faceplate 
ring. Typically, an element of the pouch ring stretches or 
deforms as it is applied over the faceplate ring bringing such 
surfaces into leakproof contact. For a more detailed 
description of further two-piece ostomy appliances, reference may 
be had to co-owned US-A-4,610,676 and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A faceplate for a two-piece collection system comprising 
a thin, flexible adhesive panel (13) for adhesive 

attachment to a skin surface; a coupling ring (20) formed 
of flexible, semi-rigid polymeric material; attachments 

for joining said coupling ring (20) to said panel (13); 
said coupling ring having an annular base (21) defining a 

central opening (24), an annular collar (23) extending 
from said base adjacent to and concentric with said 

opening, and an annular latching member (25) joined to 
said collar and providing a contact surface (25a);
characterised in that
 said coupling ring (20) has a 
contact face (22) surrounding said opening (24) and 

facing generally axially away from said panel (13); said 
latching member (25) is bistable and is joined to said 

collar (23) along an annular hinge line (28) for pivotal 
movement between a stable, substantially untensioned 

first state wherein said latching member projects 
generally axially away from both said collar (23) and 

said contact face (22) and a stable, tensioned second 
state wherein said latching member extends reversly 

towards said base (21) with said contact surface (25a) of 
said latching member positioned for tight engagement with 

said base's contact face (22). 
The faceplate of claim 1 in which said coupling ring (20) 
is formed integrally of said flexible, semi-rigid 

polymeric material.  
 
The face plate of claim 1 or 2, in which said latching 
member (25) includes a free end portion; said free end 

portion, when said member is in said second state, being 
under hoop stress and having an outside diameter greater 

than when said member is in untensioned first state. 
The face plate of claim 3 in which said latching member 
(25) passes through intermediate states as it is shifted 

between said first and second states, said free end 
portion having an outside diameter in said tensioned 

second state smaller than said outside diameter of said 
free end portion in said intermediate states. 
The face plate of any one of claims 1 to 4, in which said 
attachment means comprises a thin, flexible annular web 

(16) having an inner edge secured to said panel (13) and 
a concentric outer edge secured to said base (21) of said 

coupling ring (20). 
A two-piece collection system comprises a pouch component 
(11) and a face plate component (12); said pouch 

component (11) having a wall (34) defining a stoma-receiving 
opening (30); said faceplate component (12) 

comprising a thin, flexible adhesive panel (13) for 
adhesive attachment to a skin surface, a coupling ring 

(20) formed of flexible, semi-rigid polymeric material, 
and attachment means (16) for joining said coupling ring 

to said panel; said coupling ring (20) having a base (21) 
defining a central opening (24); an annular collar (23) 

extending from said base adjacent to an dconcentric with 
said opening (24) and an annular latching member (2
5) 
joined to said collar (23) and providing a contact 

surface (25a);
characterised in that
 said coupling ring (20) has a 
contact face (22) surrounding said opening (24) and 

facing generally axially away from said panel (13); said 
latching member (25) is bistable and is joined to said  

 
collar (23) along an annular hinge line (28) for pivotal 

movement between a stable, substantially untensioned 
first state wherein said latching member projects 

generally axially away from both said collar (23) and 
said contact face (22) and a stable, tensioned second 

state wherein said latching member extends reversly 
towards said base (21) with said contact surface (25a) of 

said latching member positioned for tight engagement with 
said base's contact face (22). 
The two-piece collection system of claim 6 in which said 
coupling ring (20) is integrally formed of said flexible, 

semi-rigid polymeric material. 
The two-piece collection system of claim 6 or 7, in which 
said latching member (25) includes a free end portion; 

said free end portion, when said latching member is in 
its second state, being under hoop stress and having an 

outside diameter greater than when said latching member 
is in said untensioned first state. 
The two-piece collection system of claim 8, in which said 
latching member (25) passes through intermediate states 

as it is shifted between said first and second states, 
said free end portion having an outside diameter in said 

tensioned state smaller than the outside diameter of said 
free end portion in said intermediate states. 
The two-piece collection system of any one of claims 6 to 
9, in which said attachment means (16) comprises a thin, 

flexible annular web having an inner edge secured to said 
panel and a concentric outer edge secured to said base 

(21) of said coupling ring (20). 
The two-piece collection system of any one of claims 6 to 
10, in which said pouch component (11) includes a 

flexible annular gripping ring (40) having an inner edge 
portion externally secured to a peripheral area of said  

 
wall (34) of said pouch component about said stoma 

receiving opening (30). 
The two-piece collection system of any one of claims 6 to 
11, in which said wall (34) of said pouch component (11) 

is comprised of a relatively thin and weak water-insoluble 
interior layer (38) and a relatively strong but 

water-soluble exterior layer (37). 
The two-piece collection system of claim 12, in which 
said water-soluble exterior layer (37) has an exposed 

edge at said stoma receiving opening (30); said base 
(21), collar (23) and latching member (25) of said 

coupling ring (20) shielding said edge from contact with 
fluids passing through said latching member, collar, and 

base when said components are coupled together. 
The two-piece collection system of any one of claims 11 
to 13, in which said gripping ring (40) is formed of a 

water-soluble polymeric material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
