<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618439</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Imaging optical device for examination of strongly scattering media
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2147	G01N2147	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the case of an imaging optical device for examination of strongly scattering media, especially biological tissue samples, having at least 1-dimensional spatial resolution in a depth direction of a measurement object, having a radiation source for emitting weakly coherent light, having a device for splitting the weakly coherent light into two partial beams, one of which is sent into an object branch to the measurement object and the other of which is sent into a reference branch to a reflecting element, and having a detector arrangement onto which the partial beams reflected by the reflecting element in the reference branch and by the measurement object in the object branch can be directed, caused to interfere with each other and investigated, the detector arrangement has a spatial extent transverse to the direction of incidence of the two partial beams onto the detector arrangement via which position-sensitive and simultaneous light signals can be received, and the two partial beams are guided in the object branch and the reference branch so that a spatial interference pattern is produced along the lateral extent of the detector arrangement, the reflecting element in the reference arm having only static or if necessary non-mechanical movable parts. By virtue of this, a simple, inexpensive and mechanically particularly stable reflectometer device is obtained, in which a rapid succession of images can be received. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRUKER MEDIZINTECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRUKER MEDIZINTECHNIK GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNUETTEL ALEXANDER DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNUETTEL, ALEXANDER DR.,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Optical imaging apparatus for the investigation of 
strongly scattering media, in particular biological 

tissue samples, with at least one-dimensional position 
resolution which always includes the depth direction of 

a measuring object, with a radiation source for the 
emission of light with short coherence length of at 

least 0.1 mm, with a device for splitting the low 
coherence length light into two partial beams, of which 

one is guided in an object arm to the measured object 
and the other in a reference arm to a reflecting 

element, and with a detector configuration onto which 
the partial beams reflected from the reflecting element 

in the reference arm and from the measured object in 
the object arm can be guided, brought into interference 

with another and detected, characterized in that, the 
detector configuration exhibits a spatial extent 

transverse to the direction of incidence of both 
partial beams on the detector configuration, over which 

light signals can be recorded in a position sensitive 
and simultaneous fashion and both partial beams in the 

object arm and in the reference arm are so guided that 
a spatial interference pattern forms along the lateral 

extent of the detector configuration due to the 
laterally spaced virtual light sources, whereby the 

reflecting element in the reference arm has only static 
parts which, at the most, vibrate in the micrometer 

range.  
 
Optical apparatus according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the object arm and the reference arm are parts 

of a Michelson interferometer. 
Optical apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that the detector configuration is 

fashioned for recording two-dimensional images. 
Optical apparatus according to claim 3, characterized 
in that the radiation source includes an array of point 

light sources arranged laterally to the direction of 
the radiation, in particular, a linear array. 
optical apparatus according to claim 3, characterized 
in that a device for the non-mechanical lateral 

deflection of the light emitted from the radiation 
source is provided for along the direction of the 

radiated light downstream of the radiation source. 
Optical apparatus according to claims 4 or 5, 
characterized in that devices are provided for 

three-dimensional imaging. 
Optical apparatus according to claims 4 and 6, 
characterized in that the devices for three-dimensional 

imaging include a device, arranged along the direction 
of the radiated light downstream of the radiation 

source, for non-mechanical lateral deflection of the 
light emitted from the radiation source. 
Optical apparatus according to claims 5 and 6, 
characterized in that a second device is provided for  

 
non-mechanical lateral deflection which deflects the 

light emitted from the radiation source in a direction 
transverse to the deflection direction of the first 

device for non-mechanical lateral deflection. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a device for frequency 

modulation of the optical frequency of the light of 
both partial beams is provided for. 
Optical device according to claim 9, characterized in 
that the reflecting element in the reference arm is a 

reflector vibrating with a defined frequency, in 
particular, a vibrating mirror. 
Optical apparatus according to claim 9, characterized 
in that a non-mechanical deflection device is provided 

in the course of beam of the partial beam in the 
reference arm or in the object arm with which a 

predetermined frequency shift can be superimposed on 
the appropriate partial beam. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the claims 9 
through 11, characterized in that the device for 

frequency modulation includes a piezoelectric element. 
Optical apparatus according to claim 11, characterized 
in that the deflection device is an acoustic optical 

modulator. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the claims 11 
through 13, characterized in that a microchannelplate 

(MCP) is provided, viewed in the direction of the  
 

incident light, in front of the detector configuration 
having a device for gate controlled amplitude 

modulation. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the claims 9 
through 13, characterized in that an additional 

non-mechanical deflection device is provided for along 
the direction of the incident light before the detector 

configuration to shift back the frequency. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the claims 9 
through 13, characterized in that the radiation source 

exhibits a device for amplitude modulation of the 
emitted light. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the detector 

configuration includes a laterally extended photodiode 
array. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the claims 1 
through 16, characterized in that the detector 

configuration includes a CCD-camera (charge-coupled 
device). 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radiation source 

includes a light emitting diode (LED). 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radiation source 

includes a super-luminescent diode (SLD).  
 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radiation source 

includes a short-time or pulsed laser. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radiation source is 

laterally extended, in particular, is an areally 
emitting lamp. 
Optical apparatus according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the optical construction 

is a free space device. 
Use of an optical apparatus according to one of the 
preceding claims for optical spectroscopy or 

spectrometry. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
