<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635129</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MICRO FUEL-CELL OXYGEN GAS SENSOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27416	G01N27416	G01N2749	G01N2749	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DELTA F CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DELTA F CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAGHER JOHN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASI ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAGHER JOHN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASI ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLEMicro Fuel-Cell Oxygen Gas SensorBACKGROUND AND BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAn electrochemical cell, in its simplest terms, consists of an anode (the oxidizing electrode) , a cathode (the reducing electrode) and an electrolyte. In order for the electrochemical cell to function, the electrolyte must be compatible with the mechanisms of oxidation and reduction at the electrodes. As well, it must provide a conductive path for the transport of ionic species between the electrodes.The electrochemical cell concept is broadly applied in industrial and scientific operations. Electrolytic cells are used in electroplating, water purification, and the production of high purity gases and metals while electrochemical cells, such as batteries and fuel cells provide a convenient means of energy storage and generation.Also, due to their very high level of sensitivity, electrochemical cells are used for measurement in a variety of analytical procedures and many laboratory and process control instruments depend on the electrochemical cell as the sensing element for their function.U.S. Patent 4,960,497 discloses a system wherein an electrolytic cell measures oxygen in the ppb range. In this system, the dissolved oxygen in the electrolyte is removed to allow for an accurate reading of the oxygen concentration in a gas sample. However, in this system, when measuring in the 0-100 ppb range, it was found that in some instances the signal-to-noise ratio was not high enough to provide a consistently accurate reading. There are other electrochemical systems currently available which measure oxygen in the 0-100 ppb range. In these systems, the anode, typically lead or cadmium, functions as a consumable half cell. A drawback inherent in these systems is that because the anode is consumed, its properties or characteristics change over time and this can affect the accuracy of the measurements, particularly in the ppb range. This drawback is typical of the consumable (battery) type 

electrochemical oxygen sensor.The present invention is directed to an electrochemical system and a method for measuring an analyte, i.e. oxygen, hydrogen, ammonia and hydrazine in the ppb range. Broadly the system functions as a hydrogen-oxygen alkaline fuel cell configured to generate a current which is linear to the rate at which the analyte is either reduced at a cathode, i.e. oxygen or oxidized at the anode, i.e. hydrogen, ammonia, hydrazine. The inventive system differs from prior art fuel cells in that prior art fuel cells are designed or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claim 1. A method for measuring the amount of oxygen in a gas which includes: establishing in an electrolyte an electrolytic path between sensing electrodes comprising a cathode and an anode,- placing the gaseous stream in contacting relationship with the cathode; reducing the oxygen at the cathode to form hydroxyl ions; placing hydrogen in contacting relationship with the anode; and oxidizing the hydrogen at the anode to form water and to establish a current which current is linear to the rate at which the oxygen is reduced at the cathode.
Claim 2. The method of Claim 1 which includes: flowing the gas into a cavity; and metering the gas from the cavity through a diffusion plate to the cathode.
Claim 3. The method of Claim 2 which includes: flowing the gas into the cavi y at a rate of 0.5 and 3.0 scfh.
Claim 4. The method of Claim 2 where the gas is at a temperature between about 32 and 125°F.
Claim 5. The method of Claim 2 where the sample is at a pressure of about 1.0 psig.
Claim 6. The method of Claim 1 wherein the electrolyte is aqueous 0.1 - 10 M KOH, but preferably 1 M KOH.
Claim 7. The method of Claim 1 wherein the cathode is a catalyzed carbon-Teflon electrode specifi- to oxygen reduction.
Claim 8. The method of Claim l which includes: flowing hydrogen to a cavity; and metering the hydrogen from the cavity through a diffusion 


plate to the anode.
Claim 9. The method of Claim 8 which includes: flowing the hydrogen into the cavity at a rate of 10 to 25 scch.
Claim 10. The method of Claim 8 wherein the hydrogen concentration delivered to the cavity is typically about 100% by volume.
Claim 11. The method of Claim 1 wherein the anode is a platinum catalyzed carbon-Teflon electrode specific to hydrogen oxidation.
Claim 12. The method of Claim l wherein the electrolytic path between the cathode and the anode is a first electrolytic path and which includes: providing a first barrier electrode and a second electrode, the barrier electrode interposed between the cathode and the bulk electrolyte, the first and second electrodes completing a second electrolytic path, the function of which is independent of the function of the first electrolytic path; and applying a voltage across the first and second electrodes to activate the barrier electrode such that unwanted components in the electrolyte are electrolytically inhibited from diffusing to the cathode.
Claim 13. The method of Claim 12 which includes: providing a reservoir of electrolyte in communication with the electrolyte of the cell and wherein the second electrode is disposed in the reservoir, the electrolytes of the cell and the reservoir being in fluid flow communication.
Claim 14. The method of Claim 12 which includes: polarizing the first barrier electrode to evolve hydrogen on said first barrier electrode while generating oxygen at the second electrode. 


 Claim 15. The method of Claim 14 wherein the oxygen generated at the second electrode effervesces from the reservoir.
Claim 16. The method of Claim 14 where the current between the barrier electrode and the second electrode is equivalent to the equilibrium concentration of 02 available at the barrier electrode.
Claim 17. The method of Claims 1 or 12 wherein the electrolytic path between the cathode and the anode is a first electrolytic path and which includes: providing a reservoir of electrolyte in communication with the electrolyte and producing a third pair of electrodes, one of said electrodes disposed in the reservoir of electrolyte and the other of said electrodes disposed in the electrolyte, which pair of electrodes provides a third electrolytic path, the function of which path is independent of the function of the first and second electrolytic paths; generating a current between the third pair of electrodes resulting in a pH gradient between the electrolyte of the reservoir and the electrolyte to provide for the migration of unwanted ionic species from the electrolyte to the reservoir, which unwanted species do not directly affect reactions at the cathode; and restricting the back diffusion of the unwanted ionic species from the reservoir into the cell, whereby the unwanted ionic species remain segregated from the electrolyte.
18. The method of claim 17 which includes: establishing a zone of hydroxyl ions in the electrolyte of the reservoir of a different concentration than the hydroxyl ions in the bulk electrolyte.
19. The method of Claim 17 which includes: emitting the ionic species from the reservoir by effervescence. 


 20. The method of Claim 17 which includes: emitting the ionic species by direct oxidation at the anode.
21. The method of Claim 17 which includes: scavenging the ionic species via electrode surface adsorption.
22. A method for measuring the amount of an analyte in a gas which includes: establishing in an electrolyte an electrolytic path between sensing electrodes; placing the gas in contacting relationship with a sensor catalytically specific to the analyte; converting the analyte to an ionic species; effecting the reconversion of the ionic species to an electrochemical byproduct and establishing a current in the electrolyte which is .linear to the rate at which the analyte is converted.
Claim 23. The method of Claim 22 wherein one of the sensing electrodes is an anode and where the analyte is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, ammonia and hydrazine and which includes: oxidizing the analyte at the anode.
Claim 24. The method of Claim 22 wherein one of the sensing electrodes is a cathode and wherein the analyte is oxygen and which includes: reducing the oxygen at the cathode.
Claim 25. A system for measuring the amount of oxygen in a gas which comprises: an electrochemical cell having an anode and a cathode and an electrolyte; means to establish an electrolytic path between the cathode and the anode; means to meter the gas to the cathode; 


 means to reduce the oxygen at the cathode to form hydroxyl ions; means to meter the hydrogen to the anode,- means to oxidize the hydrogen at the anode to form water and to establish a current which current is linear to the rate at which the oxygen is reduced at the cathode,- and means to measure the oxygen reduced.
Claim 26. The system of Claim 25 wherein the electrolyte is aqueous 0.1 - 10 M KOH, but preferably 1 M KOH.
Claim 27. The system of Claim 25 which includes: a cavity into which the gas flows and a diffuser plate interposed between the cavity and the cathode to meter the gas to the cathode.
Claim 28. The system of Claim 25 which includes: a cavity into which the hydrogen flows,- and a diffuser plate interposed between the anode and the cavity to meter the flow of the hydrogen to the anode.
Claim 29. The system of Claim 25 wherein the cathode is a catalyzed carbon-Teflon electrode specific to oxygen reduction.
Claim 30. The system of Claim 25 wherein the anode is a platinum catalyzed carbon-Teflon electrode specific to hydrogen oxidation.
Claim 31. The system of Claim 25 which comprises: a first barrier electrode and a second electrode, the first and secon electrodes completing a second electrolytic path, the function of which is independent of the function of the first electrolytic path; and means to apply a voltage across the first and second electrodes to activate the barrier electrode such that unwanted components in the electrolyte are electrolytically inhibited from diffusing to the cathode. 


 Claim 32. The system of Claim 31 which comprises: a reservoir of electrolyte in communication with the electrolyte in the cell, the second electrode disposed in the reservoir, the reservoir and the electrolyte in the electrochemical cell in fluid flow communication.
Claim 33. The system of Claim 32 which includes.- means to polarize the first barrier electrode to a potential at which dissolved oxygen is instantaneously consumed, at the second electrode oxygen is produced and released into the reservoir electrolyte.
Claim 34. The system of Claims 25 or 31 which includes: a reservoir of electrolytes in communication with the electrolyte of the electrochemical cell; wherein the anode and the cathode comprise a first pair of electrodes and the first barrier electrode and its associated second electrode comprise a second pair of electrodes and which comprises a third pair of electrodes, one of the electrodes of said third pair in the reservoir of electrolyte and the other of the electrodes disposed in the electrolyte of the electrochemical cell, the third pair of electrodes providing a third electrolytic path, the function of which path is independent of the function of the first or second electrolytic paths,- means to generate a current between the third pair of electrodes resulting in a pH gradient between the electrolyte or the reservoir and the electrolyte of the electrochemical cell, the third electrolytic path providing means for the migration of unwanted ionic species from the electrolyte to the reservoir; and means to restrict the back diffusion of the unwanted ionic species from the reservoir into the cell.
Claim 35. A system for measuring the amount of an analyte in a gas which comprises: an electrochemical cell having an electrolyte and a pair of sensing electrodes disposed in the electrolyte; 


 means to establish an electrolytic path between the sensing electrodes,- means to place the gas in contacting relationship with a sensor catalytically specific to the analyte,- means to convert the analyte to an ionic species and to establish a current in the electrolyte which is linear to the rate at which the analyte is converted; and means to measure the current produced.
Claim 36. The system of Claim 35 wherein one of the sensing electrodes is an anode and wherein the analyte is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, ammonia and hydrazine and which comprises: means to oxidize the analyte at the anode.
Claim 37. The system of Claim 35 wherein one of the sensing electrodes is a cathode and wherein the analyte is oxygen which comprises: means to reduce the oxygen at the cathode. a reservoir of electrolyte in communication with the electrolyte of the cell; a first electrode disposed in the electroyte of the cell; second means to generate an electrolysis current between the first and second electrodes said second means indepednent of the first means which current results in a pH gradient between said first and second electrodes and which current effects the migration of ionic species that may cause neutralization products to be formed in the electrolyte of the cell to the first electrode, the zone about the first electrode having a concentration of hydrogen ions such that the ionic species which tend to form neutralization products remain segregated from the electrolyte of the electrtolytic cell; and means to inhibit the back diffusion of said ionic species from the zone about the first electrtode of the electrolyte of the cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
