<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616579</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VACUUM PUMP MOTOR CONTROL APPARATUS AND METHOD OF OPERATION THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60T1700	B60T1700	F02B100	B60T1346	B60T1702	F02B104	B60T1346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60T	B60T	F02B	B60T	B60T	F02B	B60T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60T17	B60T17	F02B1	B60T13	B60T17	F02B1	B60T13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for controlling an electrically driven vacuum pump (16) for a motor vehicle provides that below a predetermined level of vacuum (approaching atmospheric pressure) the pump (16) runs at a first speed, and above that level of vacuum the pump (16) runs at a lower speed or is stopped. Pump control is by switching of a single pressure switch (21) between two states, switching from the first state to the second state being accompanied by a time delay to ensure a minimum running period at the first speed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WABCO AUTOMOTIVE UK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WABCO AUTOMOTIVE U.K. LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EARLE STEPHEN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EARLE, STEPHEN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to vacuum pump motor control 
apparatus and particularly to apparatus for controlling an 
electrically driven vacuum pump of a motor vehicle. The 
invention also relates to a method of controlling an 
electrically driven vacuum pump. For many years the partial vacuum created in the inlet 
manifold of a petrol engine has been utilized to exhaust the 
reservoir of a vacuum brake servo, thereby to provide power 
assistance for the vehicle brakes. Such a system is simple 
and extremely reliable. The vacuum available from the inlet manifold of a 
petrol engine may however be insufficient to meet brake 
servo demand in certain conditions of use. Furthermore the 
vacuum source may also be required for operation of other 
devices such as exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valves. Diesel engines have an unthrottled air supply and thus 
the partial vacuum in the inlet manifold is only marginally 
below atmospheric pressure; consequently a useful vacuum 
source is not available. Accordingly mechanically operated 
vacuum pumps have been proposed for cars and light trucks 
equipped with a conventional vacuum brake servo. Such pumps 
are typically driven from the engine camshaft by for example 
a follower or a belt. Vacuum pumps are not required for medium and heavy 
weight trucks because these vehicles are usually equipped  
 
with spring brakes actuated by a high pressure pneumatic 
control system. The space available under the bonnet of a car or light 
truck is usually limited, and the installation of a vacuum 
pump can cause difficulties if the vehicle design has been 
optimised for a petrol engined variant. In any event, the 
difficulty of installing an engine driven pump is 
exacerbated by the use of overhead camshaft engines because 
the pump mounting may tend to increase the vehicle bonnet 
height and reduce access to other parts of the engine. It 
may also be difficult to arrange adequate lubrication for a 
mechanically driven pump mounted at the top of an engine. Electrically driven vacuum pumps are suitable for 
installation in any convenient space in the engine 
compartment, and may advantageously be located in an area 
not subject to extremes of temperature cycling. Electrically driven vacuum pumps may be used to meet 
the entire vacuum demand or, in conjunction with the vacuum 
available from the inlet manifold of a petrol engine, to 
meet peak demands only. One problem with conventional vacuum pumps is that 
they are usually designed to work continuously throughout 
the speed range
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Vacuum pump control apparatus for an electrically 
driven vacuum pump (16,18), the apparatus comprising a 

pressure switch (21) for indicating a predetermined level of 
vacuum in a reservoir (11), said switch (21) having two 

states, and control means (19) responsive to a first state 
of said switch (21) indicative of vacuum below said 

predetermined level to cause the electrical drive (18) of 
said pump (16) to run at a given speed, and responsive to a 

second state of said switch (21) indicative of vacuum above 
said predetermined level to cause said electrical drive (18) 

to stop, characterised in that said control means further 
includes delay means operable to delay stopping of said 

electrical drive (18) in response to the second state of said 
switch (21). 
Vacuum pump control apparatus for an electrically 
driven vacuum pump (16,18), the apparatus comprising a 

pressure switch (21) for indicating a predetermined level of 
vacuum in a reservoir (11), said switch (21) having two 

states, and control means (19) responsive to a first state 
of 
said switch (21) indicative of vacuum below said 
predetermined level to cause the electrical drive (18) of 

said pump (16) to run at a given speed, characterised in 
that said control means (18) is responsive to a second state 

of said switch (21) indicative of vacuum above said 
predetermined level to cause said electrical drive (18) to 

run at a lower speed than said given speed, said control  
 

means further including delay means operable to delay 
slowing of said electrical drive (18) in response to the 

second state of said switch (21). 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein 
said switch (21) has an inherent hysteresis of approximately 

5 kPa. 
Apparatus according to any preceding claim 
wherein said delay means provides a time delay in the range 

2-5 seconds. 
Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said delay 
means provides a time delay in the range 3-4 seconds. 
Apparatus according to any preceding claim and 
further including timing means operable to de-energise said 

electrical drive (18) at a predetermined period after 
response to the first state of said switch (21), no further 

change of switch state having occurred during said 
predetermined period. 
Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said 
predetermined period is approximately 90 seconds. 
Apparatus according to any preceding claim and 
further including temeprature monitoring means to sense 

temperature of said electrical drive (18) and/or pump (16), 
and operable to de-energise said electrical drive (18) at a 

predetermined temperature. 
Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said 
predetermined temperature is 150°C.  

 
A method of operating an electrically driven 
vacuum pump to exhaust a reservoir, the method comprising 

the steps of:
 
   providing indicating means for indicating 

a predetermined level of vacuum in a reservoir:
 
   detecting a first state of said indicating means indicative of 

vacuum falling below said predetermined level;
 
   causing said pump to run at a given speed in response 

to detection of said first state;
 
   detecting a second state of said indicating means indicative of 

vacuum rising above said predetermined level; and de-energizing 
the electrical drive of said pump at a 

predetermined delay after detection of said second state. 
A method of operating an electrically driven 
vacuum pump to exhaust a reservoir, the method comprising 

the steps of:
 
   providing indicating means for indicating 

a predetermined level of vacuum in a reservoir;
 
   detecting a first state of said indicating means indicative of 

vacuum falling below said predetermined level;
 
   causing said pump to run at a given speed in response 

to detection of said first state;
 
   detecting a second state of said indicating means indicative of 

vacuum rising above said predetermined level; and
 
   causing said pump to run at a lower speed than said 

given speed at a predetermined delay after detection of said  
 

second state. 
The method of claim 10 or claim 11 and further 
including the alternative step of
 
   de-energising the electrical drive of said pump in the 

event that the second state of said indicating means has not been 
detected within a predetermined period. 
The method of any of claims 10-12 and further 
including the step of de-energising the electrical drive of 

said pump in the event that the temperature of said pump 
exceeds a predetermined level. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
