<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615898</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Propeller driven surfboard.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B3573	B63B3579	B63H1600	B63H1620	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	B63H	B63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B35	B63B35	B63H16	B63H16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A propeller driven surfboard is provided 
which consists of a hull having a nose at the bow and 

a tail at the stern. A skeg is mounted to the 
underside of the hull, while a seat having a support 

structure is mounted onto the hull between the nose 
and tail thereof for a person to sit on. A mechanism 

is mounted in the hull in front of the seat, for 
propelling the hull along a body of water. Another 

mechanism is mounted in the hull in back of the seat, 
for steering the hull along the body of water. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIRAKI WILTON FUKUMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIRAKI, WILTON FUKUMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIRAKI WILTON FUKUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIRAKI, WILTON FUKUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The instant invention relates generally to 
surfing equipment and more specifically it relates to 
a propeller driven surfboard.  Numerous surfing equipment have been 
provided in prior art that are adapted to be 
utilized in the sport of riding the crests or waves, 
especially on surfboards and wind surfers. While 
these units may be suitable for the particular 
purpose to which they address, they would not be as 
suitable for the purposes or the present invention as 
heretofore described.  A primary object of the present invention 
is to provide a propeller driven surfboard that will 
overcome the shortcomings of the prior art devices. Another object is to provide a propeller 
driven surfboard that is operated by pedal power from 
the legs of a person sitting on a seat on the 
surfboard. An additional object is to provide a 
propeller driven surfboard that is steered by the 
person sitting on the seat on the surfboard 
controlling a rudder at the stern.  A further object is to provide a propeller 
driven surfboard that is simple and easy to use. A still farther object is to provide a 
propeller driven surfboard that is economical in cost 
to manufacture. Further objects of the invention will 
appear as the description proceeds. To the accomplishment of the above and 
related objects, this invention may be embodied in 
the form illustrated in the accompanying drawings, 
attention being called to the fact, however, that the 
drawings are illustrative only, and that chances may 
be made in the specific construction illustrated and 
described within the scope of the appended claims.  FIGURE 1 is a front perspective view of the 
instant invention being used in a body of water. FIGURE 2 is a rear perspective view of the 
instant invention with parts broken away being used 
in the body of water. FIGURE 3 is a side view of the instant 
invention. FIGURE 4 is an enlarged perspective view of 
a portion of the instant invention showing the 
mechanism for manually driving the propeller.  FIGURE 5 is an enlarged perspective view 
with parts broken away and in section, showing a 
portion of the manually driving mechanism.  Turning now descriptively to the drawings, 
in which similar reference characters denote similar 
elements throughout the several views, the Figures 
illustrate a propeller driven surfboard 10, which 
consists of a hull 12 having a nose 14 at the bow and 
a tail 16 at the stern. A skeg 18 is mounted to the 
underside of the hull 12, while a seat 20 having a 
support structure 22 is mounted onto
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION IN WHICH AN EXCLUSIVE 
PROPERTY OR PRIVILEGE IS CLAIMED ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS:
A propeller driven surfboard which 
comprises: 


a) a hull having a nose at the bow and 
a tail at the stern; 
b) a skeg mounted to the underside of 
said hull; 
c) a seat having a support structure 
mounted onto said hull between the 

nose and tail thereof for a person 
to sit on; 

 
d) means mounted in said hull in front 

of said seat, for propelling said 
hull along a body of water; and 
e) means mounted in said hull in back 
of said seat, for steering said 

hull along the body of water. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 1, wherein said 

propelling means includes: 


a) an elongated shaft extending 
angularly through said hull and 

said skeg; 
b) a propeller mounted onto a lower 
end of said elongated shaft within 

the body of water; and 
c) means mounted on said hull in front of said seat, 
for manually rotating said elongated shaft by the 

person sitting on said seat, so that said 
propeller will turn within the body of water to 

propel said hull along the body of water. 
A propeller driven surfboard as recited in Claim 2, 
wherein said manually rotating means includes: 


a) a frame member having a plurality of legs mounted 
onto said hull in front of said seat, said 

plurality of legs include forward legs and 
rearward legs; 
b) a crankset assembly rotatably mounted to said 
frame member; 
c) a rope pulley assembly connected between one end 
of said crankset assembly and an upper end of 

said elongated shaft, so that the legs of the 
person sitting in said seat can operate said 

crankset assembly to operate said rope pulley 
assembly to turn said elongated shaft. 
A propeller driven surfboard as recited in Claim 3, 
wherein each of said legs of said frame member are 

mounted onto said hull by a fastener. 
A propeller driven surfboard as recited in Claim 4, 
wherein said fastener is a screw. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 5, wherein said frame 

member includes a bearing supported 
between said forward legs, so that 

said elongated shaft can extend 
through said bearing and be rotatably 

supported therein, while said bearing 
also transfers the forward thrust of 

said propeller to said frame member. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 6, wherein said 

crankset assembly includes: 

a) a sprocket rotatably mounted on 
said frame member; 
b) a pair of crank arms having a crank 
axle connected to said sprocket; 
c) a pair of pedals, each rotatably 
mounted on a distal end of one said 

crank arm; 
d) a gear cluster rotatably mounted 
on said frame member at a spaced 

away distance from said sprocket; 
e) a continuous drive chain extending 
between said sprocket and said gear 

cluster; and 
f) a tension wheel mounted to said 
frame member and is in engagement 

with said continuous drive chain. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 7, further including 

a speed control lever mounted on one 
of said rearward legs of said frame 

 
member, in which said speed control 

lever is mechanically connected to 
said gear cluster to change the speed 

of rotation of said gear cluster. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 8, wherein said rope 

pulley assembly includes: 

a) a first pulley rotatably mounted 
with said gear cluster on said 

frame member; 
b) a second pulley mounted onto the 
upper end of said elongated shaft 

below and at a right angle to said 
first pulley; and 
c) a continuous rope belt extending 
about said first pulley and said 

 
second pulley, so that when said 

first pulley rotates said 
continuous rope belt will transfer 

the rotation to said second pulley 
to turn said elongated shaft. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in claim 9, further including 

a pair of non-slip bands, each placed 
within an annular groove in said first 

pulley and in an annular groove in 
said second pulley to prevent said 

continuous rope belt from slipping 
therebetween. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 10, wherein said 

steering means includes: 
a) a rudder having a shaft pivotally 
mounted near the tail of said hull, 

so that said rudder will extend 
downwardly into the body of water; 
b) means mounted on said seat, for 
manually operating said rudder by 

the person sitting on said seat, so 
that said rudder will direct the 

course of said hull through the 
body of water. 
A propeller driven surfboard as 
recited in Claim 11, wherein said 

manually operating means includes: 

a) a rudder control lever mounted to 
the side of said support structure 

under said seat; and 
b) an elongated cable connected between said rudder 
control lever and a top end of said shaft of said 

rudder that extends through said hull, so that 
operation of said rudder control lever by a hand 

of the person in said seat will turn said rudder. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
