<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623089</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH CAPACITY SHEET FEEDERS FOR HIGH VOLUME PRINTERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H108	B65H114	B65H114	B65H118	B65H130	B65H130	B65H522	B65H522	G03G1500	G03G1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H1	B65H1	B65H1	B65H1	B65H1	B65H1	B65H5	B65H5	G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high speed sheet feeder (21) for directing sheets to a host utilization device having a stack feed elevator platform accessed by a drawer provides a feed ramp (29) for supporting a stack of sheets. Sheets in the stack are deshingled by a feeder singulator (24) and driven, typically, downwardly to a feed tray (26) extending remote from the singulator. The feed tray (26) receives sheets in a space that enables formation of a second smaller stack of sheets. The tray (26) further includes an opening adjacent the second stack that enables sheets to be slid from the top of the second stack. The tray (26) is positioned and constructed so that it can enter and be removed from a port in the drawer of the utilization device. The feed tray's positioning relative to the port allows sheets in the second stack to be placed adjacent a utilization device singulator (143) in the drawer so that sheets can be removed by the utilization device singulator (143) for processing thereby. In utilization devices having two drawers positioned one atop the other, the tray can be constructed so that the drawer not interfaced with the tray can be accessed for loading without removing the tray from the other drawer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROLL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROLL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLICZ ROMAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLICZ ROMAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH CAPACITY SHEET FEEDERS FOR HIGH VOLUME PRINTERSRelated Applications This application is a continuation-in-part of co-pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/775,200 filed October 9, 1991.This invention relates to extremely high capacity sheet feeders, for supplying a block of as many as thirty reams of paper sheets, automatically fed to the infeed mechanism of such high volume printers as the Xerox® printer model 9500, 9700, 4090, photocopiers or other sheet paper using "host" machines.Related ArtThese high volume copiers or cut sheet printers are each provided with paper supply feed mechanisms, consisting of an elevator platform adapted for vertical elevation. A variable capacity stack of paper sheets, generally 500 to 4,000 sheets, is placed on the platform, which is elevated on command until the uppermost sheet contacts the printer's feed mechanism. The ascent of the paper stack is stopped by the printer's feed mechanism limit switch.As the uppermost paper sheets are fed into the printer, the limit switch is deactivated, thus raising the platform and the remaining stack of paper sheets until the cycle is repeated.When this load of sheets has been fed through the copier or printer, a "reload" time of between two and five minutes may be required to place up to eight more 

 reams of paper sheets on the tray in succession, with proper edge alignment for feed registration. The loading operation, therefore, consumes between 10 and 25% of the printer's total operating time.Brief Summary of the Invention The slanting loading ramp and feed mechanism of this sheet feeder invention permits as many as thirty reams or 15,000 sheets of paper to be loaded and aligned as an elongated block or feed stock column, at the user's convenience, without interfering with the printer's normal high volume printing operations. A very brief interruption permits the loading ramp of the present invention to advance its total feed stock column into feeding position, and the counterbalanced infeed tray of the feeder is already in the feeding position, ready to continue resupplying the printer.When access to the infeed tray of the high volume printer is desired for normal operation, adjustments, inspection or maintenance, the sheet feeder of the present invention can be entirely unlatched and rolled away along an underlying track, providing ample access to all sides of the host machine.These high volume copiers and printers take their infeed 'sheets from the top of the- sheet stack on the elevator tray. As long as the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A high speed sheet feeder for directing sheets to a host utilization device having a stack feed elevator platform accessed by a drawer, the sheet feeder comprising: a feed ramp for supporting a stack of sheets; a feeder singulator for deshingling sheets from the stack; a feed tray remote from the feeder singulator for receiving sheets from the feeder singulator, the tray including a space for forming a second smaller stack of sheets therein and the tray further including an opening proximate the second stack so that sheets can be slid from a top of the second stack; and the feed tray being constructed and arranged to pass through a port in the drawer of the utilization device so that the second stack of sheets is positioned proximate a utilization device singulator that is located adjacent the drawer.
2. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a pivot positioned on the tray so that the tray is raised and lowered by a stack feed elevator platform in the printer to bring the second stack of sheets, respectively, into and out of contact with the utilization device singulator.
3. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 2 further comprising a plurality of substantially vertical bridging belts for directing sheets from the feeder singulator to the tray. 


 4. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 3 wherein the tray comprises a lower platform and an upper platform, the stack opening being defined in a space therebetween and the lower platform including a plurality of conveyor belts for transporting sheets along the tray to the second stack.
5. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 4 wherein the tray further comprises a stacking guide that directs sheets fed by the conveyor belts to a position in the stack between a bottom face of the stack and the lower platform.
6. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 1 wherein the tray includes a slot along a side thereof for allowing sheets to be slid from the top of the second stack by the utilization device singulator in a direction substantially transverse to a direction in which sheets pass from the feeder singulator to the tray.
7. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 6 wherein the tray includes a recessed edge proximate the slot for allowing overhanging sheet edges to be bent downwardly in contact with the utilization device singulator.
8. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 1 wherein the drawer includes a front having a selectably releasable door therein for receiving the tray. 


 9. A high sheet feeder as set forth in claim 8 wherein the feed ramp includes an interlock probe and wherein the drawer includes an interengaging orifice for receiving the probe, the interlock disconnecting a drawer lock for enabling the drawer to be opened and closed in conjunction with the tray interconnected thereto.
10. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 8 wherein the drawer includes a stack feed elevator platform having a plurality of feed screws thereon for raising and lowering the platform, a pair of feed screws proximate the drawer front being lowered to allow positioning of the tray thereover, lower ends of the screws being supported by lowermost bearings on brackets extending below a base of the drawer.
11. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a feed sensor for detecting a thickness of the second stack, the feed sensor being interconnected to the feeder singulator so that a thickness below a predetermined level signals the feeder singulator to direct additional sheets to the second stack.
12. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 11 wherein the feed sensor comprises a ball bearing engaging the stack and a microswitch positioned over the ball bearing so that vertical movement of the ball bearing alternatively activates and deactivates the microswitch. 


 13. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 12 further comprising a jam sensor positioned on the tray upstream of the feeder sensor, the jam sensor detecting a second stack thickness below a second predetermined level, the jam sensor signalling a jam alarm in response thereto.
14. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 1 wherein the utilization device includes at least two drawers, the drawers being positioned with one of the drawers atop another of the drawers and wherein the feed tray is constructed and arranged to be positioned through the portal in one of the drawers so that another of the drawers can be accessed for loading with sheets.
15. A high speed sheet feeder as set forth in claim 14 wherein the portal is positioned on a lower of the at least two drawers.
16. A method for interfacing a high speed sheet feeder with a host utilization device having a stack feed elevator platform accessed by a drawer, comprising the steps of: defining a port in a front of the drawer of the utilization device; positioning a feed tray through the port into the drawer proximate a utilization device singulator; directing sheets from a sheet feeder stack to a second stack in the feed tray; and maintaining a predetermined second stack thickness by adding sheets from the sheet feeder stack to the second stack as sheets are removed from the second stack by the utilization device singulator. 



 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 further comprising directing sheets into the second stack to a side of the stack opposite a side engaging the utilization device singulator.
18. A method as set forth in claim 17 further comprising raising a stack feed elevator platform of the drawer to place the second stack of the tray into engagement with the utilization device singulator.
19. A method as set forth in claim 18 further comprising bending edges of the second stack into an angle substantially equal to an angle of sheets normally supported on the stack feed elevator platform.
20. A method as set forth in claim 19 wherein the step of bending includes engaging the edges with the utilization device singulator.
21. A method as set forth in claim 20 wherein the stack feed elevator platform includes a plurality of lead screws for raising and lowering the stack feed elevator platform and wherein the step of defining a port includes lowering respective tops of lead screws proximate the door front so that the tray can pass thereover, the step of lowering including supporting bases of the screws in bearings positioned below the level of a base of the drawer.
22. A method as set forth in claim 16 further comprising maintaining a predetermined second stack thickness, the step for maintaining including sensing the thickness of the stack and adding additional sheets to the stack when the thickness is less than the predetermined thickness. 


 23. A method as set forth in claim 16 wherein the utilization device includes at least two drawers, positioned so that one of the drawers is located atop another of the drawers, and the step of positioning includes locating the feed tray in the port in one of the drawers so that the other of the drawers can be loaded with sheets while the feed tray is positioned in the one of the drawers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
