<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617438</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An ignition coil and a method for the manufacture thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01F2702	H01F2702	H01F3800	H01F3812	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01F	H01F	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01F27	H01F27	H01F38	H01F38	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ignition coil (B) of the "plug-top" type comprises a 
tank-shaped insulating container (5) in which a primary 

winding (12c) and a secondary winding (4a) are 
disposed. The empty spaces in the container (5) are 

filled with an insulating material which is poured 
therein in the liquid state and hardened. The 

container (5), fitted with the magnetic core (7), is 
then completely covered with resin (R) by moulding. 

The co-moulding of resin (R) on the completed coil (B) 
reduces noise and corrosion of the plates of the 

magnetic core (7). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNETI MARELLI SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDUSTRIE MAGNETI MARELLI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEONE ALESSANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORINI FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEONE, ALESSANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORINI, FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ignition coil for 
use, in particular, in an internal combustion engine 
having an ignition system with electronic distribution. More specifically, the invention relates to an ignition 
coil of the so-called "plug-top" type, that is, the 
type which is intended to be mounted directly on a 
respective spark plug and which comprises a 
substantially tank-shaped insulating container in which 
coaxial primary and secondary windings are supported, 
the empty spaces in the container being filled with an 
electrically insulating material which is poured 
therein in the liquid state and then hardened, and a 
magnetic core having at least one arm extending through 
the primary and secondary windings. Coils of this type have the disadvantage that they have 
insufficient protection for the plates of the magnetic 
cores, since these are disposed outside the container. 
For this reason, the pack of plates of the magnetic 
core is subject to corrosion and may have the typical 
noisiness of magnetic cores of this type. The object of the present invention is to provide a 
coil which enables all the problems indicated above to 
be solved in a satisfactory manner. According to the present invention, this object is 
achieved by virtue of an ignition coil, characterized 
in that the container and the magnetic core are 
substantially covered by a second insulating material 
which is applied in the liquid state and then hardened.  An ignition coil formed according to the present 
invention can pass a salt-fog resistance test (400 
hours) and at the same time is less noisy than the 
coils normally produced. Moreover, the reduction in components and the 
manufacturing method of the present invention enable an 
ignition coil of low cost and complexity to be 
produced. Further advantages and characteristics of the present 
invention will become clear from the following detailed 
description, given with the aid of the appended 
drawings, provided by way of non-limiting example, in 
which: 
Figure 1 shows schematically, an element for supporting 
the coil according to the present invention, Figure 2 is a sectioned view of the element shown in 
Figure 1, Figure 3 shows, in partial section, the primary winding 
assembly of the coil according to the present 
invention, Figure 4 shows, in partial section, the assembly of the 
two windings of the coil according to the present 
invention, Figure 5 is a side view of the assembly shown in Figure 
3, Figure 6 is a partially sectioned view of the assembly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical or electronic device, particularly an 
ignition coil (B) for an internal combustion engine, of 

the type which is intended to be mounted on a 
respective spark plug, comprising: 

a substantially tank-shaped insulating container (5) in 
which coaxial primary (12c) and secondary (4a) windings 

are supported, the empty spaces in the container (5) 
being filled with a first electrically insulating 

material which is poured therein in the liquid state 
and then hardened, and 

a magnetic core (7) having at least one arm which 
extends through the primary (12c) and secondary (4a) 

windings, 
characterized in that the container (5) and the 

magnetic core (7) are substantially covered by a second 
insulating material (R) which is applied in the lqi
uid 
state and then hardened. 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in that 
it comprises support means (1) having seats (10a, 10b, 

10c) for the mounting of first (3) and second (4) 
bobbin means on which the primary (12c) and secondary 

(4a) windings are wound. 
A device according to Claim 2, characterized in that 
the support means (1) have a substantially toroidal 

formation (18) for engaging a corresponding groove (19) 
formed in the wall of a first hole in the container 

(5) in order to prevent the first insulating material 
from leaking to the exterior, a portion of the support 

 
means (1) projecting from the container (5) for housing 

high-tension means (2) for connection to the spark 
splug. 
A device according to Claim 3, characterized in that 
the support means (1) can house electrical rectifier 

means (10) connected between the secondary winding (4a) 
and the high-tension connection means (2). 
A device according to Claim 2, characterized in that 
the first bobbin means (3) have two substantially 

toroidal formations (20a, 20b) which, in order to 
prevent leakages of the first insulating material to 

the exterior, can engage two corresponding grooves 
(21a, 21b) formed in correspondence with two second 

holes (26) in the container (5) to enable the arm to 
extend through the windings (12c, 4a). 
A device according to any one of Claims 2 to 5, 
characterized in that the support means (1) and the 

first bobbin means (3) are fitted in the container (5) 
by ultrasound welding. 
A device according to Claim 2, characterized in that 
the first bobbin means (3) has seats (14a, 14b, 14c) 

which can be engaged by respective projections (15a, 
15b, 15c) of the second bobbin means (4) in a manner 

such that the bobbin means (3, 4) can be assembled only 
in the correct position. 
A device according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises electrical 

connection means (12, 13) and in that the ends (12b, 
13b) of the primary winding (12c) are welded directly 

to the electrical connection means (12a, 13a) by 
 

ultrasound welding. 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in that 
it comprises an electrical conductor connected to the 

magnetic core (7) for connecting the magnetic core (7) 
to earth. 
A device according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the secondary winding 

(4a) has a first terminal (16) connected to first 
connection means (2) and a second terminal (17) 

connected to second, high-tension, connection means 
having respective substantially tubular means (1, 32) 

of insulating material. 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the first insulating material is a two-part epoxy 

resin. 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the second insulating material is a plastics resin 

(R). 
A device according to Claim 12, characterized in 
that the plastics resin (R) is PBT filled with 

elastomers. 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the magnetic core (7) is constituted by plates of 

ferromagnetic material. 
A device according to claim 14, characterized in 
that the plates are disposed in two substantially 

"E"-shaped packs (24, 25) having two holes (29, 30) for 
enabling the device to be fixed in its final position 

 
of use. 
A method of manufacturing a device of the type 
described in any one of Claims 1 to 15, comprising the 

steps of: 

winding the primary (12c) and secondary (4a) windings 
on the first (3) and second (4) bobbin means, 
fitting the electrical connection means (12, 13) on 
the first bobbin means (3) by the hot upsetting of 

projections on a flange (14) of the first bobbin means 
(3), 
welding the ends (12b, 13b) of the primary winding 
(12c) to the electrical connection means (12a, 13a), 
fitting the first (3) and second (4) bobbin means 
together, 
connecting the support means (1) to the high-tension 
connection means (2) and the electrical rectifier means 

(10), 
fitting the support means (1) and the bobbin means 
(3, 4) together, 
welding the ends (16, 17) of the secondary winding 
(4a), 
fitting the magnetic core (7) in the container (5), 
welding the two packs (24, 25) of plates together by 

TIG or laser welding, 
pouring the first insulating material into the 
 

container (5) and then hardening it, 
covering the device (B) with the second insulating 
material (R) by moulding, the moulding also being able 

simultaneously to form substantially tubular protection 
and connection means (31) for the electrical connection 

means. 
A method according to Claim 16, characterized in 
that the step in which the ends (16, 17) of the 

secondary winding (4a) are welded consists of the 
welding of a first end (16) of the secondary winding 

(4a) to one of the electrical connection means (12) and 
of a second end (17) to the electrical rectifier means 

(10). 
A method according to Claim 16, characterized in 
that the step in which the ends (16, 17) of the 

secondary winding (4a) are welded consists of the 
welding of a first end (16) of the secondary winding 

(4a) to the electrical rectifier means (10) and of a 
second end (17) to electrical rectifier means disposed 

in the second high-tension connection means (32). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
