<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610158</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fixed frequency converter switching at zero voltage
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M324	H02M3335	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A converter is operated with a main switch in series circuit 
with primary winding of the isolation transformer and an 

auxiliary switch for charging a reset capacitor also in circuit 
with the primary winding. The main switch and auxiliary switch 

are operated through control logic so that neither switch is ON 
at the same time. A predetermined dead time is provided between 

turning OFF the auxiliary switch and turning ON the main switch 
to allow the output capacitance of the main switch to discharge 

to zero. The power is transferred to the output during the ON 
and OFF time of the main switch. The power can be transferred 

to the output also during only the off time. In the case when 
the power is transferred from the primary to the secondary 

during both ON and OFF time, an inductor or a saturable reactor 
is series circuit with the secondary or a selectively controlled 

rectifier is used. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MELCHER AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MELCHER AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELDIANU VASILE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JITARU IONEL DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELDIANU, VASILE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JITARU, IONEL DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to DC-to-DC converters, DC-to-AC inverters 
and AC-to-DC converters. The major characteristic of 
this power conversion technique is that transfers the power to 
the secondary continuously, and the switching elements switch 
at zero voltage. There is a continuing industry demand for increasing power density, 
which means more power transferred in a given volume. A 
method for increasing the power transfer through the converter 
is to increase the switching frequency. 
Using prior art topologies 
such as forward or flyback, which employ "hard" switching 
techniques, makes high frequency operation less efficient. The 
switching losses associated with switching elements, which turn 
on when there is a voltage across them, are proportional with 
the switching frequency. An increase in switching frequency, 
leads to an increase in switching losses and an increase in 
level of electromagnetic interference (EMI). In order to overcome limitations in switching speeds, the prior 
art has devised a new family of resonant and quasi-resonant 
converters. In the case of quasi-resonant converters, the prior 
art technique consists of shaping the current or voltage to 
become half sinusoidal by adding additional inductors or capacitors, and to perform the switching when the  
 
current or voltage reaches zero. 
An example of one such circuit can be found in Vinciarelli, 
"Forward Converter Switching at Zero Current", U.S. 
Patent 4,415,959.  
 Another family of quasi-resonant converters which switch at 
zero voltage is described by F.C.Lee in High Frequency Power 
Conversion International Proceedings (April 1987), Intertec 
Communications, Ventura, California. All these convertors have the disadvantage that the RMS. 
voltage and/or current is higher than in hard switching 
designs and a switching frequency that is dependent upon the 
input voltage and output load. This tends to limit there 
applications to lower power levels. Another drawback associated with prior art power conversion 
technique is the fact that the power is transfer to the secondary 
during a portion of the cycle. Common prior art topology 
such as forward, transfers the power to the secondary during 
the ON time of the main switch. In the case of flyback 
converter the power is transferred to the load during OFF time 
of the main switch. These topologies require large outpu filters 
in order to smooth the power transfer to the load. A further prior art can be found in EP 0 474 471 A2. The 
technique utilised is a conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A DC to DC converter of the single ended forward type with 
a reset switch and an output winding, consisting of a DC 

voltage source (56), a transformer (60) having a primary 
(40) and a secondary winding (42) and main switching means 

(30) for selectively coupling the voltage source across the 
primary winding (40) of the transformer (60) and further 

comprising auxiliary switching means (32) for selectively 
allowing the voltage across the primary winding (40) to 

reach zero, the main switching means (30) and the auxiliary 
switching means (32) each having an OFF period and an ON 

period with the auxiliary switching means (32) being non 
conductive prior to the ON period of the main switching 

means (30) by a predetermined time period sufficient to 
allow the voltage across the main switching means (30) to 

reach zero voltage with the auxiliary switching means 
(32) remaining nonconductive until the main switching means 

(30) cycles through its corresponding ON period and half 
its OFF period; a reset capacitor (36) coupled between the 

auxiliary switching means (32) DC ground of the power 
source (56); third switching means (62, 63) coupled in 

series with the secondary winding (42) of the transformer 
(60) for selectively remaining 

nonconductive as long as the voltage across the main 
switching means (30) decreases, said third switching means 

(62, 63) becoming conductive when the voltage across said 
main switching means (30) is basically zero; a first 

rectifier means (48) coupled in series with said third 
switching means (32) for conducting current from said third 

switching means (62, 63), a second rectifier means (50) 
forming at one end and a common connection with the first 

rectifying means (48) and connected at the other end to the 
free end of said transformer secondary (42); a control  

 
circuit (100, 101) for selectively operating said main 

(30), auxiliary (32) and third (62, 63) switching means to 
transfer energy through said DC to DC converter by 

modification of the duty cycle of at least the main and 
auxiliary switching means (33, 32), during the ON and OFF 

time of said main switching means (30) turns on at basically 
zero volts, characterized in that said transformer 

(60) has a tapped output winding (42, 44), that said second 
rectifying means (50) is connected to the free end of said 

tapped winding (44) and forms a common connection with the 
first rectifying means (48). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the first rectifying means and third switching means 

comprises a unidirectional controlled switch means (62), 
selectively operated by the control means (101) so the 

unidirectionally controlled switching (62) means is nonconductive 
until the voltage across the main switching 

means (30) reaches zero and is then conductive during the 
corresponding ON time of said main switching means (30). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised by 
a plurality of tapped secondary windings (42,44). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the third switching means (62, 63) is a saturable 

reactor (63). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the third switching means (62, 63) is an inductor 

(64). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1 characterised in 
that the said third switching means (62,63), is replaced on  

 
the secondary side by a connection and moved to the primary 

side, such that it is connected is series with the primary 
winding (40) of the said transformer (60). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised by 
a load (52) and a load inductor (54), one end of the said 

inductor (54) being connected to the common connection from 
the rectifying means (48,50), and the other end being 

connected the said load (52), the other end of said load 
(52) being connected to the common connection of the 

transformer secondaries (42,44). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the third switching means (62,63) is removed and 

further characterised with the addition of a load (54) and 
two in phase coupled inductors (128,134), which are connected 

at one end together and to the load (54), the other 
ends being connected to the cathodes of the first (48), and 

second(50) rectifying means, by a third rectifying means 
(126) with its cathode connected to the cathode of said 

first rectifying means (48) and its anode connected to the 
common connection of the transformer secondaries (42,44) 

and the free end of said load (54). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 8, characterised 
with the third switching means(63) being the leakage 

inductance (90) between the primary (40) and secondary 
(42, 44) windings of the isolation transformer (60).  

 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised by 
a single secondary winding (138) with a series connected 

third switch (63), by a first rectifying means (48) connected 
to the free end of said third switch (63), by a second 

rectifying means (50) connected to the other end of 
said secondary winding (138), with the other end of said 

second rectifying means (50) forming a common connection of 
cathodes or anodes with first rectifying means (48), by two 

supplementary inductors (144,146), and a load (54), the inductors 
connected in series, with the non common ends connected 

to the ends of said secondary winding (138), the 
common ends connected to said load (54), the other end of 

said load (54) being connected to the common end of said 
rectifying means (50). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 10, wherein the two 
supplementary inductors (144,146) are implemented on the 

outer legs of the gapped transformer core (58). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 10, characterised 
by the first and second rectifying means (48,50) , being 

controlled rectifying means (182,184). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 6 or 10, characterised 
with a control means (100) that senses the input voltage, 

input current, and output voltage, said control means (100) 
maintaining a constant voltage across said load (54), and 

forcing the input current to follow a desired shape by 
varying the ON period of main switching means (30). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 10, characterised 
by, first (48) and second (50) rectifying means being replaced 

with a full wave rectifying means (124), one AC input, 
being connected to the free end of secondary winding  

 
(138), by other AC input connected to the free end of third 

switching means (63). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 14, characterised 
with an output inductor, one end being connected to the 

plus point of said rectifying means (124), by a load (54), 
connected between said output inductor and minus of said 

rectifying means (124). 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised by 
a control means (100) that senses the voltage across said 

main switching means (30), and turns ON said main switching 
means (30) at basically zero volts. 
A DC to DC converter according to claim 1, characterised 
with a second main switching means (152), connected between 

said voltage source (56), and end of said primary winding 
(40), that is not connected to first main switching means 

(30), by said reset capacitor (38), connected to said reset 
switching means (32) and said primary winding (40), with 

said reset switch (32) with the anti-parallel diode(34) 
connected to the other end of said primary winding (40) in 

series with said capacitor (38). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
