<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612298</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RESILIENT SQUEEZE BOTTLE WITH AN INNER RECEPTACLE WHICH INVERTS UPON EMPTYING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D3500	B65D3522	B65D4734	B65D4734	B65D8300	B65D8300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D35	B65D35	B65D47	B65D47	B65D83	B65D83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An inner receptacle is provided which is adapted to be used with a resilient squeeze bottle. The inner receptacle includes a flexible bag and includes a mechanism for causing the flexible bag to invert upon itself about its midpoint without requiring attachment of the inner receptacle to the squeeze bottle. The inversion enables substantially all of the product within the receptacle to be dispensed. One preferred mechanism for causing inversion is a support frame which resembles a bird cage. This support frame may be located inside or outside the top half of the flexible bag. Such inner receptacles offer special advantages when utilized with reusable squeeze bottles. The reusable squeeze bottles may be oval and include an opening at the top which accommodates the dispensing opening of the inner receptacle and an opening at the bottom and through which the entire inner receptacle may pass. An end plate is utilized to seal the bottom end of the squeeze bottle. One preferred squeeze bottle includes an inner sleeve and an outer sleeve which enables replacement of the inner receptacle while manipulating only one closure element.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALES DAVID RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALES, DAVID RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Resilient squeeze bottle with an inner receptacle which inverts upon emptyingBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to inner receptacles for use with resilient squeeze bottle packages; and more particularly, to such inner receptacles which include a flexible product bag which inverts upon emptying.2. Description of the Prior ArtA wide variety of packages are known which include an outer squeeze bottle and an inner flexible product bag. Generally, the outer squeeze bottle includes a resilient side wall portion which when compressed, forces product from the bag through a dispensing passage. The dispensing passage generally includes a valve which prevents air from entering the product bag when the outer squeeze bottle is released. The squeeze bottle also generally includes a second valve which enables air to re-enter the outer squeeze bottle into the space located between the inner flexible product bag and outer squeeze bottle. Consequently, the inner product bag collapses as product is dispensed. One problem with such packages is that the inner flexible bag has a tendency to collapse pre-maturely; trapping product within the inner flexible bag so it cannot be dispensed.One method to ensure that product is not trapped inside the inner flexible bag is to provide a mechanism for causing the bag to invert about its midpoint. United States Patent 2,608,320, issued to Harrison on August 26, 1952, discloses such a package which provides for bag inversion. This package requires that a thinner, flexible, lower bag portion be sealed to an upper, thicker, rigid, bag portion around the entire curved circumferential surface of the bag in an air tight manner. However, complete sealing along such a curved surface is difficult to accomplish; particularly when utilizing heat sealing. In addition, the rigid top portion is not resilient such that it is 

 squeezab e. Thus, the user is only able to squeeze the bottom portion of the package.Commonly assigned United States Patent 4,842,165 which issued on June 27, 1989 to Van Coney discloses a package which includes an inner receptacle having a flexible product bag. The bag of the inner receptacle is secured to the interior surface of the side wall of the outer squeeze bottle about its midpoint to provide bag inversion. In. the illustrated embodiments of the Van Coney invention the inner receptacle is secured by attachment of its outermost surface to the innermost surface of the squeeze bottle; preferably by means of adhesive or by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT I/WE CLAIM IS:
1. An inner receptacle adapted for use with a resilient squeeze bottle, the inner receptacle includes a flexible bag which inverts upon itself substantially about its midpoint without attachment of the inner receptacle to the squeeze bottle near the midpoint of the bag, the inner receptacle comprising:
(a) a full length flexible bag adapted to house a viscous product and having a discharge passage through a rigid fitment in the upper end of the bag; the flexible bag having a top half above, and a bottom half below the approximate midpoint of the bag;
(b) support frame means for maintaining the top half of the flexible bag in substantially its original, filled shape without attachment of the receptacle to the squeeze bottle near the midpoint of the bag, such that as the flexible bag is emptied the bottom half of the flexible bag inverts inside the top half of the flexible bag to permit substantially all of the product within the flexible bag to be dispensed; and
(c) closure means for sealing the discharge passage during storage, shipping, and display periods.
2. An inner receptacle adapted for use with a resilient squeeze bottle, the inner receptacle includes a flexible bag which inverts upon itself substantiall about its midpoint without attachment of the inner receptacle to the squeeze bottle near the midpoint of the bag, the inner receptacle comprising:
(a) a full length flexible bag adapted to house a viscous product and having a discharge passage through a rigid fitment in the upper end of the bag; the flexible bag having a top half above, and 


 a bottom half below, the approximate midpoint of the bag; and (b) a support frame adapted to maintain the upper half of the flexible bag in substantially its original, filled shape without attachment of the receptacle to the squeeze bottle near the midpoint of the bag, such that as the flexible bag is emptied the bottom half of the flexible bag inverts inside the top half of the flexible bag to permit substantially all of the product within the flexible bag to be dispensed; the support frame being insufficiently resilient to return to its original shape after being deformed, and the shape and size of the support frame is substantially identical to the adjacent interior surface of the resilient squeeze bottle such that the squeeze bottle helps return the support frame to its original shape;
(c) a suckback valve located in the discharge passage of the rigid fitment; and
(d) closure means for sealing the discharge passage during storage, shipping, and display periods.
3. An inner receptacle according to Claim 1 further comprising a suckback valve located in the discharge passage of the rigid fitment.
4. An inner receptacle according to any one of the above Claims wherein the support frame means includes an intermediate annular ring and a lower annular ring connected to the rigid fitment of the flexible bag via at least two longitudinal members in a bird cage configuration.
5. An inner receptacle according to any one of the above Claims, wherein the support frame means is located inside the flexible bag. 


 6. A inner receptacle according to any one of the above Claims, wherein the support frame means is located outside the flexible bag and joined to the flexible bag at substantially all points at which the flexible bag and the support frame are immediately adjacent each other.
7. An inner receptacle according to any one of the above Claims, wherein the flexible bag has several seals and the bag is configured such that the seals can be accomplished utilizing substantially even sealing pressure.
8. An inner receptacle according to any one of the above Claims, wherein the support frame is not sufficiently resilient that it will return to its original shape after being deformed, and the shape and size of the support frame is substantially identical to the adjacent interior surface of the resilient squeeze bottle such that the squeeze bottle helps return the support frame to its original shape.
9. An inner receptacle according to any on of the above Claims, wherein the closure means is a thin film material releasably sealingly attached to the rigid fitment over the dispensing passage and having an unsealed portion extending to form a grasping tab. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
