<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0343949</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for mechanically locating a close-fitting part within a receptacle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23P1902	B23P1900	B23P1900	B23P1902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23P	B23P	B23P	B23P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23P19	B23P19	B23P19	B23P19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of locating a close-fitting part (15) within 
a receptacle (11) of a body, comprising, providing movement 

of a carriage (21) within a fixed plane, the carriage (21) 
having a locator finger (15) and part in known relative 

spaced relation, (b) floating the body (10) for movement in 
a plane perpendicular to the fixed plane, (c) locating the 

receptacle by moving the carriage (21) to effect axial 
motion of the locator finger (50) at a predetermined 

spatial station to bring the axis of the receptacle (11) to 
a fixed known location coincident with the axis of the 

locator finger (50), and (d) inserting the part (15) into 
the receptacle by indexing the carriage along the fixed 

plane to effect axial insertion of said part into the 
receptacle at the predetermined spatial station. The axial 

movement of stems (c) and (d) are coincident within a 
tolerance of ±.000127cm (±.00005"), and the part is 

preferably a sharp-edge spool valve, and the receptable is 
preferably a close-fitting valve opening providing a maximum 

diametrical clearance of .0008cm (.0003 inches). The movement 
of the carriage (21) is effected by one or more linear 

motors with high acceleration/deceleration speed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD FRANCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD MOTOR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD WERKE AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD FRANCE S. A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD-WERKE AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOHLAND WALTER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOHLAND, WALTER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the art of assembling 
precision fitting parts, and, more particularly, it relates 
to assembly of valve spools into valve openings of an 
automotive automatic transmission control unit. Automatic mechanical assembly of precision fitting 
parts requires a method to locate the parts accurately 
relative to each other so that mating or interfit takes 
place without interference or contact. One example is 
the insertion of precisely ground valve spools into an 
opening having a series of sequentially reducing land 
diameters within the opening, both the lands and the valve 
spools being sharp-edged or sharp-shouldered with no 
chamfer or lead-in edges, such valve spools being used in 
automatic transmission control units. The valve spools are 
designed to have a diametrical clearance with the lands of 
the opening of about .0008cm (.0003 inches) or less, which is 
extremely close-fitting. When the valve body is machined to 
define the land surfaces, the process tolerances of boring 
may allow the opening location to vary from part to part as 
well as permit several of the openings to vary in location 
with a single part. Such variations often are greater than 
the designed valve to opening clearance. These transmission 
control units and valve bodies can reach extremely complex 
proportions, often having sixteen valve openings distributed 
on several different sides of the control unit. For such 
complex control units to function properly, with complex 
fluid pressures communicated throughout its labyrinth of 
passages, requires careful assembly to assure the valve 
spools and springs are seated correctly without damage, such 
as scratching, galling or burrs. Such accurate assembly 
within a tolerance of .0003" is not within the capability of 
state-of-the-art robots.  
 Efforts to automate such assembly, which are known to 
the inventors herein, comprise the use of compliant devices, 
slave plugs, and vision sensors. Compliant devices require 
lead-in edges on the valve opening or valve spool to permit 
off-center mating of the parts; the device responds to side 
thrust to provide centering. The requirement for lead-in 
edges frustrates the design of the control unit and must be 
carried out at slow speeds to avoid damage to the parts 
during off-center mating. Slave plugs necessitate extra strokes of the assembly 
due to the need to stroke the parts together using the slave 
plug for alignment and again when the actual valve spool is 
inserted. Due to the possible contact
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of locating a close-fitting part (15) within 
a receptacle (11) of a body (10), said part (15) and 

receptacle (11) each having an axis, which comprises 

(a) providing a carriage (21) carrying a locator 
finger (50) with an axis and a part (15) in known relative 

spaced relation, and movable in a fixed plane containing the 
axes of the part (15) and the locator finger (50), 
(b) supporting said body (10) for free movement in a 
plane perpendicular to said fixed plane, 
(c) locating said receptacle (11) by moving said 
carriage (21) to introduce the locator finger (50) into the 

receptacle so as to bring the axis of the receptacle (11) to 
a fixed known location coincident with the axis of said 

locator finger (50) at a predetermined spatial station, 
(d) axially withdrawing the locator finger (50) from 
the receptacle (11) and moving the carriage (21) in said 

fixed plane by a predetermined distance in a direction 
transverse to the axes of the locator finger (50) and the 

part (15) to bring the axis of the part (15) into alignment 
with the axis of the receptacle (11) at said predetermined 

spatial station, and 
(e) inserting said part (15) into said receptacle (11) 
at said predetermined spatial station. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, in which the movement 
of steps (c) is along the axis of the finger and the 

movement of steps (c) and (d) achieves coincidence within a 
tolerance of ±.000127cms (±.00005"). 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, in which said 
part is a sharp-edged spool valve and the receptacle is a 

close-fitting valve opening providing a maximum 
diametrical clearance of .00076cm (.0003 inches).  

 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, in 
which said part and receptacle are each cylindrical. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, in which in step (b) said body is mounted on a 

pallet having a flat surface and said flat surface is 
floated on an air film. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5, in which said air 
film is created by a plate upon which said flat surface is 

superimposed, said plate having air delivery grooves for 
delivering a supply of air which spreads over said plate 

to form said air film therebetween. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, in which in step (b) 
said body is secured to a pallet having a convex surface, 

said convex surface being supported in superimposed 
position on a complementary concave surface with an air 

film injected therebetween to provide the floating action. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, in which in step (e) the carriage is moved to insert 

the part along such receptacle axis. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims further comprising locking said pallet and body 

together as located by said locating finger in step (c) and 
prior to inserting said part into the receptacle. 
A method as claimed in Claim 9, in which locking 
is carried out by the use of magnets or vacuum upon release 

of the air film. 
A method as claimed in Claim 9 or 10, in which said 
locating finger has a vertical compliance means for 

permitting the locating finger to move with the body during 
said locking.  

 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, in which said body has a plurality of receptacles 

extending from opposite sides of the body, said method 
further comprising means for manipulating the body to 

different sides so that the receptacles may be exposed to 
the carriage. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, in which said carria
ge has a plurality of depending 
insert fingers aligned in a row with said locating finger, 

each of said insert fingers being sequentially indexed into 
position having its axis coincident with the axis of said 

receptacle during step (d) for inserting a plurality of 
parts into said receptacle. 
A method as claimed in Claim 13, in which said 
carriage is moved by one or more actuating motors to 

provide a completion or cycle time of less than 15 seconds 
for insertion of all of the parts into the receptacle. 
An apparatus for locating a close-fitting part within 
a body opening (11), comprising, 


(a) a carriage (21) carrying a locator finger (50) and 
a part (15) in known spaced relation and orientation to said 

locator finger (50), and movable in a plane containing the 
axes of the locator finger (50) and the part (15), 
(b) a float mechanism (80) for floating said body (10) 
for movement in a plane intersecting said fixed plane, 
(c) means for moving the locator finger (50) in an 
axial direction relative to the body opening (11) at a 

predetermined spatial station to bring said body opening 
(11) to a fixed known location coincident with the axis of 

the locator finger (50), 
(d) indexing means for moving the carriage (21) by an 
accurately predetermined distance transversely to the axes 

of the locator finger (50) and the part (15) to locate the 
part (15) at the predetermined spatial station with its axis  

 
coincident with that of the body opening (11), and 
(e) means for micro accurate insertion of the part 
(15) into said opening (11) at the predetermined spatial 

station. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 15, which further 
comprises for the purpose of enabling alignment of the body 

opening (11) with the locator finger (50), (i) a pallet (62) 
for supporting the body (10) having an aligning surface, 

(ii) a float plate with a surface for introducing an air 
film thereacross, (iii) rails spaced apart for cradling said 

pallet (62) to a predetermined macro position, and (iv) means 
for injecting an air film between said float plate and 

pallet after said pallet is stationed by said rails. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 16, in which said 
pallet (62) is locked to said float plate upon dissipation 

of said air film by the use of magnets. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
