<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633808</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BLOOD SEPARATION FILTER ASSEMBLY AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10M17100	G01N3349	C08J302	B01D3920	C10M17100	B01D3700	B01D3700	B01D3920	G01N3349	C08J309	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10M	G01N	C08J	B01D	C10M	B01D	B01D	B01D	G01N	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10M171	G01N33	C08J3	B01D39	C10M171	B01D37	B01D37	B01D39	G01N33	C08J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Blood separation filter assemblies (15) and methods are provided to quickly and completely separate plasma or serum from whole blood without the need of centrifugation. The filter assembly (15) has a cylindrical well wall (13) of well structure (12) sandwiched between the retaining cover structure (16) and the well bottom (14). The filter assembly (15) having filter materials comprising at least one layer of glass fibers having an average fiber diameter ranging from 0.2  mu m to 7.0  mu m is maintained compressed at least 25 % in thickness in the well structure (12) to provide the fast separation of serum or plasma from a blood sample introduced through central aperture (17).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to filter assemblies 
according to the preamble of claim 1. Furtheron it refers to a 
clinical diagnostic device applying such filter material and to a 
process for separating fluids from particulate matter and particularly 
to the separation of plasma or serum from blood by 
filtration with such filter material. This invention is particularly 
directed to filtration assemblies using glass fibers under 
direct pressure resulting in compression of the glass fibers to 
specified densities. The high or positive pressure on the filter 
or filter layers is applied and maintained throughout the 
filtering process. Compounds associated with diseases or health 
conditions such as metabolites or drugs are often found in body 
fluids such as blood. Therefore, in clinical laboratories, 
blood is used for diagnostic determinations or tests in order 
to provide information about the health status of patients. 
Blood is comprised mainly of corpuscular or particulate matter, 
for example, red and white blood cells and fluid matter such as 
serum or plasma. Generally, in clinical laboratories, when a 
test for a particular blood analyte is needed, the patient's 
blood which has been transported to the laboratory, is first 
separated from the serum (blood is allowed to clot with no 
anticoagulants present) or plasma (blood is drawn in the 
presence of anticoagulants) by centrifugation. Subsequently, 
the plasma or serum is used for the measurement of the 
particular analyte using automated instrumentation. This is a 
time-consuming process. However, when an urgent or emergency 
situation arises, tests or assays need to be performed which 
can yield results rapidly and at the patients' site. These 
urgent situations cannot be satisfactorily met with tests that 
need transportation, automated instrumentation or highly  
 
trained personnel. Therefore, the tests or devices which can 
be used for on-site testing with a rapid turn around time 
require a blood separation method which will permit the 
separation of serum or plasma from blood in less than 15 
seconds and preferably in 2-10 seconds, will completely remove 
red blood cells, and will not be technique dependent, such as 
wiping or washing of red blood cells. A number of techniques have been devised to 
accomplish this difficult separation. All techniques utilize a 
filtering step capable of separating red blood cells. Numerous 
materials have been used in the past as filters utilizing 
certain conditions, composition, and devices.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A filter assembly having a filter material and means to compress the filter 
material to a predetermined thickness under positive pressure for the fast separation of serum 

or plasma from whole blood, the filter material comprising at least one layer of glass fibers 
having an average diameter ranging from 0.2 µm to 7.0 µm, 


characterized in that
 the filter material is compressed at 
least 25% in thickness and to a compressed density higher than 0.5 

g/cm
3
. 
A clinical diagnostic device comprising a filter assembly according to claim 1 

characterized in that
 the filter material has a compressed thickness of at least 1.0 mm 
(0.04 inches) being capable of separating serum or plasma from a specified volume of whole 

blood in less than 15 seconds. 
A clinical diagnostic device according to claim 2 characterized 
in that it has a body, the means to compress 

the filter material are a pocket for containing the 
filter material and a closure means to close the pocket, 

inlet means to receive a fluid sample into the pocket 
and a reactive layer for determination of an analyte 

separated by the filtration material which is in contact 
with the reactive layer.  

 
A process for fast separation of serum or plasma from whole blood 
comprising: 


providing a filter assembly having a well of a predetermined depth, 
a cover for the well and means to introduce whole blood into the well; 
placing at least one glass fiber filter layer into the well, the glass 
fibers of the filter layer having an average diameter ranging from 0.2 

µm to 7.0 µm; 
placing the cover into the well and compressing the glass fiber filters at 
least 25% in thickness and to a compressed density higher than 0.5 g/cm
3
 the cover in the well 
to maintain the glass fibers in the compressed state; and 
introducing whole blood into the well for the first separation of serum of 
plasma. 
The filter assembly of any of claims 1-2, 
characterized in that
 the 
filter assembly is further comprised of a diagnostic card having a well 

structure and in that the filter material compression means is comprised 
of a snap-fit cover for securing the filter material in the well under 

constant pressure. 
The filter assembly of any of claims 1-3, 
characterized in that
 the 
glass fibers are comprised of borosilicate glass. 
The filter assembly of any of claims 1-3, 
characterized in that
 the 
glass fiber material consists of at least two separate filter layers. 
The filter assembly of any of claims 1-3, 
characterized in that
 the 
filter material permits the passage of analytes present in blood, the analytes 

ranging from having a molecular weight of 30 to 2000 to proteinous 
substances having a molecular weight of over 5000.  

 
The process according to claim 4, 
characterized in that
 the compressed 
glass fibers are capable of filtering a volume sample from 10 to 65 µl of 

blood in less than 15 seconds. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
