<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0568959</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q134	C12Q134	C12Q140	C12Q140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
composition comprising an aqueous solution of at least 

one substrate which is hydrolyzed when mixed with a 
sample of body fluid containing alpha-amylase to yield 

a detectable label, alpha-glucosidase form 
Bacillus 
stearothermophilus
 is used to cooperate with the alpha-amylase 
in the formation of the detectable label said 

composition being stable against degradation for a least 
6 months at 2 to 10°C. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MODROVICH IVAN ENDRE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MODROVICH, IVAN E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWAN SHING FAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWAN, SHING FAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is an improvement to WO-A-89/00600 which relates to a stable, single-liquid alpha-amylase reagent. This invention relates generally to reagents for 
determining serum levels of alpha-amylase and, more 
particularly, to a stable, single-liquid alpha-amylase 
assay reagent. Alpha-amylase is found primarily in the pancreas 
and salivary glands. When released in the digestive 
tract, the enzyme hydrolyses starch. Alpha-amylase 
determinations are useful in the diagnosis of diseases 
of the pancreas and parotids. Elevated serum levels are 
associated with acute pancreatitis and other pancreatic 
disorders, as well as mumps and bacterial parotitis. 
Decreased serum values may be found with liver diseases, 
such as hepatitis and obstructive jaundice, and liver 
tumors or abscesses. Historically, methods for determining alpha-amylase 
in serum have included viscosimetric, turbidimetric, 
iodometric, and reductometric technology. With these  
 
methodologies, reaction times are long, endogenous 
glucose tends to interfere, reaction colors are 
unstable, and reproducibility is poor. Recently, assay 
systems for the determination of alpha-amylase have been 
developed. Such assay systems for alpha-amylase typically 
include a reagent comprising a polysaccharide or 
oligosaccharide substrate with a label, e.g., a 
chromogen unit, attached. The substrate is hydrolyzed 
by alpha-amylase to form one or two smaller 
oligosaccharides. The reagent further comprise one or 
more enzymes which further hydrolyze the smaller 
oligosaccharides to free the label unit which can then 
be detected spectrophotometrically. Such assay reagents enable rapid and accurate 
determinations of alpha-amylase compared to historical 
methodologies. However, the stability of such reagents 
is poor. Consequently, assay reagents are generally 
stored in a lyophilized state and must be reconstituted 
prior to use. Once reconstituted, the shelf life is 
generally one to fourteen days. Moreover, such reagents 
tend to give variable and often undesirably high 
background levels which adversely affect the consistency 
and accuracy of this system. The above-identified patent applications disclose 
a stable, single-liquid alpha-amylase assay reagent for 
the rapid determination of the alpha-amylase in 
biological fluids. The assay reagent comprises an 
aqueous solution substantially free of alpha-amylase 
and/or alpha-amylase activity containing at least one 
substrate which is cleavable directly or indirectly by 
alpha-amylase to produce a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
composition comprising an aqueous solution of at least 

one substrate which is hydrolyzed when mixed with body 
fluid containing alpha-amylase to yield directly or 

indirectly by a reaction involving alpha-amylase a 
detectable label to the reaction mixture, the rate of 

formation of such detectable label being proportional to 
the amount of alpha-amylase present in the sample and at 

least one exo-enzyme to cooperate with the alpha-amylase 
in the formation of such detectable label, said 

substrate being present in a concentration sufficient to 
prevent the substrate from limiting the rate of 

hydrolysis thereof, said reagent composition being 
stable against substrate and enzyme degradation for at 

least 6 months at 2 to 10°C, 
wherein the exo-enzyme comprises alpha-glucosidase from 


Bacillus Stearothermophilus
 in an amount sufficient to 
complete the assay within 10 minutes at an assay 

temperature of 37°C. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claim 1 which comprises a substantially 

alpha-amylase free aqueous solution of: 

(a) alpha-glucosidase from 
Bacillus 
Stearothermophilus
 present in a concentration of at 
least about 1.5 U/ml and sufficient to complete an 

amylase assay within 10 minutes at an assay temperature 
of 37°C; 
(b) A polysaccharide or oligosaccharide 
substrate for alpha-amylase having an optically 

detectable label bonded, by a bond cleavable by said 
alpha-glucosidase, to the reducing end glucose of the 

substrate and a blocking group bonded to the terminal 
end glucose of the substrate, said blocking group  

 
selected from the group consisting of ethylidene, 

benzylidene and mixtures thereof; and 
(c) from 0 to about 300 g per liter of 
solution of a polyol. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claim 1 which aqueous solution is 

substantially free of alpha-amylase producing 
microorganisms and which comprises: 


(a) alpha-glucosidase from 
Bacillus 
Stearothermophilus
 present in a concentration of at 
least about 1.5 U/ml and sufficient to complete an 

alpha-amylase assay within an assay temperature of 37°C; 
(b) a polysaccharide or oligosaccharide 
substrate hydrolyzable by alpha-amylase and having an 

optically detectable label bonded, by a bond cleavable 
by the alpha-glucosidase, to the reducing end glucose of 

the substrate and a blocking group bonded to the 
terminal end glucose of the substrate, said substrate 

being present in a concentration of at least 2 mg/ml and 
hydrolyzed by the alpha glucosidase to yield the label 

at a rate proportional to the concentration of alpha-amylase 
in a biological fluid; 
(c) from 0 to 300 grams per liter of a 
polyol; 
(d) calcium chloride in a concentration of 
about 5 mM; 
(e) sodium chloride in a concentration of 
about 50 mM; and 
(f) a zwitterionic buffer sufficient to 
maintain to a pH of from about 6.5 to about 7.5, said 

reagent being stable for at least 6 months at 2 to 8°C. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which the substrate is 

blocked by a blocking group selected from the group 
consisting of benzylidene, ethylidene and mixtures  

 
thereof and in which the concentration of alpha-glucosidase 

in the reagent composition is at least about 
1.5 U/ml. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which the substrate is 

blocked by blocking group selected from the group 
consisting of benzylidene, ethylidene and mixtures 

thereof and in which the concentration of alpha-glucosidase 
in the reagent composition is about 2.2 

U/ml. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claims 1 to 5 in which a polyol is 

present. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claim 6 in which the polyol is selected 

from the group consisting of sorbitol, ethylene glycol, 
polyethylene glycol, glycerol and mixtures thereof. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
any one of claims 6 or 7 in which the polyol is present 

in an amount of from about 10 to about 300 grams per 
liter of reagent. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
any one of claims 6 or 7 in which the polyol is present 

in the reagent composition in an amount of from about 30 
to about 70 grams. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
any one of claims 1, 2 and 4 to 9 wherein a buffer is 

provided to maintain the reagent at a pH of from about 
6.5 to about 7.5.  

 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
claim 10 wherein the buffer is a zwitterionic buffer. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
any one of claims 1, 3 and 11 wherein the zwitterionic 

buffer is present in a concentration of from about 0.01 
to about 1.0 moles per liter. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
any one of claims 1, 3, 11 or 12 wherein the 

zwitterionic buffer is 3-N-morpholenepropane sulfonic acid. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
any one of the previous claims further comprising at 

least one antimicrobial agent. 
An alpha-amylase assay reagent as claimed in 
claim 14 wherein the antimicrobial agent is selected 

from the group consisting of cetyltrimethylammonium 
bromine, bactrim, sodium azide and mixtures thereof. 
A stable single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in any one of the previous claims in which 

alpha-glucosidase is present in an amount of about 2.2 
U/ml of reagent. 
An alpha-amylase reagent as claimed in any one 
of the previous claims in which the polyol is sorbitol. 
A stable, single liquid alpha-amylase reagent 
as claimed in claim 1 which comprises per liter of an 

aqueous solution having a pH of about 7 and containing 
the following ingredients in the concentration shown: 


a)
3-N-morpholenepropane sulfonic acid
- about 10.46 g 
b)
NaOH, 4M
- about 4.8 ml 
c)
CaCl
2
(H
2
O)
2
- about 1.03 g 
d)
NaCl
- about 2.92 g 
e)
Sorbitol
- about 50 g 
f)
Sodium Azide
- about 1 g 
g)
Polyoxyethylene(23) lauryl ether (6% solution)
- about 5 ml 
h)
Ethylidene Blocked Substrate
- about 2 mg/ml 
i)
Alpha-glucosidase from 
Bacillus Stearothermophilus
- about 2.2 U/ml. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
