<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650548</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROD ACCUMULATOR RISER TENSIONING CYLINDER ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B1900	E21B1900	E21B1909	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B19	E21B19	E21B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A "rod accumulator" riser tensioning cylinder assembly for use with off-shore production and exploratory drilling facilities. The tensioner is basically a hydro-pneumatic spring having a tubular cylinder equipped with a hollow rod containing sufficient volume to act as an accumulator. The rod is internally ported to the annulus of the cylinder. The cylinder exterior is coated with a material that will insulate the unit when exposed to high temperature and flame. A wear sleeve is supplied over the insulation material to provide a low friction surface for an outer, cylindrically shaped rod insulation jacket to slide over the cylinder when the rod is stroked into the cylinder. When the rod is stroked out, the jacket is also extended, protecting the rod from flame and high temperature due to its insulative properties. This is a low mass and low volume system, with low lateral area so that an increased number of such cylinder assemblies can be provided in a given horizontal area.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAUL MUENROE ENGINEERING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAUL MUENROE ENGINEERING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTLER BRYAN V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR JEFFREY P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTLER, BRYAN V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, JEFFREY P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE: ROD ACCUMULATOR RISER TENSIONING CYLINDER ASSEMBLYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates in general to tensioning of risers used in offshore oil production and exploratory drilling and, more specifically, to an improved riser tensioner assembly for such use.Off shore oil drilling and production operations are conducted through a pipe, called a riser, running from the subsea wellhead to the surface platform or floating vessel. In order to support the weight of these risers and to control the stresses induced by ocean currents and vessel motions, the upper end of the riser is connected to a tensioning device. This riser tensioner maintains a predetermined range of tension throughout the range of vertical and lateral motions of the drilling or production rig.The conventional approach to tensioning risers is to use a combination of a hydraulic or pneumatic mechanical cylinder, pressurized using a compressed gas, to apply the tensioning forces to the riser. Each riser tensioner is located on a deck of the floating platform or floating vessel and structurally connected through its cylinders to the riser. The cylinders may be connected to the risers with wire rope or chain or directly connected through cylinder rods. The pressurized gas volume is typically contained in a separate pressure vessel referred to as an "accumulator", positioned alongside the cylinder, which supplies sufficient gas volume to act as a gas spring. This combination of cylinder and accumulator acts to compress or expand the gas in response to vessel or riser movements, maintaining a relatively uniform tension level in the riser.This traditional approach to riser tensioning using separate cylinders and accumulators acting together has worked satisfactorily in most cases, but is not space efficient. The deck area at the platform or vessel 

required for each riser and its tensioner is significant and maximum utilization of the space on the vessel or platform is economically significant and can limit the number of wells that can be accommodated without enlarging the platform.In addition, safety considerations related to personnel, investment, and ecological considerations have driven regulatory agencies to require protection of critical equipment from destruction by fire. Risers and tensioners have typically been designated as critical components that must continue to remain safe during an accidental fire.Protection of a riser tensioner from fire in the past was generally accomplished by a water deluge system; under new
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A riser tensioner cylinder assembly which comprises: a tubular cylinder having an open first end and a closed second end; a hollow piston rod positioned within said cylinder and adapted to slide inwardly and outwardly of said open first end; said hollow rod adapted to contain a liquid and a gas under pressure; the outer surface of said rod spaced from the inner surface of said cylinder to provide an annular space therebetween; first seal means secured to the inner surface of said cylinder adjacent to said open end of said cylinder adapted to slidably seal against said outer surface of said rod; second seal means secured to the outer surface of said rod extending into said cylinder, adapted to slidably seal against said inner surface of said cylinder; and at least one opening through the hollow rod wall communicating between said annular space and the interior of said hollow rod adjacent to said second seal means; whereby a pressurized fluid within said hollow rod will act to resist withdrawal of said rod from said cylinder and to move said rod toward a position fully inserted into said cylinder.
2. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 1 where a hydraulic liquid fills a selected portion of the volume of said hollow rod and said annular space and a compressed gas fills the remainder of said volume.
3. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 2 wherein said fluid is a water based liquid.
4. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 1 further including a gas inlet means communicating with the hollow rod volume, said inlet located at the outer end of said rod extending beyond said cylinder.
5. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 1 further including first attachment means fastened 


to said outer end of said rod and second attachment means secured to said closed end of said cylinder; whereby said assembly can be secured between a riser and a support structure with said first attachment means extending in a generally upward direction.
6. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 5 wherein said first attachment means is mechanically secured in said outer end of said cylinder and carries a liquid level sensor extending into said hollow rod.
7. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 1 wherein fire resistant heat insulation is provided around said assembly.
8. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 7 wherein said insulation comprises a layer of intumescent material coating at least portions of the exterior of said cylinder, said intumescent material adapted to intumesce when exposed to fire to provide increased heat insulation.
9. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 7 wherein said insulation comprises a fire jacket assembly attached to said rod outside of said cylinder that is adapted to slide over the surface of said cylinder as said rod moves inwardly and outwardly of said cylinder.
10. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 9 wherein said fire jacket assembly comprises: a bearing sleeve secured to the outer wall of said cylinder; a tube surrounding said sleeve and adapted to slide relative thereto; and a tube of heat insulating material surrounding said metal tube and secured thereto.
11. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 10 further including slidable seal means aτ. the end of said fire jacket assembly opposite said attachment to said rod to seal between said metal tube and said sleeve.
12. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 10 further including a layer of intumescent material 


coating at least portions of the exterior of said cylinder between said cylinder exterior surface and said sleeve, said intumescent material adapted to intumesce when exposed to fire to provide increased heat insulation.
13. The riser tensioner cylinder assembly according to claim 10 further including additional insulation extending beyond the ends of said cylinder and rod.
14. Fire resistant thermal insulation for a riser tensioning cylinder assembly having a rod slidable within a cylinder which comprises a fire jacket assembly attached to said rod beyond said cylinder and adapted to slide over the surface of said cylinder as said rod moves inwardly and outwardly of said cylinder, said fire jacket assembly comprising a bearing sleeve secured to the outer wall of said cylinder, a tube surrounding said sleeve and adapted to slide relative thereto, a tube of heat insulating material surrounding said metal tube and secured thereto, an outer flexible fabric tube surrounding said tube and secured thereto and an outer insulating cover surrounding said insulating material and secured thereto.
15. The fire resistant thermal insulation according to claim 14 further including sliding seal means at the end of said fire jacket assembly opposite said attachment to said rod to seal between said metal tube and said sleeve.
16. The fire resistant thermal insulation according to claim 14 further including a layer of intumescent material coating at least portions of the exterior of said cylinder between said cylinder exterior surface and said sleeve, said intumescent material adapted to intumesce when exposed to fire to provide increased heat insulation and seal interstices.
17. The fire resistant thermal insulation according to claim 14 further including additional insulation extending beyond the ends of said cylinder and rod. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
