<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613579</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SMALL SIZE CONSTANT TORQUE VOICE COIL MOTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B555	G11B555	G11B1100	G11B1110	G11B2102	G11B2102	G11B2122	G11B2122	G11B2504	G11B2504	G11B3312	G11B3312	G11B3314	G11B3314	H02K3318	H02K3318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B11	G11B11	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	G11B25	G11B25	G11B33	G11B33	G11B33	G11B33	H02K33	H02K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A small size disk drive having an actuator magnet (346b) which is designed to provide a constant torque over the entire range of motion of the actuator arm. Specifically, magnet (346b) has a greater area at sides (347-1) and (347-2) than at the center of the magnet, thus increasing the magnetic flux at these areas to compensate for losses. Actuator coil (342) is capable of moving the actuator arm in both directions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONNER PERIPHERALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONNER PERIPHERALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAGUE WALLIS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEFANSKY FREDERICK MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAGUE WALLIS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEFANSKY FREDERICK MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Small Size Constant Torque Voice Coil MotorCONTINUATION APPLICATION INFORMATION This Application is a continuation-in-part of co- pending Application Serial No. 07/549,283, which is a continuation-in-part of co-pending Application Serial No. 147,804, filed January 25, 1988, now U.S. Patent No. 4,965,684.CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS1) DISK DRIVE SYSTEM CONTROLLER ARCHITECTURE, inventors John P. Squires, Tom A. Fiers, and Louis J. Shrinkle, Serial No. 057,289, filed June 2, 1987, now U.S. Patent No. 4,979,056;2) DISK DRIVE SOFTWARE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE, inventors John P. Squires, Tom A. Fiers, and Louis J. Shrinkle, Serial No. 488,386, filed February 23, 1990, which is a continuation of Serial No. 057,806, filed June 2, 1987, now abandoned;3) DISK DRIVE SYSTEM CONTROL ARCHITECTURE UTILIZING EMBEDDED REAL-TIME DIAGNOSTIC MONITOR, inventor John P. Squires, Serial No. 423,719, filed October 18, 1989, now U.S. Patent No. 4,979,055, which is a continuation of Serial No. 058,289, filed June 2,1987, now abandoned;4) LOW-POWER HARD DISK DRIVE ARCHITECTURE, inventors John P. Squires and Louis J. Shrinkle, filed August 7, 1990, Serial No. 564,693, which is a continuation of Serial No. 152,069, filed February 4,1988, now abandoned;5) DISK DRIVE SYSTEM USING MULTIPLE EMBEDDED QUADRATURE SERVO FIELDS, inventors Louis J. Shrinkle and John P. Squires, Serial No. 386,504, filed July 27, 

 6) MAGNETIC PARKING DEVICE FOR DISK DRIVE, inventor, Frederick Mark Stefansky, Serial No. 643,703, filed January 22, 1991, which is a continuation of Serial No. 269,873, filed November 10, 1988, now abandoned.7) MULTIPLE MICRO CONTROLLER HARD DISK DRIVE CONTROL ARCHITECTURE, inventors John P. Squires, Charles M. Sander, Stanton M. Keeler, and Donald W. Clay, Serial No. 07/611,141, filed November 9, 1990. Each of these related Applications is assigned to the assignee of the subject Application and hereby incorporated by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention. The present invention relates to disk drives; more particularly, to hard (or fixed) disk drives. Description of the Related Art.Developments in personal computers, portable computers and lap top computers have prompted reductions in the size and increases in memory capacity of disk drives. Attempts to provide further reductions in the size and weight, and increases in durability and memory capacity of existing disk drives have been met with limited success. The size (particularly the height) and weight of fixed or hard disk drives and the inability
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A low height disk drive, comprising: a head-disk assembly, including a base having a top and a bottom, a first end and a second end, said base defining a length and a width of said head disk assembly, two disks, supported on said top of said base and lying in substantially parallel planes, said disks having a storage capacity of approximately 200 MBytes, interactive means for reading information from and writing information on said disks, and actuator means, supported on said base and responsive to control signals, for selectively positioning said interactive means with respect to said disks, and a cover sealably attached to said base, said base and cover enclosing said disks, said interactive means, and said actuator means; and control means, mounted on said head-disk assembly so that said control means is adjacent to said bottom of said base and so that said control means is substantially contained within said length and width of said base, for generating control signals to control said actuator means and for providing information signals to and receiving information signals from said interactive means, said head-disk assembly and said control means having complementary configurations to provide said disk drive with an overall maximum height of approximately one inch (1 
n
) .
2. A low height disk drive according to claim 1, further comprising: a spin motor for rotating said disks; a well provided in said base, said spin motor being mounted in said well; 


 wherein said control means comprises a printed circuit board having an opening, and said well extends into said opening in said printed circuit board.
3. A low height disk drive according to claim 1, further comprising a header provided in said base, wherein said control means comprises a printed circuit board having a top and a bottom, circuit components mounted on the top of said circuit board, and a rear entry connector mounted on top of said circuit board for engaging said header so that the bottom of said circuit board faces said base.
4. A low height disk drive according to claim 1, wherein said head-disk assembly has a length of approximately five and three-quarters inches (5 3/4") and a width of approximately four inches (4").
5. A low height disk drive, comprising: a housing defining the maximum height, length and width of said disk drive, said housing having a height of approximately one inch ( 1" ) , a length of approximately five and three-quarters inches (5 3/4") and a width of approximately four inches (4"), said housing including a base and a cover, sealably attached to said base; and a head-disk assembly, including first and second disks for storing at least 200 MBytes of data, first means, mounted on said base, for supporting and rotating said first and second disks, second means for reading information from and writing information on said first and second disks, and third means, supported on said base and responsive to control signals, for selectively 


 positioning said second means with respect to . said storage means, and fourth means for generating control signals to control said third means and for providing information signals to and receiving information signals from said second means; wherein said cover is sealably attached to said base to enclose said first and second disks, said second means, and said third means.
6. A low height disk drive according to claim 5, wherein: said first and second disks define first and second parallel planes; and said housing has a height no greater than one inch (1") along an axis perpendicular to said first and second parallel planes.
7. A disk drive responsive to a host computer, comprising: a base, said base having a top, a bottom, a well, and first and second side rails extending from the bottom of said base plate; first and second disks having a capacity for storing at least 213 MBytes of data; a motor, mounted in said well, for supporting and rotating said disks; interactive means for reading information from and writing information on said disks; actuator means, supported at the first end of said top of said base plate and responsive to control signals, for selectively positioning said interactive means with respect to said disks; a header provided in said base and having pins extending perpendicular to the bottom of said base 


 plate, said pins being electrically interconnected with said interactive means; control means, confined between said first and second side rails, for generating control signals, and for providing information signals to and receiving information signals from said interactive means via said header, said control means comprising a connector for receiving said pins; and a cover sealably attached to said top of said base to provide a controlled environment between said cover and said base for said disks, said interactive means, and said actuator means, said base said cover, and said control means having an overall, maximum height of one inch (1") or less.
8. A disk drive according to claim 7, wherein: said control means comprises a printed circuit board having circuitry provided thereon and an opening; said printed circuit board has a first surface facing said base plate and a second surface; said connector comprises a rear entry connector mounted on said second surface of said printed circuit board; and said well protrudes through said opening in said printed circuit board.
9. A disk drive according to claim 8, wherein said base plate and said cover have an overall, maximum height no greater than one inch ( 1" ) .
10. A low height disk drive responsive to a host computer, comprising: a head-disk assembly, comprising: a base, two disks, each having a plurality of tracks for storing information, said disks lying in parallel 


 planes, each said disk including an inner diameter and an outer diameter, a motor mounted on said base for rotating said disks, at least two heads for reading information from and writing information on respective ones of said disk, an actuator, supported on said base and responsive to control signals, for selectively positioning said heads with respect to said disks, said actuator having a relatively constant torque when positioning said heads between the inside and outside diameters of the disk, and a cover sealably attached to said base plate means to enclose said disk, said head, and said actuator, said base and said cover having an maximum, overall height of one inch (1") or less along an axis perpendicular to the planes of the disks; and control circuitry, confined within the height of said base and cover, for generating control signals, and for providing information signals to and receiving information signals from said head.
11. A low height disk drive according to claim 10, wherein; said base has a well; said motor is mounted in said well; said control circuiting comprises a printed circuit board having an opening therein; and said printed circuit board being mounted to said base so that said well protrudes through said opening in said printed circuit board protrudes through said opening in said printed circuit board.
12. A low height disk drive, comprising: a base having a top and a bottom, said base including side rails extending from said bottom of said 


 base, said base defining the maximum length and width of said disk drive; one or more disks for storing data; a spin motor, mounted on said top of said base, for supporting and rotating said one or more disks; interactive means for reading information from and writing information on said one or more disks; actuator means, supported on said base and responsive to control signals, for selectively positioning said interactive means with respect to said one or more disks; a cover sealably attached to said base, said base and cover enclosing said one or more disks, said spin motor, said interactive means, and said actuator means, said base and cover defining the overall maximum height of said disk drive, said overall maximum height being approximately one inch ( 1" ) ; and control means, mounted adjacent to said bottom of said base, for generating control signals to control said actuator means and for providing information signals to and receiving information signals from said interactive means, said control means having a length substantially the same as the length of said base and a width less than the distance between said side rails.
13. A low height disk drive according to claim 12, wherein said base and cover enclose said one or more disks, said spin motor, said interactive means, and said actuator means in an environment sealed from ambient atmospheric pressures.
14. A low height disk drive according to claim 13, wherein said base has a length of approximately five and three-quarters inches (5-3/4") and a width of approximately four inches (4"). 


 15. A voice coil actuator assembly for a disk drive, said drive including at least one magnetic disk, comprising: an arm assembly having a first end and a second end, said first end holding at least one read/write head, and said assembly rotating about an axis to position said at least one head with respect to the disk at a plurality of positions over an arcuate path; a magnet for providing a magnetic field, said magnet having a generally arcuate shape first major surface, said magnetic field having direction and magnitude; a coil, provided on said second end of said arm assembly and positioned in the presence of said magnetic field such that a current passing through said coil generates a second magnetic field to position said actuator arm assembly with respect to said disk; wherein the torque on said actuator provided by said coil is approximately constant over the arcuate path of the actuator.
16. The voice coil assembly of claim 15 wherein said magnet includes at least a first major surface defined by a first and second sides and a first and second ends, said surface being positioned adjacent said coil, and wherein said magnet provides a relatively constant amount of magnetic flux over said surface.
17. The voice coil assembly of claim 16 wherein the area of said surface between said first and second sides is greater at locations on said surface adjacent said first and second ends.
18. The voice coil assembly of claim 17 wherein said magnet is bipolar, and said coil has a shape such that a first portion of said coil carrying a current in a first direction overlies a portion of said magnet 


 having a first polarity, and a second portion of said magnet carrying current in a second direction overlies a portion of said magnet having a second polarity, wherein the shape of said coil is arranged such that the wire comprising the coil is substantially perpendicular to the first side of said magnet.
19. A disk drive including: a base plate, having a length and a width defining the maximum length and width of said disk drive; cover sealably attached to said base with a gasket disposed thereinbetween, said cover and base plate defining a maximum height of said disk drive when engaged with said base plate; a spindle motor mounted on said base plate; two magnetic disks mounted on said spindle motor; a plurality of read/write heads; an actuator having said plurality of read/write heads mounted thereon to position said heads with respect to said disks, said actuator having a first and second sub-arms having a coil mounted thereon, said actuator further including first and second magnets positioned such that a current in said coil, in the presence of the magnetic fields provided by said magnets, moves said actuator to position said heads, wherein each said magnet includes a first and a second major surface, a first side and a second side, said second side having an arcuate shape and being positioned closer to said actuator than said first side, and first and second ends, such that the curvature of the second, arcuate side is substantially constant whereby the surface area of said first and second major surfaces is greater towards said first and second ends of said magnet. 


 20. The disk drive of claim 19 wherein said each said actuator magnet provides a relatively constant amount of magnetic flux over the first and second major surfaces of the magnet between the first and second sides.
21. The disk drive of claim 19 wherein said actuator positions said heads between an inside diameter of each disk and an outside diameter of each disk, and said magnets and said coil provide a relatively constant amount of torque on said actuator.
22. A voice coil motor for an actuator in a disk drive, the actuator including an actuator arm having at least one read/write head positioned thereon, the arm pivoting about a rotational axis to position the head, comprising: a coil positioned on the end of the actuator arm; at least one magnet, said magnet having a first and second major surfaces, an outer edge with respect to the rotational axis of the actuator, an inner arcuate edge with respect to the rotational axis of the actuator, first and second ends between said inner and outer arcuate edges, respectively, wherein the curvature of the inner arcuate edge is relatively constant such that the surface area of said first and second major surfaces is greater towards said first and second ends of said magnet.
23. An actuator motor for rotating an actuator assembly about an axis to position at least one read/write head with respect to a disk, comprising: 


 a magnet assembly including at least one magnet having a major surface and providing a magnetic field with respect to said surface; and a coil mounted on said actuator assembly and positioned in said magnetic field such that a current in said coil creates a force to rotate said assembly about said axis; said motor providing a relatively constant magnitude torque on said actuator throughout the total range of motion of said actuator assembly when the current is applied to the coil.
24. An actuator, comprising: means for mounting a plurality of read/write heads with respect to.a storage disk; and means for positioning said means for mounting to provide said heads at a plurality of positions with respect to said disk between an inner diameter of the disk and an outer diameter of the disk, wherein said means for positioning provides a relatively constant force of motion with respect to each of said positions.
25. The actuator of claim 24 wherein said means for mounting comprises an actuator arm rotatably positioned about a pivot point, having a first end for mounting said plurality of read/write heads, and a second end; and the torque provided by said means for positioning is relatively constant between the inner and outer diameter of the disk.
26. The actuator of claim 25 wherein said means for positioning comprises a coil mounted on the second end of the actuator arm, and at least one magnet positioned such that a current in said coil, in the presence of the 


magnetic field generated by the magnet, creates the torque on the actuator arm.
27. The actuator of claim 26 wherein the percentage of usable coil area in relation to the magnet is greater than about 40%. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
