<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646978</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Carbonaceous electrode material for secondary battery and process for production thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M458	H01M458	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A non-aqueous solvent-type secondary battery 
having a large charge-discharge capacity and 

exhibiting a high utilization rate of an active 
substance, such as lithium, and an excellent charge-discharge 

cycle characteristic, can be constituted by 
using a carbonaceous electrode material having a 

specific microtexture. The carbonaceous electrode 
material is characterized by having an average (002)-plane 

spacing d₀₀₂ of 0.336 - 0.375 nm and a 
crystallite size in c-axis direction Lc
(002)
 of at 
most 50 nm, respectively, as measured by X-ray 

diffraction method, and an optically anisotropic 
texture showing a fine mosaic texture when observed 

through a polarizing microscope. The carbonaceous 
material may suitably be produced through a process 

including the steps of: crosslinking a tar or pitch of 
a petroleum or coal origin, and carbonizing the 

crosslinked tar or pitch at a temperature of at least 
800 °C under a reduced pressure or in an inert gas 

atmosphere. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a 
carbonaceous electrode material for a secondary 
battery, more particularly a carbonaceous material 
suitable as an electrode material for a high-energy 
density non-aqueous solvent-type secondary battery, 
and a process for production thereof. The present 
invention also relates to an electrode structure 
comprising such a carbonaceous electrode material, and 
a non-aqueous solvent-type secondary battery having 
such an electrode structure. Accompanying the development of, e.g., video 
tape recorders and small-sized communication 
appliances reduced in size and weight, there has been 
an increasing demand for a secondary battery of a high 
energy density as a power supply for such appliances, 
and non-aqueous solvent-type lithium secondary 
batteries have been proposed therefor (e.g., Japanese 
Laid-Open Patent Application (JP-A) 57-208079, JP-A 
62-90863, JP-A 62-122066 and JP-A 2-66856). These 
batteries use a negative electrode comprising a 
carbonaceous material doped with lithium instead an 
electrode of lithium metal so as to alleviate the 
danger of internal short circuit due to occurrence of  
 
dendrite and improve the charge-discharge 
characteristic, storage stability, etc. In order to produce a battery of a high 
energy density, it is important that the carbonaceous 
material constituting the negative electrode can be 
doped and de-doped with a large amount of lithium. In 
order to provide a high-energy density per unit volume 
of a battery, it is important to use a carbonaceous 
material having a large capacity of doping and 
dedoping (liberation) of an active substance (i.e., 
lithium) and fill the negative electrode with as large 
a quantity as possible of the carbonaceous material. In the above-mentioned prior proposals, it 
has been proposed to use graphite or a carbonaceous 
material obtained by carbonizing an organic material 
as a negative electrode material for non-aqueous 
solvent-type lithium secondary batteries. Graphite has a large true density of 2.27 
g/cm3, and this is advantageous in filling a negative 
electrode with a large amount of carbonaceous 
material. When graphite is doped with lithium, a 
graphite intercalation compound is formed. In this 
instance, a graphitic material having a larger 
crystallite size in its c-axis direction is liable to 
receive a larger strain acting on the crystallites at 
the time of repetition of doping-dedoping, thus being 
liable to break the crystalline structure.  
 
Accordingly, a secondary battery
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A carbonaceous electrode material for a non-aqueous 
solvent-type secondary battery, comprising a 

carbonaceous material having an average (002)-plane 
spacing d
002
 of 0.336 - 0.375 nm and a crystallite size in 
c-axis direction Lc
(002)
 of at most 50 nm, respectively, as 
measured by X-ray diffraction method, and an optically 

anisotropic texture showing a fine mosaic texture 
characterised by optically anisotropic units having a 

longer-axis diameter of at most 10 µm as confirmed by 
observation through a polarizing microscope at a 

magnification of 1000. 
A carbonaceous electrode material according 
to Claim 1, having a d
002
 of 0.340 - 0.375 nm and an 
Lc
(002)
 of at most 15 nm. 
A carbonaceous electrode material according 
to Claim 1, which is graphitic and has a d
002
 of 0.336 
- 0.350 nm, an Lc
(002)
 which exceeds 15 nm and at most 
50 nm, and a crystallite size in a-axis direction 

La
(110)
 of 5 - 50 nm. 
A carbonaceous electrode material according 
to Claim 3, having a true density of at least 1.90 

g/cm
3
. 
A process for providing a carbonaceous 
electrode material for a non-aqueous solvent-type  

 
secondary battery, comprising the steps of: 


crosslinking a tar or pitch of a petroleum or 
coal origin, and 
carbonizing the crosslinked tar or pitch at a 
temperature of at least 800 °C under a reduced 

pressure or in an inert gas atmosphere so as to 
provide a carbonaceous material having an average 

(002)-plane spacing d
002
 of 0.336 - 0.375 nm and a 
crystallite size in c-axis direction Lc
(002)
 of at 
most 50 nm, respectively, as measured by X-ray 

diffraction method, and an optically anisotropic 
texture showing a fine mosaic texture characterised by 

optically anisotropic units having a longer-axis diameter 
of at most 10 µm as confirmed by observation through a 

polarizing microscope at a magnification of 1000. 
A process according to Claim 5, wherein the 
crosslinked tar or pitch is carbonized so as to 

provide the carbonaceous material with a d
002
 of 0.340 
- 0.375 nm and an Lc
(002)
 of at most 15 nm. 
A process according to Claim 5, wherein the 
carbonizing step includes a graphitizing treatment at 

a temperature of at least 1800 °C so that the 
resultant carbonaceous material will be graphitic and 

have a d
002
 of 0.336 - 0.350 nm, an Lc
(002)
 which 
exceeds 15 nm and at most 50 nm, and a crystallite 

size in a-axis direction La
(110)
 of 5 - 50 nm.  
 
A process according to any of Claims 5 - 7, 
wherein the crosslinking step comprises treating the 

tar or pitch of a petroleum or coal origin with nitric 
acid. 
A process according to any of Claims 5 - 7, 
wherein the crosslinking step includes: 


mixing under heating the pitch with an 
additive comprising an aromatic compound having two or 

three rings and a boiling point of at least 200 °C, 
shaping the resultant mixture to form a 
shaped pitch product, 
extracting the additive from the shaped pitch 
product with a solvent showing a low dissolving power 

to the pitch and a high dissolving power to the 
additive, thereby to leave a porous pitch product, and 
oxidizing the porous pitch product for 
crosslinking. 
A process according to Claim 9, wherein the 
porous pitch product is oxidized with an oxygen-containing 

gas for the crosslinking. 
A process according to any of Claims 5 - 7, 
wherein the crosslinked tar or pitch is heat-treated 

to form a carbon precursor having a volatile content 
of at most 15 %, and the carbon precursor is  

 
pulverized into an average particle size of at most 

100 µm and then subjected to the carbonizing step. 
An electrode structure for a non-aqueous 
solvent-type secondary battery, comprising: an 

electroconductive substrate and a composite electrode 
layer disposed on at least one surface of the 

electroconductive substance;
 
   said composite electrode layer comprising a 

carbonaceous electrode material according to any one 
of Claims 1 - 4 in a particulate form, and a binder. 
A non-aqueous solvent-type secondary battery, 
comprising, a positive electrode, a negative 

electrode, and a separator and a non-aqueous 
electrolytic solution disposed between the positive 

and negative electrodes;
 
   at least one of said positive and negative 

electrodes comprising an electrode structure according 
to Claim 12. 
A secondary battery according to Claim 13, 
wherein the electrode structure constitutes the 

negative electrode. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
