<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655808</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Patch connector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R424	H01R424	H01R13502	H01R13502	H01R13648	H01R13648	H01R13658	H01R13658	H01R2400	H01R2400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R4	H01R4	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R24	H01R24	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The field terminable patch connector (10) of the present 
invention comprises three separable upper and lower housing 

portions, all three of which have mutual interlocking detent 
structures. One of the three housing portions is a contact 

insulator (16) which has a multiplicity of slots (130) and protrusions 
capable of retaining contacts (18) for receiving conductors of a 

twisted pair cable. Optionally, a metal shield (30) is provided 
which fits between both the upper housing portion (14) and contact 

insulator portion (16). Other preferred embodiments of this 
invention include polarization structure which assures proper 

orientation of the mating conductors, a snap detent structure 
that provides a positive and stable mechanical connection to 

the connecting block, and an improved insulation displacement 
terminal which preferably utilizes closed gap construction and 

low surface area mating contacts that minimize capacitive 
coupling between adjacent contact positions to assure Category 

5 compliance. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SIEMON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSON ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIEMON JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSON, ROBERT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIEMON, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electrical connector intended 
for use with terminal blocks commonly employed as a means of 
connection for wire networks. More specifically, this 
invention relates to an alternate means, namely a patch 
connector, for making electrical connection between wire and 
terminal points without the aid of tools or soldering. In the communication industry, and more particularly in 
the telephone and data transmission industry, terminal blocks 
having a plurality of clip type electrical connectors or 
terminals protruding therefrom are commonly used. One such 
terminal block is the well known type 110 connecting block.
 
Examples of 110 terminal blocks are described in U.S. Patents 
3,798,587 and 4,964,812. Having become widely accepted over 
the last ten years or so, the 110-type quick connect blocks 
have evolved into many shapes and sizes and have been the focal 
point of a variety of accessories and adapters. Test adapters that plug onto the front of the terminal 
block such as disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,878,848 may be used 
to connectorize the terminals with modular jacks or other 
industry standard connectors. The limitation of these devices 
is that they cannot always be field wired and they cannot 
always be mounted end to end or side to side without missing 
terminal locations that may require access. An example of 
another such test adapter for 66 type connector blocks is 
described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,585,290, which is assigned to the 
assignee hereof. Other examples of prior art test adapters are 
discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,585,290. While the connection points on the terminal block may be 
capable of terminating wire directly via a solder joint or 
insulation displacement, well known patch connectors provide a 
means for making additional connections for temporary or long 
term use. Once wired, a patch connector is a multiple wire 
connector that may be installed and removed from the terminal  
 
block for the purpose of branching off existing lines or 
connecting together discrete areas of the terminal field. Improved terminal block patching devices which allow for 
field wiring are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,759,723 and U.S. 
Pat. No. 4,834,669, both of which are assigned to the assignee 
hereof. While well suited for their intended purposes, these 
prior patch connectors are designed primarily for use in 
connection with terminal blocks incorporating type 66 
terminals. However, there is a need for a low cost and 
reliable patch connector which can be field
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A patch connector comprising: 

(1) a sub-assembly, said sub-assembly comprising; 

(a) an insulative housing base having a front end, 
an opposed rearward end, an inner surface, an opposed outer 

surface and sidewalls extending along at least a portion of the 
outer periphery of said housing base; 
(b) an insulating contact housing attached to said 
inner surface of said housing base, said contact housing having 

a front end, an opposed rearward end and a plurality of 
chambers extending through said contact housing between said 

front end and said rearward end; 
(c) a plurality of contacts, each contact having a 
front end extending in a respective one of said chambers and a 

rearward end terminating at an insulation displacement 
connector means; and 
(d) shield means, said shield means providing 
electrical isolation to selected contacts or groups of 

contacts; and 
(2) an insulative housing cover, said housing cover 
having a front end, an opposed rearward end, an inner surface 

and an opposed outer surface, said inner surface including 
retaining means for selectively retaining individual conductors 

in spaced relation and said housing cover including engagement 
means for attaching said housing cover to said sub-assembly 

wherein selected conductors retained in said housing cover are 
terminated onto selected ones of said contacts. 
The connector of claim 1 characterized in that: 
   said front ends of said housing base and contact housing 

each have an arcuate shape. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 or 2 characterized in 
that:

 
   said front end of said housing base extends outwardly 

beyond said front end of said contact housing. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 3 characterized in 

that said front end of said contact housing includes: 
   a front face having receptacle means for mating to a 110-type 

terminal block; and 
   a pair of outer edge surfaces extending outwardly of said 

front face. 
The connector of claim 4 characterized in that: 
   at least one of said outer edge surfaces has an arcuate 

shape. 
The connector of claim 4 or 5 including: 
   spaced, aligned openings through said pair of outer edge 

surfaces for mating with a mating structure on a 110 terminal 
block. 
The connector any of the claims 1 to 6 characterized 
by: 

   first mating means for snap-lockedly attaching said 
contact housing to said housing base. 
The connector of claim 7 characterized in that said first 
mating means comprises: 

   a plurality of resilient spaced first detent means 
extending upwardly from said inner surface of said housing 

base; and 
   a plurality of spaced first openings in said contact 

housing, each first opening being positioned to receive a 
respective first detent means, a first lip being associated 

with each first opening for engagement to a first detent means. 
The connector any of the claims 1 to 8 including:
 

   polarizing means on said outer surface of said housing 
base for interfacing with a 110 connector. 
The connector of claim 9 characterized in that: 
   said polarizing means comprises a plurality of spaced 

grooves extending from said front end towards said rearward 
end. 
The connector any of the claims 1 to 10 characterized in 
that said shield means comprises: 

   metal plate means supported at said inner surface of said 
housing base. 
The connector of claim 11 characterized in that said metal 
plate means further includes: 

   a plurality of upwardly extending shield tabs for 
electrically isolating pairs of said contacts. 
The connector of claim 11 or 12 characterized in that said 
plate means further includes: 

   a plurality of openings formed through said plate means 
with at least some of said shield tabs extending from selective 

edges of said openings. 
The connector of any of the claims 11 to 13 characterized 
in that: 

   said plate means is one-piece and has a shape commensurate 
with the shape of at least a portion of said inner surface of 

said housing base. 
The connector of any of the claims 12 to 14 characterized 
in that: 

   said shield tabs extend upwardly through respective slots 
in said contact housing. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 15 characterized 
in that said engagement means includes: 

   a plurality of resilient spaced second detent means 
extending downwardly from said front end of said housing cover; 

and 
   a plurality of spaced second openings in said contact 

housing, each second opening being positioned to receive a 
respective second detent means, a second lip being associated 

with each second opening for engagement to a second detent 
means. 
The connector of claim 16 characterized in that: 
   a wall separates respective ones of said first and second 

openings with said first and second lips defining opposed upper 
and lower edges of said wall. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 17 characterized 
in that said engagement means includes: 

   two spaced groups of third detent means extending 
downwardly from said inner surface of said housing cover, each 

group of third detent means comprising a pair of inwardly 
facing detents; and 

   mating apertures through said housing base for receiving 
and mating with said third detent means. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 18 characterized 
in that: 

   said housing cover is co-planar with and has substantially 
the same thickness as said contact housing. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 19 characterized 
in that: 

   said housing cover and housing base cooperate to define a 
narrowed arcuate gripping portion. 
The connector any of the claims 1 to 20 characterized in 
that: 

   said housing cover and housing base each have aligned 
arcuate openings which cooperate to provide a pass through 

space for a cable. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 21 characterized 
in that: 

   said patch connector meets the TIA/EIA TSB-40 Category 5 
transmission requirements when terminated to Category 5 

compliant cable. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 22 characterized 
in that each of said contacts includes: 

   stop means for preventing over-insertion of said 
insulating contact housing during assembly. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 23 characterized 
in that each of said contacts includes: 

   friction fit means for preventing movement of said contact 
in said insulating contact housing. 
The connector of any of the claims 1 to 24 characterized 
in that said shield means includes: 

   at least one rib means protruding from one surface of said 
shield means for providing a redundant positive connection 

means. 
A patch connector comprising: 

(1) a sub-assembly, said sub-assembly comprising; 

(a) an insulative housing base having a front end, 
an opposed rearward end, an inner surface, an opposed outer 

surface and sidewalls extending along at least a portion of the 
outer periphery of said housing base; 
(b) an insulating contact housing attached to said 
inner surface of said housing base, said contact housing having 

a front end, an opposed rearward end and a plurality of 
chambers extending through said contact housing between said 

front end and said rearward end; and 
(c) a plurality of contacts, each contact having a 
front end extending in a respective one of said chambers and a 

rearward end terminating at an insulation displacement 
connector means; and 
(2) an insulative housing cover, said housing cover 
having a front end, an opposed rearward end, an inner surface 

and an opposed outer surface, said inner surface including 
retaining means for selectively retaining individual conductors 

in spaced relation and said housing cover including engagement 
means for attaching said housing cover to said sub-assembly 

wherein selected conductors retained in said housing cover are 
terminated onto selected ones of said contacts. 
A patch connector comprising: 
   a plurality of contacts, each having a contact end and an 

end receptive for connection to a conductive wire; 
   a housing having said contacts disposed therein, said 

housing being matable with a 110 terminal block, wherein said 
contact end of said contacts are receptive for electrical 

connection with terminals of the 110 terminal block; and 
   shield means for providing electrical isolation to 

selected contacts or groups of contacts. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
