<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621818</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RANDOM ORBITAL SANDER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q1100	B23Q1100	B24B2300	B24B2300	B24B2302	B24B2304	B24B5500	B24B5510	F16K3144	F16K3144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q11	B23Q11	B24B23	B24B23	B24B23	B24B23	B24B55	B24B55	F16K31	F16K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A random orbital sander has improved arrangements (24), (88), (90), (120) for resiliently supporting an air motor (32), controlling the flow of pressurized air to the motor and utilizing air exhausted from the motor to withdraw dust from a shroud (120) arranged to collect dust generated incident to the operation of the sander. Also disclosed is an alternative dust collecting arrangement wherein the shroud is connected by a sander-mounted duct (120d) to a vacuum source.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYNABRADE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYNABRADE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HECKMILLER DAVID G JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBER PAUL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HECKMILLER, DAVID, G., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBER, PAUL, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RANDOM ORBITAL SANDERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Pneumatically operated power tools, such as sanders, are typically formed with a cast or molded housing having a chamber for receiving an air powered motor, air supply and discharge passageways communicating with the chamber through an annular side wall thereof for supplying air to and exhausting air from air supply and discharge ports of the motor, and a chamber for receiving a manually operated valve adapted to control flow of air through the air supply passageway.In accordance with standard housing casting or molding practice, it is necessary to provide a relief for the side walls of chambers in order to permit withdrawal of chamber forming inserts from the housing at the completion of the casting or molding operation. It has been typical manufac¬ turing practice to bore out motor receiving chambers to remove the relief and accurately size such chambers to frictionally receive a cylindrical side wall of the casing of the motor through which its air supply and exhaust ports extend. A relatively tight fit was required to be provided between the facing side walls of the chamber and motor casing in order to prevent leakage of air annularly within the chamber between the air supply and discharge passage¬ ways, and this added greatly to the cost of housing manu¬ facture and motor assembly. An added drawback of this prior manufacturing practice is that vibrations of the motor and/or tool with which it is connected are trans- ferred directly to the housing and from the housing to the operator of the tool.It has been proposed to resiliently mount air motors within the chamber of an air powered tool by providing a pair of resiliently deformable bands adapted to encircle opposite ends of the motor casing, but in such instal¬ lations revised motor casing and housing structures are 

required to permit at least one of the air supply and discharge ports of the motor casing to open axially thereof and at least one of the air supply and discharge passages to open into the chamber in an axial direction. As with the case of motor receiving chambers, it has been common practice to bore out the valve receiving chambers of air tools to provide for a proper fit with cylindrical rotary valve sleeves, and again this adds to the cost of housing manufacture and valve installation. Another drawback of standard rotary valve constructions employed in air power tools is that they provide for non¬ linear adjustments of air flow in which slight rotational movements of the valve
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A sander comprising in combination: a housing defining a chamber having a side wall, an inner end and an open outer end, and an air supply and air exhaust passageways communicating with said chamber at points spaced annularly of said side wall intermediate said ends; an air motor disposed within said chamber and having a motor casing and a rotor rotatably supported within said casing, said casing having opposite ends, a side wall and air inlet and exhaust ports spaced annularly of said side wall and arranged intermediate said opposite ends; a sanding head; means for coupling said sanding head to said rotor for imparting sanding movement to said sanding head in response to rotational movements of said rotor; and mounting means for non-rotatably mounting said casing within said chamber to arrange said air inlet and exhaust ports for flow communication with said air supply and air discharge passageways, respectively, said mounting means including resiliently deformable means having mounting portions encircling said opposite ends of said casing and extending radially between said side wall of said casing and said side wall of said chamber adjacent said inner and outer ends of said chamber and a pair of intermediate sealing portions extending between said mounting portions in engagement with said side walls of said chamber and said casing and being spaced apart annularly of said side wall of said casing to fluid seal said air inlet port and said air supply passageway from said air discharge port and said air discharge passageway.
2. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said mounting portions are separately formed and each have a pair of sealing projections formed with free ends, the pairs of said sealing projections of said mounting portions 


having said free ends disposed in engagement and cooperat¬ ing to define said pair of intermediate sealing portions.
3. A sander according to claim 1, wherein a mounting pin extends from one of said ends of said motor casing for engagement with said housing to positionally locate said casing within said chamber and arrange said air inlet and exhaust ports for flow communication with said air supply and air discharge passageways, said mounting portions are separate end caps each having a pair of sealing projections extending therefrom and terminating in free ends, one of said end caps having an opening extending therethrough for receiving said mounting pin, and said free ends inter- engaging to locate the other of said end caps relative to said one of said caps and prevent rotation therebetween about an axis extending lengthwise of said casing.
4. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said side wall of said casing is cylindrical and said side wall of said chamber is of frusto-conical configuration with said outer end having a diameter greater than said inner end. 5. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes valve means having: a valve chamber defined by said housing and arranged to divide said air supply passageway into an inlet flow path and an outlet flow path communicating with said valve chamber; a valve seat arranged in one of said inlet and outlet flow paths; a valve sleeve supported for rotation within said valve chamber and having a through opening provided with opposite ends arranged for placing said flow paths in flow communication; a valve member having sealing and operating ends, said sealing end being arranged within said one of said flow paths for removable engagement with said valve seat for selectively blocking and unblocking flow of air through said one of said flow paths, said operating end extending 



into said valve chamber from said one of said flow paths and through one of said opposite ends of said through opening for receipt within said valve sleeve; an operator supported by said valve sleeve for engage- ment with said operating end of said valve member within said through opening and being movable relative to said valve sleeve to effect movement of said valve member for removably engaging said sealing end with said valve seat to selectively block and unblock flow of air through said one of said flow paths, said through opening including said one of said opposite ends thereof being sized and shaped to permit said movement of said valve member and rotation of said valve sleeve within said valve chamber between first and second limits, and another of said opposite ends of said through opening cooperating with another of said flow paths to form a rotary valve for varying flow of air between said through opening and said other of said flow paths incident to rotation of said valve sleeve between said limits. 6. A sander according to claim 5, wherein said rotary valve provides for a substantial linear variation in said flow of air incident to said rotation of said valve sleeve.
7. A sander according to claim 6, wherein an inlet end of said other of said flow paths is of a generally circular cross-sectional configuration and said other of said opposite ends of said through opening has an essen¬ tially straight boundary edge inclined relative to the direction of said rotation of said valve sleeve between said limits, said boundary edge cooperating with said inlet end of said other of said flow paths to provide said variation incident to rotation of said valve sleeve.
8. A sander according to claim 5, wherein spring means is disposed within said one of said flow paths to normally bias said sealing end of said valve member into engagement with said valve seat for blocking flow of air through said one of said flow paths. 


 9. A sander according to claim 5, wherein said valve chamber and said valve sleeve have aligned end openings, and said operator is slidably and rotatably supported by said end opening of said valve sleeve and has an inner end engaging with said operating end of said valve member and an outer end arranged to extend through said end opening of said valve chamber and be accessible from exteriorly of said housing.
10. A sander according to claim 5, wherein said valve chamber and said valve sleeve are of frusto-conical con¬ figuration.
11. A sander according to claim 5, wherein said valve chamber has opposite ends opening exteriorly of said housing, said valve sleeve has one end thereof formed with an opening aligned with one. of said opposite ends of said chamber for slidably and rotatably supporting said oper¬ ator, said operator has an inner end engaging with said operating end of said valve member and an outer end ar¬ ranged to extend through said one of said opposite ends of said chamber and be accessible from exteriorly of said housing, and said valve sleeve has another end thereof aligned with another of said opposite ends of said valve chamber and is accessible from exteriorly of said valve housing for imparting said rotation to said valve sleeve. 12. A sander according to claim 11, wherein said valve sleeve is insertable into said valve chamber through said other of said opposite ends thereof, and latch means is provided to engage with said one end of said valve sleeve and said housing for removably retaining said valve sleeve within said valve chamber, and said valve chamber and said valve sleeve are of frusto-conical configuration with said one of said opposite ends of said valve chamber and said one end of said valve sleeve being of smaller diameter than said other of said opposite ends of said valve chamber and said other end of said valve sleeve. 


 13. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes a shroud arranged adjacent said sanding head for receiving dust generated incident to operation thereof, said shroud having a discharge port from which dust may be withdrawn; a duct for connecting said shroud to a source of vacuum and having a mounting portion; and a muffler connected to said housing for receiving air discharged from said sander through said air exhaust passageway, and said muffler mounting said mounting portion on said housing.
14. A sander according to claim 13, wherein said mounting portion has an opening extending therethrough, said muffler removably mounts said mounting portion on said tool with said opening in alignment with said exhaust passageway and said muffler, and said mounting portion and said housing have removable engaging means for constraining rotation of said mounting portion about an axis aligned with said opening.
15. A sander according to claim 13, wherein said shroud has an integrally formed discharge duct bounding said discharge port, said duct is removably connected to said discharge duct, said mounting portion is a mounting flange having an opening extending therethrough and a detent, said muffler removably clamps said mounting flange against said housing with said opening in alignment with said exhaust passageway, and said housing includes means removably engaging with said detent for constraining rotation of said mounting flange relative to said housing about an axis aligned with said opening. 16. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes: a shroud arranged adjacent said sanding head for receiving dust generated incident to operation thereof, said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn, and 


 an aspirator for withdrawing dust through said dust discharge port, said aspirator having a first portion con¬ nected to said exhaust passageway for creating a reduced pressure stream of air from air exhausted from said housing through said exhaust passageway and a second portion for connecting said dust discharge port to said reduced pres¬ sure stream for drawing dust from said shroud.
17. A sander according to claim 16, wherein said first portion includes a nozzle means arranged to receive air from said exhaust passageway and to direct air ex¬ hausted from said nozzle means for flow in a given direc¬ tion and means defining a convergent/divergent through flow passage arranged in alignment with said given direction and having an inlet end arranged to receive said air exhausted from said nozzle means, and said air exhausted from said nozzle means is directed to enter said flow passage only adjacent a portion of the peripheral extent of said inlet end thereof, and said second portion connects said dust discharge port to said inlet end. 18. A sander according to claim 17, wherein said air exhausted from said nozzle means and said portion of said peripheral extent of said inlet end of said flow passage are of arcuate configuration when viewed in cross-section.
19. A sander according to claim 18, wherein a dust flow directing surface converges towards said stream of air in said given direction and towards said inlet end.
20. A sander according to claim 19, wherein said dust flow directing surface is concave when viewed in cross- section. 21. A sander according to claim 20, wherein said second portion includes a dust discharge flow passage posi¬ tioned to cooperate with said dust flow directing surface to direct dust into said inlet end of said flow passage in a direction forming an angle of greater than 90° and less than 180° relative to said given direction. 



 22. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes: a shroud arranged adjacent said sanding head for receiving dust generated incident to operation of said sanding head, said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn; a nozzle communicating with said air exhaust passage¬ way for discharging exhaust air in a given direction; means having a through passage of convergent/ diver- gent configuration, said through passage having an inlet end arranged adjacent said nozzle for receiving said exhaust air with said exhaust air being directed to engage with only a portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage bounding said inlet end; and flow passage means communicating at opposite ends thereof with said dust discharge port and said inlet end.
23. A sander according to claim 22, wherein said portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage and said exhaust air as discharged from said nozzle have generally arcuate cross-sectional configurations.
24. A sander according to claim 22, wherein a flow directing surface is arranged to converge towards said exhaust air discharged from said nozzle in a said given direction, and said flow directing surface cooperates with said flow passage means to direct dust into said inlet end.
25. A sander according to claim 24, wherein said portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage and said exhaust air discharged from said nozzle have generally arcuate cross-sectional configurations and said flow direction surface has a concave cross-sectional configuration.
26. A sander according to claim 25, wherein said nozzle is removably attached to said housing and said flow passage means is removably attached to said shroud. 27. A valve for controlling flow of air comprising in combination: 


 a valve housing having a chamber, inlet and outlet air flow paths communicating with said chamber adjacent oppos¬ itely facing sides thereof, and a valve seat arranged in one of said flow paths; a valve sleeve supported for rotation within said chamber and having a through opening provided with opposite ends arranged for placing said inlet and outlet air flow paths in flow communication; a valve member having sealing and operating ends, said sealing end being arranged within said one of said flow paths for removable engagement with said valve seat for selectively blocking and unblocking flow of air through said one of said flow paths, said operating end extending into said chamber from said one of said flow paths and through one of said opposite ends for receipt within said through opening of said valve sleeve; an operator supported by said valve sleeve for engage¬ ment with said operating end of said valve member within said through opening and being movable relative to said valve sleeve to effect movement of said valve member relative to said valve housing and said valve sleeve for removably engaging said sealing end with said valve seat to selectively block and unblock flow of air through said one of said flow paths, said through opening including said one of said opposite ends being sized and shaped to permit said movement of said valve member and rotation of said valve sleeve within said chamber between first and second limits, and another of said opposite ends cooperating with another of said flow paths to form a rotary valve for varying flow of air between said through opening and said other of said flow paths incident to rotation of said valve sleeve between said limits.
28. A valve according to claim 27, wherein said rotary valve provides for a substantial linear variation in said flow of air incident to said rotation of said valve sleeve. 


 29. A valve according to claim 28, wherein an inlet end of said other of said flow paths is of a generally circular cross-sectional configuration and said other of said opposite ends of said through opening has an essen- tially straight boundary edge inclined relative to the direction of said rotation of said valve sleeve between said limits, said boundary edge cooperating with said inlet end of said other of said flow paths to provide said variation incident to rotation of said valve sleeve. 30. A valve according to claim 27, wherein spring means is disposed within said one of said flow paths to normally bias said sealing end of said valve member into engagement with said valve seat for blocking flow of air through said one of said flow paths. 31. A valve according to claim 27, wherein said chamber and said valve sleeve have aligned end openings, and said operator is slidably supported by said end opening of said valve sleeve and has an inner end engaging with said operating end of said valve member and an outer end arranged to extend through said end opening of said chamber and be accessible from exteriorly of said valve housing.
32. A valve according to claim 27, wherein said chamber and said valve sleeve are of frusto-conical con¬ figuration. 33. A valve according to claim 27, wherein said chamber has opposite ends opening exteriorly of said valve housing, said valve sleeve has one end thereof formed with an opening aligned with one of said opposite ends of said chamber for slidably and rotatably supporting said oper- ator, said operator has an inner end engaging with said operating end of said valve member and an outer end ar¬ ranged to extend through said one of said opposite ends of said chamber and be accessible from exteriorly of said valve housing, and said valve sleeve has another end thereof aligned with another of said opposite ends of said 


chamber and is accessible from exteriorly of said valve housing for imparting said rotation to said valve sleeve.
34. A valve according to claim 33, wherein said valve sleeve is insertable into said chamber through said other of said opposite ends thereof, and latch means is provided to engage with said one end of said valve sleeve and said housing for removably retaining said valve sleeve within said chamber, and said chamber and said valve sleeve are of frusto-conical configuration with said one of said opposite ends of said chamber and said one end of said valve sleeve being of smaller diameter than said other of said opposite ends of said chamber and said other end of said valve sleeve.
35. In an air driven device having a housing formed with a motor mounting chamber and air supply and exhaust passageways communicating with said chamber and spaced apart annularly thereof, and a pneumatic motor including a motor casing non-rotatably supported within said chamber and having annularly spaced air supply and exhaust ports opening through a side wall of said casing intermediate first and second end portions thereof and for communication with said air supply and exhaust passageways, respectively, the improvement comprising: resiliently deformable means for mounting said casing within said chamber and for fluid sealing said air supply passageway and air supply port from said air exhaust passageway and said air exhaust port.
36. An improvement according to claim 35, wherein said resiliently deformable means includes first and second end mounting portions peripherally engaging with said first and second end portions of said casing, respectively, and a pair of intermediate sealing portions extending between said first and second end mounting portions and arranged to provide fluid seals spaced annularly of said side wall between said air supply and exhaust ports. 


 37. An improvement according to claim 36, wherein said resiliently deformable means is formed of separate first and second parts defining said first and second end mounting portions, respectively, and each of said first and second parts having a pair of sealing projections, and the pairs of sealing projections of said first and second parts cooperate to define said pair of intermediate sealing portions.
38. An improvement according to claim 37, wherein said pairs of sealing portions are formed with inter- engaging free ends.
39. An improvement according to claim 38, wherein said chamber has a bounding side wall of frusto-conical configuration having relatively large diameter first end and relatively small diameter second end portions, said side wall of said casing is of cylindrical configuration, and said first and second parts bridge between said first end portions and said second end portions of said side wall and said bounding side wall, respectively. 40. An improvement according to claim 38, wherein one of said first and second parts is keyed against rotation relative to said casing, and said interengaging free ends cooperate to key the other of said first and second parts against rotation relative to said one of said first and second parts.
41. An improvement according to claim 35, wherein said mounting chamber has a bounding side wall of frusto- conical configuration having relatively large and small diameter opposite end portions, said side wall of said casing is of cylindrical configuration, and said deformable means includes mounting portions bridging between said relatively large and small diameter opposite end portions of said mounting chamber, and said end portions of said casing. 42. An improvement according to claim 35, wherein said deformable means includes separately formed first and 


second end mounting portions for mounting said first and second end portions of said casing within said mounting chamber, and said first and second mounting portions cooperate to define sealing means extending therebetween and arranged to provide fluid seals between said air supply and exhaust ports.
43. An improvement according to claim 42, wherein means are provided to key one of said first and second end mounting portions against rotation relative to said casing and said sealing means constrains said first and second end mounting portions against rotation relative to one another.
44. An improvement according to claim 35, wherein said mounting chamber has first and second end portions disposed adjacent said first and second end portions of said casing; and said deformable means includes first and second end caps extending peripherally of said first and second end portions of said casing and bridging between said first and second end portions of said casing and said first and second end portions of said mounting chamber, respectively, said first and second end caps each having a pair of sealing strips extending therefrom and formed with free ends, said free ends of said pair of sealing strips of said first end cap engaging with said free ends of said pair of sealing strips of said second end cap, said sealing strips bridging between, said side wall of said casing and said mounting chamber to fluid seal said air supply pas¬ sageway and air supply port from said air exhaust pas¬ sageway and said air exhaust port.
45. An improvement according to claim 44, wherein means are provided to constrain said casing and one of said first and second end caps from rotation relative to said mounting chamber, and said free ends are configured to constrain the other of said first and second end caps from rotation relative to said one of said first and second end caps. 


 46. An improvement according to claim 45, wherein said motor chamber has a bounding side wall of frusto- conical configuration, and said side wall of said casing is of cylindrical configuration. 47. In the combination of an air powered tool having air supply and discharge passageways and a shroud arranged adjacent an area at which dust is generated incident to operation of said tool, the improvement for withdrawing dust from said shroud comprising: said shroud having a discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn; a duct for connecting said discharge port to a source of vacuum, said duct having a mounting portion; and a muffler connected to said tool for receiving air discharged from said tool . through said discharge pas¬ sageway, and said muffler mounts said mounting portion on said tool.
48. The improvement according to claim 47, wherein said mounting portion has an opening extending there- through, and said muffler removably mounts said mounting portion on said tool with said opening in alignment with said discharge passageway and said muffler.
49. The improvement according to claim 48, wherein said mounting portion and said tool have removable engaging means for constraining rotation of said mounting portion about an axis aligned with said opening.
50. The improvement according to claim 47, wherein said shroud has an integrally formed discharge duct bound¬ ing said discharge port, said duct is removably connected to said discharge duct, said mounting portion is a mounting flange having an opening extending therethrough and a detent, said muffler removably clamps said mounting flange against said tool with said opening in alignment with said discharge passageway, and said tool includes means remov- ably engaging with said detent for constraining rotation of 


said mounting flange relative to said tool about an axis aligned with said opening.
51. In an air powered tool having an air discharge passageway and a shroud arranged adjacent an area at which dust is generated incident to operation of said tool, the improvement for withdrawing dust from said shroud com¬ prising: said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn, and an aspirator for withdrawing dust through said dust discharge port, said aspirator having a first portion con¬ nected to said discharge passageway for creating a stream of air from air exhausted from said tool through said discharge passageway and a second portion for connecting said dust discharge port to said stream for drawing dust from said shroud.
52. The improvement according to claim 51, wherein said second portion is arranged to direct dust into said stream at a convergent angle relative thereto, and said angle exceeds 90° and is less than 180°.
53. The improvement according to claim 51, wherein said first portion includes a nozzle means arranged to receive air from said discharge passageway and to direct exhaust air for flow in a given direction and means defining a convergent/divergent through flow passage arranged in alignment with said given direction and having an inlet end arranged to receive said exhaust air, and said exhaust air is directed to enter said flow passage only adjacent a portion of the peripheral extent of said inlet end thereof, and said second portion connects said dust discharge port to said inlet end.
54. The improvement according to claim 53, wherein said exhaust air and said portion of said peripheral extent of said inlet end of said flow passage are of arcuate con- figuration when said air and said flow passage are viewed in cross-section. 


 55. The improvement according to claim 54, wherein a dust flow directing surface converges towards said stream of air in said given direction and towards said inlet end.
56. The improvement according to claim 55, wherein said dust flow directing surface is concave when viewed in cross-section.
57. The improvement according to claim 56, wherein said second portion includes a dust discharge flow passage positioned to cooperate with said dust flow directing surface to direct dust into said inlet end of said flow passage in a direction forming an angle of greater than 90° and less than 180
°
 relative to said given direction.
58. In an air powered tool having an air discharge passageway, and a shroud arranged adjacent an area at which dust is generated incident 'to operation of said tool, the improvement for withdrawing dust from said shroud com¬ prising in combination: said shroud having a discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn; a nozzle communicating with said air discharge pas¬ sageway for discharging exhaust air in a given direction; means having a through passage of convergent/ diver¬ gent configuration, said through passage having an inlet end arranged adjacent said nozzle for receiving said exhaust air with said exhaust air being directed to engage with only a portion of the periphery of a surface of said passage bounding said inlet end; and flow passage means communicating at opposite ends thereof with said discharge port and said inlet end. 59. The improvement according to claim 58, wherein said portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage and said exhaust air have generally arcuate cross- sectional configurations.
60. The improvement according to claim 58, wherein said nozzle defines a flow directing surface, and said flow 


directing surface cooperates with said flow passage means to direct dust into said inlet end.
61. The improvement according to claim 60, wherein said portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage and said exhausted air have generally arcuate cross-sectional configurations and said flow direction surface has a concave cross-sectional configuration.
62. The improvement according to claim 58, wherein said nozzle is removably attached to said tool and said flow passage means is removably attached to said shroud.
63. A device for collecting dust generated incident to operation of an air powered tool of the type having an air discharge passageway, said device comprising: a shroud adapted to be mounted on said tool adjacent an area at which dust is generated, said shroud having a discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn; a housing having a first part formed with a first end adapted to be connected to said tool to receive air from said discharge passageway and a second end, and a second part defining a dust conveying passage having a dust inlet end connected to said discharge port and an opposite dust discharge end; a nozzle arranged within said first end of said first part to communicate with said air discharge passageway for producing a stream of .exhaust air passing towards said second end of said first part; and a member arranged within said second end of said first part and defining a convergent/divergent flow path having an inlet end arranged to receive said stream of exhaust air, and said dust discharge end of said dust conveying passage communicates with said inlet end of said member.
64. A device according to claim 63, wherein said nozzle defines a dust flow directing surface converging towards said stream of exhaust air, and said dust flow directing surface cooperates with said dust discharge end 


of said dust conveying passage to direct dust into said inlet end of said member.
65. A device according to claim 64, wherein said stream of exhaust air is arcuate and said dust directing surface is concave when viewed in cross-section. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 16 February 1994 (16.02.94 ) ; original claims 51 cancelled; original claims
1,13 , 22 ,52 and 53 amended; other claims unchanged ( 7 pages ) ]
1. A sander comprising in combination: a housing defining a chamber having a side wall , an inner end and an open outer end, and an air supply and air exhaust passageways communicating with said chamber at points spaced annularly of said side wall intermediate said ends ; an air motor disposed within said chamber and having a motor casing and a rotor rotatably supported within said casing, said casing having opposite ends, a side wall and air inlet and exhaust ports spaced annularly of said side wall thereof and arranged intermediate said opposite ends thereof; a sanding head; means for coupling said sanding head to said rotor for imparting sanding movement to said sanding head in response to rotational movements of said rotor; and mounting means for non-rotatably mounting said casing within said chamber to arrange said air inlet and exhaust ports for flow communication with said air supply and air discharge passageways, respectively, said mounting means including resiliently deformable means having mounting portions encircling said opposite ends of said casing and extending radially between said side wall of said casing and said side wall of said chamber adjacent said inner and outer ends of said chamber and a pair of intermediate sealing portions extending between said mounting portions in engagement with said side walls of said chamber and said casing and being spaced apart annularly of said side wall of said casing to fluid seal said air inlet port and said air supply passageway from said air discharge port and said air discharge passageway.
2. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said mounting portions are separately formed and each have a pair of sealing projections formed with free ends, the pairs of said sealing projections of said mounting portions 


 13. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes a shroud arranged adjacent said sanding head for receiving dust generated incident to operation thereof, said shroud having a discharge port from which dust may be withdrawn; a duct for connecting said shroud discharge port to a source of vacuum and having a mounting portion; and a muffler connected to said housing for receiving air discharged from said sander through said air exhaust passageway, and said muffler mounting said mounting portion on said housing.
14. A sander according to claim 13, wherein said mounting portion has an opening extending therethrough, said muffler removably mounts said mounting portion on said tool with said opening in alignment with said exhaust passageway and said muffler, and said mounting portion and said housing have removable engaging means for constraining rotation of said mounting portion about an axis aligned with said opening.
15. A sander according to claim 13, wherein said shroud has an integrally formed discharge duct bounding said discharge port, said duct is removably connected to said discharge duct, said mounting portion is a mounting flange having an opening extending therethrough and a detent, said muffler removably clamps said mounting flange against said housing with said opening in alignment with said exhaust passageway, and said housing includes means removably engaging with said detent for constraining rotation of said mounting flange relative to said housing about an axis aligned with said opening. 16. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes: a shroud arranged adjacent said sanding head for receiving dust generated incident to operation thereof, said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn, and 


 an aspirator for withdrawing dust through said dust discharge port, said aspirator having a first portion con¬ nected to said exhaust passageway for creating a reduced pressure stream of air from air exhausted from said housing through said exhaust passageway and a second portion for connecting said dust discharge port to said reduced pres¬ sure stream for drawing dust from said shroud.
17. A sander according to claim 16, wherein said first portion includes a nozzle means arranged to receive air from said exhaust passageway and to direct air ex¬ hausted from said nozzle means for flow in a given direc¬ tion and means defining a convergent/divergent through flow passage arranged in alignment with said given direction and having an inlet end arranged to receive said air exhausted from said nozzle means, a convergent portion extending from said inlet end and a divergent portion extending from said convergent portion, and said air exhausted from said nozzle means is directed to enter said flow passage only adjacent a portion of the peripheral extent of said inlet end thereof, and said second portion connects said dust dis¬ charge port to said inlet end.
18. A sander according to claim 17, wherein said air exhausted from said nozzle means and said portion of said peripherc.I extent of said inlet end of said flow passage are of arcuate configuration when viewed in cross-section.
19. A sander according to claim 18, wherein a dust flow directing surface converges towards said stream of air in said given direction and towards said inlet end.
20. A sander according to claim 19, wherein said dust flow directing surface is concave when viewed in cross- section.
21. A sander according to claim 20, wherein said second portion includes a dust discharge flow passage posi¬ tioned to cooperate with said dust flow directing surface to direct dust into said inlet end of said flow passage in 


a direction forming an angle of greater than 90
°
 and less than 180° relative to said given direction.
22. A sander according to claim 1, wherein said sander additionally includes: a shroud arranged adjacent said sanding head for receiving dust generated incident to operation of said sanding head, said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn; a nozzle communicating with said air exhaust passage- way for discharging exhaust air in a given direction; means having a convergent/divergent through passage, said through passage having an inlet end arranged adjacent said nozzle for receiving said exhaust air with said exhaust air being directed to engage with only a portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage bounding said inlet end, a convergent portion extending from said inlet end and a divergent portion extending from said convergent portion; and flow passage means communicating at opposite ends thereof with said dust discharge port and said inlet end.
23. A sander according to claim 22, wherein said portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage and said exhaust air as discharged from said nozzle have generally arcuate cross-sectional configurations. 24. A sander according to claim 22, wherein a flow directing surface is arranged to converge towards said exhaust air discharged from said nozzle in a said given direction, and said flow directing surface cooperates with said flow passage means to direct dust into said inlet end. 25. A sander according to claim 24, wherein said portion of the periphery of a surface of said through passage and said exhaust air discharged from said nozzle have generally arcuate cross-sectional configurations and said flow direction surface has a concave cross-sectional configuration.
AMENDED-SHEET (ARTICLE 19) 


 26. A sander according to claim 25, wherein said nozzle is removably attached to said housing and said flow passage means is removably attached to said shroud.
27. A valve for controlling flow of air comprising in combination: 

said mounting flange relative to said tool about an axis aligned with said opening.
52. In an air powered tool having an air discharge passageway and a shroud arranged adjacent an area at which dust is generated incident to operation of said tool, the improvement for withdrawing dust from said shroud com¬ prising: said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn, and an aspirator for withdrawing dust through said dust discharge port, said aspirator having a first portion con¬ nected to said discharge passageway for creating a stream of air from air exhausted from said tool through said discharge passageway and a second portion for connecting said dust discharge port to said stream for drawing dust from said shroud, said second portion is arranged to direct dust into said stream at a convergent angle relative thereto, and said angle exceeds 90° and is less than 180°.
53. In an air powered tool having an air discharge passageway and a shroud arranged adjacent an area at which dust is generated incident to operation of said tool, the improvement for withdrawing dust from said shroud com¬ prising: said shroud having a dust discharge port through which dust may be withdrawn, and an aspirator for withdrawing dust through said dust discharge port, said aspirator having a first portion con¬ nected to said discharge passageway for creating a stream of air from air exhausted from said tool through said discharge passageway and a second portion for connecting said dust discharge port to said stream for drawing dust from said shroud, said first portion includes a nozzle means arranged to receive air from said discharge passage¬ way and to direct exhaust air for flow in a given direction and means defining a convergent/divergent through flow passage arranged in alignment with said given direction and 


having an inlet end arranged to receive said exhaust air, and said exhaust air is directed to enter said flow passage only adjacent a portion of the peripheral extent of said inlet end thereof, and said second portion connects said dust discharge port to said inlet end.
54. The improvement according to claim 53, wherein said exhaust air and said portion of said peripheral extent of said inlet end of said flow passage are of arcuate con¬ figuration when said air and said flow passage are viewed in cross-section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
