<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621758</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOOD COOKING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L1214	A23L12165	A23L1217	A47J3712	A47J3712	G07F910	G07F910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A23L	A47J	A47J	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A47J37	A47J37	G07F9	G07F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for preparing, cooking, and dispensing a food product. A rehydration chamber (24) in the apparatus combines a quantity of dehydrated food product and a quantity of heated rehydration liquid to produce a quantity of rehydrated food product that is sufficient to produce an individual portion of cooked food product. A compression station (25) compresses the rehydrated food product to create a prepared mixture of homogenous consistency. An extrusion station (27) extrudes the prepared mixture into a cooker (45) containing a cooking medium. The cooker cooks the extruded prepared mixture to produce an individual portion of cooked food product which is then dispensed by a dispenser (47).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT WERBEFILM HOLDING AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT WERBEFILM HOLDING AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORENSEN RICHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORENSEN RICHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FOOD COOKING The present invention relates in general to fried food preparation and more particularly concerns novel apparatus and techniques for preparing, cooking, and dispensing a fried food product prepared from a novel dehydrated potato formulation that is rehydrated immediately prior to forming, cooking, and dispensing.For background, reference is made to U.S. Patent Nos. 4,646,627, 4,540,588, and 4,438,683, each disclosing an apparatus for preparing and dispensing fried potato products.According to the invention, there is a mechanism for combining a quantity of dehydrated food product and a. quantity of heated rehydration liquid to create a quantity of rehydrated food product that is sufficient to produce an individual portion of cooked food product using a process that causes the product to become completely rehydrated without mechanical agitation, a mechanism for compressing the rehydrated food product to create a mixture of homogenous consistency, a mechanism for extruding the homogeneous mixture into a cooking medium, and a mechanism that dispenses the cooked food product. These mechanisms are arranged in a way that allows simultaneous and separate processing of a plurality of individual orders of the fried food product.The apparatus may also include a supply hopper capable of holding an amount of dehydrated food product that is sufficient for preparation of hundreds of individual portions of the fried food product. This supply hopper can be equipped with sensors for detecting when the amount of dehydrated food product contained therein is becoming low or when this amount has become too low to allow processing of additional portions. These sensors may comprise light sources directed at 

light detectors so that when there is a sufficient amount of dehydrated food product in the hopper, the dehydrated food product will prevent light from the light source' from shining on the light detector. A metering device may be provided to maintain precise control over the quantity of dehydrated food product used in each portion and to ensure that a consistent predetermined amount of dehydrated food product is used in each portion. This metering device may comprise a multi-chambered paddle wheel.The rehydration device may include a rehydrator having a manifold with a central hole and a plurality of spray nozzles. These spray nozzles may be directed to spray in an interferometer pattern at a stream of dehydrated food product that falls through the central hole of the rehydrator.To ensure that all of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS : - 17 -
1. Apparatus for preparing, cooking, and dispensing a food product, comprising: a rehydration chamber for combining a quantity of dehydrated food product and a quantity of heated rehydration liquid to produce a quantity of rehydrated food product, said quantity of rehydrated food product being sufficient to produce an individual portion of cooked food product, a compression station for compressing said rehydrated food product to create a prepared mixture of homogenous consistency, an extrusion station for extruding said prepared mixture into a cooking medium, a cooker containing said cooking medium for cooking the extruded prepared mixture and producing an individual portion of cooked food product, and a dispenser for dispensing said individual portion of cooked food product, wherein said rehydration chamber, said compression station, said extrusion station, and said cooker are arranged so that said rehydration chamber can process a first individual portion of cooked food product while said compression station is simultaneously processing at least a second individual portion of cooked food product, said extrusion station is simultaneously processing at least a third individual portion of cooked food product, and said cooker is simultaneously processing at least a fourth individual portion of cooked food product.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a supply unit for storing a quantity of said dehydrated food product and supplying said dehydrated food product to said rehydration chamber. 


 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said supply means has a maximum storage capacity in excess of the quantity of said dehydrated food product needed to produce 100 of said individual portions of cooked food product.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said supply unit has a maximum storage capacity in excess of the quantity of said dehydrated food product needed to produce 400 of said individual portions of cooked food product.
5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said supply unit includes a sensor for detecting when the quantity of dehydrated food product contained in said supply unit is an insufficient quantity to produce a said individual portion of cooked food product.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said sensor comprises a light source and a light detector arranged so that light from said light source is only detectable by said light detector when said supply unit contains said insufficient quantity of said dehydrated food product.
7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said supply unit includes a sensor for detecting when the quantity of dehydrated food product contained in said supply unit is less than a predetermined percentage of the maximum storage capacity of said supply unit. 


 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said sensor comprises a light source and a light detector arranged so that light from said light source is only detectable 'by said light detector when said quantity of dehydrated food product in said supply unit is less than said predetermined percentage.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rehydration chamber includes a quantity meter, said quantity meter ensuring that said quantity of dehydrated food product is consistently a predetermined quantity.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said quantity meter includes a paddle wheel having multiple chambers.
11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said quantity meter includes an auger.
12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rehydration chamber includes a rehydrator, said rehydrator comprising a manifold including: a central hole through which falls a stream of said dehydrated food product, a rehydration fluid inlet, and a plurality of spray nozzles for directing a spray of rehydration fluid at said stream of dehydrated food product.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said spray of rehydration fluid is directed in an interferometer pattern at the center of said stream of dehydrated food product. 


 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said spray nozzles start said spray of rehydration fluid before occurrence of said stream of dehydrated food product.
'
15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said spray nozzles end said spray of rehydration fluid after termination of said stream of dehydrated food product.
16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said rehydration chamber further includes a director for directing said dehydrated food product to said central hole of said rehydrator and producing said stream of dehydrated food product.
17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a rehydration liquid supply unit for supplying said quantity of rehydration liquid to said rehydration chamber.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said rehydration liquid supply unit includes a sediment filter for removing sediment in said rehydration liquid.
19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said rehydration liquid supply unit includes a deionizing filter for deionizing said rehydration liquid and removing dissolved chemicals and minerals from said rehydration liquid.
20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said rehydration liquid supply unit includes a reservoir for storing said rehydration liquid. 


 21. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said rehydration liquid supply unit includes a heater for heating said rehydration liquid.
22. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said rehydration liquid supply unit includes a pump, said pump ensuring that said quantity of rehydration liquid is consistently a predetermined quantity.
23. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a transport for transporting said food product from said rehydration chamber to said compression chamber.
24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said transport is a carousel.
25. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a transport for transporting said food product from said compression station to said extrusion station.
26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said transport is a carousel.
27. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said extrusion station includes: an extrusion grate, said extrusion grate located at said extrusion station, and an extrusion ram, said extrusion ram located above said extrusion grate, wherein said extrusion ram extrudes said prepared mixture by moving downward and forcing said prepared mixture through said extrusion grate. 


 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said extrusion station is located over said cooker and said extrusion ram moves downward until said extrusion ram
'
 contacts said extrusion grate to separate said prepared mixture from said extrusion grate and allow said extruded prepared mixture to fall by gravity into said cooker.
29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said extruded prepared mixture is partially submersed in said cooking medium when said extruded prepared mixture falls by gravity into said cooker.
30. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cooker includes a plurality of cooking baskets, each of said cooking baskets being of sufficient size to hold a said individual portion of cooked food product.
31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said cooker further includes a centrally-located rotating shaft, each of said cooking baskets being attached, via a coupling mechanism, to said shaft.
32. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cooker includes: a cooking vessel, a plurality of heater bands, and a plurality of cooking vessel temperature sensors, wherein each one of said cooking vessel temperature sensors is associated with one of said heater bands, said cooking vessel temperature sensors being arranged so that, when the temperature sensed by said one cooking vessel temperature sensor is less than a first predetermined temperature, said one cooking vessel temperature sensor turns on said one heater band and, when the temperature sensed by said one cooking vessel 


 temperature sensor exceeds said first predetermined temperature, said one vessel temperature sensor turns off said one heater band.
33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein said cooker further includes a cooking medium temperature sensor located in said cooking medium, said cooking medium temperature sensor being arranged so that, when the temperature sensed by said cooking medium temperature sensor exceeds a second predetermined temperature, said second predetermined temperature being less than said first predetermined temperature, said cooking medium temperature sensor turns off said plurality of heater bands.
34. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further include an air distributor, said air distributor including: an inlet, a high pressure blower, an oil coalescing filter, an odor filter, and an exhaust vent, wherein said air distributor is arranged so that air flows into said apparatus through said inlet, around said cooker, through said oil coalescing filter, through said odor filter, through said high pressure blower, and out said exhaust vent.
35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein said apparatus further includes a power supply and electronics, said air distributor arranged so that air flows across said power supply and said electronics before flowing around said cooker. 


 36. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a cooking medium filtering system for filtering said cooking medium, said cooking medium filtering system comprising: a drain hole located at the bottom of said cooker, a drain tube having a first end and a second end, said first end of said drain tube being connected to said drain hole, a first filtering chamber, a second filtering chamber, a filter disposed between said first and second filtering chambers, a pump, a first valve disposed between said second end of said drain tube and said first filtering chamber, and a second valve disposed between said second end of said drain tube and said second filtering chamber, all constructed and arranged to filter said cooking medium by: opening said first valve, draining said cooking medium from said cooker into said first filtering chamber through via said drain hole, said drain tube, and said first valve, closing said first valve, passing said cooking medium from said first filtering chamber, through said filter, and into said second filtering chamber, opening said second valve, activating said pump and pumping said cooking medium into said cooker from said second filtering chamber via said second valve, said drain tube, and said drain hole. 


 37. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dehydrated food product comprises: dehydrated potato granules, large cell pregelatinized potato starch, small cell pregelatinized potato starch, xantham gum, guar gum, and yeast extract for flavoring.
38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said dehydrated food product comprises cellulose.
39. A dehydrated potato product for use in preparing fried potato products, said dehydrated potato product comprising: dehydrated potato granules, large cell pregelatinized potato starch, small cell pregelatinized potato starch, xantham gum, guar gum, and yeast extract for flavoring.
40. A dehydrated potato product in accordance with claim 39 wherein said dehydrated potato product comprises cellulose.
41. A method of preparing, cooking, and dispensing individual portions of a food product, said method comprising: rehydrating a dehydrated food product by combining a predetermined quantity of dehydrated food product with a predetermined quantity of heated rehydration liquid to produce an individual portion of rehydrated food product, 


 compressing said individual portion of rehydrated food product to produce a homogenous individual portion of food product, extruding said homogenous individual portion of food product into a cooking medium, cooking said homogenous individual portion of food product and producing an individual portion of cooked food product, and dispensing said individual portion of cooked food product, wherein said steps of rehydration, compressing, extruding, cooking, and dispensing occur sequentially on a particular individual portion of food product, but can occur simultaneously on a plurality of individual portions of food product. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
