<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0190259</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTATING RECTIFIER ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2332	H01L2332	H01L2510	H01L2511	H02K1104	H02K1104	H02K1916	H02K1936	H02M704	H02M704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L25	H01L25	H02K11	H02K11	H02K19	H02K19	H02M7	H02M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUNDSTRAND CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUNDSTRAND CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TROMMER WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TROMMER, WILLIAM, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ROTATING RECTIFIER ASSEMBLYField of the Invention .This invention relates to a rectifier assembly, and more particularly, to a rectifier assembly that is adapted to be rotated at high speed for use in, for example, rectifying three phase alternating current generated by an exciter to provide direct current to establish the main magnetic field in a brushless generator.Background of the InventionIn many generating systems, particularly those that operate at high speeds, it is highly desirable to eliminate brushes since they frequently require maintenance or replacement and are perhaps the single weakest point in the system in terms of breakdowns and the like. Moreover, by their very nature, they may introduce transients into the electrical energy being outputed which in turn may interfere with the proper operation of some types of electrical loads being driven thereby.A typical brushless generator has three distinct generating systems, including a main generator, an exciter and a permanent magnet generator. The permanent magnet generator includes permanent magnets for establishing a magnetic field which is employed to induce current in a set of windings. This induced current is in turn employed to generate a magnetic field in the exciter; and this magnetic field in turn is employed to induce an even higher level of current, typically three phase alternating, which is then employed to generate a magnetic field for the main generator. 

 1In order to avoid the use of brushes, it is necessary that the magnetic field" in the main generator be in the rotor so that the output of the system can be taken from the stator of the main generator. And in order to generate a suitable magnetic field in the rotor, it is necessary to utilize direct current, as opposed to alternating current, for the same. Since the output of the exciter is an alternating current, this current must be rectified to direct current. And again, in order to avoid resort to brushes, it is accordingly necessary that the rectifier interconnecting the exciter and the main generator field winding be carried by the rotor of the generator. United States Letters Patent 3,577,002 issued May 4, 1971 to Hall et al is generally illustrative of this approach although it does show a commutator and brush structure which-is necessary for alternative use of the generating system as a starter motor.Because the rectifier assembly is carried by the rotating shaft of the generating system, it is subjected to high centrifugal loading and much care must be taken to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A rectifier assembly adapted to be mounted in a generator rotor for rotation therewith comprising: a generally tubular housing; a stack of disc-like heat sink elements formed of thermally and electrically conductive material within said housing; at least one face of each said elements including a shallow recess; an annular seal of insulating material disposed in each said recess serving to seal the recess and electrically isolate adjacent ones of said elements; a diode wafer within each said annular seal and associated recess; means for applying a compressive pressure to said stack to bring said elements and said wafers into good thermal and electrical contact; electrical conductors slidably extending through said stack and in electrical contact with predetermined ones of said elements and electrically isolated from predetermined others of said elements; and means for introducing a coolant into said housing.
2. The rectifier assembly of claim 1 wherein said elements are generally circular in shape and include cooling fins about their periphery in close adjacency to said housing.
3. The rectifier assembly of claim 1 wherein said housing is can-like and includes an opening through which said stack may be introduced; a closure for said opening; said applying means comprising a compressed spring means 


interposed between said closure and an endmost one of said elements in said stack, a pressure applying heat sink interposed between said spring means and said endmost element and pressure distributing means between said spring means and said pressure applying heat sink.
4. The rectifier assembly of claim 3 wherein said pressure applying heat sink is disc-like and includes a central stepped recess opening toward said closure and said pressure distributing means comprises a first spherical surface associated with the step of said recess and a second, mating spherical surface associated with said spring means; and a load resistor within said stepped recess.
5. The rectifier assembly of claim 1 wherein there are five of said conductors, each generally parallel to the axis of said stack, two of said lying in a plane containing said axis and three of said conductors defining an equilateral triangle centered on said axis.
6. A semiconductor assembly comprising: a generally tubular housing having an interior; a series of disc-like heat sink elements formed of thermally and electrically conductive material within said housing in substantial abutment with said interior to form an aligned stack of said elements; at least one face of each said elements including a shallow recess; 


 a semiconductor wafer of a thickness slightly greater than the depth of a recess within each said recess; a compressible annular insulator within each said recess and extending about the periphery of the associated wafer to center the wafer in the associated recess;. means for applying a compressive pressure to said stack to bring said elements and said wafers into good thermal and electrical contact; and electrical conductors slidably extending through said stack and in electrical contact with predetermined ones of said elements and electrically isolated from predetermined others of said elements.
7. The semiconductor of claim 6 wherein said housing includes a coolant inlet and said annular insulators additionally serve as seals for sealing the associated wafer from coolant received in said inlet.
8. The semiconductor of claim 6 wherein each of said annular insulators has a radially outwardly opening peripheral groove exposed to coolant entering said inlet.
9. A rectifier assembly adapted to be mounted in a generator rotor for rotation therewith comprising: a generally tubular housing having an interior; a series of disc-like heat sink elements formed of thermally and electrically conductive material within said housing and in substantial abutment with said interior to form an aligned stack of said elements; 


 at least one face of each said elements including a shallow recess; an annular seal of insulating material disposed in each said recess serving to seal the recess and electrically isolate adjacent ones of said elements; a diode wafer of a thickness slightly greater than the depth of a recess located within each said annular seal and positioned thereby in the associated recess; means for applying a compressive pressure to said stack to bring said elements and said wafers into good thermal and electrical contact; electrical conductors slidably extending through said stack and out of said housing interior to exit said housing and in electrical contact with predetermined ones of said elements and electrically isolated from predetermined others of said elements; means for introducing a coolant into said housing; and additional seals sealing said conductor to said housing at their point of exit from said housing
10. The rectifier assembly of claim 9 wherein said housing is can-like and includes an opening through which said stack may be introduced; a closure for said opening; said applying means comprising a compressed spring means interposed between said closure and an endmost one of said elements in said stack, a pressure applying heat sink interposed between said spring means and said endmost element and pressure distributing means between said spring means and said pressure applying heat sink. 


 11. The rectifier assembly of claim 10 wherein said pressure applying heat sink is disc-like and includes a central stepped recess opening toward said closure and said pressure distributing means comprises a first spherical surface associated with the step of said recess and a second, mating spherical surface associated with said spring means; and a load resistor within said stepped recess. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
