<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636389</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular step exercise unit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B2300	A63B2304	A63B2304	A63B2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular step exercise unit includes a plurality of 
individual steps. Each step is in the form of a base having a 

horizontal platform which comprises the upper surface of the base 
with depending sides forming an apron which terminates in a plane 

parallel to the platform so that the apron can be placed directly 
on a support surface, such as a floor. The steps may be made of 

differing size so that during storage or even in certain use 
conditions, steps which are not being used can be stored within the 

periphery of the apron of the largest step. A multi-level step can 
be formed by mounting a smaller step on a larger step. The 

individual steps could be used abutting each other or spaced from 
each other to provide a multi-level arrangement which includes 

individual steps and the floor. If desired the steps could be of 
the same size as each other which would eliminate the advantage of 

storing the steps within each other during non-use, but would have 
the advantage of providing a more symmetrical exercise unit by 

equal sized steps. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILKINSON WILLIAM T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILKINSON, WILLIAM T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKINSON WILLIAM T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKINSON, WILLIAM T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a modular step exercise unit
and a method of performing a step aerobic exercise routine.Various forms of aerobic exercise are intended to develop
different parts of the body. U.S. Patents No. 5,118,096; 5,162,028
and 5,184,987 disclose for example different forms of steps which could
be used
to supplement an aerobic exercise by permitting the user to step up
and down from a horizontal platform to the floor. In general, the
steps of the above patents include some
form of adjustability to permit the exercise program to conform to
the particular individuals. This is generally accomplished by
providing height adjustability so that a selective number of 
different heights can be provided for the platform. U.S.
Patent No. 5,162,028 also provides for width adjustability.U.S. application Serial No. 82,099 filed June 28, 1993 but
published after the priority date of the present application
provides a departure from the conventional single level step
approach by permitting the user to have multiple height step levels
during the same exercise program.Further, attention is drawn to US-A-5 125 646, which shows an
aerobic step/bench exercise device including a base having a
horizontal platform with downwardly extending sides. Said
aerobic step/bench exercise device comprises a warm-up mat
which can be used alone or in combination with said base, in
which case the base is placed on top of the mat in order to
provide a higher elevation for the baseCurrent step aerobics has focused, however, on the use of
only one step to do an exercise routine. While the multi-level
techniques described in U.S. application Serial No. 82,099
provides a distinct variation to the conventional single step
techniques, it would also be desirable if some step exercise unit
could be provided which utilizes a plurality of individual steps to
achieve not only height variance, but also provide sufficiently
large stepping platforms. An object of this invention is to provide a modular step
exercise unit and method of use which meets the above needs.A further object of this invention is to provide such a
modular step exercise unit and method which in one practice can
involve a plurality of individual steps of different size so that
when a step is not being used it could be nested within a larger
step which is being used or for storage purposes.In order to achieve the above objects the present invention
provides a modular step excercise unit as set forth in claim 1
and a method as set forth in claim 15. Preferred
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modular step exercise unit comprising a first step
having a horizontal upper surface to comprise a stepping platform

with depending side walls terminating in a lower edge parallel to
said upper surface, a second step having a horizontal upper surface

to comprise a stepping platform with depending side walls terminating
in a lower edge parallel to its said upper surface, said side

walls of said first step being of a size and shape sufficiently
larger than the size and shape of said second step to permit said

second step to be selectively nested within said side walls of said
first step during periods of non-use of said second step, said

upper surface of said first step being of a size and shape to
support said second step when said lower edge of said second step

is mounted on said upper surface of said first step
and to leave a substantial portion of said upper surface of said

first step exposed,
said unit

selectively having a plurality of possible height elevations, one
of said height elevations being said upper surface of said first

step when said second step is nested in said first step, another of
said height elevations being said upper surface of said second step

and said exposed portion of said upper surface of said first step when said
second step is mounted on said first step

whereby the user may step on said exposed portion of said first
step and on said upper surface of said second step,

and another of said
height elevations being said upper surface of said first step and

said upper surface of said second step when said second step is
mounted near said first step.
The unit of Claim 1 wherein mounting members and
complementary mounting members are provided on said first step and

said second step for engagement with each other to mount said 
second step to said first step to selectively detachably mount said

second step to said first step.
The unit of Claim 2 including a set of detachable
legs detachably mounted to at least one of said steps for elevating

said unit.
The unit of Claim 3 including a third step having a
horizontal upper surface to comprise a stepping platform with

depending side walls terminating in a lower edge parallel to its
said upper surface, said third step being a small step, said first

step being a large step, said second step being an intermediate
step, and said second step being nestable in said first step

simultaneously with said third step being nestable in said second
step, said upper

surface of said second step being of a size and shape
substantially larger than said third step to support said

third step when said lower edge of said third step is
mounted on said upper surface of said second step and

to leave a substantial portion of said upper surface of
said second step exposed, said unit having a further

height elevation when said second step is mounted on
said first step and said third step is mounted on said

second step, and said further height elevation comprising
said upper surface of said third step and said exposed

portion of said second step and said exposed portion of
said first step. 
The unit of Claim 4 wherein said mounting members
and complementary mounting members are tracks and grooves.
The unit of Claim 5 wherein said tracks are
pivotally mounted to selectively be in one of two positions, one of

said positions being in an engaging position, and the other of said
positions being in an inactive position when said tracks are

pivoted out of said engaging position.
The unit of Claim 6 wherein mounting clips are
provided within the periphery of at least one of said steps at its

inner surface thereof for selectively mounting said legs in an
inactive condition during storage.
The unit of Claim 2 wherein said mounting members
and complementary mounting members are tracks and grooves.
The unit of Claim 8 wherein said tracks are
pivotally mounted to selectively be in one of two positions, one of

said positions being in an engaging position, and the other of said
positions being in an inactive position when sai
d tracks are
pivoted out of said engaging position.
The unit of Claim 4 wherein said mounting members
and complementary mounting members are posts and holes. 
The unit of Claim 1 including a third step having a
horizontal upper surface to comprise a stepping platform with

depending side walls terminating in a lower edge parallel to its
said upper surface, said third step being a small step, said first

step being a large step, said second step being an intermediate
step, and said second step being nestable in said first step

simultaneously with said third step being nestable in said second
step, said upper

surface of said second step being of a size and shape
substantially larger than said third step to support said

third step when said lower edge of said third step is
mounted on said upper surface of said second step and

to leave a substantial portion of said upper surface of
said second step exposed, said unit having a further

height elevation when said second step is mounted on
said first step and said third step is mounted on said

second step, and said further height elevation comprising
said upper surface of said third step and said exposed

portion of said second step and said exposed portion of
said first step.
The unit of Claim 1 wherein said first and said
second step are mounted spaced from each other during their

condition of use.
The unit of Claim 1 wherein said first step and said
second step are mounted in abutment with each other during their

condition of use.
The unit of Claim 12 wherein each of said steps is
generally rectangular in shape with four corners, and a respective

corner of said first step and of said second step abutting each
other to form a general V-configuration during their condition of

use. 
Method of performing a step aerobic exercise
routine comprising:


providing a modular step aerobic kit including at least:
a first stepping unit having a length, a horizontal upper
surface and a lower section configured to be supported

on a support surface such as a floor,
a second stepping unit have a length, a horizontal upper
surface and a lower surface configured to be supported

on a support surface such as a floor, the length of said
second stepping unit being less than the length of said

first stepping unit,
said first stepping unit having engagement means thereon
to allow mateable engagement with said second stepping

unit, and said second stepping unit having complimentary
engagement means for maleable engagement

with said engagement means of said first stepping
unit to thereby allowing said second stepping unit to be

detachably mounted on said upper surface of first
stepping unit wherein a portion of said upper surface of

first stepping unit is exposed, said exposed portion
being of a size of sufficient area to support the entire

foot of a user,
said method of use further including the steps of selecting
at least the first and second stepping units from said kit

and orienting said stepping units in a desired orientation
relative to each other,
wherein said orientation is selectable from either said
steps being placed adjacent each other, on a supporting

surface or in an orientation wherein said second stepping
unit is mountably stacked on top of said first

stepping unit, and;
repeatedly stepping from said first stepping unit to said
second stepping unit.
The method of claims 15 including repeatedly stepping to
and from a support surface and to and from at least one of

the stepping units during the step aerobic exercise routine. 
The method of Claim 15 including abutting the second
stepping unit against the first stepping unit.
The method of Claim 15 wherein each of the first
stepping unit and the second stepping unit is of generally rectangular shape with

four corners, and abutting one corner of each of the first stepping unit and
the second stepping unit against each other to form a generally V-configuration.
The method of Claim 15 wherein the first stepping unit and
the second stepping unit are spaced from and out of contact with each other.
The method of Claim 15 including mounting a third
stepping unit on the first stepping unit with the third stepping unit

having a horizontal
upper surface and depending side walls terminating in a lower edge

parallel to its upper surface to create three stepping surfaces
from the upper surface of the third stepping unit and portions of the upper

surfaces of the second stepping unit and the first stepping unit.
The method of Claim 15 including the user stepping
with each foot on a different stepping unit.
The method of Claim 15 including the user stepping
directly from one stepping unit to another stepping unit without intermediately

stepping on the floor.
The method of Claim 15 including using the stepping units for
a warm-up exercise by the user laying on the floor with the limbs

of the user in contact with different stepping units.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
