<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649848</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cation-sensing composite structure and compounds for use therein
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3122	G01N2178	C07D49818	C07C4560	G01N2177	C07C47575	C07C4752	C07C4300	G01N2164	G01N3384	C07C4500	C07D49800	G01N2164	C07C4551	C07C4323	G01N3384	G01N3122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	C07D	C07C	G01N	C07C	C07C	C07C	G01N	G01N	C07C	C07D	G01N	C07C	C07C	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N31	G01N21	C07D498	C07C45	G01N21	C07C47	C07C47	C07C43	G01N21	G01N33	C07C45	C07D498	G01N21	C07C45	C07C43	G01N33	G01N31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluorescent ionophoric compound of formula 1 comprises a 
cryptand portion and a 

coumarin portion substituted at the 3-position with an electron 
withdrawing or 

polar-izable group. The compound, which exhibits good photostability, can 
be incorporated into cation-sensing composite structures useful 

in biological 
and environmental testing, which can be used with conventional 

glass optics, 
by means of convenient points of covalent attachment. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention describes fluorescent coumaro-cryptand ionophores, and
methods for synthesis and use thereof. These ionophores are useful as cation-detecting
agents. This invention also describes cation-sensing composite
structures which incorporate these coumarocryptand ionophores and which are
useful in continuous sensing applications.The measurement of concentrations of ionic components in various
fluids is an increasingly common procedure. Some environmental testing
procedures involve frequent, and sometimes continuous, determinations of the
concentrations of one or more metal ions, especially ions of heavy metals.
Similarly, certain medical diagnostic and treatment procedures involve
frequent, and sometimes continuous, determinations of the concentrations of
one or more ions in one or more bodily fluids of a patient. The necessity for
better continuous testing methods has become increasingly apparent.
Continuous, real time monitoring of serum potassium ion (K+) levels in blood
and other bodily fluids is highly desirable, especially during heart bypass
surgical procedures.Several methods have been reported for the measurement of metal
cation concentrations. Examples include detection based on ion exchange
membranes; spectrophotometric and fluorometric techniques invol-ving the
presence of reagents; wet electrodes; and ionophore-based detection. Some of
these are not effective in determining alkali metal ion concentrations,
however. Among methods commonly used to determine alkali metal ion
concentrations are those which monitor various optical properties. Of these,
techniques measuring fluorescence are preferred to those based on other 
spectroscopic observations. Methods using fluorescence enjoy sensitivity and
oper-ational advantages rooted in the intrinsic separation of the excitation
(probe) and emission (signal) wavelengths. Compounds useful for in vitro
cation concentration determinations have been described in, for example, U.S.
Patent No. 4,808,539.The use of fiber optic chemical sensors to create in vivo systems is
well known. For instance, incorporation of a chemical sensor into a fiber
optic waveguide such that the sensor will interact with the analyte and detect
optical changes is known from U.S. Patent No. 4,577,109. Use of a tethered
pair of fluorescence energy transfer indicators as a chemical sensor in a fiber
optic waveguide is known from U.S. Patent No. 5,037,615. Use of fiber
optics to monitor the signal generated by a substrate-immobilized fluorescer
that is sufficiently close to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fluorescent ionophoric compound having the general formula


wherein

m and n are independently 0 or 1,
R is at least one of an electron withdrawing group and a polarizable
group selected from carboxyl, carboxamide, substituted or

unsubstituted sulfonylaryl, ester, keto-alkyl ester, and aromatic groups
substituted with amine, carboxylic acid, or sulfonic acid substituents,

and
Z is oxygen or N-R" where R" is H or a C
1
 to C
4
 alkyl group,
said compound having an absorbance maximum in the range of 350 to 440

nm.
The ionophoric compound of claim 1 having the formula

A cation-sensing composite structure comprising a substrate and the
fluorescent ionophoric compound o
f any one of claims 1 and 2 wherein said compound is
covalently bound to said substrate through R, defined as above, by means of

one of a bond and a linking group, said linking group comprising
functionalities at both ends, the functionality at one end of said linking group

being complementary to the functionality of R and the functionality at the
other end being complementary to a functional group on said substrate. 
The sensing composite structure according to claim 3 wherein said
functionalities of said linking group are independently selected from

amine, amide, ester, oxirane, olefin, urea, silanol, carbamate,
isocyanate, thioisocyanate, sulfonamide, sulfonyl chloride, carboxyl,

chlorotria-zine, hydrazine, hydrazide, and aldehyde groups.
The sensing composite structure according to claim 3 wherein said
substrate comprises a polymeric material, optionally coated on a membrane.
A method for preparing the fluorescent ionophoric compound of
claim 1 comprising the steps:


a) condensing

1) a bis-substituted aromatic compound having the formula


wherein

Y is selected from hydrogen and
an aldehyde group and
L is a leaving moiety selected from
chlorine, bromine, and iodine, and alkylsulfonate and

arylsulfonate groups; with
2) an approximately equimolar amount of one of (a) and (b):

(a) a bifunctional methylene compound of the general
formula


A-CH
2
-B
 
wherein


A is R or a direct precursor
thereof, wherein R is as

previously defined, and
B is selected from
carboxyl and

nitrile groups,

optionally in the presence of an effective amount of catalyst, with
the limitation that Y of said bis-substituted aromatic compound is

an aldehyde group;
(b) an olefinic compound of the general formula


wherein

D and E are independently selected
from A and B,
G is a group containing an atom with at least one
lone pair of electrons, and
R' is hydrogen or a lower alkyl,

in the presence of a Lewis acid, with the limitation that Y of said
bis-substituted aromatic compound is hydrogen;

to provide a leaving group-substituted bis-ethoxy coumarin derivative,
and
b) generating the cryptand portion of the ionophoric compound by
reacting the coumarin derivative from a) with an approximately equimolar

amount of a diaza crown compound to provide said fluorescent ionophoric
compound.
A method of detecting the presence of a cation comprising the steps
of:


a) providing a sensing composite structure
according to any one of claims 3 to 5

comprising a fluorescent ionophoric compound in contact with a cation-containing
medium which is capable of ion transport and allowing or

providing a means for said cations to diffuse to said sensing composite
structure to form an equilibrium complex with the fluorescent ionophoric

compound of said sensing composite, wherein said ionophoric compound
complex, when exposed to light of a wavelength range centered around λ
1
, is
capable of emitting light of a wavelength range centered around λ
2
, wherein λ
2

is at least 10 nm greater than λ
1
, and λ
1
 is between 350 and 440 nm;
b) interrogating said complex with light of a wavelength range centered
around λ
1
 for a time sufficient for said complex to emit visible light of
wavelength λ
2
 which is collected and detected, and, optionally,
c) correlating said emitted light with the concentration of said cations to
determine said cation concentration, said interrogating light of a wavelength

range centered around λ
1
 optionally being introduced by, and said emitted
light of a wavelength range centered around λ
2
 optionally being transported to
said detector by, at least one optical fiber.
The method of detecting the presence of a cation of claim 7 further
comprising the step:


d) providing a gas-permeable membrane between said fluorescent
ionophoric compound and said cation-containing medium, said fluorescent

ionophoric compound being confined in an aqueous environment on the side of
said gas-permeable membrane opposite of said cation-containing medium.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
