<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644848</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TAMPER-INDICATING PLASTIC CLOSURE WITH SEGMENTED PILFER BAND.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D4134	B65D4134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D41	B65D41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tamper-indicating plastic closure (10) includes an annular pilfer band (24) which is partially detachably connected to a skirt portion (16) of the closure (10), whereby the pilfer band (24) remains connected to the closure (10) after closure removal from an associated container. The pilfer band (24) includes at least one fracturable region (32) which fractures during closure removal, whereby the pilfer band (24) splits and separates into a plurality of segments. Each segment is preferably dimensioned to facilitate its removal from an associated container by automatic washing equipment in the event that one of the segments is inserted into the container by a consumer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HC IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
H-C INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORCORAN MICHAEL EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCANDLESS THOMAS JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORCORAN, MICHAEL, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCANDLESS, THOMAS, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TAMPER-INDICATING PLASTIC CLOSURE WITH SEGMENTEDPILFER BAND The present invention relates generally to a tamper-indicating plastic closure for use with an associated container, and more particularly to a tamper-indicating plastic closure having a partially detachable pilfer band configured to break into a plurality of segments, with the arrangement facilitating use of the closure on returnable and reusable containers.Tamper-indicating threaded plastic closures have found widespread acceptance in the marketplace for use on containers for beverages and food products, as well as for non-food items. One particularly commercially successful construction is disclosed in commonly-assigned U.S. Patent No. 4,418,828, to Wilde et al., which closure can be efficiently formed in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Patent No. 4,497,765, to Wilde et al. A modified form of this tamper-indicating closure is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,004,112, to McBride.A tamper-indicating plastic closure embodying the teachings of the above patents includes an upper closure cap, and an annular pilfer band depending from a skirt portion of 

 the closure cap. The pilfer band is either partially or completely detachably connected to the skirt portion by a series of circum- ferentially spaced frangible bridges. For those applications where it is desired that the pilfer band be completely detached from the closure cap during closure removal, the closure typically functions such that the annular pilfer band remains on the neck of the container. In contrast, for some applications, particularly in the case of returnable and reusable containers, it is desirable that the pilfer band be only partially detached from the closure cap attendant to closure removal, with the pilfer band remaining joined to the skirt portion of the cap. Use in this manner desirably avoids the need to remove the annular pilfer band from the container for its reuse.For those applications where it is desired that the pilfer band remain connected to the closure cap after closure removal, closures of the type disclosed in the above-referenced patents include two particular features. First, the closure is provided with a connector portion which joins the pilfer band to the closure skirt after the frangible bridges fracture during closure removal so that the pilfer band is otherwise detached from the closure cap. Additionally, such closures include a fractur- able region in the annular pilfer band itself, which region is typically positioned in the vicinity of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 se C L A I M S 1. A tamper-indicating plastic closure for a container having an annular locking ring, comprising a closure cap having a top wall portion, and an annular skirt portion depending from said top wall portion; and an annular pilfer band partially detachably connected to said skirt portion by frangible bridge means, said pilfer band being separated and distinguished from said skirt portion by horizontal score means extending partially circumferentially about said closure, said pilfer band including means engageable with said container locking ring during removal of said closure from said container for fracturing said frangible bridge means, comprising a plurality of circumferentially spaced, inwardly extending projections, said pilfer band further including a single unscored connector portion connecting said pilfer band to said skirt portion after fracture of said frangible means, said connector portion being defined between ends of said circumferentially extending horizontal score means, said pilfer band having at least one fracturable means disposed in substantially diametrically opposed relationship to said connector portion, so that upon removal of said closure from said container and fracture of said frangible bridge means, said fracturable means fractures so that said pilfer band breaks into at least two separate and distinct pilfer band segments extending circumferentially in opposite directions from said connector portion, each of said pilfer band segments extending no greater than about 180° about the circumference of said 


closure.
2. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 1, wherein each of said pilfer band segments extends at least 90° about the circumference of said closure.
3. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 1, wherein said pilfer band includes at least a pair of spaced apart ones of said fracturable means, said pilfer band including another pilfer band segment extending between said pair of fracturable means.
4. A taic r-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 3, wherein said pair of fracturable means are circumferentially spaced from each other by a distance other than the relative spacing between any two of said projections, to thereby assure that at least one of said pair of fracturable means will fracture upon closure removal.
5. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 1, wherein each of said projections has an edge portion integral with said annular band portion extending at an acute angle relative to the vertical axis of said closure, said fracturable means comprising score means disposed at said acute angle relative to a vertical axis of said closure.
6. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 1, wherein said connector portion extends between about 10° and 120° about the circumference of said closure.
7. A tamper-indicating plastic closure for a container having an annular locking ring, 


comprising: a closure cap having a top wall portion, and a depending annular skirt portion depending from said top wall portion and including an internal thread formation for engagement with a like thread formation on said container; and an annular pilfer band partially detachably connected to said skirt portion by a plurality of circumferentially spaced frangible bridges including an annular band portion, and a plurality of circumferentially spaced projections extending inwardly from said annular band portion, said pilfer band being separated and distinguished from said skirt portion by horizontal score means extending partially circumferentially about said closure, said projections being engageable with said container locking ring during removal of said closure from said container for fracturing said frangible bridges, said pilfer band including an unscored connector portion connecting said pilfer band to said skirt portion after fracture of said frangible bridges, said connector portion being defined between ends of said circumferentially extending horizontal score means, said pilfer band including a pair of spaced apart fracturable means, each comprising score means including at least two spaced apart scores defining therebetween a fracturable residual portion of said pilfer band, so that upon removal of said closure from said container and fracture of said frangible bridge means, at least one of said fracturable means fractures by fracture of the residual portion thereof, said pilfer band including a pair of 



 pilfer band segments, each extending circumferentially from said connector portion to a respective one of said pair of fracturable means, each of said band segments extending no more than about 100° about the circumference of said closure, said pilfer band including a third pilfer band segment in substantially diametrically opposed relation to said connector portion and extending between said pair of fracturable means, said third band segment being sufficiently short to permit removal thereof from within said container by an associated automatic washing apparatus. 8. A *r
a
_mper-indicating plastic closure in accordance w_.' a claim 7, wherein said pair of pilfer band segments are of substantially equal length.
9. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 7, wherein said connector portion extends circumferentially of said closure between about 10°-120
β
.
10. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 7, wherein said pair of fracturable means are circumferentially spaced from each other by a distance other than the relative spacing between any two of said projections, to thereby assure that at least one of said pair of fracturable means will fracture upon closure removal.
11. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in accordance with claim 7, wherein each of said pilfer band segments extends no more than about 100° about the -circumference of said closure.
12. A tamper-indicating plastic closure in 


accordance with claim 7, wherein said inwardly extending projections each include an edge portion integral with said annular band portion extending at an acute angle relative to the vertical axis of said closure, each of said score means of said fracturable means being disposed at said acute angle relative to the vertical axis of said closure. 13. A tamper-indicating closure in accordance with claim 7, wherein said two spaced apart scores of the score means of each said fracturable means are vertically spaced apart. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
