<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615209</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Information input device, position information holding device, and position recognizing system including them
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1722	G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F1722	G06F3048	G06F3033	G06F3048	G06F3041	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F3	G06F3	G06F17	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An information input device (10) according to the application 
is characterized by comprising information writing 

section (11) for writing information on a writing 
medium (29), position recognizing section (12) for 

recognizing a position of the information writing section 
(11) on the writing medium (29), and information storing 

section (13) for storing information obtained from the 
position recognizing section (12). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an information
input device, a position information holding device, and
a position recognizing system, including these devices,
for recognizing a position upon information input.Conventional computers are normally used as information
processing devices. However, recent downsizing
techniques for computers have remarkably advanced, and
with the advent of lap-top computers, pen-input type
computers, or palm- top computers, a person always
carries and uses a computer nowadays. In such a situation,
a computer is expected to be used as an information
input (storing) device and an information output
(reproducing) device.Information input/output processing in a lap-top
computer shown in FIG. 1 is realized by a set of a
display device, a character input device, and a mouse-type
pointing device. Referring to FIG. 1, the display
device is used as input/output information display
means, the character input device is used as character
input means, and the mouse-type pointing device is
used as means for designating an item in a menu
displayed on the display device or image information
input means.In order to realize high portability in
a computer, downsizing of a character input device is 
necessary. However, when the character input device
is downsized, it becomes difficult to naturally input
characters. For this reason, the portability of a
computer is limited by the size of the character input
device.Thus, a pen-input type computer shown in FIG. 2
has been developed. Referring to FIG. 2, information
input/output processing is realized by a set of an
information input device obtained by integrating a
display device and a position recognizing device, and
a pen-type pointing device. In this case, since the
pen-type pointing device is also used as character input
means, no character input device is required, thus
increasing the portability of a computer.In the pen-input type computer, since the size of
the display device must coincide with that of the position
recognizing device, and the pen-input type computer
must comprise both the display device and the position
recognizing device, the portability of the computer is
limited by the sizes of the display device and the
position recognizing device. Furthermore, the display
device and the position recognizing device having a
large area and a high resolution require higher cost
than that of other devices. In this case, the power
consumption increases, and a battery becomes large,
resulting in an increase in total weight of the
computer,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information input device
comprising:


information writing means (11) for writing
information on a writing medium;
position recognizing means (12) for recognizing a
position of said information writing means (11) on the

writing medium; and
information storing means (13) for storing
information obtained from said position recognizing

means (12), characterized in that said information storing
means (13) includes means for storing an information

attribute code including width and density of a line and
a writing information code which is

represented by a code of position information paired with a writing
time of said position.
An information input device according to
claim 1, characterized in that said information writing

means (11) includes:

a acceleration sensor (31) for detecting acceleration
of said information writing means (11) during

writing;
a first integrator (32) for integrating said
acceleration ad calculating a velocity of said information

writing means (11); and
a second integrator (33) for integrating said
velocity and calculating a position of said information

writing means (11).
An information input device according to
claim 1, characterized in that said information writing

means (11) includes character recognizing means (21) for
recognizing a character written on said writing medium.
An information input device according to
claim 1, characterized in that said position recognizing

means (12) includes means for determining a position at
which said acceleration sensor (31) is activated as an

origin. 
An information input device according to
claim 1, characterized in that said information writing

means (11) includes means for detecting a position of
said information input device.
An information input device according to
claim 1, characterized by further comprising:


instruction means (15, 17) for giving instruction
to perform a predetermined control; and
control means (14) for controlling said information
storing means (13) on the basis of an instruction of

said instruction means (15, 17).
An information input device according to
claim 6, characterized by further comprising function

selecting means (16) for selecting predetermined
functions on the basis of the instruction of said

instruction means (15, 17).
An information input device according to
claim 6 or 7, characterized in that said instruction

means (15) includes at least one operating means (35 to
39); and


said control means (14) has a plurality of access
modes and includes means for controlling said information

storing means (13) according to said access modes.
An information input device according to
claim 8, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes means for turning on or off of the power
source of said information input device.
An information input device according to
claim 8, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes means for changing at least one of width
of line and density thereof.
An information input device according to
claim 8, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes memory use amount setting means (38)
for informing to a user when an use amount of said 

information storing means (13) is equal to or more than
a predetermined value.
An information input device according to
claim 8, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes UNDO pointer setting means (39) for
canceling information stored before a UNDO pointer is

set.
An information input device according to
claim 8, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes means (35, 36) for storing a desired
writing information as one file.
An information input device according to
claim 13, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes means (35, 36, 38) for adding identification
information to said file.
An information input device according to
claim 8, characterized in that said operating means (35

to 39) includes means (35, 38) for canceling all writing
information.
An information input device according to any
one of claim 6 to claim 15, characterized by further

comprising display means (18) for displaying at least
one of an access mode of said control means (14) and an

operating content thereof.
An information input device according to
claim 6 or 7, characterized in that said instruction

means (15) includes inclination detecting means (17) for
detecting an inclination state of a body of said information

input device.
An information input device according to
claim 6 or 7, characterized in that said control means

(14) includes means for selecting one of a writing mode
and an erasing mode on the basis of a detecting result

of said inclination detecting means.
An information input device according to
claim 6, characterized in that said control means (14)

includes means retrieving writing information indicated 
by said information writing means (11) on the basis of

information obtained from said position recognizing
means (12), stored in said information storing means

(13).
An information input device according to
claim 1, characterized by further comprising information

exchange means (19) for transmitting/receiving the
writing information stored in said information storing

means (13).
A position recognizing system including a pen-like
shape information input device (10) and a planar

position information holding device (25), characterized
in that said position information holding device (25)

includes position information holding means (26) for
holding a plurality of position information, and


said information input device (10) includes:
means (11) for detecting a position information,
which is held by said information holding device (25), on a location

specified by a pen tip of said information input device
(10);
means (12) for obtaining information of an absolute position of
said pen tip on said planar position information holding

device according to a detected position information;
and
means (13) for storing the obtained absolute
position as a trace information of said pen tip.
A position recognizing system according to
claim 21, characterized in that said plurality of position

information include different position information
from each other.
A position recognizing system according to
claim 21, characterized in that said plurality of position

information include a plurality set position
information, each of which includes a predetermined

number of said position information and is different
from each other.
A position recognizing system according to
claim 21, wherein one of said plurality of position

information includes a plurality of bit information
indicating position information and a plurality of bit

information identifying a boundary between each position
information and the other position information.
A position recognizing system according to
claim 21, characterized by further comprising display

device (30) for displaying motion state of said information
input device (10) and writing information.
A position recognizing system according to
claim 21 or 24, characterized in that said information

input device (10) further includes information exchange
means (19) for transmitting/receiving writing information

among a plurality of said information input devices
(10), and


said position information holding device (25)
further includes interface means (27) for connecting a

plurality of said information exchange means of said
information input devices (10).
A position recognizing system according to
claim 21 or 24, characterized in that said position

information holding device (25) includes a plurality of
information combinations which are different combinations

for adjacent position information in entire position
information holding device (25).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
