<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612909</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Metal door.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B332	E06B336	E06B382	E06B382	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A metal door (10) is made from a pair of identical facing 
sheets (11) and a pair of identical edge strips (14) which 

have interengaging formations (12). The facing sheets having 
edge formations (13) of channel-section facing towards the 

inner face of the sheet. The edge strips have channel-shaped 
edges provided on the outer side of the sheet so as to form a 

rebate at the edge of the door when the formations (13,15) are 
interengaged by sliding translational movement. 

Size and shape variations can be 
accommodated by using different facing sheets (11) or edge 

strips (14). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOLTON BRADY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOLTON BRADY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to metal doors and to a method of 
manufacturing such doors. It has been the practice to manufacture metal doors used as 
fire doors or security doors by welding facing sheets of metal 
to an edge frame. The door may be filled with an insulating 
material or a security reinforcement. Such use of welding requires the provision of welding 
equipment and skilled operators. Further, welding may not be 
possible or desirable in all instances. For example, where a special surface finish is provided on the 
facing sheets, it may not be possible to achieve a weld 
without damaging the surface finish. Some metals are 
incompatible or are difficult to weld together. Thermal 
effects during the course of a fire severely distort 
structures and may therefore be expected to damage a rigidly 
welded structure. It is an object of the present invention to provide a metal 
door and a pair of doors and a method of making such a door or 
pair of doors which overcome or reduce some or all of these 
disadvantages. According to the invention there is provided a metal door 
comprising a pair of metal facing sheets, each of said sheets 
including at least one edge formation disposed substantially 
at right angles to the plane of said sheet and comprising a 
channel having an open mouth facing towards the sheet; and at 
least one metal edge strip having a pair of channel shaped 
cooperating edge formations slidably engaged with the edge 
formations of the respective facing sheets.  The cooperating edge formations of the metal edge strip may 
both lie at the same face of the edge strip and preferably lie 
at the face which is the outer face in use. Thus, when the door is assembled, the edge strip is 
effectively recessed at the edge of the door. The recess may accommodate a draught or smoke seal or an 
intumescent fire strip or a decorative strip. A lock or latch may be mounted on the edge strip. The door may comprise one of a pair of rebated doors having 
the edge formations of the facing sheets spaced apart at one 
edge of the door as considered in the general plane of the 
door; the metal edge strip being of generally Z-shaped cross 
section and having a pair of cooperating edge formations, at 
least one of which is of channel shape, slidably engaged with 
the edge formations of the respective facing sheets to form a 
rebated edge at said one edge of the door. Viewed from a further aspect, the invention provides a pair of 
rebated doors, each door comprising a pair of metal facing 
sheets, each of said
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A metal door comprising a pair of metal facing sheets, 
each of said sheets including at least one edge formation 

disposed substantially at right-angles to the plane of said 
sheet and comprising a channel having an open mouth facing 

towards the sheet; and at least one metal edge strip having a 
pair of channel-shaped cooperating edge formations slidably 

engaged with the edge formations of the respective facing 
sheets. 
A metal door according to claim 1 wherein the cooperating 
edge formations of the metal edge strip both lie at the same 

face of the edge strip. 
A metal door according to claim 2 wherein both 
cooperating edge formations lie at the face which is the outer 

face in use of the door, to define a recess. 
A metal door according to claim 3 wherein the recess 
accommodates a draught seal, smoke seal, intumescent fire 

strip or decorative strip. 
A metal door according to any one of claims 1-4 wherein 
a lock or latch is mounted on the edge strip. 
A metal door according to claim 1 wherein the door 
comprises one of a pair of rebated doors having the edge 

formations of the facing sheets spaced apart as considered in 
the general plane of the door at one edge of the door; the 

metal edge strip being of generally Z-shaped cross-section and 
having a pair of cooperating edge formations at least one of 

which is of channel shape, slidably engaged with the edge 
formations of the respective facing sheets to form a rebated 

edge at said one edge of the door. 
A pair of rebated fire doors, each door comprising a pair 
 

of metal facing sheets, each of said sheets including at least 
one edge formation disposed substantially at right-angles to 

the plane of said sheet and comprising a channel having an 
open mouth facing towards the sheet, the sheets having their 

edge formations spaced apart at one edge of the door as 
considered in the general plane of the door; and at least one 

metal edge strip having a generally Z-shaped cross-section, 
the metal edge strip having a pair of cooperating edge 

formations slidably engaged with the edge formations of the 
respective facing sheets so as to form a rebated edge to the 

door. 
A door according to claim 7 wherein at least one of the 
cooperating edge formations is channel-shaped. 
A door according to claim 8 wherein the other of said 
cooperating edge formations comprises a flange at right-angles 

to the adjacent portion of the edge strip. 
A method of making a metal door comprising the steps of 
taking a pair of metal facing sheets, each of said sheets 

including at least one edge formation disposed substantially 
at right-angles to the plane of said sheet and comprising a 

channel having an open mouth facing towards the sheet; taking 
at least one metal edge strip having a pair of channel-shaped 

cooperating edge formations; and slidably engaging the strip 
with the facing sheets so that said cooperating edge 

formations interengage the edge formations of the respective 
facing sheets. 
A method according to claim 10 further including the step 
of filling the space between the facing sheets with one or 

more of the following:- 
   thermal insulation material, intumescent material, 

security reinforcement, sound reducing material, 
structural stiffening material. 
A method according to claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the 
door is one of a pair of rebated metal doors, the method 

including spacing apart the edge formations of the metal 
facing sheets as considered in the general plane of the door; 

taking a metal edge strip of generally Z-shaped cross-section 
and having at least one channel-shaped cooperating edge 

formation; and slidably engaging the strip with the facing 
sheets so that said cooperating edge formations interengage 

the edge formations of the facing sheets to provide a rebated 
edge at said edge of the door. 
A method of making a rebated door forming one of a pair 
of doors, comprising the steps of taking a pair of metal 

facing sheets, each of said sheets including one edge 
formation disposed substantially at right-angles to the plane 

of said sheet and comprising a channel having an open mouth 
facing towards the sheet; spacing apart said edge formations 

as considered in the general plane of the door; taking at 
least one metal edge strip of generally Z-shaped cross-section 

and having a pair of cooperating edge formations; and slidably 
engaging the strip with the facing sheets so that said 

cooperating edge formations interengage the edge formations of 
the respective facing sheets to provide a rebated edge to said 

metal door. 
A door substantially as hereinbefore described with 
reference to and as illustrated in Figure 1 of the 

accompanying drawings. 
A door substantially as hereinbefore described with 
reference to and as illustrated in Figure 2 of the 

accompanying drawings. 
A door substantially as hereinbefore described with 
reference to and as illustrated in Figure 3 of the 

accompanying drawings. 
A method of making a metal door according to claim 10 or 
claim 13 and substantially as hereinbefore described. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
