<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620858</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SITE-DIRECTED MUTAGENESIS OF DNA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1510	C12Q168	C12N1510	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12Q	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12Q1	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention pertains to a method of site-specific mutagenesis of DNA. In this method, a parental DNA containing a non-essential, unique restriction site is used to generate progeny DNA containing the desired mutation but lacking the restriction site. The non-mutant parental DNA and the mutant progeny DNA are treated with any enzyme that cleaves at the restriction site to cleave the parental DNA, leaving the mutant DNA uncleaved. Mutant progeny DNA is selected by transforming cells with the enzyme-treated DNA under conditions in which the cells are transformed with uncleaved DNA at a higher efficiency than with cleaved DNA so that the majority of transformants carry the mutant DNA.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARVARD COLLEGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENG WIN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICKOLOFF JAC A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAY FRANK A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENG, WIN P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICKOLOFF, JAC A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAY, FRANK A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Site-directed mutagenesis is an important
procedure in studies of gene expression and protein
structure/function relationships. A variety of
protocols have been developed to mutate specific bases
in plasmid DNA, which employ oligonucleotide primers
containing desired mutations flanked by bases
complementary to target sequences (reviewed in Smith
M. (1985) Ann. Rev. Genet.19:423-462). The primers
are usually extended invitro, although Mandecki
(proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA (1986) 83:7177-7181) has
described a procedure in which the primers are
presumably extended invivo following transformation
of a bacterial host. In the absence of
mismatch-repair, DNA replication of heteroduplex DNA
is expected to yield mutant products at frequencies of
50% or less. Since actual yields are often much lower
than this theoretical maximum, strategies have been
developed to select for products derived from the
mutant strand. For example, a strategy has been
developed by which circular single-stranded DNA
(ssDNA) with several uracil bases incorporated in
place of thymidine (produced in dut-, ung-E.coli
strains) is used as a template for primer-directed
synthesis of a strand carrying the desired mutation.
(Kunkel etal. (1987) Meth. Enzymol154:367-382;
Kunkel (1985) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA82:488-492).
This DNA is transformed into an ung+ strain which
degrades the uracil-containing template strand,
yielding mutant products at frequencies as high as 98%. Another strategy is to use two mutagenic primers,
one carrying the desired mutation, and the second that
reverts a mutation in a selectable marker, such as the
ampicillin-resistance (ampr) gene (Lewis etal. (1990)
Nucleic Acids Res.18:3439-3443), or gene IV from M13
(Carter (1987) Meth. Enzymol.154:382-403). The two
primers direct synthesis of a second strand carrying
the reverted selectable marker and the desired
mutation. Subsequent selection for the reverted
marker yields products carrying the desired mutation
at frequencies of about 80%. An analogous strategy
couples the primer carrying the desired mutation to a
primer that destroys a site recognized by the host
restriction/modification system (Carter, ibid.). This
strategy permits the efficient recovery of mutant
plasmids resistant to the host restriction system.
These coupled-primer systems benefit from the use of
T4 DNA polymerase for primer extension, rather than
the Klenow fragment of E.coli DNA polymerase, since
the T4 enzyme does not displace the mutagenic primers
(Masumune etal. (1971) J. Biol. Chem.246:2692-2701;
Nos
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing mutant DNA, comprising the
steps of:


(a) generating from a replicable circular parental DNA
containing a

nonessential, unique restriction site, non-mutant Parental-type DNA and mutant
progeny DNA containing a desired mutation but

lacking the restriction site;
(b) treating the non-mutant parental-type DNA and the
mutant progeny DNA with an enzyme that

cleaves at the unique restriction site to linearize the
non-mutant parental-type DNA while the mutant progeny DNA remains circular; and
(c) selecting for mutant progeny DNA by
transforming host cells with the enzyme-treated

DNA under conditions such that circular DNA
is transformed at a higher efficiency than

linear DNA such that a majority of
transformants carry mutant progeny DNA.
A method of claim 1 for targeted rescue of a mutant DNA, wherein a primer containing a mutant gene
to be rescued is used to generate the mutant progeny DNA. 
A method of site-specific mutagenesis, comprising
the steps of:


(a) providing a circular, single-stranded DNA
(ssDNA) containing a nonessential, unique

restriction site and a target DNA to be
mutated;
(b) providing a first oligonucleotide primer which
is complementary to the target DNA but which

contains a desired nucleotide mutation, and
providing a second oligonucleotide primer

complementary to the nonessential, unique
restriction site of the same strand but which

contains a nucleotide mutation in the site so
that the site is eliminated;
(c) annealing the first and second primers to the
circular ssDNA under conditio
ns which allow
the first primer to hybridize to the target

DNA and the second primer to hybridize to the
unique restriction site;
(d) synthesizing a new strand of DNA on the
template of the circular ssDNA, the new strand

lacking the unique restriction site and
containing the mutation in the target DNA;
(e) ligating the new strand of DNA to form a
circular double-stranded DNA (dsDNA);
(f) transforming a host
cell which is mismatch repair-defective

with the
circular dsDNA;
(g) culturing the host cell to permit replication and
cosegregation of the new strand of DNA so that

circular dsDNA containing the primer-introduced
mutation in both strands is

produced; 
(h) isolating the circular dsDNA from the
transformed, cultured host cell;
(i) treating the isolated DNA with a restriction
enzyme that cleaves the nonessential, unique

restriction site so that parental-type
circular DNA which contains the restriction

site is cleaved to form linear parental-type DNA, but
circular mutant progeny DNA in

which the unique restriction site has been
eliminated is not cleaved and remains

circular;
(j) transforming a
second host cell with the enzyme-treated DNA

under conditions which allow the circular,
mutant progeny DNA to be taken up by the host cells more

efficiently than the linear, parental-type DNA;
(k) culturing the transformed host cells: and
(l) optionally isolating the circular dsDNA from
the transformed host cell, the majority of

the isolated circular dsDNA containing the
mutation in the target DNA.
A method of site-specific mutagenesis, comprising
the steps of:


(a) providing a replicable circular double-stranded DNA
containing a nonessential, unique restriction

site and a target DNA to be mutated;
(b) providing a first oligonucleotide primer
which is complementary to the target DNA of

one strand but which contains a desired
nucleotide mutation, and providing a second

oligonucleotide primer complementary to the
nonessential, unique restriction site of the

other strand but which contains a nucleotide
mutation in the site so that the site is

eliminated; 
(c) denaturing the circular dsDNA to form circular
ssDNA;
(d) annealing the first and second primers to the
circular ssDNA under conditions which allow the first

primer to hybridize to the target DNA of one
strand and the second primer to hybridize to

the other strand at the unique restriction
site;
(e) performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
under conditions sufficient to produce a

linear dsDNA product containing the mutation
in the target DNA but lacking the unique restriction

site;
(f) denaturing the dsDNA product to linear ssDNA;
(g) annealing the linear ssDNA to the circular
ssDNA;
(h) synthesizing a new strand of DNA on the
template of the circular ssDNA;
(i) ligating the new strand of DNA to form a
circular double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), the new

strand lacking the unique restriction site and
containing the mutation in the target DNA;
(j) transforming a host
cell which is mismatch repair-defective

with the
circular dsDNA of step (i);
(k) culturing the transformed host cell to permit
replication of the circular

dsDNA
of step (j);
(l) isolating the replicated circular dsDNA from the
transformed, cultured host cell; 
(m) treating the isolated circular dsDNA with a restriction
enzyme that cleaves the nonessential, unique

restriction site so that parental-type
circular dsDNA which contains the unique restriction

site is cleaved to form linear parental-type dsDNA, but
circular mutant progeny DNA in

which the restriction site has been
eliminated is not cleaved and remains

circular;
(n) transforming a
second host cell with the enzyme-treated dsDNA

under conditions which allow the circular,
mutant progeny ds DNA to be taken up by the cells more

efficiently than the linear, parental-type dsDNA;
and
(o) culturing the transformed host cells; and
(p) optionally, isolating the circular mutant progeny dsDNA from
the transformed host cell, the majority of

the isolated circular dsDNA containing the
mutation in the target DNA.
The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the DNA
containing the target DNA to be mutated is plasmid

DNA, cosmid DNA, viral DNA, phagemid DNA or
bacteriophage DNA.
The method of any one of claims 3-5, wherein the
DNA is selected from the group consisting of

pUC19, pBR322, pBluescript™, pBluescriptII™,
pSP6/T3, pSP6/T7-19, pT7/T3α-19 and pTZ19R. 
The method of claim 6, wherein the second
oligonucleotide primer is selected from the primers

listed in the Sequence Listing as SEQ ID NOS: 1-33, or
their complements.
The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the second
primer creates a new (e.g. different) restriction

site.
The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the new
strand of DNA is synthesized by extending DNA from the

first and second primers using T4 polymerase, followed
by ligation with T4 ligase.
A kit for performing site-directed mutagenesis of DNA
comprising:


(a) a bacterial host cell which is mismatch repair-defective;
and
(b) an oligonucleotide primer which is complementary
to a nonessential, unique restriction site of the DNA

but which contains a nucleotide mutation in the site
so that the site is eliminated; and
(c) a control DNA which contains said non-essential
unique restriction site and a mutation in an indicator

gene, so that the indicator gene is inactive; and
(d) a primer for repair of the mutation.
The kit of claim 10 further comprising:

(e) a DNA polymerase capable of directing second 
strand DNA synthesis from a primer and a DNA ligase

(e.g. T4 DNA ligase);
(f) deoxyribonucleotides including deoxyadenosine 5'-triphosphate,
deoxyguanosine 5'-triphosphate,

deoxycytosine 5'-triphosphate, and thymidine 5'-triphosphate;
(g) a restriction enzyme for cleaving the unique
restriction site;
(h) ATP (adenosine 5'-triphosphate) and a
polynucleotide kinase (e.g. T4 polynucleotide kinase)
(i) reagents to enhance DNA synthesis 
in vitro
 (e.g.
T4 gene 32 protein); and
(j) buffers for performing phosphorylation reactions,
PCR reactions, DNA synthesis reactions, restriction

enzyme digestions, and DNA purification.
The method of claim 1, wherein the host cells are mismatch
repair-defective.
The method of any one of claims 3, 4 and 12 wherein
the mismatch repair-defective cell is 
E.coli
 strain
BMH 71-18 mut S.
The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the host
cells are transformed by electroporation.
A method of claim 1 wherein the parental DNA is double
stranded.
The kit of claim 10, wherein the mismatch repair 
defective cell is 
E.coli
 strain BMH 71-18 mut S.
The kit of claim 10 wherein the DNA is plasmid DNA.
The kit of claim 11 wherein the DNA polymerase is T4
DNA polymerase.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
