<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613648</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Baster
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3710	A47J3710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J37	A47J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A baster comprises a cylinder (1) for taking and 
accommodating gravy and the like, a piston (10) 

recipricatingly movable in the cylinder (1) so as to produce 
a suction to suck gravy and the like into the cylinder (1) and 

then to pump the gravy and the like from the cylinder (1), and 
a handle (6) connected with the cylinder only in two points 

(6', 6') which are spaced from one another in an axial 
direction of the cylinder so that an elongated slot (6'') 

remains between the cylinder (1) and the handle (6). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUTZLER MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUTZLER MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELING PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUTZLER LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELING, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUTZLER, LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to basters. Basters to be used during cooking are well known. 
The known baster includes a tube for taking gravy or the like, 
and a rubber member compressible by a user so as to create a 
suction and to suck gravy into the tube, for subsequent 
discharge onto turkey, chicken and the like during cooking 
The disadvantage of the known basters is that the gravy is 
sucked all the way through the tube and into the rubber 
member, and after multiple use remains in the rubber member 
and contaminates it. It is believed to be clear that such 
contamination is not desirable. It requires thorough cleaning 
of the baster, and in many cases the traces of the gravy in 
the rubber member remain even after cleaning. Also, in the known basters when the gravy is taken 
into the device and then held in its gravy holding receptacle, 
the suction is usually not sufficient to hold the gravy inside 
the device and the gravy drips from it. Some devices of this general type are disclosed in 
U.S. Patents 2,432,073, 2,887,035, 2,937,813, 2,991,945, 
3,656,351, and 3,836,057. These devices can be further 
improved. US-A-2,432,073 discloses a food basting utensil, according 
to the preamble of claim 1, 
comprising a cylinder housing, a reciprocating piston, liquids 
being drawn into and expelled from the cylinder through a tube 
communicating with a front end thereof. In use, the 
operator grasps the cylinder in one hand and operates the 
device by manipulating an end portion of the piston rod.  
 A device comprising a cylinder housing a piston and 
a handle attached to the cylinder is described in US-A-2,735,431, 
but the device concerned is a vaccinating gun for 
animals. The side walls of the handle are provided at their 
upper edges with flanges, which are shaped to engage the 
surface of the cylinder and to provide a substantial area of 
contact with the cylinder along its axial length. It is an object of the present invention to provide 
a baster which eliminates the disadvantages of the prior art 
and is a further improvement of the existing basters. In keeping with these objects and with others which 
will become apparent hereinafter, the present invention 
provides a baster comprising a cylinder for taking and 
accommodating gravy and the like, said cylinder have a front 
end through which gravy and the like is dischargeable and a 
rear end with a space therebetween; and a piston 
reciprocatingly movable in said cylinder so as to produce a 
suction to suck gravy and the like into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A baster, comprising a cylinder (1) for taking and 
accommodating gravy and the like, said cylinder (1) having a 

front end through which gravy and the like is dischargeable 
and a rear end with a space therebetween; and a piston (10) 

reciprocatingly movable in said cylinder (1) so as to produce 
a suction to suck gravy and the like into the cylinder (1) and 

then to pump the gravy and the like from the cylinder; and 
characterised by a handle (6) connected with said cylinder 

only in two points (6', 6') which are spaced from one another 
in an axial direction of said cylinder so that said handle (6) 

is spaced from said cylinder (1) except at said points (6',6') 
so as to form a one-piece member with an elongated slot (6'') 

between said cylinder (1) and said handle (6), whereby 
deformations of said cylinder (1) during manufacture of the 

baster are avoided. 
A baster as defined in claim 1, characterised in that 
said one-piece member is composed of a thermoplastic material. 
A baster as defined in claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterised by a sleeve (3) extending from said front end 

of said cylinder (1) of one piece with the latter, and a pipe 
(4) releasably and tightly connectable with said sleeve (3). 
A baster as defined in claim 3, characterised by 
sealing means (5) arranged between said pipe (4) and said 

sleeve (3). 
A baster as defined in claim 3 or claim 4, 
characterised in that said pipe (4) has a cylindrical rear 

portion (4') which is tightly fitted over said sleeve (3). 
A baster as defined in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that said handle has a front straight part  

 
(7') and a rear grasping part (7) to be grasped by a user's 

hand and forming a recess (8) between said parts, said 
grasping part (7) being provided with a plurality of curved 

recessed portions (9) shaped in accordance with a shape of 
fingers of the user so that the user's fingers can engage said 

recessed portions (9) of said grasping part and be limited 
forwardly by said straight part (7'). 
A baster as defined in any one preceding claim, 
characterised in that said piston (10) is composed of two 

disc-shaped piston parts (10', 10'') which are connected with 
one another and have peripheral collars (26, 35) which are 

inclined in opposite directions and form wiping lips (27, 36) 
so that in an assembled condition said peripheral collars (26, 

35) are radially compressed and tightly abut against an inner 
surface of said cylinder (1) so as to provide tightness 

between said piston (10) and said cylinder (1). 
A baster as defined in any one preceding claim, 
characterised in that said space between said front and rear 

ends of said cylinder (1) is subdivided by said piston (10) 
into a front chamber (2) located between said piston (10) and 

said front end and a rear chamber located between said piston 
and said rear end, so that the gravy and the like is sucked 

into said front chamber (2) and then pumped out from said 
front chamber, said rear chamber being rearwardly open; said 

baster further comprising a cover (12) which closes said rear 
chamber and is provided with passage means (22) for passing 

air. 
A baster as defined in claim 8, characterised in that 
said passage means include a plurality of openings (22) which 

are located around an axis of said cylinder at substantially 
equal distances from said axis. 
A baster as defined in claim 9, characterised in 
that said cover (12) further comprises a central opening (21) 

said piston (10) having a piston rod (11) extending from said  
 

central opening, said openings (22) of said passage means 

being located concentrically relative to said central opening 
(21). 
A baster as defined in any claim dependent on claim 
5, characterised in that said pipe (4) has another forwardly 

extending portion (4''), said cylindrical rear portion (4') 
having a diameter which is greater than a diameter of said 

forward portion (4'') so as to form a shoulder (4''') 
therebetween, and in that said sleeve (3) has a front face 

(3') which in a mounted condition of said pipe (4) abuts 
against said shoulder (4'''). 
A baster as defined in any preceding claim dependent 
on claim 3, characterised in that said cylinder (1) has an 

inner chamber with a volume (V1) which is greater than the 
volume (V2) of said pipe (4). 
A baster as defined in claim 7 or any claim 
appendant thereto, characterised in that one of said piston 

parts (10') has at least one annular groove (21,22) and that 
the other of said piston parts (10'') has at least one annular 

projection (31,32) engaging in said annular groove (21,22). 
A baster as defined in claim 7 or any claim 
appendant thereto, characterised in that each of said piston 

parts (10',10'') has an inner collar (25,32) having a diameter 
which is smaller than a diameter of said peripheral collar 

(26,35) and extending axially beyond said peripheral collar 
so as to form a shock-absorbing member in end positions of 

said piston (10). 
A baster as defined in claim 14, characterised in 
that a spring (20) is arranged inside said cylinder (1) 

between a wall of said cylinder and one of said piston parts 
(10'), said spring (20) is formed as a conical spring having 

one end portion with a greater diameter and another end 
portion with a smaller diameter, said one end portion with a  

 
greater diameter abuts against the wall of said cylinder (1) 

while said another portion of said smaller diameter is fitted 
on said inner collar (25) of said one piston part (10'), and 

in an assembled condition said spring as a whole is contained 
in a depression (28) formed between said inner collar (25) and 

said peripheral collar (26) of said one piston part (10'). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
