<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCT LENGTH CONTROL SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D500	B26D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D5	B26D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and a method are provided for cutting oversized vegetable products or the like, such as potatoes in the course of producing french fry strips, to obtain a controlled product length distribution. The system includes a conveyor (16) for transporting the products in single file to a length sensor station (20) for detecting the length of each product, and then to a cutting station (22) for cutting each overlong product at one of a plurality of different positions as a function of the detected product length. Such length-responsive cutting provides significant control over the distribution of product lengths, while minimizing or eliminating the presence of products which are too long or too short.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMPLOT CO J R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
J.R. SIMPLOT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAYLE B PIKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAYLE, B., PIKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to process
systems and methods for controlling the size of
vegetable products or the like, particularly such as
potatoes in the course of french fry strip
production. More specifically, the present invention
relates to a cutting system and method for cutting
overlong raw or whole products in response to
detected product length, to control finished product
length distribution while minimizing or eliminating
the presence of products which are too long or
short.Production equipment for processing and
packaging elongated articles such as vegetable
products or the like are generally known in the art.
As one example, it is well-known to process potatoes
through a sequence of peeling, cutting and parfrying
steps to produce elongated french fry potato strips
which are typically packaged in a frozen state.
Natural variations in the length of the raw potato
product, prior to strip cutting, yields a
corresponding distribution of cut french fry strip
lengths. Accordingly, some variation in the lengths
of the product strips supplied to the consumer is
expected and is perceived by the consumer as a
desirable characteristic. However, products of excessive length can
contribute to production problems and/or negatively
impact the consumer's perception of the finished
product. In particular, with regard to production of
french fry potato strips, so-called hydraulic or
water knives of the type described in U.S. Patents
2,108,625 and 4,372,184 are commonly used to cut raw
whole potatoes into elongated french fry strips of
selected cross sectional shape and size. In cutting
equipment of this type, potatoes having excessive
lengths can become lodged within the cutting knives
and thereby interrupt the cutting process.
Alternately, the cut surfaces on strips of excessive
length can deteriorate to result in fragile and/or
fractured strips which tend to break apart into small
pieces upon subsequent process steps. The presence
of a high proportion of extremely short strip pieces
is perceived negatively by the consumer, suggesting
that the french fry strips have been cut from small
potatoes. Moreover, french fry strips of excessive
length which do not break apart in the course of
post- cutting processing unfortunately exhibit a
tendency to bend or curl during parfrying and/or
freezing, once again resulting in undesirable
appearance characteristics in the finished product.In the past, the above-referenced issues of
product length distribution have been addressed in
different ways. In a typical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A length control system (10) for cutting oversized vegetable
products (12), said length control system comprising:


conveyor means (16) for conveying the products (12) along a
predetermined path, said conveyor means (16) including a succession of

upwardly open pockets (42) each having a size and shape for receiving a
single product (12) therein oriented to extend generally transversely with

respect to said predetermined path;
said conveyor means (16) including a reference base wall (48)
extending along one side of said open pockets (42), and means for

positioning said products (12) within said pockets (42) with one end of each of
said products (12) engaging said reference base wall (48), said positioning

means comprising means for supporting said pockets (42) in a laterally tilted
position whereby said products (12) slide by gravity within said pockets (42)

to contact said reference base wall (48);
length sensor means (20) for detecting the length of each one of the
products (12) conveyed along said predetermined path; and
cutting means (22) responsive to said length sensor means (20) for
cutting each one of the products (12),

when conveyed along said predetermined path,
having a length greater than a selected

threshold at one of a plurality of different positions in accordance with actual
product length.
The length control system (10) of claim 1 wherein said conveyor
means (16) includes means for conveying the products in single file and in

predetermined orientation.
The length control system (10) of claim 1 wherein said pockets (42)
are laterally tilted at an angle of about 15 - 25 degrees.
The length control system (10) of claim 1 wherein said conveyor
means (16) includes an input end (18) for receiving said products (12), said

conveyor means (16) being inclined from said input end (18). 
The length control system (10) of claim 4 wherein said conveyor
means (16) is inclined at an angle of about sixty degrees.
The length control system (10) of claim 1 wherein said culling
means (22) comprises a plurality of culling knives (26) and means (66) for

individually actuating said culling knives (26) to cut said products (12) at
different positions along the lengths thereof
The length control system (10) of claim 6 wherein said culling
knives (26) are mounted at different distances from said reference base wall

(48).
The length control system (10) of claim 1 wherein said length
sensor means comprises a length sensor station (20) mounted along said

conveyor means (16) and including means (58, 64) for detecting the length of
each one of the products (12) having a length greater than a selected

threshold and for generating a signal representative of actual product length.
The length control system (10) of claim 8 wherein said cutting
means comprises a cutting station (22) mounted along said conveyor means

(16) at a position downstream from said length sensor station (20) and
including a plurality of cutting knives (26) and knife actuator means (66) for

separately actuating said knives (26) to cut said product (12) at one of a
plurality of different positions along the product length.
The length control system (10) of claim 8 further including
controller means (24) responsive to said actual product length signals from

said length sensor station (20) for actuating said cutting means (22) to cut
each of the products (12) having a length greater than said threshold at a

position functionally related to actual product length. 
The length control system (10) of claim 1 wherein said conveyor
means (16) comprises a conveyor having an input end (18), a diverter chute

(34) for diverting selected products from a production line flow (28) to said
conveyor input end (18), and a return chute (68) for returning products (12)

from said cutting station (22) to the production line flow (28).
The length control system (10) of claim 11 wherein said diverter
chute (34) includes a curved guide rod (36) protruding in an upstream

direction into the production line flow (28).
The length control system (10) of claim 1 further including:

strip cutter means (72) for cuffing the products (12) into elongated
strips;
means (28) for supplying the products (12) from said cutting means
(22) to the strip cutter means (72);
means (70) for monitoring the length distribution of product strips
discharged from said strip cutter means (72) and for generating signals

representative thereof; and
controller means (54) responsive to said actual product length signals
from said length sensor means (20) and further responsive to said product

strip length distribution signals from said monitoring means (70), for actuating
said cutting means (22) to cut each of the products (12) having a length

greater than a selected threshold at a position functionally related to actual
product length and actual product strip length distribution.
A method of cutting oversized vegetable products (12) to control product
length distribution, said method comprising the steps of:


conveying the products (12) along a laterally tilted path in single file
and in a predetermined orientation to extend generally transversely with

respect to said predetermined path with one end of each product (12)
contacting a reference base wall (48);
detecting the length of each one of the products; and 
cutting each product (12) having a length greater than a selected
threshold at one of a plurality of different positions in response to detected

product length the length detection and cut operations being carried out while the

products are positioned and orientated by the conveying operation.
The method of claim 14 wherein said conveying step includes
conveying the products (12) along a longitudinally inclined path.
The method of claim 14 further including the step of diverting
selected and potentially overlong products (12) from a production line flow in

said conveying step for conveyance along said predetermined path.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
