<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631709</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL ELEMENT HEADPHONE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R126	H04R122	H04R110	H04R2500	H04R110	H04R500	H04R2500	H04R5033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R1	H04R1	H04R1	H04R25	H04R1	H04R5	H04R25	H04R5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dual element headphone (10) including a first acoustic transducer (28) mounted within a first housing so as to direct sound in a certain direction out of the first housing. The first housing is sized small enough so as to at least partially fit into the cavum concha of a listener's ear, and yet be larger in area than the entrance of the external acoustic meatus of the listener's ear. A second acoustic transducer (18) is mounted within a second housing. That second housing is substantially larger than the first housing, and overlies at least portion of the auricle of the listener's ear. A crossover circuit divides the electrical signals received by the headphone and transmits signals for higher frequencies to the first, smaller transducer and signals for lower frequencies to the second, larger transducer. The first transducer may be flexibly mounted for improved comfort and sound fidelity.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to headphones for
sound reproduction with high fidelity, and in particular
to dual element headphones having one transducer
for each ear directed to reproducing higher frequencies
and one transducer for each ear directed to reproducing
lower frequencies.Designers of loudspeakers have long recognized
the need for more than a single acoustic transducer
to faithfully reproduce the entire audio spectrum.
Quality loudspeakers may contain from two to
five separate acoustic transducers, each designed to
operate over a specific portion of the audio spectrum.
Crossover networks are employed to distribute the applied
audio signal to the proper acoustic transducer
and these typically include circuits comprised of resistors,
capacitors and inductors.In the same vein, headphones having two
transducer elements for each side are known in the
art. Refer particularly, for instance, to Piribauer,
U.S. Patent No. 3,943,304, wherein there is disclosed
a headphone speaker system which combines a dynamic
transducer for lower frequencies with an electrostatic
transducer for higher frequencies. Similarly, the 
disclosure of Mathis, U.S. Patent No. 4,418,248, shows
use of two transducers, in this case using a dynamic
transducer for lower frequencies and a piezoelectric
transducer for higher frequencies. And Andre et al,
U.S. Patent No. 4,965,836 discloses use of two dynamic
transducers, a larger one for lower frequencies and a
smaller one for higher frequencies. In each of the
headphones disclosed in these patents, the transducers
are oriented substantially coaxially, so that the
sound from the two transducers emanates in almost entirely
the same direction.FR-A-2 547 152 discloses a headphone having one
transducer for each side of the headphone. The
transducer may be inserted in the cavum concha of
a listener's ear.This invention relates to improvements to
the headphone and loudspeaker apparatus set forth
above and to solutions to some of the problems raised
or not solved thereby.The invention comprises a dual element headphone
for use by a listener. The object of the invention is achieved by the features of claim 1. In a preferred embodiment means are provided for dividing the electrical
signals received by the headphone, and transmitting 
signals for higher frequencies to the first,
smaller transducer and signals for lower frequencies
to the second, larger transducer. The supporting
means would normally include a headband and mounting
plate, providing a set of these transducers for association
with each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A headphone speaker system (10) comprising:

a first acoustic transducer (26) for producing sound
from electrical signals, said first transducer (26) being sized so as to fit into the

cavum concha (22) of a listener's ear and arranged to direct
the produced sound in a first predetermined direction; and
a second acoustic transducer (18) for producing sound
from electrical signals, said second transducer (18) being substantially larger than said

first transducer (26) and arranged so as to substantially
overly at least a portion of the auricle (24) of said

listener's ear and arranged to direct sound in a second
predetermined direction transverse to said first

predetermined direction.
The system of claim 1 further comprising means (42) for
receiving electrical signals to be converted to sound and

means (24) for dividing said electrical signals and sending
signals for higher frequencies to said first transducer (26)

and sending signals for lower frequencies to said second
transducer (18).
The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein said first acoustic
transducer (26) is mounted to a mounting plate (20) by means

of a flexible mounting (38).
The system of claim 3, wherein said first transducer
(26) is positioned by said mounting plate (20) so as to

direct sound into the external acoustic meatus (30) of said
listener's ear.
The system of claim 3 or 4, further comprising a
headband (12) connected to said mounting plate (20) for

supporting said transducers (18, 26) in proximity to said
listener's ear. 
The system of claim 5, wherein said mounting plate (20)
is connected at one end of said headband (12), said system further

comprising another mounting plate (20) carrying a further first
and a further second acoustic transducer (26, 18) according to claim 1 for association

with the listener's other ear.
The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein said first
acoustic transducer (26) is mounted within a first housing

(28) being sized so as to at least partially fit into the
cavum concha (22) of said listener's ear and being larger in

area than the entrance of the external acoustic meatus (30)
of said listener's ear, said second acoustic transducer (18)

is mounted within a second housing (16) being substantially
larger than said first housing (28), said system further comprising

supporting means for supporting said first acoustic transducer (26) in
said listener's ear so as to direct sound towards the

entrance of said external acoustic meatus (30), wherein said
second housing (16) is connected to said supporting means so

as to overlie at least a portion of said auricle (24) of
said listener's ear.
The system of claim 7, wherein said supporting means
includes a headband (12) connected to said transducers (18,

26) for supporting said transducers in proximity to said
listener's ear.
The system of claim 8, wherein said supporting means
includes a-first mounting plate (20) connected at one end of

said headband (12) and a second mounting plate (20) connected at
the opposite end of said headband (12), said first mounting plate (20) carrying said first and second

transducers (26, 18) and said second mounting plate carrying
a further one of said first and a further one of said second transducers (26, 18) for association with said listener's other

ear.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
