<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649218</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gain enhancement technique for operational amplifiers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F126	H03F345	H03F126	H03F345	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F1	H03F3	H03F1	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A folded cascode operational amplifier using an improved gain 
enhancement technique is described. The folded cascode includes an input 

section, a cascode current mirror section, and a cascode current section. A first 
fully-differential operational amplifier is coupled to the cascode current mirror 

section to provide improved gain enhancement thereto and a second fully-differential 
operational amplifier is coupled to the cascode current source section 

to provide improved gain enhancement thereto. The differential inputs of the 
first fully-differential operational amplifier are coupled to feedback nodes of the 

cascode current mirror section and the differential outputs of the first fully-differential 
operational amplifier are coupled to control nodes of the cascode 

current mirror section. The differential inputs of the second fully-differential 
operational amplifier are coupled to feedback nodes of the cascode current 

source section and the differential outputs of the second fully-differential 
operational amplifier are coupled to control nodes of the cascode current mirror 

section. Coupling the feedback nodes of both current sources to a single fully-differential 
operational amplifier increases the common mode noise rejection of 

the corresponding section. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADYAL RAJEEV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHU SHAO F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADYAL, RAJEEV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHU, SHAO F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to analog integrated circuits, and more
particularly to operational amplifiers.Operational amplifiers, more commonly known as "op-amps," are the core
component in analog integrated circuits ("ICs"). An ideal operational amplifier is
a differential input, single-ended or differential-ended output amplifier having
infinite gain, infinite input impedance, and zero output impedance. Thus, the
operational amplifier is well suited for a variety of applications in integrated
circuits.Real operational amplifiers, however, deviate from ideal behavior in
significant ways. The principal effects of these deviations are (1) to limit the
frequency range of the signals that can be accurately amplified; (2) to place a
lower limit on the magnitude of the signals that can be detected; and (3) to place
an upper limit on magnitudes of the impedance of passive elements that can be
used in a feedback network with the amplifier. Thus, the gain and speed of an
op-amp is compromised by the non-ideal behavior of the op-amp. In many analog
ICs, the gain and speed of op-amps are the most important specifications
because they ultimately determine the achievable accuracy and speed of the
overall analog circuit embodied in the IC. Many design techniques have been
developed to produce more ideal op-amps. Many of those techniques, however,
trade off gain for speed or vice-versa. A well established technique which
optimizes both gain and speed is known as gain enhancement technique.A fully-differential folded cascode op-amp using the gain enhancement
technique is shown in FIG. 1. The circuit shown is described in "A Fast-Settling
CMOS Op Amp for SC Circuits with 90-dB DC gain," by Klass Bult and Govert
J. G. M. Geelen, IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits, Vol. 25, No. 6, December 
1990, pp. 1379-1384. The folded-cascode operational amplifier of FIG. 1 is
comprised of a differential input section including FETS M1-M4, a cascode
mirror section including FETS M5-M8, and a cascode current source section
including FETs M9-M12. Auxiliary amplifiers A1-A4 are used to provide the
gain enhancement, as described further below. The circuit shown in FIG. 1 is
more accurately described as an operational transconductance amplifier ("OTA")
because of an absence of an output stage. The transconductance amplifier is
used heavily in switched capacitor ("SC") applications. The gain enhancement
technique increases the output impedance of the cascode current sources
through the use of negative feedback by auxiliary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An operational amplifier circuit (10) having improved
common-mode rejection comprising:


a differential input section (14) including a
differential input pair for receiving a differential input

signal and a differential output pair including first and
second differential outputs;
a cascode current source section (18) having a
first cascode current source (M10, M11) coupled to the first differential output (26) of

the operational amplifier circuit and a second cascode
current source (M9, M12) coupled to the second differential output (28) of the

operational amplifier circuit, the first cascode current
source (M10, M11) having a feedback node (48) coupled to the second

differential output of the input section and having a
control node (50), the second cascode current source (M9, M12) having a

feedback node (52) coupled to the first differential output of the input
section and having a control node (54),
a first fully-differential operational amplifier
(A6) having a negative input coupled to the first cascode

current source feedback node (48), a positive input coupled to
the second cascode current source feedback node (52), a positive

output coupled to the first cascode current source control
node (50), and a negative output coupled to the second cascode

current source control node (54), wherein the first
fully-differential amplifier (A6) is constructed and arranged to

amplify a differential feedback signal appearing on the
feedback nodes of the first and second cascode current

sources while remaining substantially unresponsive to a
common-mode feedback signal appearing thereon when said

operational amplified circuit is in operative condition;
a cascode current mirror section (20) having a
first mirror current source (M5, M8) coupled to the first differential output (26) and

a second mirror current source (M6, M7) coupled to the second differential output (28),
the first mirror current source (M5, M8) having a feedback node (36) and

a control node (38) and the second mirror current source (M6, M7) having
a feedback node (40) and a control node (42), and 
a second fully-differential operational amplifier
(A5) having a negative input coupled to the first mirror

current source feedback node (36), a positive input coupled to
the second mirror current source feedback node (40), a positive

output coupled to the first mirror current source control
node (38), and a negative output coupled to the second mirror

current source control node (42), wherein the second fully-differential
amplifier (A5) is constructed and arranged to

amplify a differential feedback signal appearing on the
feedback nodes (36, 40) of the first and second mirror current

sources (M5, M8 and M6, M7) while remaining substantially unresponsive to a
common-mode feedback signal appearing thereon when said

operational amplifier circuit (10) is in operative condition.
An operational amplifier circuit according to
claim 1 wherein the differential input section (14) comprises a

P-channel input section including P-channel field-effect-transistors
(FET), the P-channel input section having a

P-channel differential input pair (M3,M4) coupled to the
differential input pair of the input section for receiving

the differential input signal and having a P-channel
differential output pair coupled to the cascode current

source section (18).
An operational amplifier circuit according to claim 1 or
claim 2 wherein the differential input section (14) further

comprises an N-channel input section (12) consisting
essentially of N-channel field-effect-transistors (FET)

having a differential input pair coupled to the differential
input pair of the P-channel input section and a differential

output pair coupled to the cascode current mirror section (20).
An operational amplifier circuit according to any preceding
claim wherein the cascode current source section (18)

comprises:

a first transistor (M11) having a source coupled
to a terminal (44) for receiving a supply voltage, a gate coupled

to a terminal (46) for receiving a third bias voltage, and a 
drain coupled to the first cascode current source feedback

node (48);
a second transistor (M10) having a source coupled
to the drain of the first transistor (M10), a gate coupled to the

first cascode current source control node (50), and a drain
coupled to the first output of the operational amplifier (10);
a third transistor (M12) having a source coupled
to a terminal (44) for receiving a supply voltage, a gate coupled

to a terminal (46) for receiving a third bias voltage, and a
drain coupled to the second cascode current source feedback

node (52); and
a fourth transistor (M9) having a source coupled
to the drain of the third transistor (M12), a gate coupled to the second

cascode current source control node (54), and a drain coupled to
the second output of the operational amplifier (10).
An operational amplifier circuit according to any preceding
claim wherein the cascode current mirror section (20)

comprises:

a first transistor (M5) having a source coupled
to a terminal (30) for receiving a supply voltage, a gate coupled

to a terminal (32) for receiving a first bias voltage, and a
drain coupled to the first mirror current source feedback

node (36); 
a second transistor (M8) having a source coupled to the drain of the first
transistor (M5), a gate coupled to the first mirror current source control node (38), and a drain

coupled to the first output of the operational amplifier (10);
a third transistor (M6) having a source coupled to a terminal (30) for receiving a
supply voltage, a gate coupled to a terminal (32) for receiving a first bias voltage, and a

drain coupled to the second mirror current source feedback node (40); and
a fourth transistor (M7) having a source coupled to the drain of the third transistor (M6), a
gate coupled to the second mirror current source control node (42), and a drain coupled

to the second output of the operational amplifier (10).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
