<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634779</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Collimation chamber with rotatable pedestal.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1434	C23C1434	C23C1450	C23C1450	H01J3732	H01J3732	H01J3734	H01L2102	H01L2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A collimation chamber (6) for use in physical vapor 
deposition of a wafer includes a device (5) for rotating a 

wafer (4) inside the collimation chamber during a 
deposition process. The device for rotating a wafer 

comprises a rotatable pedestal (5) which is positioned at 
the bottom of the collimation chamber. The means for 

depositing comprises a target (2) positioned above the 
rotatable pedestal. A collimator (3) is positioned 

between the target and the wafer. Two or more elements 
can also be reactively combined inside of the collimation 

chamber to be deposited on the surface of the wafer. A 
method for depositing deposition material over the surface 

of a wafer inside of a collimation chamber comprises the 
steps of rotating the wafer inside the collimation chamber 

and depositing a deposition marterial over the surface of 
a wafer while it is being rotated inside of the 

collimation chamber. The step of rotating the wafer 
inside the collimation chamber is accomplished by rotating 

a pedestal (5) which the wafer (4) is positioned on, the 
pedestal positioned at the bottom of the collimation 

chamber. The deposition material is deposited over the 
surface of the wafer by bombarding a target (3) with 

particles causing pieces of the target to be sputtered and 
deposited on the surface of the wafer. Reactive 

sputtering can also be accomplished by introducing gas 
particles of an element into the collimation chamber, the 

gas particles to react with the discharged particles from 
the target and form a reactive compound to be deposited on 

the surface of the wafer. The ions used to bombard the 
target are attracted towards the target by applying an 

appropriate voltage to the target. The method further 
comprises the step of collimating the discharged pieces 

from the target on their way to be deposited on the wafer. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEPMAN AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEPMAN, AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of physical vapor 
deposition of wafers. More specifically, the present invention 
relates to the field of physical vapor deposition of wafers in a 
deposition chamber having a collimator. During the physical vapor deposition of wafers, a deposition 
chamber, as illustrated in Figure 1, is used to sputter the 
deposition material on a wafer 4. This deposition material can 
be any compound which is commonly used in the physical vapor 
deposition of wafers. Aluminum, an Aluminum alloy, Titanium, 
Tungsten and a compound of Titanium and Tungsten are commonly 
used as deposition materials. A target 2 is formed out of the 
deposition material to be used and is positioned at the top of 
the collimation chamber 6. The wafer 4 is supported by a 
pedestal 5 and is positioned at the bottom of the collimation 
chamber 6. During the deposition process the chamber is evacuated and 
provided a partial pressure of a gas, e.g., Argon. As is well 
known, a plasma of the gas is formed in the chamber. Ions from 
the plasma are attracted to the target by applying an appropriate 
voltage to the target. For example, a plasma can be formed by 
applying a sufficiently large DC voltage between the target 2 and 
the shields 6. By applying the negative terminal of the voltage 
supply to the target 2, the ions in the plasma will be attracted 
to the target 2 as the plasma is formed. As the plasma ions strike the target 2, particles are 
sputtered from the surface of the target 2 at a significant 
kinetic energy. Because of the amount of kinetic energy imparted 
to the particles escaping from the target 2, the particles will 
typically adhere securely to any solid structure which they  
 
strike including the interior surface of the shield 6. A magnetron 1 can be used to shape the plasma and the flow 
of ions to the target 2. A magnetron 1 can be one or more 
permanent magnets or electro-magnets of appropriate strength, 
orientation and position to achieve the desired shaping. In this deposition chamber it is also possible to conduct 
reactive sputtering using more than one element to make up the 
deposition material. To conduct reactive sputtering and deposit 
a compound consisting of more than one element on the wafer 4, a 
gas of the second element is introduced into the deposition 
chamber inside the area enclosed by the shield 6. The first 
element is still obtained from the target 2 as described above. 
As the sputtered particles from the target 2 are travelling away 
from the target
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A collimation chamber for use in physical vapor deposition 
of a material onto a wafer, the chamber including a target, a 

pedestal for supporting a wafer and a collimator positioned 
between the target and the wafer and further comprising means for 

rotating the wafer and the collimator relative to one another. 
The collimation chamber according to claim 1 wherein the 
means for rotating comprises of a rotatable pedestal positioned 

to hold the wafer at the bottom of the collimation chamber. 
The collimation chamber according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the 
collimator is positioned no higher than one millimeter above the 

wafer. 
A method of depositing material from a target onto a surface 
of a wafer inside of a deposition chamber having a collimator 

comprising the steps of: 

a. rotating the wafer and the collimator relative to one 
another inside a collimation chamber; and 
b. depositing the target material over a surface of the 
wafer. 
The method according to claim 4 wherein the step of rotating 
is accomplished by rotating a pedestal on which the wafer is 

positioned. 
The method according to claim 4 or claim 5 wherein the collimator and 
the wafer are less than one millimeter apart. 
The method according to any of claims 4 to 6 wherein the target material 
 

is deposited over the surface of the wafer by bombarding the 
target with ions causing particles of the target to be sputtered 

and deposited on the surface of the wafer. 
The method according to any of claims 4 to 7 further comprising the 
step of introducing a gas into the deposition chamber, the gas to 

react with the discharged particles from the target and form a 
reactive compound for deposition onto the surface of the wafer. 
A deposition chamber for use in physical vapor deposition of 
a deposition material onto a wafer, the wafer having a surface, 

comprising: 

a. a rotatable pedestal for supporting a substantially 
planar wafer positioned at the bottom of the collimation 

chamber; 
b. a target comprising the deposition material positioned 
above the rotatable pedestal; 
c. A substantially planar collimator positioned between the 
target and the wafer; and 
d. means for sputtering deposition material from the target 
onto the wafer. 
The collimation chamber according to claim 9 wherein the 
collimator is positioned no higher than one millimeter above the 

wafer supported by the pedestal. 
The collimation chamber accordingly to claim 9 or claim 10 further 
comprising means for introducing a gas into the chamber and 

reactively combining the gas with the deposition material. 
A collimation chamber for use in physical vapor 
deposition of a material onto a wafer, the chamber inclu
ding a 
target, a pedestal for supporting a wafer and a collimator 

positioned between the target and the wafer and further 
 

comprising means for rotating the wafer during a deposition 
process. 
A collimation chamber for use in physical vapor 
deposition of a material onto a wafer, the chamber including a 

target, a pedestal for supporting a wafer and a collimator 
positioned between the target and the wafer and further 

comprising means for rotating the collimator during a deposition 
process. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
