<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626538</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vibration-resistant low NOx burner
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23C600	F23D1422	F23D1446	F23D1446	F23D1448	F23C604	F23C900	F23D1400	F23D1458	F23C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23C	F23D	F23D	F23D	F23D	F23C	F23C	F23D	F23D	F23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23C6	F23D14	F23D14	F23D14	F23D14	F23C6	F23C9	F23D14	F23D14	F23C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low NO
x
 burner (2) includes a primary air and fuel 
discharge assembly which, in turn, includes a burner plate (6) 

having a plurality of slots (32) from which fuel gas jets and 
combustion air are discharged. The slots are arranged such 

that the width of the recirculation zones between adjacent 
slots substantially varies between the central region of the 

burner plate and its perimeter. With this construction, the 
local ignition patterns vary such that local oscillations of 

flame front occur at different frequencies so that vibrations 
are greatly dampened and resonance problems in the furnace 

minimized or eliminated. In applications where high excess 
air is not desirable, such as boiler applications, the burner 

is modified by providing a secondary fuel and flue gas 
injection assembly (80) to form a two stage burner (2'). In 

the preferred embodiment, the secondary injection assembly 
includes a plurality of discrete fuel and flue gas injection 

tubes (82, 94) arranged around the primary air and fuel gas 
discharge assembly (50). The secondary fuel and flue gases are 

directed radially inward and downstream from the burner plate 
so that they mix with the combustion air entering through the 

burner plate slots (32) in a secondary combustion zone. The 
resulting delay in the combustion of the secondary fuel gas and 

the need for heating the flue gas lowers the overall combustion 
temperature, which in turn reduces the NO
x
 formation in the 
second or downstream combustion zone. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COEN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COEN COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIFSHITS VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONDERVILLE STEVE B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIFSHITS, VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONDERVILLE, STEVE B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to burners generally,
and more particularly to a low NOx burner having enhanced flame
stability and a construction that minimizes vibration
generation and accompanying furnace rumble (low-frequency loud
noise).Generally, NOx emissions rise exponentially with
combustion temperature. These emissions typically are reduced
by lowering combustion temperatures. In some cases this is
accomplished by combusting the fuel with an increased amount of
excess air (lean mixture).One example of a system using excess air to reduce
NOx emissions is disclosed in the article "The Development of a
Natural Gas-Fired Combustor for Direct-Air" from the 1992
International Gas Research Conference. In this burner system,
the fuel and gas are premixed and then injected in the
combustion chamber. The air-fuel mixture is adjusted to
provide whatever amount of excess air is desired to lower the
temperature so that NOx emissions are minimized. However, one
of the drawbacks of this system is that there remains the 
danger of explosions upstream from the combustion chamber, for
example, in the burner.In U.S. Patent No. 5,102,329, a low NOx burner is
disclosed, in which mixing of fuel gas and combustion air to
the extent necessary for combustion in the burner is precluded.
In this burner, fuel tubes or spuds are arranged over slots in
a burner plate to discharge fuel gas therethrough at high
velocities. Combustion air also is discharged from the burner
through these slots. Although some mixing of fuel gas and
combustion air (controlled exclusively by fuel gas jet
entrainment of the combustion air) occurs along the boundary
line between each cone-shaped fuel gas jet and the air, the
space volume where this mixing occurs is negligible. In
addition, the flow pattern in this area has a velocity
component in the downstream direction that many times exceeds
the propagation velocity of the flame. Accordingly, any flame
flashback from the combustion chamber is precluded.Although the above systems advantageously reduce NOx
emissions, and in the latter case, minimize the possibility of
flame flashback, they are subject to combustion or air flow
driven pulsation of the flame front, which causes strong
vibration and rumbling in the furnace. In burners generally,
the combustion amplifies pulsations which typically occur at a
frequency of about 8-200 Hz due to the particular
characteristics of the air supply fan or duct work, for
example, or resonance modes of a furnace. It has been found
that when heat of combustion is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A burner comprising:

an annular burner plate (6) having an outer surface for
facing a combustion chamber, an inner surface, and a

plurality of circumferentially arranged radially
extending slots (32) formed therethrough for introducing

air and fuel gas into a combustion chamber, and
a radially extending burner tube (16) provided for each
of said slots (32)
each tube (16) having an inner end portion adapted to be
coupled to a fuel gas source, an outer end portion, and a

plurality of discharge openings (30) for directing fuel
gas through its associated slot (32) into said combustion

chamber,
the distance between the outer end portions of adjacent
burner tubes (16) being substantially greater than the

distance between the inner end portions of said adjacent
tubes (16).
The burner of claim 1, characterized in that the ratio
between said distance between the outer end portions and

said distance between the inner end portions is at least
about 2:1.
The burner of claim 1, characterized in that means for
discharging combustion air from said slots (32) are

provided. 
The burner of claim 1, characterized in that the width of
each slot (32) increases as the slot approaches the outer

perimeter of said burner plate (6).
The burner of claim 1, characterized in that said
recirculation zones (34) are larger in area than said slots

(32) .
The burner of claim 1, characterized in that a plurality of
discrete flue gas injection tubes (94) are provided, each

having a discharge end portion (104) that is positioned
radially outward from an imaginary cylinder extending

normal to and surrounding said plurality of
circumferentially arranged slots (32), each flue gas

injection tube (94) having an inlet adapted for coupling to

a flue gas recirculation line (100) adapted for coupling to
said combustion chamber; and
a plurality of secondary fuel injection tubes (82) adapted
to be coupled to a fuel gas source (86), each having a

discharge end portion (90) adjacent said discharge end
portion (104) of one of the flue injection tubes (94).
The burner of claim 6, characterized in that the discharge
end portion (90) of each secondary fuel gas injection tube

(82) is substantially concentrically positioned within said
discharge end portion (104) of one of the flue gas

injection tubes (94).
The burner assembly of claim 1, characterized by multiple
fuel and flue gas tubes, each having a discharge end

portion that is spaced radially outward from said burner
plate slots (32) of the primary discharge assembly, a first

group of said tubes (82) adapted for coupling to a fuel gas
source (86) and a second group of said tubes (94) adapted

for coupling to a flue gas source (98), each of said tubes 
including a nozzle (102) having an outlet arranged for

directing gas discharged therefrom toward the center axis
(28) of the primary discharge assembly.
The burner assembly of claim 8, characterized in that the
discharge end portion (90) of each tube (82) from said

first group is substantially concentrically positioned
within the discharge end portion (104) of one of the tubes

(94) from the second group.
The burner assembly of claim 8, characterized in that said
flue gas source includes


a flue gas stack (98) downstream from and in fluid
communication with said combustion chamber;
each of said second group of tubes (94) has a discharge end
portion (104) that is spaced radially outward from said

primary air and fuel gas discharge assembly;
a flue gas recirculation line (100) has one portion fluidly
coupled to said flue gas stack (98) and another portion

fluidly coupled to inlets of said second group of tubes
(94); and
a flue gas recirculation line (100) has one portion fluidly
coupled to said flue gas stack (98) and another portion

fluidly coupled to inlets of said second group of tubes
(94); and
a fan (99) is coupled to said flue gas recirculation line
(100) so that a forced draft of recirculated flue gases can

be directed through said flue gas injection tubes (94) and
into a particular region of said flame.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
