<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651098</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for removing odor from plumbing units.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03D904	E03D904	E03D9052	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03D	E03D	E03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03D9	E03D9	E03D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for reducing odors associated with a plumbing unit comprising 
at least one air intake port (66) disposed in the vicinity of the plumbing unit, 

air displacement means (60) for inducing air into the at least one air intake 
port (66), and a piping system through which the air from the at least one air 

intake port (66) moves to an exhaust location (68), characterized in that the 
exhaust location (68) is in a water trap associated with the plumbing unit (10). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHALOM MOSHE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHALOM, MOSHE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHALOM MOSHE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHALOM, MOSHE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and systems for reducing or 
eliminating odors in a room, particularly those associated with bathroom toilets. Considerable efforts have been devoted to reducing or eliminating the 
odors which are typically associated with toilets. One of the earliest examples 
of these efforts is the widespread use of a water trap in conventional modern 
toilets. Thus, the vast majority of toilets are currently designed so that the 
outlet pipe from the toilet to the sewer system first rises and then falls which 
ensures that a certain amount of water will always be trapped at the bottom of 
the toilet bowl. The standing water which constitutes the water trap prevents 
odors from the sewer line from entering the toilet and the bathroom. While the widespread use of water traps is highly effective in preventing 
odors arising from wastes which have already been flushed into the sewer 
system, water traps are largely ineffective in reducing or eliminating odors 
which do not reach the water in the toilet bowl or which rise up from the water 
prior to flushing. These odors can leave the toilet and pervade the bathroom, 
which may inconvenience users of the bathroom. Various attempts have been made to solve the above-described problem. 
In common use are various vents which are located at one or more convenient 
points in the bathroom and which use an air blower to move air from the 
bathroom and kitchen to the outside of the house. A disadvantage of this 
system is that it allows the odors to spread throughout the bathroom prior to 
venting to the outside which does little to aid an immediate user of the toilet.  
 
An additional disadvantage is that the use of a vent requires expensive 
installation since a passageway must be made in an exterior wall of the house 
and since suitable ducting, which is often unsightly or at least aesthetically 
displeasing, must be installed. To partially overcome these disadvantages, systems have been proposed 
to provide air intake ports at or near the toilet bowl itself so as to capture the 
odors before they have a chance to spread throughout the bathroom. The 
captured odors are then exhausted to the outside of the house. While this 
represents an advance over the simple bathroom venting system, the problem of 
expensive and unsightly ducting remains. To overcome these disadvantages, it has been proposed to exhaust the 
captured air into the air-filled portion of the sewer line just downstream of the 
water trap by tapping the sewer line and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for reducing odors associated with a plumbing unit 
comprising: 


(a) at least one air intake port disposed in the vicinity of the 
plumbing unit; 
(b) air displacement means for inducing air into said at least one air 
intake port; and 
(c) a piping system through which the air from said at least one air 
intake port moves to an exhaust location; 
 
characterized in that said exhaust location is in a water trap associated with the 

plumbing unit. 
The system of claim 1, wherein: 

(a) said plumbing unit is a toilet having a water trap with an 
upstream portion and a downstream portion; and 
(b) said exhaust location is in the downstream portion of said water 
trap. 
The system of claim 1, wherein the plumbing unit is coupled to 
a sewer pipe and includes a fresh water inlet, and said exhaust location is in a 

 
water trap defined in a separate odor-removing unit coupled between the 

plumbing unit and said sewer pipe. 
A system as in claim 1, wherein said air displacement means is an 
air blower. 
A system as in claim 4, wherein said piping system includes take-up 
piping from said at least one air intake port to said air blower and further 

includes exhaust piping from said air blower to said exhaust location. 
A system as in claim 2, further comprising sound muffling means 
for muffling the sound of exhausted air entering the downstream portion of the 

water trap of the toilet. 
A system as in claim 6, wherein said sound muffling means 
includes a barrier at the entrance of the exhausted air into the downstream 

portion of the water trap of the toilet, whose top extends upward to at least the 
water level, which barrier serves as a water seal between uses of the system. 
A system as in claim 7, wherein said barrier includes an opening 
which serves to allow water to fill said water seal when said air displacement 

means is not activated. 
A system as in claim 2, wherein at least one of said air intake 
ports is located in the vicinity of the toilet. 
A system as in claim 9, wherein the toilet includes a toilet seat 
and wherein at least one of said air intake ports is located in the toilet seat. 
A system as in claim 9, wherein at least one of said air intake 
ports is located in the toilet bowl. 
The system as in claim 3, wherein said plumbing unit comprises 
a toilet having a fresh water tank and said odor removing unit is disposed within 

said fresh water tank. 
The system as in claim 3, wherein said odor removing unit 
includes: 


(i) an air inlet coupled to the toilet; 
(ii) an air outlet coupled to a sewer pipe; and 
(iii) a water-bearing cup element forming a water trap in the unit 
between said air inlet and said air outlet, said cup element having 

a fresh water inlet for inputting fresh water thereto. 
The system as in claim 3, wherein said plumbing unit is a toilet 
coupled to a sewer pipe and having a fresh water feed pipe, and said odor 

removing unit is coupled between said fresh water feed pipe and said sewer 
pipe. 
A system for reducing odors associated with a toilet having a 
water trap having an upstream portion and a downstream portion, comprising: 


(a) at least one air intake port; 
(b) air displacement means for inducing air into said at least one air 
intake port; and 
(c) piping system through which the air from said at least one air 
intake port moves to an exhaust location; 
 
characterized in that said exhaust location is in the downstream portion of the 

water trap of the toilet. 
A system for reducing odors associated with a toilet, the toilet 
having a water trap coupled to a sewer pipe and having a fresh water tank 

coupled thereto by a fresh water feed pipe, comprising: 

(a) at least one air intake port; 
(b) air displacement means for inducing air into said at least one air 
intake port; 
(c) an odor removing unit; and 
(d) a piping system through which the air from said at least one air 
intake port moves to said odor removing unit and from said odor 

removing unit to an exhaust location in a sewer downstream of 
the water trap of the toilet. 
A system as in claim 16, wherein said odor removing unit 
includes: 


(i) an air inlet; 
(ii) an air outlet; and 
(iii) a fresh water inlet for inputting fresh water so as to form a water 
trap in the unit between said air inlet and said air outlet. 
A system as in claim 16, further comprising sound muffling means 
for muffling the sound of exhausted air entering said odor removing unit, said 

sound muffling means including an upturned entrance of the exhausted air into 
the downstream portion of the water trap of the toilet. 
A system as in claim 16, wherein said odor removing unit includes 
a shield at the entrance of the exhausted air into said odor removing unit, whose 

top extends upward to at least the water level in said odor removing unit, which 
barrier serves as a water seal between uses of the system. 
A system as in claim 19, wherein said shield includes an opening 
which serves to allow water to fill a portion of said odor removing unit when 

said air displacement means is not activated. 
A method for reducing odors associated with a plumbing unit 
coupled to a sewer pipe comprising: 

   collecting air containing odors from the vicinity of the plumbing unit and 
exhausting said air into the downstream portion of a water trap associated with 

the plumbing unit. 
A method as in claim 21, wherein said collecting and exhausting 
is effected using an air blower. 
A method as in claim 22, wherein said collecting is effected using 
at least one air intake port and take-up piping from said at least one air intake 

port to said air blower and wherein said exhausting is effected using exhaust 
piping from said air blower to said water trap. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
