<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for protecting cordless telephone account authentication information.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07F710	G07F710	G09C100	G09C100	H04L908	H04L908	H04L910	H04L910	H04L932	H04L932	H04W1200	H04W1206	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07F	G07F	G09C	G09C	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07F7	G07F7	G09C1	G09C1	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04W12	H04W12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides an apparatus for use in a 
telecommunication system which includes a local unit such as 

a cordless telephone handset and a remote unit. The apparatus 
generates an encrypted confirmation in the local unit in 

response to an inquiry received from the remote unit. The 
apparatus comprises receiving means for receiving the inquiry; 

memory means for storing a scrambled encryption key; 
descrambling means operatively coupled with the memory means 

for receiving the scrambled encryption key and for 
descrambling the scrambled encryption key responsive to a 

first predetermined digital code to produce a descrambled 
encryption key; and encryption means for generating an 

encrypted confirmation in response to the inquiry, the 
encrypted confirmation being encrypted using the descrambled 

encryption key. The invention further includes a code means 
such as a fuse bank for establishing the first predetermined 

digital code. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMIEN BRUNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKSON ALAN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMIEN, BRUNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKSON, ALAN F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus 
for protecting cordless telephone account authentication 
information. More particularly, the present invention relates 
to an apparatus and method for use in a telecommunication 
system including a local unit and a remote unit wherein the 
local unit generates an encrypted confirmation responsive to 
an inquiry received from the remote unit, using account 
authentication information as an encryption key. Wireless telephony systems have become increasingly 
common. In such systems, a subscriber uses a local unit or 
handset to communicate via radio frequency transmissions with 
a remote unit, thereby accessing the standard telephone 
network. Such wireless systems include cellular telephone 
systems in North America and cordless or CT2 systems in Europe 
and Asia. Each handset capable of communicating with the remote 
unit is provided with a unique network identity. This unique 
identity is used for limiting access to the network to 
authorized subscribers. This unique identity is also used for 
subscriber billing and recordkeeping. Thus, the unique 
identity may be considered to be an account number. Since access to the wireless telephone network is limited 
to authorized subscribers, and since the account number is 
used for billing calls made over the network, there is a 
substantial need for maintaining the secrecy of the account 
number. While the account number is unique to a given 
handset, the account numbers are portable in that a valid 
account number may be used with any handset. However, the 
handset must be programmed with the account number. When a communication such as a telephone call is 
initiated between the handset and the remote unit, the remote  
 
unit transmits a challenge to the handset. This challenge may 
be in the form of a 32-bit digital random number. The handset 
has been preprogrammed with the account number and thus 
stores internally the account number. Upon receiving the 
transmitted challenge, the handset encrypts a confirmation or 
response using the stored account number. The confirmation is 
encrypted in order to maintain secrecy of the account number. 
A transmitted, unencrypted, confirmation including the account 
number could be received by an unauthorized party and a 
different handset programmed with the account number, allowing 
fraudulent use of the account number. For example, in the CT2 system, the handset may store a 
64-bit digital account number. The handset encrypts the 64-bit 
account number
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for use in a telecommunication system, 
said telecommunication system including a local unit and a 

remote unit, the apparatus generating an encrypted 
confirmation in said local unit responsive to an inquiry 

received from said remote unit; the apparatus comprising: 
   receiving means for receiving said inquiry; 

   memory means for storing a scrambled encryption 
key; 

   descrambling means operatively coupled with said 
memory means for receiving said scrambled 

encryption key from said memory means and for 
descrambling said scrambled encryption key 

responsive to a first predetermined digital 
code to produce a descrambled encryption key; 

   code means operatively coupled with said 
descrambling means for establishing said first 

predetermined digital code; 
   encryption means for generating an encrypted 

confirmation in response to said inquiry, said 
encrypted confirmation being encrypted using 

said descrambled encryption key, said 
encryption means being operatively coupled 

with said receiving means for receiving said 
inquiry and said encryption means being 

operatively coupled with said descrambling 
means for receiving said descrambled 

encryption key; and 
   transmitting means operatively coupled with said 

encryption means for receiving said encrypted 
confirmation from said encryption means and 

transmitting said encrypted confirmation. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 1 wherein the apparatus 

further comprises input means for receiving a clear encryption 
 

key and scrambling means operatively coupled with said input 
means for receiving said clear encryption key from said input 

means, said scrambling means scrambling said clear encryption 
key responsive to a second predetermined digital code to 

generate said scrambled encryption key and wherein said 
scrambling means is operatively coupled with said memory means 

for storing said scrambled encryption key in said memory 
means. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 2 wherein said code means 

establishes said second predetermined digital code. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 3 wherein said first 

predetermined digital code is the same as said second 
predetermined digital code. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 3 wherein the apparatus 

further comprises storage means for storing scrambled data for 
transmission, said descrambling means being operatively 

coupled with said storage means for receiving said scrambled 
data and for descrambling said scrambled data to generate 

descrambled data, and wherein said descrambling means is 
operatively coupled with said transmitting means for conveying 

said descrambled data to said transmitting means and wherein 
said transmitting means transmits said descrambled data. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 5 wherein said input means 

receives clear data and wherein said scrambling means receives 
said clear data from said input means and scrambles said clear 

data responsive to said second predetermined digital code to 
generate said scrambled data, and wherein said scrambling 

means is operatively coupled with said storage means, said 
scrambling means storing said scrambled data in said storage 

means. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 6 wherein said 

telecommunication system comprises a wireless telephony system 
and said clear encryption key comprises an account number. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 2 wherein the apparatus 

further comprises processing means for executing program 
instructions for controlling said local unit and program 

memory means coupled with said processing means for storing a 
predetermined number of said program instructions. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 8 wherein said descrambling 

means comprises a first plurality of program instructions of 
said predetermined number of program instructions and said 

scrambling means comprises a second plurality or program 
instructions of said predetermined number of program 

instructions. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 9 wherein said processing 

means and said program memory means are coupled by a bus means 
for communicating said program instructions and said 

descrambled encryption key. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 10 wherein said processing 

means, said program memory means and said bus means are 
integrated in a single integrated circuit, said single 

integrated circuit having output means coupled with said bus 
means for coupling said common bus with said memory means. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 11 wherein said processing 

means includes a control output and wherein the apparatus 
further comprises latch means coupled intermediate said bus 

means and said output means, said latch means having a control 
input coupled with said control output, said processing means 

providing a control signal to said latch means for selectively 
 

decoupling said common bus from said output means responsive 
to said control signal. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 12 wherein said processing 

means provides said control signal to said latch means for 
decoupling said output means from said common bus when said 

common bus communicates said descrambled encryption key. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 12 wherein said processing 

means provides said control signal to said latch means for 
decoupling said output means from said common bus when said 

processing means executes said first plurality of program 
instructions. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 14 wherein said code means 

comprises a programmable digital encoder for producing a 
multiple-bit digital signal. 
An apparatus for generating an encrypted 
confirmation as recited in Claim 15 wherein said programmable 

digital encoder comprises a fuse bank. 
A method for use in a telecommunication system, said 
telecommunication system including a local unit and a remote 

unit, the method being for generating an encrypted 

confirmation in said local unit responsive to an inquiry 
received from said remote unit, the method comprising the 

steps of: 
   providing memory means for storing a scrambled 

encryption key; 
   receiving said inquiry from said remote unit; 

   receiving said scrambled encryption key from said 
memory means; 

   descrambling said scrambled encryption key 
responsive to a predetermined digital code to 

produce a descrambled encryption key;
 

   generating said encrypted confirmation in response 
to said inquiry, said encrypted confirmation 

being generated using at least a portion of 
said inquiry and said descrambled encryption 

key; and 
   transmitting said encrypted confirmation. 
A method for generating an encrypted confirmation as 
recited in Claim 17 wherein the method further comprises the 

step of providing code means for establishing said 
predetermined digital code and wherein said scrambled 

encryption key is descrambled responsive to said predetermined 
digital code. 
A method for generating an encrypted confirmation as 
recited in Claim 18 wherein the method further comprises the 

steps of receiving a clear encryption key, scrambling said 
clear encryption key to produce said scrambled encryption key 

and storing said scrambled encryption key in said memory means 
prior to receiving said inquiry. 
A method for generating an encrypted confirmation as 
recited in Claim 19 wherein said clear encryption key is 

scrambled in response to said predetermined digital code. 
A method for generating an encrypted confirmation as 
recited in Claim 19 wherein said clear encryption key is 

scrambled in a first integrated circuit, said scrambled 
encryption key is descrambled in said first integrated 

circuit, said memory means is provided in a second integrated 
circuit, and wherein the method further comprises the step of 

providing within said first integrated circuit bus means for 
communicating said scrambled encryption key and said clear 

encryption key and output means for coupling said bus means to 
said memory means. 
A method for generating an encrypted confirmation as 
recited in Claim 21 wherein the method further comprises the 

step of decoupling said output means from said bus means when 
said scrambled encryption key is descrambled. 
A method for generating an encrypted confirmation as 
recited in Claim 21 wherein the method further comprises the 

step of decoupling said output means from said bus means when 
said bus means communicates said descrambled encryption key. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
