<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622648</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Partially detached core optical waveguide.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B37012	C03B37012	C03B3702	C03B37027	G02B602	G02B602	G02B6024	G02B6036	G02B610	G02B610	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B37	C03B37	C03B37	C03B37	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Purpose
: An optical waveguide fiber which is made 
substantially bend resistant.


Constitution
: A core having a central region with a higher 
index of refraction than an integral surrounding region is 

joined for a segment of its periphery to a clad member, so 
as to leave a gap between core and cladding. 
Bend resistance improvement begins when a relatively small fraction, 
for example, about half, of the core member periphery 

is detached. 
A detachment percentage between about 50% and 99.9% of the core member 

periphery should be achieved, with the preferred range between about 
95% and 99.9%. 
Waveguides include single 
mode, multimode and polarization maintaining waveguides. Additional core 

isolation from external forces is provided by an additional 
semi-detached cladding layer. Only a segment of the periphery of core 

member (6) is fused to clad (8) along the length of waveguide (5). Also, 
only a segment of the periphery of clad (8) is fused to clad (10) along 

the length of waveguide (5). The gaps (7) and (9), which are present 
along the length of waveguide (5), serve to provide a double isolation 

of core member (6) from external forces. That is, the stress fields set 
up in clad layer (10) are only partially transmitted to clad (8), 

because of the limited contact between the two clads. Likewise, stress 
fields experienced by clad (8) cannot be fully transmitted to core 

member (6) due to the limited area of contact between these two 
waveguide parts. The area of attachment between core member (6) and clad 

(8) may occur at any part of the inside surface of clad (8). Also, the 
orientation of the area of attachment between clad (8) an
d clad (10) may 
occur at any part of the inside surface of clad (10). In general, the 

area of attachment of clad (8) to clad (10) and the area of attachment 
of core member (6) and clad (8) do not influence one another. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERKEY GEORGE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERKEY, GEORGE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to a substantially bend 
resistant optical waveguide fiber having a partially 
detached core region and a method of making it for 
telecommunications and sensor applications. Both large and small radius bends (macrobending and 
microbending respectively), relative to the wavelength of 
light propagated, can cause power to be coupled out of the 
waveguide, thereby increasing attenuation. In the case of 
multimode waveguides, bandwidth can be increased or 
decreased by bending the waveguide. In the case of single 
mode fiber, bending can change the waveguide cut-off 
wavelength and can introduce local changes in refractive 
index, an effect called stress optic birefringence. Stress 
optic birefringence in turn can cause increased coupling 
between the two polarization modes propagated in the fiber. 
For applications such as gyroscopes and other sensors, 
where maintenance of a particular polarization is of 
critical importance, bend included stress optic 
birefringence can essentially render the waveguide 
inoperative. The need to prevent or limit this detrimental 
behavior is therefore clear. Methods for insulating or isolating the waveguide from 
external forces, which can produce detrimental bending 
effects, typically involve waveguide coatings having a low 
elastic modulus, or cable designs which do not allow  
 
bending to occur or do not transmit bending to the encased 
waveguide. The combination of low modulus coatings with 
protective cable designs has produced waveguide cable with 
acceptable performance over a wide range of applications 
and environmental conditions. However, there are difficulties and costs which 
accompany these solutions to the waveguide bending problem. 
In the case of coatings, the application process must yield 
a coating of uniform thickness and density to prevent the 
coating itself from inducing waveguide bending. 
Manufacturing cost and throughput are thereby adversely 
affected. Also, for essentially all coatings, the coating 
modulus changes with temperature, which means that the bend 
resistance of the waveguide/coating combination can vary 
with temperature. A second, higher modulus coating applied 
over the low modulus coating is usually required to protect 
the waveguide from abrasion and thereby maintain strength. 
This second coating must bond to the first coating and be 
applied uniformly and homogeneously, so that the second 
coating provides protection without inducing waveguide 
bending. Again, cost and manufacturability are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical waveguide fiber comprising: 
   a core member, comprising a central region and an 

integral surrounding region, wherein said central region 
has a higher refractive index than said surrounding region; 

and 
   a clad member disposed about and joined to the length 

of said core member along a segment of the periphery of 
said core member, thereby leaving a gap between said core 

member and said clad member along the length of said 
optical waveguide fiber. 
The optical waveguide of claim 1 further comprising at 
least one additional clad member surrounding said clad 

member and joined to a segment of the periphery of said 
clad member, so that a gap exists between said clad and 

said additional clad for the length of said waveguide, said 
joined segment being less than 50% and more than 0.1% of 

the periphery of said clad member. 
The waveguide of claim 1 or 2 wherein the waveguide or 
its core member is of silica glass and/or selected from the 

group consisting of a single mode, member, a multimode, and 
polarization maintaining single mode. 
The optical waveguide of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said 
central region of said core member has a circular or an 

elliptical cross section. 
The optical waveguide of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said 
segment of the periphery of said core member, along which 

said clad member and said core member are joined, is less 
than 50% and more than 0.1% of said periphery in axial 

cross section. 
The optical waveguide of claim 5 wherein said waveguide 
 

is fabricated from a silica glass and said waveguide is 
configured to be polarization maintaining single mode and 

has a lobed periphery and wherein said segment is a part of 
the periphery of at least one lobe. 
A method of making an optical waveguide fiber 
comprising: 

   providing a core rod having a central region and an 
integral surrounding region, the refractive index of said 

central region being greater than the refractive index of 
said surrounding region; 

   providing a hollow clad preform having an inside 
dimension greater than the maximum outside dimension of 

said core rod; 
   fixedly positioning said clad preform to a handle; 

   fixedly positioning said core rod in said clad preform 
to form a preform assembly; and 

   drawing said preform assembly into an optical 
waveguide fiber having a continuous gap between the portion 

of said waveguide formed from said core rod and the portion 
of said waveguide formed from said hollow clad preform. 
The method of claim 7 wherein said gap is produced by 
applying positive pressure to said preform assembly 

interior by flowing a gas through said handle into said gap 
for at least a part of the drawing step, optionally said 

positive pressure being maintained during the drawing, more 
optionally said positive pressure is maintained at about 2 

to 3 cm of water. 
The method of claims 7 or 8 wherein the step of 
providing a core rod comprises: 

   providing a core rod preform; 
   cutting a pair of diametrically opposed notches into 

said core member preform; 
   at points respectively 90 and -90 degrees of arc from 

the centerline of said pair of notches, grinding flat, 
 

parallel surfaces into said core member preform; and 

   heating and stretching said preform to form a core 
rod. 
Method according to any one of claims 7-10, wherein 
said first clad preform is fixedly positioned within a 

second hollow clad preform having a minimum inside 
dimension larger than the maximum outside dimension of the 

first preform, optionally after having said second preform 
fixedly positioned to a handle; 

   fixedly positioning said core rod within said first 
clad preform to form a three part preform assembly; and 

   drawing said three part preform assembly into an 
optical waveguide fiber having a continuous gap between the 

portion of said waveguide formed from said core rod and the 
portion of said waveguide formed from said first clad 

preform and having a second continuous gap between the 
portion of said waveguide formed from said first clad 

preform and the portion of said waveguide formed from said 
second clad preform. 
Method according to claim 10, wherein said second 
continuous gap is more than 50% and less than 99.9% of the 

periphery of said portion formed from said first clad 
preform. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
