<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610288</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VIBRATING CONVEYOR SCREENING METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07B112	B07B112	B07B128	B07B132	B07B142	B07B144	B07B146	B07B146	B07B150	B65G2710	B65G2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B65G27	B65G27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A screen assembly according to the invention screens material by size and includes first (61) and second (62) sets of transversely spaced apart, longitudinally extending first (63) and second (64) members respectively. The members are parallel to each other, and some members (64) of the second set (62) are located between some members (63) of the first set (61). At least one of the sets is mounted to vibrate along a longitudinal axis (19) to feed material therealong. A plurality of longitudinally spaced apart, transversely extending third members (68, 72) are located between adjacent first and second members so as to define a plurality of screen openings (77) between the first, second and third members. Third members (68, 72) are mountable so as to be out-of-phase with vibrations of the said at least one of the first (61) or second (62) sets of longitudinally extending members. The screen assembly can be installed in a vibrating conveyor, such that the first members (63) vibrate with a pan (22) of the conveyor, so as to feed material along the first members (63). With a dynamically balanced conveyor, the second members (64) are connected to a structure (33, 41, 43, 45) for dynamically balancing the conveyor, and thus are vibrated out-of-phase with the first members (63).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDEM STEEL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDEM STEEL LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWES GLENN EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWES, GLENN, EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 -i-VIBRATING CONVEYOR SCREENING METHOD AND APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to a method and apparatus for screening relatively fine material from a mixture of material, particularly for use on a dynamically balanced vibrating conveyor apparatus.In materials processing systems, vibrating conveyors are commonly used to carry material from one operation to the next. For some operations to be performed effectively, the material being conveyed often requires a separation process in which fine material is removed from coarser material. One example in the forest products industry relates to feeding waste wood to chippers which convert the waste wood to chips used in the pulp and paper industry. It is useful to remove fine materials such as sawdust, dirt and small pieces of wood from the waste wood before chipping to minimize the amount of material passing through the chipper. This removal of fines minimizes the amount of fine material to be screened from the chips after the chipping operation, and also lessens the dulling effect of the fine material on the chipper knives.Usually, separation of fine material is performed by a simple mechanical screen which is installed in a pan of a vibrating conveyor, the screen comprising either a flat plate with openings, or a woven or welded wire screen. Either of these types of screens suffers from at least two deficiencies. Firstly, the holes in the screen tend to become plugged with pieces of wood which are sufficiently small to enter the openings, but are too large to pass right through the openings. Secondly, weight of wood being conveyed along the conveyor and over the screen can deform the screen and eventually break the screen.Various attempts have been made to improve 

 conventional screening as described above. Two such attempts are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,504,386 issued to Dyren et al, and U.S. Patent 4,664,790 issued to Lundqvist. Both of these patents disclose screening structure for vibrating conveyors, in which the screening structure has two sets of elongated elements, for example rods, bars, etc. which extend axially along a portion of the conveyor. Elements of each set alternate with each other and are spaced transversely apart to provide elongated gaps therebetween. Material passing along the conveyor that is narrower than the gaps falls through the gaps, whereas material that is larger than the gaps is conveyed across the rods to the end of the conveyor. Because both of the above screening assemblies rely on elongated gaps
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1) A method of screening fine material comprising the steps of:
(a) vibrating a first set of transversely spaced apart, longitudinally extending first members,
(b) vibrating a second set of transversely spaced apart, longitudinally extending second members out of phase with vibrations of the first set, some of the second members being located between some of the first members,
(c) locating a plurality of longitudinally spaced apart, transversely extending third members which extend between adjacent first and second members to define a plurality of screen openings between the first, second and third members.
2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 further characterized by:
(a) vibrating a first group of the third members in phase with vibrations of the first members.
3. A method as claimed in Claim 2 further characterized by:
(a) vibrating a second group of the third members in phase with vibrations of the second members.
4. A method as claimed in Claim 1 further characterized by:
(a) connecting at least one group of the third members to either the first or second members to vibrate in phase therewith. 


5. A method as claimed in Claim 4 further characterized by:
(a) locating upper portions of the first, second and third members within a plane.
6. A method as claimed in Claim 1 in which the screening method is used in combination with a vibrating conveyor apparatus, the method being further characterized by:
(a) vibrating a conveyor pan of the vibrating conveyor apparatus in phase with the first set of first members 'so as to feed material along the conveyor and along the first members.
7. A method as claimed in Claim 6 further characterized by:
(a) vibrating a balancing structure out-of-phase with the conveyor pan so as to dynamically balance the conveyor apparatus.
8. A method as claimed in Claim 7 further characterized by:
(a) connecting the second set of second members to the balancing structure so that the second set of second members vibrates in phase with the balancing structure, and out-of-phase with the first set of first members.
9. A method as claimed in Claim 7 further characterized by:
(a) vibrating a first group of the third members in phase with either the first or second members. 


 10. A screening apparatus for screening material by size, the screen assembly comprising:
(a) first and second sets of transversely spaced apart, longitudinally extending first and second members respectively, the members being parallel to each outer and alignable with a longitudinal axis, some members of the second set being locatable between some members of the first set, one of the sets being mountable to vibrate along the longitudinal axis,
(b) a plurality of longitudinally spaced apart, transversely extending third members located between adjacent first and second members so as to define a plurality of screen openings between the first, second and third members, the third members being mountable so as to be out-of-phase with vibrations of the said one of the first or second sets of longitudinally extending members.
11. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 in which:
(a) the assembly is mountable in a conveyor pan of a vibrating conveyor apparatus, with the said longitudinal axis being aligned with an axis of vibration of the conveyor,
(b) one of the sets of the longitudinal members is mountable to vibrate in phase with the vibration of the conveyor pan to feed material therealong.
12. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 11 in which the first set of first members vibrates with the conveyor, and the apparatus further comprises:
(a) first mounting means for connecting the first members together and to the conveyor pan. 


 (b) second mounting means for connecting the second members together and to a portion of the conveyor apparatus so as to vibrate out-of-phase with the conveyor pan.
13. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 11 in which:
(a) the conveyor is dynamically balanced and has a balancing structure operable 180 degrees out-of-phase with the pan,
the apparatus further comprises:
(b) first mounting means for connecting the first members together and to the pan of the conveyor, so that the first set of first members vibrates in phase with the conveyor pan and,
(c) second mounting means for connecting the second members together and to the balancing structure of the conveyor apparatus so as to be vibrated in phase with the balancing structure.
14. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 12 in which the first mounting means for connecting the first members together and to the conveyor comprises:
(a) a rectangular frame securable to the conveyor pan and including a pair of longitudinally extending side frame members and a pair of transversely extending end frame members,
(b) the first members being secured to the frame members to provide first mounting means.
15. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 14 in which:
(a) the conveyor is dynamically balanced and has balancing structure operable 180 degrees 


 out-of-phase with the pan,
and the second mounting means for connecting the second members together and to a portion of the conveyor apparatus comprises:
(b) at least two longitudinally spaced apart, transversely extending support bars, the bars being connectable to structure associated with the balancing structure to vibrate therewith,
(c) the second members being secured to the support bars so as to extend longitudinally of the conveyor, and be positioned between the first members.
16. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 in which:
(a) the third members are connected to the longitudinal members for vibration therewith.
17. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 in which:
(a) the longitudinally extending first and second members are spaced transversely apart at a member spacing,
(b) one set of the third members is connected to one of the longitudinally extending members, the third members extending from each side of the longitudinal member outwardly therefrom in opposite directions to a depth no greater than the member spacing.
18► An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 in which:
(a) the first and second members have respective upper portions which are generally co-planar with 


 each other .
19. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 14 in which:
(a) the end frame members and the side frame members have generally co-planar upper surfaces,
(b) the first, second and third members have respective upper surfaces which are co-planar with each other and with the end frame members and side frame members.
20. A vibrating conveyor apparatus comprising:
(a) a conveyor pan for receiving and conveying material along a longitudinal axis of the conveyor,
(b) first vibrating means for vibrating the conveyor pan to convey the material along the longitudinal axis,
(c) a screen assembly comprising:
(i) a first set of transversely spaced apart, longitudinally extending first members,
(ii) first mounting means for connecting the first members together and to the conveyor pan to be aligned with the longitudinal axis of the conveyor, and to vibrate in phase with the conveyor pan.
(iii) a second set of transversely spaced apart, longitudinally extending second members, some members of the second set 


 being disposed between some members of the first set, the second members being parallel to the first members,
(iv) second mounting means for connecting the second members together,
(v) a plurality of longitudinally spaced apart, transversely extending third members located between adjacent first and second members so as to define a plurality of screen openings between the first, second and third members,
(vi) third mounting means for mounting the third members so as to provide relative movement between some of the third members and either the first or second members.
21. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 20 further including:
(a) second vibrating means for vibrating the second members, the second members being vibrated out-of-phase with vibrations of the first set.
22. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 21 further comprising:
(a) third vibrating means for vibrating a first group of the third members in phase with either the first or second members.
23. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 22 further comprising:
(a) fourth vibrating means for vibrating a second group of third members in phase with either the 


 first or second members.
24. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 22 in which:
(a) the third means for vibrating the first group of third members is a direct mechanical connection of the first group to either the first or second members to vibrate therewith.
25. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 24 in which:
(a) the fourth vibrating means for vibrating the second group of third members is a direct mechanical connection of the second group to either the first or second members to vibrate therewith.
26. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 21 in which:
(a) the second vibrating means for vibrating the second members includes a dynamic balancing means, and a direct connection between the balancing means and the second members, the dynamic balancing means being operated at 180 degrees out-of-phase with the conveyor pan,
27. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 26 in which the dynamic balancing means includes:
(a) a pair of balancing bars, one bar being provided on each side of the conveyor pan,
(b) the second vibrating means includes vibrators connected to the balancing bars to vibrate the bars out-of-phase with respect to the conveyor pan,
(c) at least two longitudinally spaced apart. 


 transversely extending support bars, the bars having opposite ends connected to adjacent balancing bars to vibrate therewith, the support bars having intermediate portions connected to 5 the second members.
10
15
20
25
30
0002799.WP 35 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
