<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612268</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONVECTION TOWERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5377	B01D5314	F03G700	B01D5334	B01D4706	B01D4706	F03G600	F03G704	B01D5334	B01D5377	F03G604	B01D5314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	F03G	B01D	B01D	B01D	F03G	F03G	B01D	B01D	F03G	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	F03G7	B01D53	B01D47	B01D47	F03G6	F03G7	B01D53	B01D53	F03G6	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A convection tower which is capable of cleaning the pollution from large quantities of air and of generating electricity utilizes the evaporation of water sprayed into the tower (11) through sprayers (13, 14, 16) to create strong airflows and to remove pollution from the air. Turbines (18) in tunnels at the skirt section (12) of the tower generate electricity. Other embodiments may also provide fresh water, and operate in an updraft mode.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUEITT MELVIN LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUEITT, MELVIN, LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to air 
pollution control, and, more particularly, to the large 
scale scrubbing of pollutants from air. The invention is a 
result of a contract with the Department of Energy 
(Contract No. W-7405-ENG-36). One of the great problems currently facing this 
country, and indeed the world, is that of air pollution. 
The emissions from pollution producing plants, homes, 
airplanes and automobiles produce potentially harmful air, 
particularly in and around large cities. Cleaning this air 
after it is in the atmosphere is a formidable task. 
Scubbers on smoke stacks, unleaded gasoline, and carpooling 
plans seek to reduce the level of contamination, but do 
nothing towards cleaning the pollution that does reach the 
atmosphere. Areas such as Los Angeles and Mexico City have 
pollution situations that can make the air unfit or even 
dangerous to breathe. Although substantial efforts have 
been made to assess the dangers of such pollution, and to 
find solutions, these efforts have not yielded a great deal 
of improvement. To solve these pollution problems, an 
efficient, large scale and economical system is needed. The present invention does provide a means for 
cleansing pollution from the air, and accomplishes this 
through the use of convection towers. These towers are  
 
capable of economically removing particulate matter, and 
reducing the level of carbon dioxide and other gases. 
Various embodiments of the invention are also capable of 
producing electricity and large quantities of fresh water. By way of example, the Los Angeles basin contains 
approximately 15,000 square kilometers of land, with most 
of the area's pollution being created in an area of only 
3,000 square kilometers. The pollution depth below the 
inversion layer is normally approximately 500 meters, so it 
is only necessary to clean about 1,500 cubic kilometers of 
air every one or two days. Installations consisting of 
several of the present invention can accomplish this level 
of air cleaning. Other researchers have proposed the use of filters for 
removing particulate matter from the air. However, because 
of the very large quantities of air that must be processed 
in large scale systems, the energy requirements to force 
the air through the filters would be enormous. Replacement 
and disposal of filters would be labor intensive and 
expensive. Additionally, the processed air would have 
about the same density as the dirty air, making it 
difficult to prevent immediate mixing of the two,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A convection tower for cleaning polluted air and 
generating electrical power comprising:
 
   a structure (10) having a tower section (11) and a skirt section 

(12) at the bottom of the tower section, 
said skirt section being formed into individual tunnels;
 
   one or more first water sprayer means (13) disposed in said 

tower section for providing fine mist water droplets for 
evaporative cooling of air in said tower section of said 

structure to create due to increased air density a flow of said air 
through said structure and for removing pollution from said air;
 
   a plurality of turbine generator means (18) in said 

individual tunnels of said skirt section of said structure 
for generating electrical power from said flow of said air 

through said structure; and
 
   a plurality of second water sprayer means (16) disposed in 

said individual tunnels of said skirt section of said 
structure for removing any remaining pollutants and said 

fine mist water droplets from said flow of air through said 
structure. 
The convection tower as described in Claim 1, 
wherein said structure is comprised of fabric stretched 

between steel beams and cables.  
 
The convection tower as described in Claim 1, 
wherein said one or more first water sprayer means and said 

plurality of second water sprayer means spray sea water. 
The convection tower as described in Claim 1, 
wherein said one or more first water sprayer means and said 

plurality of second water sprayer means spray treated and 
chlorinated sewer water. 
The convection tower as described in Claim 1, 
further comprising chemical sprayer means for spraying 

chemicals effective to dissolve hydrocarbons and other gases 
from said flow of air through said structure. 
The convection tower as described in Claim 1, 
further comprising catch basin means (15) for collecting 

pollution particulates and water from said sprayers means. 
Apparatus for cleaning pollution from air and 
providing fresh water comprising:
 
   a structure having a first tower (40) and a second tower (41) 

connected at their bottoms by a conduit (42), said first tower being 
taller than said second tower, said second tower having a bottom and a 

top;
 
   one or more first water sprayer means (43) located in said 

first tower for providing fine mist water droplets for 
evaporative cooling of air in said tower section of said 

structure to create due to increased air density a flow of said air 
through said structure and for removing pollution from said air;
 
   turbine generator means (46) disposed in said conduit for 

generating electrical power from said flow of said air 
through said structure;
  
 

   second water sprayer means (44) disposed in said conduit for 
removing any remaining pollutants and said fine mist water 

droplets from said flow of air through said structure;
 
   third water sprayer means (45) disposed in said second tower 

for providing fresh water drops to collect mist particles 
that have condensed from said flow of said air through said 

structure; and
 
   fresh water collection means (48c) located at said bottom of 

said second tower for collecting fresh water from said 
second tower. 
The apparatus described in Claim 7 wherein said one 
or more first water sprayer means and said second water 

sprayer means spray sea water. 
The apparatus described in Claim 7 wherein said one 
or more first water sprayer means and said second water 

sprayer means spray treated and chlorinated sewer water. 
The apparatus described in Claim 7 further 
comprising chemical sprayer means for spraying chemicals 

effective to dissolve hydrocarbons and other gases from said 
flow of air through said structure. 
The apparatus described in Claim 7 further 
comprising catch basin means in said first tower and in said 

conduit for collecting pollution particulates and water from 
said one or more first water sprayer means and said second 

water sprayer means.  
 
An updraft convection tower for cleaning polluted 
air, generating electrical power, and producing fresh water 

comprising:
 
   a structure (10) having a tower section (11) with a top and a 

bottom, and a skirt section (12) at the bottom of the tower section 
containing a plurality of individual tunnel sections;
 
   solar heating means in said skirt section for preheating 

air in said plurality of individual tunnel sections and for 
helping to create a flow of said air through said structure;
 
   a plurality of first water sprayer means (16) disposed in 

said skirt section for removing pollution from said flow of 
air through said structure and for increasing relative 

humidity in said structure;
 
   a plurality of turbine motor/generator means (18) disposed in 

said plurality of individual tunnel sections for initiating 
said flow of air through said structure and for generating 

electrical power from said flow of said air through said 
structure; and
 
   a second water sprayer means (13, 14) located in said tower 

section for producing water drops which collect mist 
particles in said flow of said air through said structure. 
The updraft convection tower described in Claim 12 
wherein said plurality of first water sprayer means spray 

sea water. 
The updraft convection tower described in Claim 12 
wherein said plurality of first water sprayer means spray 

treated and chlorinated sewer water. 
The updraft convection tower described in Claim 12 
further comprising chemical sprayer means for spraying 

chemicals effective to dissolve hydrocarbons and other gases 
from said flow of air through said structure.  

 
The updraft convection tower described in Claim 12 
wherein said second water sprayer means spray fresh water. 
The updraft convection tower described in Claim 12 
further comprising a plurality of first catch basin means 

located in said individual tunnel sections under said 
plurality of first water sprayer means for collecting 

pollution particulates from said flow of said air through 
said structure. 
The updraft convection tower described in Claim 16 
further comprising second catch basin means located in said 

bottom of said tower section for collecting said mist 
particles and said fresh water. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
