<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646018</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARABINOGALACTAN DERIVATIVES AND USES THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4748	A61K4748	C08B3700	C08B3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C08B	C08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K47	C08B37	C08B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There are provided a carrier for forming a complex with a therapeutic agent for delivery thereof to a cell receptor located on the surface of a target tissue comprising: arabinogalactan modified at a site by a functional residue to produce a derivative in a manner that preserves the useful affinity of the derivative for the cell receptor, and complexes thereof.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MAGNETICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MAGNETICS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENRIQUEZ PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSEPHSON LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUNG CHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMACCI STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENRIQUEZ, PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSEPHSON, LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUNG, CHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMACCI, STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ARABINOGALACTAN DERIVATIVES AND USES THEREOFTechnical FieldThis invention relates to the synthesis and methods of use of therapeutic agents targeted to cells, especially hepatocytes.Background Art The safety and efficacy of a therapeutic agent is a function of (i) its intrinsic biological activity and (ii) the biodistribution achieved after its administration. Many potentially useful therapeutic agents possess a biochemical activity ameliorating a particular pathological condition, but the presence of the agent in normal, nonpathological tissue results in deleterious effects that prevent the use of the agent. Damage to a normally functioning kidney, bone marrow, liver tissue or other organ may limit the use of therapeutic agents with established antiviral activity, or agents with established anti-cancer activity. There is a need for new compounds to target therapeutic agents to the specific cells that are the source of some pathological condition, and to reduce the concentration attained in unaffected, normal tissues. Targeting is the modification of a therapeutic agent so that after injection or oral administration the uptake by a specific population of cells is increased relative to uptake of the unmodified agent. By targeting compounds with established and beneficial biological activity to specific tissues, compounds whose use is currently limited by side effects might become safe and efficacious drugs. A therapeutic agent is a compound administered with the intent of changing in a beneficial manner some physiological function. Therapeutic agents include radioprotective agents, chemoprotective agents, antiviral agents, antibodies, enzymes, and peptides.One method of targeting therapeutic agents to specific cells involves attaching them to carrier molecules recognized by receptors performing receptor mediated endocytosis. Of particular interest is targeting via the 

asialoglycoprotein receptor of hepatocytes. This receptor is present in high levels on normal hepatocytes but in lower levels or not at all on transformed hepatocytes (hepatoma cells) . Diagnostic and therapeutic agents have been attached to asialoglycoprotein carriers and neoglycoprotein carriers recognized by the asialoglycoprotein receptor and targeted to the cells, see Table II of Meijer and van der Sullies, Pharm. Res. (1989) 6:105-118 and Ranade, J. Clin. Pharmacol. (1989) 29:685-694. Molecules recognizing the asialoglycoprotein receptor are most often either asialoglycoproteins or neoglycoproteins.Asialoglycoproteins are formed by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A carrier for forming a complex with a therapeutic agent for delivery thereof to a cell receptor located on the surface of a target tissue comprising: arabinogalactan modified at a site by a functional residue to produce a derivative in a manner that preserves the useful affinity of the derivative for the cell receptor.
2. A carrier according to claim 1, wherein the site of modification is a hydroxyl group on the arabinogalactan. 3. A carrier according to claim 1, wherein the arabinogalactan is modified at a plurality of sites.
4. A carrier according to claim 2, wherein the arabinogalactan is modified at a plurality of sites and the number of functional residues is no less than one equivalent per mole of arabinogalactan and no more than the number of hydroxyl groups on arabinogalactan per mole of arabinogalactan.
5. A carrier according to claim 1, wherein the functional residue is selected from the group consisting of phosphoryl, sulfhydryl, amino, halo, acylimidizole and carboxyl groups.
6. A carrier according to claim 2, wherein the functional residue is selected from the group consisting of phosphoryl, sulfhydryl, amino, halo, acylimidazol and carboxyl groups.
7. A carrier according to claim 1, wherein the functional residue is a polymeric molecule.
8. A carrier according to claim 2, wherein the functional residue is a polymeric molecule. 9. A carrier according to claim 7, wherein the functional residue is a polymeric molecule selected from the group consisting of dextran, dextrin, albumin and poly-L- lysine.
10. A carrier according to claim 8, wherein the functional residue is a polymeric molecule selected from the group consisting of dextran, dextrin, albumin and poly-L- lysine. 


 11. A complex for delivery of a therapeutic agent to a cell receptor located on the surface of a target tissue comprising: arabinogalactan modified by a functional residue to produce a derivative in a manner that preserves the useful affinity of the derivative for the cell receptor; and a therapeutic agent associated with the derivative so as to form a complex.
12. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is an antiviral agent.
13. A complex according to claim 12, wherein the antiviral agent is selected from the group consisting of acyclovir, ARA-AMP and ARA-A.
14. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is a radioprotective agent.
15. A complex according to claim 14, wherein the radioprotective agent is S-2-(3 aminopropylamino) ethyl phosphoric acid.
16. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is a chemoprotective agent.
17. A complex according to claim 16, wherein the chemoprotective agent is S-2-(3 aminopropylamino) ethyl phosphoric acid.
18. A complex according to claim 16, wherein the therapeutic agent is a free radical scavenger.
19. A complex according to claim 18, wherein the free radical scavenger is selected the group consisting of a melanin, Trolox, cysteamine derivatives, cationic aminothiols and vitamin E derivatives. 20. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is a polypeptide.
21. A complex according to claim 20, wherein the polypeptide is pepstatin.
22. A complex according to claim 20, wherein the polypeptide is an enzyme.
23. A complex according to claim 22, wherein the enzyme is superoxide dis utase. 


 24. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of a polyclonal antibody, a monoclonal antibody and an antibody fragment. 25. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is a DNA molecule.
26. A complex according to claim 25, wherein the DNA molecule is an antisense molecule.
27. A complex according to claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is a steroid.
28. A method of delivering a therapeutic agent to a cell receptor comprising: modifying arabinogalactan at a site by a functional residue to produce a derivative in a manner that preserves the useful affinity of the derivative for the cell receptor; and associating a therapeutic agent with the derivative so as to form a complex.
29. A method of according to claim 28, wherein the site is a hydroxyl group on the arabinogalactan.
30. A method of according to claim 25, wherein the arabinogalactan includes modifying arabinogalactan at a plurality of sites.
31. A method according to claim 28, wherein the step of modifying arabinogalactan includes modifying arabinogalactan at a plurality of sites wherein the number of functional residues is no less than one equivalent per mole of arabinogalactan and no more than the number of hydroxyl groups on arabinogalactan per mole of arabinogalactan.
32. A method according to claim 28, wherein the step of modifying the functional residue includes selecting the functional residue from the group consisting of phosphoryl, sulfhydryl, amino, halo, acylimidazol and carboxyl groups. 33. A method according to claim 29, wherein the step of modifying the functional residue includes selecting the functional residue from the group consisting of phosphoryl, 


sulfhydryl, amino, halo, acylimidazol and carboxyl groups.
34. A method according to claim 28, wherein the functional residue is a polymeric molecule.
35. A method according to claim 28, wherein the therapeutic agent is a polypeptide.
36. A method according to claim 35, wherein the polypeptide is an enzyme.
37. A method according to claim 35, wherein the polypeptide is superoxide dismutase. 38. A method according to claim 35, wherein the polypeptide is pepstatin.
39. A method according to claim 35, wherein the polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of a monoclonal antibody, a polyclonal antibody and an antibody fragment.
40. A method according to claim 28, wherein the therapeutic agent is a DNA molecule.
41. A method according to claim 40, wherein the DNA molecule is an antisense molecule. 42. A method according to claim 28, wherein the therapeutic agent is a steroid.
43. A method according to claim 28, wherein the therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of an antiviral agent, a radioprotective agent and a chemoprotective agent.
44. A method according to claim 43, wherein the radioprotective agent is S-2-(3 aminopropylamino) ethyl- thiophophoric acid.
45. A method according to claim 43, wherein the chemoprotective agent is S-2-(3 aminopropylamino) ethyl- thiophophoric acid.
46. A method according to claim 43, wherein the chemoprotective agent is a free radical scavenger.
47. A method according to claim 46, wherein the free radical scavenger is selected from a group consisting of a melanin, Trolox, cysteamine derivatives, cationic aminothiols and vitamin E derivatives. 


 48. A method according to claim 43, wherein the antiviral agent is selected from the group consisting of acyclovir, ARA-AMP and ARA-A.
49. A method according to claim 28, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
50. A method according to claim 29, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
51. A method according to claim 30, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
52. A method according to claim 31, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor. 53. A method according to claim 32, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
54. A method according to claim 34, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
55. A method according to claim 35, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
56. A method according to claim 40, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
57. A method according to claim 42, further comprising: 


 administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
58. A method according to claim 43, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
59. A method according to claim 46, further comprising: administering an effective amount of the complex to an organism having the cell receptor.
60. A process for making a carrier that is suitable for forming a complex with a therapeutic agent for delivery thereof to a cell receptor, comprising: providing arabinogalactan; treating the arabinogalactan with an agent suitable for modifying the aldehyde content thereof to produce a derivative that preserves the useful affinity of the derivative with the cell receptor.
61. A process according to claim 60, wherein the agent is suitable for increasing the aldehyde content of arabinogalactan.
62. A process according to claim 61, wherein the agent is galactose oxidase.
63. A process according to claim 62, wherein the step of treating arabinogalactan includes the step of oxidizing arabinogalactan by galactose oxidase so as to contain at least one additional aldehyde and less than about 1.2 milli¬ equivalents of aldehydes per gram of polysaccharide.
64. A process according to claim 63, wherein the agent is suitable for decreasing the aldehyde content of arabinogalactan.
65. A process according to claim 60, wherein the agent is a reducing agent containing borohydride.
66. A process according to claim 65, wherein the borohydride is selected from the group consisting of sodium borohydride and sodium cyanoborohydride.
67. A process according to claim 60, wherein the step 


of treating arabinogalactan includes hydrolyzing arabinogalactan by an endo-beta galactosidase enzyme.
68. A process according to claim 60, wherein the step of treating arabinogalactan includes reacting the arabinogalactan with anhydrides selected from the group consisting of succinate, glutarate and diethylenepentaacetic acid.
69. A process according to claim 60, wherein the step of treating arabinogalactan includes the step of reacting the arabinogalactan with a primary amine to produce a Schiff's base and treating the product with a reducing agent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
