<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649258</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Block transform coder for arbitrarily shaped image segments
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N726	H04N726	H04N141	H04N730	H04N141	H04N730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	H04N1	H04N7	H04N1	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A Transform Coder Unit (TCU) (6) for transforming an arbitrarily 
shaped image into optimal transform coefficients (OTC) for data transmission 

comprises a forward transform (7) which transforms the image to transform 
coefficients, and a TCS generator (8) which generates a transform coefficient set 

(TCS) from the transform coefficients. The TCU also contains an inverse transform 
(9) which transforms the TCS to a computed region block having computed pel 

values. Finally, the TCU comprises a replacer (10) which replaces those computed 
pel values corresponding
 to the interior pel set with the original pel values to form a 
modified computed region block which is re-iterated until optimal transform 

coefficients are determined. 
A process for determining optimal transform coefficients using the 
aforementioned device is described. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN HOMER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIVANLAR MEHMET R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASKELL BARIN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, HOMER H,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIVANLAR, MEHMET R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASKELL, BARIN G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for transforming
an arbitrarily shaped image into optimal transform
coefficients for data transmission.Although current video coding standards may operate
at very low bitrates, the trade-off between temporal and
spatial resolution results in visually annoying motion or
spatial artifacts. Therefore, the International
Organization for Standardization is considering developing
a new standard for very low bitrate A/V coding. ISO/IEC
JTC1/SC29/WG11 MPEG 92/699, "Project Description for Very-Low
Bitrate A/V Coding" (Nov. 5, 1992). This document
reviews the state of the art and proposes a direction for
future research.In typical image coding systems, the image to be
coded is usually processed using N × N blocks of picture
elements (pels) regardless of the image content. This
approach, however, may lead to visible distortions known
as blocking and mosquito effects, particularly at low bitrates.
To avoid these visual artifacts, region-based
image representation partitions the image into regions of
similar motion or texture, yielding image segments of
arbitrary shape instead of fixed (rectangular) blocks.
Such image representation offers several advantages over
the conventional block-based representation such as
adaptation to local image characteristics. Consequently,
region-based image representation has received 
considerable attention in MPEG4 video coding standard work
for very low bitrate coding.A fundamental issue in region-based image compression
is the coding of arbitrarily shaped image segments. An
arbitrarily shaped image segment f(x,y) can be
approximated by a set of basis functions optimized for the
shape of the image segment to be coded:

where x,y ε S, S is the region occupied by the image
segment, ƒ(x,y) is the approximation of the image segment,
and i's are the basis functions. However, such shape-adapted
transform techniques require a large amount of
memory for storing the set of basis functions. As a
result, these techniques are only suitable for small
regions. Furthermore, for each new segment a new set of
basis functions has to be computed. Thus, extensive
computation is involved. Since no fast algorithms exist,
these techniques are not attractive for practical use.Another popular approach is to use one of the most
popular image compression techniques, transform coding.
In transform coding, an image is transformed from the
image intensity domain to a new domain prior to coding and
transmission. The new domain is selected so that the
energy of the image
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for transforming an arbitrarily shaped image into
optimal transform coefficients (OTC) for data transmission, said apparatus comprising:


(a) first means (7) for transforming said arbitrarily shaped image to
transform coefficients;
(b) second means (8) coupled to said first means (7) for generating a
transform coefficient set (TCS) from said transform coefficients, said second means (8)

being coupled to a first switch (15) configured to move between a second position (20)
to output said TCS when said TCS represents said OTC , and a first position (19) to

send said TCS to an inverse transform (9) when said TCS does not represent said OTC,
said first switch (15) being movable between said first and second position upon

receiving at least one signal from an iteration controller (11) for controlling the
switching of said first switch (15), said iteration controller (11) transmitting said at least

one signal to said first switch (15) after a pre-determined number of iterations are
performed by an iteration counter (14) coupled to said iteration controller (11) to move

said first switch (15) to said second position (20);
(c) said inverse transform (9) being coupled to said second means (8) for
transforming said TCS from a transform domain (31) to an image domain (30) thereby

producing a series of computed pel values; and
(d) third means (10) coupled to said inverse transform (9) for replacing
computed pel values corresponding to an interior pel set of said arbitrarily shaped image

with original pel values of said arbitrarily shaped image so as to form a modified
computed region block (MCRB), said third means (10) being configured to send a

modified computed region block to a reiterative forward transform (7) for re-iteration
via a second switch (16) controlled by said iteration controller (11), wherein said

reiterative forward transform (7) and said forward transform (7) are one and the same.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second means (8)
comprises a quantizer which generates said TCS by quantizing said transform

coefficients.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein for generating said TCS said
second means (8) comprises a selector for selecting and retaining those transform

coefficients which have high energy according to the energy compaction property of
transform coefficients, and by zeroing all the non-selected transform coefficients.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said second means (8)
comprises a rate controller (12) to establish a threshold energy level at which said TCS

selector retains transform coefficients, and said rate controller (12) establishes said
level based on the bit budget of an encoder for coding said transform coefficients and

the size of said arbitrarily shaped image.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said second means (8)
comprises a TCS limiter (13) to independently establish the number of transform

coefficients to retain.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said iteration controller (11)
contains a convergence detector (21), and a frame buffer (17), said frame buffer (17)

stores the pel values of a previous iteration, and said convergence detector (21) switches
said first switch (15) from said first position (19) to said second position (20) when the

mean squared difference between said MCRB stored in said frame buffer (17) and that
of the current iteration reaches a pre-determined level.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said iteration controller (11)
contains a convergence detector (21), and a frame buffer (17), said frame buffer (17)

stores the TCS of a previous iteration, and said convergence detector (21) switches said
first switch (15) from said first position (19) to said second position (20) when the mean

squared difference between the TCS stored in said frame buffer (17) and that of the
current iteration reaches a pre-determined level. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said re-iterative forward
transform (7) comprises a forward transform of a succeeding apparatus, said succeeding

apparatus being connected in series with said apparatus.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said forward transform (7) is
a discrete cosine transform (DCT) chip.
Apparatus for transforming an arbitrarily shaped image into optimal
transform coefficients (OTC) for data transmission. said apparatus comprising:


a) generating means for generating original pel values, said generating
means comprising:


i) circumscribing means for circumscribing said arbitrarily shaped image
(2) with a rectangular region block (1), thereby creating an internal pel set (3) which lies

within said arbitrarily shaped image (2) and within said region block (1), and an external
pel set (4) which lies outside said arbitrarily shaped image (2) within said region block

(1); and
ii) extrapolator means (5) for initializing pel values of said external pel
set (4) by extrapolating the pel values of said internal pel set (3); and
b) a transform coder unit (TCU) (6) which calculates optimal transform
coefficients, said TCU comprising:


i) means for performing (7) a forward transform on said region block (1)
to generate transform coefficients;
ii) means for generating (8) a transform coefficient set (TCS) from said
transform coefficients, said means for generating said TCS being configured to select

and retain those transform coefficients which have high energy according to the energy

compaction property of transform coefficients, and zeroing the non-selected transform
coefficients, said TCU comprising a rate controller (12) to establish a threshold energy

level at which said transform coefficients are retained, said rate controller (12) being 
configured to establish said level based upon the bit budget of an encoder for coding

said transform coefficients and the size of said arbitrarily shaped image (2);
iii) means for performing an inverse transform (9) on said TCS thereby
generating a computed region block having computed pel values;
iv) means for replacing (10) those computed pel values corresponding to
said internal pel set (3) with original pel values to form a modified computed region

block (MCRB);
v) means (8) for determining whether said TCS represents said OTC;
vi) means (11) for reactivating said means (7) for performing a forward
transform and said means (8) for generating said TCS for processing said modified

computed region block and outputting said TCS when said TCS represents OTC; and
vii) means (11) for reactivating said means (7,8,9,10,11) in (i) to (v) to
perform their specified functions on said modified computed region block when said

TCS values do not represent said OTC.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said means for
performing a forward transform (7) comprises a discrete cosine transform (DCT) chip.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said means for generating
(8) said TCS is configured to quantize said transform coefficients.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said means for generating
(8) said TCS is further configured to independently establish a number of transform

coefficients to retain.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said means for
determining whether said TCS represents said OTC is configured to independently

establish the number of iterations to perform. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein said means for
determining whether said TCS represents said OTC is further configured to determine

when the mean squared difference between said MCRB of one iteration and that of a
subsequent iteration reaches a predetermined threshold.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
