<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611529</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Glove and method for the manufacture of such glove.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41D1900	A41D1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41D	A41D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41D19	A41D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Glove, consisting of at least three envelopes, 
respectively a first envelope (3), a second envelope 

(4) which is around the first envelope (3) and a third 
envelope (5) which is around the second envelope (4), 

characterised in that the second envelope (4) is 
watertight; that the glove (1) is provided with at 

least one attachment (6) in order to connect the three 
envelopes (3, 4,' 5) together; and that, in order to 

form the above mentioned attachment (6), the second 
envelope (4) is for this purpose provided with at least 

two lip-shaped parts, respectively a first lip-shaped 
part (7)- on the inside of the second envelope (4) and 

a second lip-shaped part (8) on the outside of the 
second envelope (4), whereby the first envelope (3) is 

connected to the first lip-shaped part (7) and the 
third envelope (5) is connected to the second lip-shaped 

part (8). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VANDEPUTTE GILBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VANDEPUTTE, GILBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDEPUTTE GILBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDEPUTTE, GILBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a glove and to a method for 
the manufacture of such glove. More especially the invention relates to a watertight 
glove which consists of at least three envelopes, 
whereby the middle one of these three is watertight. The glove according to the invention is particularly 
suitable in order to be worn by fire-fighters, but it 
is clear that it can also be employed by other users 
and in other fields of application. Gloves which consist of two or three envelopes are 
already known. A disadvantage of such gloves consists 
in that when taking them off it regularly occurs that 
the interior envelopes are pulled out of the exterior 
envelope, after which it is rather difficult to fit the 
interior envelopes back into their place in the 
exterior envelope. A solution in order to remedy this disadvantage 
consists in that the various envelopes, in particular 
near the fingertips of the gloves, are sewn up to each 
other, by stitching through the various envelopes. 
This technique however has the disadvantage that, when 
one of the envelopes is manufactured out of a 
watertight material, the watertightness is no longer 
ensured because of the presence of the stitched seam. According to another technique the various envelopes 
can be glued to each other near the fingertips. This 
technique however shows the disadvantage that the 
adhesive connections can become unstuck with a lengthy 
contact with water or that through the presence of  
 
adhesive the fingertips of the glove are very hard 
through which the gloves are not very comfortable for 
the user. The invention therefore also relates to a glove which 
does not show the above mentioned disadvantages. For this purpose the invention concerns a glove, 
consisting of at least three envelopes, respectively a 
first envelope, a second envelope which is around the 
first envelope and a third envelope which is around the 
second envelope, characterised in that the second 
envelope is watertight; that the glove is provided with 
at least one attachment in order to connect the three 
envelopes together; and that, in order to form the 
above mentioned attachment, the second envelope is for 
this purpose provided with at least two lip-shaped 
parts, respectively a first lip-shaped part on the 
inside of the second envelope and a second lip-shaped 
part on the outside of the second envelope, whereby the 
first envelope is connected to the first lip-shaped 
part and the third envelope is connected to the second 
lip-shaped part. Because of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Glove, consisting of at least three envelopes, 
respectively a first envelope (3), a second envelope 

(4) which is around the first envelope (3) and a third 
envelope (5) which is around the second envelope (4), 

characterised in that the second envelope (4) is 
watertight; that the glove (1) is provided with at 

least one attachment (6) in order to connect the three 
envelopes (3, 4, 5) together; and that, in order to 

form the above mentioned attachment (6), the second 
envelope (4) is for this purpose provided with at least 

two lip-shaped parts, respectively a first lip-shaped 
part (7) on the inside of the second envelope (4) and 

a second lip-shaped part (8) on the outside of the 
second envelope (4), whereby the first envelope (3) is 

connected to the first lip-shaped part (7) and the 
third envelope (5) is connected to the second lip-shaped 

part (8). 
Glove according to claim 1, characterised in that 

the connection (9) between the first envelope (3) and 
the first lip-shaped part (7) consists of a stitched 

seam. 
Glove according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the connection (15) between the third envelope (5) 

and the second lip-shaped part (8) consists of a 
stitched seam. 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the first lip-shaped part (7) and 

the second lip-shaped part (8) are situated in line 
according to the direction that the various envelopes 

(3-5) can be pulled out of each other. 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that at least the second lip-shaped 

part (8) consists of an element (22) which is attached 
between the seams of two parts (23, 24) of the second 

envelope (4). 
Glove according to claim 5, characterised in that 
the element (22) runs through to the inside of the 

second envelope (4) and in so doing at least partly 
provides the formation of the above mentioned first 

lip-shaped part (7). 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the first lip-shaped part (7) is 

at least partly formed out of at least one free edge 
part (13, 14) which arises because of the fact that the 

second envelope (4) consists of at least two parts (23, 
24) which by means of a welded joint (25) are attached 

to each other at a distance from the edge. 
Glove according to claim 5 or 6, characterised in 
that the above mentioned element (22) consists of a 

strip of plastic. 
Glove according to one of the claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the lip-shaped parts (7, 8) are 

formed out of the material of the second envelope (4) 
itself, whereby the second lip-shaped part (8) is 

formed because of the fact that at least one of the 
composing parts (23, 24) of the second envelope (4) is 

locally folded double. 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the second envelope (4) is formed 

out of at least two parts (23, 24) which are attached 
to each other along their periphery by means of a 

thermally formed welded joint (25). 
Glove according to claim 10, characterised in 
that the welded joint (25) provides the suture and seal 

of the above mentioned lip-shaped parts (7, 8). 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that it is provided with several of 

the above mentioned attachments (6), whereby these 
attachments (6) are at the tip of the glove (1). 
Glove according to claim 12, characterised in 
that this is a glove (1) with fingers (2) and that at 

each fingertip (21) an attachment (6) is present as 
mentioned above. 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the second envelope (4) consists 

of a support which is provided with a plastic coating. 
Glove according to claim 14, characterised in 
that the plastic coating consists of polyurethane 

permeable to vapour. 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the second envelope (4) is 

oversized in relation to the ultimate glove (1). 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the first envelope (3) is made 

out of a textile fabric. 
Glove according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the third envelope (5) consists 

of leather. 
Method for the manufacture of a glove as 
described in claim 1, characterised in that it consists 

in the separate assembly of three envelopes (3, 4, 5), 
 

of which the first envelope (3) is intended to fit into 
the second envelope (4) and the second envelope (4) is 

intended to fit into the third envelope (5); the 
mounting of two lip-shaped parts (7, 8) on the second 

envelope (4), of which a first lip-shaped part (7) is 
on the side which is intended to form the inside and 

the second lip-shaped part (8) is on the side which is 
intended to form the outside; the connecting together 

of the first envelope (3) and the second envelope (4) 
this while the second envelope (4) is turned inside 

out, whereby the connection (9) is realised to the 
first lip-shaped part (7); the reversal of the second 

envelope (4), so that this comes around the first 
envelope (3); the connecting together of the second 

envelope (4) and the third envelope (5), this while the 
third envelope (5) is turned inside out, whereby the 

connection (15) is realised to the second lip-shaped 
part (8); and the reversal of the third envelope (5), 

such that the first and second envelopes (3, 4) are 
situated in the third envelope (5). 
Method according to claim 19, characterised in 
that the second envelope (4) is assembled in inside out 

form and by the laying of two identically cut out, 
thermally weldable layers of material on top of each 

other, followed by the thermal welding together of both 
layers. 
Method according to claim 20, characterised in 
that at each place where an attachment (6) has to be 

realised, in order to provide two lip-shaped parts (7, 
8), an element (22) in the form of a strip of plastic 

is laid between the above mentioned two layers of 
material and is attached together with the above 

mentioned welding treatment.. 
Method according to one of the claims 19, 20 or 
 

21, characterised in that the connections (9, 15) 
between the first envelope (3) and the first lip-shaped 

part (7) and between the third envelope (5) and the 
second lip-shaped part (8) are formed by sewing 

together. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
