<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632929</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCING MAGNETIC FIELDS IN WORKING GAPS USEFUL FOR IRRADIATING A SURFACE WITH ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR IONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21K100	G21K1093	H01F300	H01F302	H01F720	H01F720	H01J300	H01J332	H01J2976	H01J2976	H01J3704	H01J3704	H01J3709	H01J3709	H01J3710	H01J3712	H01J37147	H01J37147	H01J37317	H01J37317	H01L2102	H01L2102	H01L21265	H01L2712	H01L2712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21K	G21K	H01F	H01F	H01F	H01F	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21K1	G21K1	H01F3	H01F3	H01F7	H01F7	H01J3	H01J3	H01J29	H01J29	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A deflection apparatus for high perveance ion beams, operating at 20 Hz fundamental and substantially higher order harmonics, has a magnetic structure formed of laminations (72) with thickness in range between 0.2 and 1 millimeter. A compensator with similar laminated structures (71, 75) with resonant excitation circuit, operating at 20 Hz or higher, is in phase locked relationship with the frequency of the previously deflected beam. Other features with broader applicability to produce strong magnetic field in magnetic gap are shown.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLAVISH HILTON F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NISSIN ELECTRIC CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLAVISH HILTON F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NISSIN ELECTRIC CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLAVISH HILTON F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLAVISH HILTON F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 'Producing Magnetic Fields in Working Gaps Useful For Irradiating a Surface tfith Atonic and Molecular Ions"SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING OSCILLATINGMAGNETIC FIELDS IN WORKING GAPS USEFUL FORIRRADIATING A SURFACE WITH ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR IONS Field of the InventionThis invention relates to systems for utilizing ion beams such as in ion implanters and more generally to magnetic systems that apply strong magnetic fields to working gaps. Background of the InventionModification of semiconductors such as silicon wafers is often implemented by ion implanters, wherein a surface is uniformly irradiated by a beam of ions or molecules, of a specific species and prescribed energy. Usually, the physical size of the wafer or substrate (e.g. 8 inches or greater) is larger than the cross-section of the irradiating beam which deposits on the wafer as a spot of finite size (e.g. 1" x 2"). Commonly, in high current machines, the required uniform irradiance is achieved by mechanical scanning of the wafer through the beam, either by reciprocal motion of the wafer, or a combination of reciprocal motion and rotation about an axis.It is distinctly advantageous to have a high scanning velocity at least in one direction for a number of reasons: the irradiance uniformity is more immune to changes in the ion beam flux; a higher wafer throughput is possible at low dose levels; for high dose applications degradation from local surface charging, thermal pulsing, and local particle induced phenomena such as sputtering and radiation damage are greatly reduced.All forms of mechanical scanning are very limited in speed and have the further disadvantage of generating particulates which degrade the surface structures on the wafer. 

 In a common variation, a time varying electric field is used to scan the beam back and forth in one direction, while the wafer is reciprocated in another direction or rotated about an axis. In this hybrid type of implanter the beam current and hence rate at which wafers can be processed is severely limited by the space charge forces which act in the region of the time-varying electric deflection fields. These forces cause the ions in the beam to diverge outwards, producing an unmanageably large beam envelope. Such a space charge limitation also occurs in implanters which use time- varying electric fields to scan the beam in two directions.Space charge blow-up is the rate at which the transverse velocity of a beam increases with distance along the beam axis. This is proportional to a mass normalized beam
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. A magnetic deflection apparatus for producing a strong oscillating magnetic field capable of deflecting a high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions to irradiate a selected surface, said apparatus comprising a magnetic structure having pole faces defining a deflecting gap through which said ion beam passes and a magnetic circuit connecting said pole faces, an excitation coil and an associated excitation circuit adapted to apply to said coil an excitation current having a fundamental frequency of the order of 20 Hz or greater together with substantially higher order harmonics, the fundamental frequency and wave form of said current selected to produce a magnetic field in said magnetic structure having said fundamental frequency and higher order harmonic components to establish the frequency of oscillation and the velocity profile of the deflection of said beam, said magnetic circuit comprised, at least in part, of a plurality of laminations of high magnetic permeability material each of which has a thickness in the range between about 0.2 and 1 millimeter, said laminations being separated by relatively thin electrically insulating layers, and said laminations providing a low reluctance magnetically permeable path for said fundamental frequency and higher order harmonic components of said strong magnetic field, the laminations serving to confine induced eddy currents to limited values in local paths in respective laminations, thereby enabling the desired deflection of said high perveance beam. 


 2. A magnetic apparatus for producing a desired strong magnetic field in a working gap, said device comprising a magnetic structure having pole faces defining said working gap in which said magnetic field is desired and a magnetic circuit connecting said pole faces, an excitation coil and, an associated excitation circuit, said magnetic circuit comprised, at least in part, of a plurality of laminations of high magnetic permeability material each of which has a thickness in the range between about 0.2 and 1 millimeter, said laminations being separated by relatively thin electrically insulating layers, and said laminations providing a low reluctance magnetically permeable path for said strong magnetic field, at least a part of said magnetic circuit being comprised of different sets of said laminations disposed cross-wise to each other in the manner that magnetic flux passing through any given lamination in one of said stacks is distributed into a multiplicity of laminations in the other of said stacks in completing its path in said magnetic circuit.
3. A magnetic deflection apparatus for producing an oscillating magnetic field capable of reorienting a previously periodically deflected high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions to irradiate a selected surface, said apparatus comprising a magnetic structure having pole faces defining a deflecting gap through which said ion beam passes and a magnetic circuit connecting said pole faces, an excitation coil and 


 an associated excitation circuit constructed to operate in resonance to apply to said coil a fundamental frequency of 20 Hz or higher in phase locked relationship with the frequency of the previously deflected beam, said magnetic circuit comprised, at least in part, of a plurality of laminations of high magnetic permeability material each of which has a thickness in the range between about 0.2 and 1 millimeter, said laminations being separated by relatively thin electrically insulating layers, said laminations providing a low reluctance magnetically permeable path for said fundamental frequency, the laminations serving to confine induced detrimental eddy currents to limited values in local paths in respective laminations thereby enabling the desired reorienting deflection of said high perveance beam.
4. The magnetic device of claim 1 or 3 wherein at least a part of said magnetic circuit is comprised of different sets of said laminations disposed cross-wise to one another in the manner that magnetic flux passing through any given lamination in one of said stacks is distributed into a multiplicity of laminations in the other of said stacks in completing its path in said magnetic circuit.
5. The magnetic device of claim 1 or 2 in the form of a scanner for a beam of charged particles, said excitation circuit adapted to apply to said excitation coil a substantially triangular wave form, represented by the said fundamental frequency and higher order harmonics. 


 6. The magnetic device of claim 1 or 2 in the form of a compensator constructed and arranged to receive and reorient a beam that has previously been subjected to periodic deflection.
7. The magnetic device of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein a pole piece defining said pole face is comprised of at least some of said laminations with edges of said laminations forming the respective pole face.
8. The magnetic device of claim 7 wherein the edges of said laminations are shaped to provide a pole face of predetermined form for influencing the effect of said field.
9. The magnetic device of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein pole pieces defining said pole faces are made of ferrite material.
10. The magnetic device of claim 9 wherein said pole faces are shaped to provide a pole face of predetermined form for influencing the effect of said field.
11. The magnetic device of claim 1 or 2 wherein said gap is small, constructed to receive a ribbon- profile ion beam with the long dimension of the profile extending parallel to the pole face, said magnetic structure arranged to deflect said beam in the long direction of said ribbon-profile.
12. The magnetic device of claim 1 or 3 wherein said magnetic circuit is comprised of a single stack of said laminations which integrally forms a yoke and pole pieces. 


 13. The magnetic device of claim 1, 2 or 3 including a dynamic feedback control comprising magnetic field detection means for detecting the magnetic field of said magnetic device and producing signals representing said magnetic field generated by said excitation coil, and a feedback control system for controlling said excitation current producing said magnetic field in a closed loop arrangement with said magnetic excitation circuit and said magnetic field detection means.
14. The magnetic device of claim 13 wherein said field detection means comprise at least one inductive coil inside of said magnetic circuit.
15. The magnetic device of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said magnetic circuit comprises first and second pole pieces and a yoke connecting said pole pieces, said yoke comprising a continuous lamination strip wound in the form of a coil to effectively form a stack of laminations.
16. The magnetic device of claim 15 wherein said pole pieces are each formed by a respective stack of said laminations and edges of said laminations of each of said pole pieces are disposed against a side of said laminated yoke coil so that each lamination of each said pole piece crosses a multiplicity of the lamination layers of said coil to distribute its magnetic flux among them.
17. The magnetic structure of claim 16 in which each of said pole pieces comprises at least two sections, one said section disposed on each side of a single laminated yoke coil. 


 18. The magnetic device of claim 17 wherein the lateral width of said pole pieces increases from the first to the second section of each pole piece to accommodate a progressively deflected beam.
19. The magnetic device of claim 15 wherein said pole pieces are each formed by a respective block of ferrite material disposed against a side of said laminated yoke coil so that each said pole pieces crosses a multiplicity of the lamination layers of said coil to distribute its magnetic flux among them.
20. The magnetic structure of claim 19 in which each of said pole pieces comprises at least two sections, one said section disposed on each side of a single laminated yoke coil.
21. The magnetic device of claim 20 wherein the lateral width of said pole pieces increases from the first to the second section of each pole piece to accommodate a progressively deflected beam.
22. The magnetic device of claim 1, 2 or 3 further comprising at least one cooling plate designed to remove heat generated by induced eddy currents, said cooling plate being attached to a side of said stack of lamination in thermal contact with a substantial number of said lamination layers.
23. The magnetic device of claim 15 further comprising a second said laminated yoke coil, said pole pieces disposed between said laminated yoke coils.
24. The magnetic device of claim 23 in which said pole pieces are comprised of stacks of laminations, 


oppositely directed edges of said laminations of each of said pole pieces being disposed respectively against sides of said laminated yoke coils so that each lamination of each pole piece crosses a multiplicity of the lamination layers of both said coils to distribute its flux among them.
25. The magnetic device of claim 23 in which said pole pieces are comprised of blocks of ferrite material said pole pieces, disposed respectively against sides of said laminated yoke coils so that each pole piece crosses a multiplicity of the lamination layers of said laminated yoke coils to distribute its flux among them.
26. The magnetic device of claim 1, 2 or 3 in the form of a compensator structure for use with a magnetic scanner for an ion beam wherein said magnetic circuit comprises first and second pole pieces and a yoke connecting said pole pieces, said pole pieces being each formed by a respective stack of said laminations, first edges of which form the gap of said magnetic structure, said yoke comprising at least one continuous lamination strip wound in the form of a coil to effectively form a stack of laminations, second edges of said laminations of each of said pole pieces being disposed against a side of said laminated yoke coil so that each lamination of each pole piece crosses a multiplicity of the lamination layers of said coil to distribute its flux among them, the gap between said pole pieces being sized to receive said beam, the width of said pole pieces being adjusted to accommodate said beam previously deflected by said scanner, and the length of said pole pieces designed to reorient said deflected beam to a desired condition. 


 27. The magnetic device of claim 26 the length of said pole pieces constructed to reorient said beam to assume a desired angular direction relative to an axis of said compensator over the deflection range of the beam received by the compensator.
28. The magnetic device of claim 27 wherein the magnetic structure is constructed such that the length of the ion beam path exposed to the force field of the magnetic structure varies with the deflection angle of the beam to make said beam parallel with an intended output axis.
29. The magnetic device of claim 26 wherein said excitation coil is driven by a resonating compensator excitation circuit.
30. The magnetic device of claim 29 wherein said excitation circuit comprises excitation coils connected in series, a tank capacitance connected in parallel with said excitation coils, a coupling capacitance having a value related to the inductance of the circuit to achieve resonant operation, and a power amplifier driven by said fundamental frequency signal for delivering power to said circuit to compensate for the energy losses in said excitation circuit and said magnetic structure.
31. The magnetic device of claim 29 constructed for use with a scanner driven at a fundamental frequency by a scanning excitation circuit wherein said resonating compensator excitation circuit is constructed to operate in resonance with said fundamental frequency of said 


scanning excitation circuit in phase locked relationship therewith at a predetermined phase angle difference.
32. The magnetic device of claim 29 wherein said magnetic compensating structure comprises pole pieces having surfaces on the beam entry and exit sides of cooperatively selected shape to increase, dependently with deflection angle of the beam, the length of the ion beam path exposed to the force-field of said magnetic compensating structure to compensate for the contribution to said deflection angle caused by higher order harmonics of said scanning excitation circuit.
33. The magnetic device of claim 2 or 4 wherein a portion of said magnetic circuit is formed by separate stacks of flat laminations disposed cross-wise to one another in said flux-distributing relationship.
34. A magnetic scanning system for rapidly sweeping a high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions over a selected surface, said beam initially propagating in a predetermined direction, said scanning system comprising a magnetic scanning structure and an associated scanning excitation circuit for repeatedly sweeping said ion beam in one dimension in response to an oscillating magnetic field having a fundamental frequency and higher order harmonics induced by excitation current from said circuit, and a separate magnetic compensating structure and associated compensating excitation circuit spaced from said scanning structure along the beam axis, for continuously deflecting said ion beam after it has been swept by said scanning structure, to re-orient the beam 


to a direction substantially parallel to an output axis of said system, said scanning circuit and said compensating circuit having separate power sources having wave forms at the same fundamental frequency for their respective scanning and compensating functions, said circuits being in constant phase relationship with a predetermined phase angle difference.
35. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 having means to produce different, complementary wave forms for said scanning and compensating circuits.
36. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 in which the ratio of the lateral width of the gap at the entrance of said magnetic scanning structure to the gap spacing is of the order of 3 to 1.
37. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 wherein the lateral width of pole pieces of said scanning structure and said compensating structure increase along the length of the beam axis to accommodate a progressively wider beam sweep.
38. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 wherein said magnetic scanning structure comprises a plurality of laminations of high magnetic permeability material having thickness in the range between about 0.2 and 1 millimeter, said laminations being separated by relatively thin electrically insulating layers, said laminations forming a yoke connecting pole pieces that define a gap through which said ion beam passes, said laminations providing a low reluctance magnetically permeable path for said fundamental frequency and higher order harmonic components of said magnetic field, the 


laminations serving to confine induced eddy currents to limited values in local paths in respective laminations.
39. The magnetic scanning system of claim 35, 36, 37 or 38 wherein said magnetic compensating structure comprises a plurality of laminations of high magnetic permeability material having thickness in the range between 0.2 and 1 millimeter, the laminations being separated by relatively thin electrically insulating layers, said laminations forming a yoke connecting pole pieces that define a gap through which said ion beam passes, said laminations providing a low reluctance magnetically permeable path for said fundamental frequency of said magnetic field, the laminations serving to confine induced eddy currents to limited values in local paths in respective laminations.
40. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 including means arranged to provide said high perveance ion beam with a ribbon-profile entering said scanning structure, said scanning structure arranged to deflect said ion beam in the long direction of said ribbon profile.
41. The apparatus of claim 3 or 34 wherein said compensating excitation circuit is constructed to operate in resonance with the fundamental frequency of oscillation of the previously deflected beam.
42. The magnetic scanning system of claim 41 further comprising a synthesizer for producing said fundamental frequency.
43. The system of claim 41 wherein said excitation circuit comprises 


 excitation coils connected in series, a tank capacitance connected in parallel with said excitation coils, a coupling capacitance having a value related to the inductance of the circuit to achieve resonant operation, and a power amplifier driven by said fundamental frequency signal for delivering power to said circuit to compensate for the energy losses in said excitation circuit and said magnetic structure.
44. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 further comprising means to drive said magnetic scanning structure by an excitation current of a generally triangular wave formed by said fundamental frequency and superimposed higher order harmonics, and means to drive said magnetic compensating structure by excitation current in resonance with said fundamental frequency.
45. The magnetic scanning system of claim 44 wherein said generally triangular wave form is selected to compensate for a component of scanning motion of the surface being irradiated.
46. The system of claim 44 or 45 including a dynamic feedback control comprising magnetic field detection means for detecting a magnetic field of said magnetic scanning system and producing signals representing said magnetic field and, a feedback control system for controlling the excitation current producing a prescribed magnetic field in a closed loop arrangement with the respective magnetic excitation circuit and magnetic field detection means. 


 47. The system of claim 46 wherein said field detection means comprise at least one inductive coil inside of said magnetic circuit.
48. The system of claim 47 wherein said feedback control system further comprises a signal conditioner connected to said inductive coil and adapted to eliminate circuitry-induced distortions of said detected signal by adjusting the gain and shape of said detected signal, a phase compensator adapted to receive said signal from said signal conditioner and to correct said detected signal for a phase shift arising from electronic delay times and finite permeability of the yoke material, a differential amplifier adapted to generate and to amplify an error voltage which is a difference between a reference signal and said detected signal conditioned and compensated by said conditioner and said compensator, respectively, and said power amplifier of said resonant excitation circuit adapted to receive said error voltage and generate excitation current to said excitation coil proportional to said error voltage to produce said prescribed magnetic field.
49. The magnetic scanning system of claim 46 including a respective said dynamic feedback control for each said magnetic scanning structure and said magnetic compensating structure.
50. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 or 40 wherein said magnetic compensating structure comprises pole pieces having surfaces on the beam entry and exit sides of cooperatively selected shape to increase, dependently with deflection angle of the beam, the length 


of the ion beam path exposed to the force-field of said magnetic compensating structure to compensate for the contribution to said deflection angle caused by said higher order harmonics of said scanning structure excitation current so that said ion beam is re-oriented by said magnetic compensating structure to a direction substantially parallel to an exit axis of said magnetic compensating structure.
51. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 or 41 wherein the surfaces on the beam entry and beam exit sides of said magnetic scanning structure and of said magnetic compensating structure are shaped in a predetermined cooperative relationship relative to the profile of said beam entering said system to establish cooperating magnetic fringing fields for both said magnetic structures that cooperate to produce a desired profile of said beam and desired limitation on the angular deviation of ions within said beam.
52. The magnetic scanning system of claim 34 having, prior to said magnetic scanning structure, an electrostatic-magnetostatic system for accelerating and focusing a high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions comprising a set of acceleration electrodes forming an electrostatic accelerating system charged by a power source, said electrodes adapted to electrostaticly focus said ion beam in one dimension, said electrodes adapted to supply electrostatic energy to accelerate said ion beam in the direction corresponding to the potential difference across said electrodes, a suppressor electrode for maintaining electrons within said beam, said electrode having an aperture and 


being located at the exit port of the electrostatic accelerating system, and a post-acceleration analyzer magnet arranged to focus said beam in the other direction, said magnet having means for adjusting the angle of incidence of said ion beam into the entrance region of said post- acceleration magnet.
53. The magnetic scanning system of claim 52 wherein said electrodes form a slotted aperture, said electrodes adapted to focus said beam in the direction of the short dimension of said slotted aperture.
54. The magnetic scanning system of claim 52 and 53 including means arranged to provide said high perveance ion beam with a ribbon-profile entering said accelerating system, said accelerating system arranged to focus said beam in the short direction of said ribbon profile.
55. The magnetic scanning system of claim 52 or 53 wherein said set of acceleration electrodes comprises two relatively movable electrodes for electrostatic focusing of said ion beam.
56. The magnetic scanning system of claim 52 or 53 wherein said set of acceleration electrodes comprises three fixed electrodes adapted to electrostaticly focus said ion beam by varying the electric potential on the center electrode.
57. The magnetic scanning system of claim 52 or 53 wherein said means for adjusting the angle of incidence of said ion beam into the entrance region of said post-acceleration magnet comprises means for 


laterally moving said post-acceleration magnet relative to the beam path, thereby focusing said beam while removing neutral particles and ions of unwanted momentum ions from said ion beams.
58. The magnetic scanning system of claim 57 further comprising a multipole magnet with a static magnetic field arranged to eliminate aberration of said ion beam created by said post-acceleration analyzer magnet.
59. The system of claim 58 wherein said multipole magnet is a sextupole.
60. An electrostatic system for accelerating and focusing a previously produced high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions comprising a set of acceleration electrodes of said electrostatic accelerating system having a slotted aperture, said electrodes adapted to supply electrostatic energy to accelerate said ion beam in the direction corresponding to the potential difference across said electrodes, and a suppressor electrode for maintaining electrons within said beam, said electrode having a slotted aperture and being located at the exit port of the electrostatic accelerating system.
61. In a system for delivering a substantially uniform dose of ions of a high perveance atomic or molecular beam to a selected surface, means for producing a high perveance beam, an electrostatic system for accelerating and focusing said beam having a set of acceleration electrodes with slotted apertures, said electrodes 


adapted to focus said beam in the direction of the short dimension of said slot, a focusing device positioned along the beam axis, for focusing said beam in the dimension of said beam not being focused by said slotted apertures, and a scanning system for rapidly sweeping said ion beam in order to achieve uniform irradiation of said selected surface by said beam.
62. The system of claim 60 or 61 wherein said produced beam has a ribbon profile.
63. The system of claim 60 or 61 wherein said set of acceleration electrodes comprises two relatively movable electrodes with slotted apertures for electrostatic focusing said ion beam in the short direction of said slotted apertures.
64. magnetic system of claim 60 or 61 wherein said set of acceleration electrodes comprises three fixed, slotted aperture electrodes adapted to electrostaticly focus said ion beam in the short direction of said slotted apertures by varying potential on the center electrode.
65. The system of claim 61 further comprising a rotatably driven carrier for repeatedly carrying said selected surface mounted on said carrier under said beam to effect scanning in one dimension, wherein said beam sweeping action of said scanning system performs scanning in the other direction, rotation of said carrier in cooperation with said scanning of said scanning system is designed to achieve uniform irradiation of said selected surface by said beam. 


 66. The system of claim 61 or 65 wherein said scanning system comprises a magnetic scanning structure and an associated scanning excitation circuit for repeatedly sweeping said ion beam in one dimension in response to an oscillating magnetic field having a fundamental frequency and higher order harmonics induced by excitation current from said circuit, and a separate magnetic compensating structure and associated compensating excitation circuit spaced from said scanning structure along the beam axis, for continuously deflecting said ion beam after it has been swept by said scanning structure, to re-orient the beam to a direction substantially parallel to an output axis of said system, said scanning circuit and said compensating circuit having separate power sources having wave forms at the same fundamental frequency for their respective scanning and compensating functions, said circuits being in constant phase relationship.
67. The system of claim 66 wherein said wave forms are complementary, different wave forms, selected, in conjunction with the shape of the magnetic compensating structure, to produce a parallel beam.
68. An electrostatic-magnetostatic system for accelerating and focusing a high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions comprising a set of acceleration electrodes of forming an electrostatic accelerating system charged by a power source, said electrodes adapted to electrostaticly focus said ion beam in one dimension, said electrodes adapted to supply electrostatic energy to accelerate said ion 


 beam in the direction corresponding to the potential difference across said electrodes, a suppressor electrode for maintaining electrons within said beam, said electrode having an aperture and being located at the exit port of the electrostatic accelerating system, and a post-acceleration analyzer magnet arranged to focus said beam in the other direction, said magnet having means for adjusting the angle of incidence of said ion beam into the entrance region of said post- acceleration magnet by laterally moving said post- acceleration magnet relative to the beam path, thereby focusing said beam in the other direction while removing , neutral particles and ions of unwanted momentum ions from said ion beam.
69. The electrostatic-magnetic system of claim 68 wherein the apertures of said electrode are slotted apertures.
70. The system of claim 68 or 69 wherein said set of acceleration electrodes comprises two relatively movable electrodes for electrostatic focusing said ion beam by changing the distance between said electrodes.
71. The system of claim 68 or 69 wherein said set of acceleration electrodes comprises three fixed electrodes for electrostaticly focusing said ion beam by varying the electric potential on the center electrode.
72. The magnetic scanning system of claim 68 or 69 further comprising a multipole magnet with magnetic field arranged to eliminate aberration of said ion beam created by said post-acceleration analyzer magnet. 


 73. The system of claim 72 wherein said magnet is a sextupole.
74. The accelerating system of claim 52 or 68 adapted to decelerate said ion beam and further comprising a second suppressor electrode for maintaining electrons within said beam and preventing back-streaming, said second suppressor electrode being located at the entrance port of said accelerating system.
75. The system of claim 34 further comprising a reciprocating carrier for repeatedly carrying said selected surface mounted on said carrier under said beam to effect scanning in one dimension, said magnetic scanning system arranged for rapidly sweeping said ion beam in the orthogonal dimension.
76. The system of claim 34 further comprising a driven rotatable carrier for repeatedly carrying said selected surface mounted on said carrier under said beam to effect scanning in one dimension, said magnetic scanning system arranged for rapidly sweeping said ion beam in the radial direction of said rotatable carrier to effect scanning in the other dimension, and means for producing said excitation wave form applied to said magnetic scanning system to govern its sweeping action, the functional dependence of said excitation wave form relating changes in the scan velocity in inverse dependence with change in the radial distance between the instantaneous location of the center of the beam and the axis of rotation of said rotatable carrier. 



 77. The system of claim 34 including a focusing device for determining the dimension of the beam in the direction of magnetic scanning and normal thereto.
78. The system of claim 77 wherein said focusing device comprises an adjustable accelerator having slotted apertures, the narrow dimension of the apertures corresponding to the direction normal to the magnetic scanning dimension.
79. The system of claim 75 or 76 wherein said magnetic compensating structure has its beam entry and exit sides cooperatively shaped to cause the length of the ion beam path exposed to the force field of said magnetic compensating structure to vary with deflection angle in a cooperative relationship with the field produced in said compensator structure to achieve uniform irradiation of said selected surface.
80. A system for delivering a substantially uniform dose of ions of a high perveance atomic or molecular beam to a selected surface comprising a driven rotatable carrier for repeatedly carrying said selected surface mounted on the carrier under said beam to effect scanning in one dimension, said magnetic scanning system arranged for rapidly sweeping said ion beam in the radial direction of said rotatable carrier to effect scanning in the other dimension, and means for producing an excitation wave form applied to said magnetic scanning system to govern its sweeping action, the functional dependence of said wave form relating changes in the scan velocity in inverse dependence with change in the radial distance between the 


instantaneous location of the center of the beam and the axis of rotation of said rotatable carrier.
81. The system of claim 75 or 80 wherein said functional dependence of said excitation wave form is determined according to the formula for the scan velocity Ϋ:
Y =
Y+R where k is a constant dependent on the scan range and periodicity T of the wave form and R is the distance between said axis and the center of the beam.
82. A method of rapidly sweeping over a selected surface a high perveance beam of atomic or molecular ions initially propagating in a predetermined direction, comprising the steps of:
(a) introducing said ion beam to a magnetic scanning structure,
(b) sweeping said ion beam in one dimension by an oscillating magnetic field having a fundamental frequency of at least 20 Hz and higher order harmonics induced by a scanning excitation current generated by a scanning excitation circuit, to produce a constantly changing deflection angle and
(c) continuously re-deflecting said deflected ion beam using a separate magnetic compensating structure to re-orient said ion beam to a direction substantially parallel to an exit axis of the compensator by driving said magnetic compensating structure with a compensating excitation current having the same fundamental frequency as said scanning excitation current, said compensating excitation current being generated by a separate 


compensating circuit operating in a phase-locked mode with said scanning excitation circuit.
83. The method of claim 82 including generating said compensating excitation current in resonance with said fundamental frequency of said scanning excitation current.
84. The method of claim 83 wherein the length of the ion beam path exposed to the force-field of said magnetic compensating structure is varied to compensate for the contribution to said deflection angle caused by higher order harmonics of said scanning excitation current.
85. A method of implanting a uniform dose of oxygen ions into a silicon wafer to form a buried oxide layer, using an ion implantation system, comprising the steps of:
(a) accelerating a high perveance oxygen ion beam of above 50mA current to energy above lOOkeV,
(b) rotating said silicon wafer mounted on a carrier at above 50 rpm,
(c) with a magnetic scanning system, scanning said ion beam in the radial direction of said carrier at a frequency above 50Hz while maintaining a substantially constant incident angle of said beam to the surface of said silicon wafer,
(d) controlling said system to obtain substantially uniform dose across the wafer under substantially uniform temperature conditions.
86. The method of claim 85 wherein said ion beam energy is about 200keV. 


 87. The method of claim 85 wherein said scanning step includes deflecting said beam in an oscillating pattern using a magnetic scanner drive by a substantially triangular wave form and thereafter applying compensating magnetic fields to reorient the deflected beam to a desired direction.
88. The method of claim 87 wherein said compensating step is performed with a dynamic magnetic deflecting compensator system driven at the same frequency in phase locked relationship with said scanning.
89. The method of claim 88 wherein said compensator is driven in resonance with said scanning.
90. The method of claim 85 wherein said step of controlling said system includes varying the scan velocity of said scanned beam to obtain said uniform implantation dose of oxygen ions by maintaining inverse functional dependence of said scan velocity to the radial distance between the instantaneous location of the center of the beam and the axis of rotation of said rotatable carrier. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
