<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0399009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FASTENING ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF FASTENING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B3100	B25B3100	B25B3300	B25B3300	F16B3704	F16B3704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	B25B	B25B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B31	B25B31	B25B33	B25B33	F16B37	F16B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GULTON INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AIKENS, WALLACE, ROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FASTENING ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF FASTENING BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to a fastenin assembly, a retainer for such assembly, and a tool and metho for fastening, useful, for example, in adjustably securing lighting fixture to an extrusion element or channel providing support.It is known to position a nut to a desired location i a grooved channel and to then fasten the nut in position Fastening has been effected in various ways. In U.S. Paten .Nos. 3,4.83,910 and 4,575,295, fastening is effected by rotatin the nut so that a spring biases the nut against inwardl directed flanges of the channel. In U.S. Patent No. 2,575,594 resilient fingers of a retainer are snapped onto a specia carrier for the nut. None of these techniques combine th positioning and fastening steps together.Pronged tools have been utilized for positioning spring clip. In U.S. Patent No. 3,965,776, a pronged tool i used to push a spring clip onto a stud. In U.S. Patent No 2,799,082, a pronged tool is used to spread apart legs of th spring clip. The actual spreading is done by a semi-circula projection between the prongs. Once spread apart, the legs ar wedged between the semi-circular portion and the prongs an thereby kept open. None of these pronged tools are employed i a grooved channel and they are not used to locate or secure nut into position.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide a 

a tool and method for fastening that facilitate positioning a fastener (e.g. a nut) in and along a channel.In keeping with this object, and others which wi become apparent below, one aspect of the present inventi resides in a retainer having a central portion and a pair wings disposed at an oblique angle relative to the centr portion. The wings have engaging portions and are flexib bendable relative to the central section between an engagi position in which the engaging portions engage a surface of t channel and a non-engaging position in which the engagi portions are moved out of engagement with the surface of t channel. The central portion has an opening in alignment wi a threaded portion of a fastening element such as a nut. T wings may be resiliently urged into the engaging position. Another aspect of the present invention resides in combination of a fastening element such as a nut, a retaine and a grooved channel in which the fastening element releasably retained by the retainer.Still another aspect of the present invention resid in sliding the retainer with a fastening
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1 1. A retainer for adjustably holding in a groov
2 channel a fastener element having an aperture, the retain
3 comprising a central section and a pair of wings, said centr
4 section having an opening for alignment with the aperture
5 the fastener element, said wings extending outward at
6 oblique angle from said central section so as to define wi
7 said central section a spacing between said wings for a
8 σommodating the fastener element therein, said wings bei
9 bendable between a non-engaging position and an engagi
10 position, said wings having engaging portions for engaging
11 surface of the grooved channel as said wings bend into sa 12. engaging position.
1 2. The retainer as defined in claim 1, wherein ea
2 of said wings has outwardly facing cutouts for accommodati
3 inwardly directed flanges of the grooved channel.
1 3. The retainer as defined in claim 2, wherein sa
2 engaging portions form part of said outwardly facing cutouts.
1 4. The retainer as defined in claim 1, wherein sa
2 wings have outer edges forming said engaging portions.
1 5. The retainer' as defined in claim 1, wherein sai
2 engaging portions are formed with sharp edges.
1 6. The retainer as defined in claim 1, wherein eac
2 of said wings forms an angle of about 135° with said centra
3 section in one of said positions.
1 7. The retainer as defined in claim 1, wherein sai
2 wings are formed to resiliently bend into said engagin
3 position.
1 8. A retainer as in claim 7 having a height in
2 relaxed position greater than the height of the groove of sai
3 grooved channel.
1 9. A fastening assembly, comprising:
2 a slidable element having a fastener member and
3 retainer member, said retainer member having a central sectio
4 and a pair of wings, said wings extending outward from sai
5 central section at an oblique angle relative to said centra
6 section so as to define a spacing between said wings, sai 


7 fastener member being arranged in said spacing, said fastene
8 member having an aperture and said central section having a
9 opening in alignment with said aperture, said slidable elemen 0 being slidably insertable into an elongated grooved channel 1 said wings having engaging portions for engaging a surface o 2 said channel, said wings being bendable from a non-engagin 3 position in which said engaging portions are out of engagemen 4 with said channel to an engaging position in which sai 5 engaging portions releasably engage said channel, said fastene 6 member being arranged in said spacing so that its aperture i 7 accessible from outside said grooved channel.
1 10. The assembly as defined in claim 9, wherein sai
2 fastener member is formed as a nut.
1 11. The assembly as defined in claim 9, wherein sai
2 fastener member is formed to float between said wings, sai
3 aperture of said retainer member being wider than said openin
4 of said fastener member so that both of said openings ma
5 remain in communication with each other no matter where sai
6 fastener member floats between said wings.
1 12. The assembly as defined in claim 9, in combinatio
"
2 with:
3 means for releasing said engaging portions fro
4 said surface of said grooved channel so that said slidabl
5 element may be freely slidable in said grooved channel, sai
6 releasing means including a tool having projections adapted t
7 press against said wings so as to bend said wings into sa
8 non-engaging position with said engaging portions out
9 contact with said surface of said grooved channel, said to 0 having a depressed area between said projections adapted 1 accommodate said fastener member.
1 - 13. The assembly as defined in claim 12, wherein t 2 tool projections include inclined surfaces adapted to pre
3 against the wings.
1 14. The assembly as defined in claim 9, wherein sa
2 engaging portions are sharp edges for gripping into sa
3 surface of said grooved channel.
1 15. The assembly as defined in claim 11, furth 


 comprising: a screw extending through said aperture of sa retainer member and said opening of said fastener member, sa fastener member holding said screw in position at said ape ture. 16. A method for fastening a fastener member in grooved channel, comprising the steps of slidably inserting a slidable element into sai grooved channel, said slidable element including said fastene member and a retainer member having a pair of resilientl bendable wings and a flat central section, and causing said pair of wings to bend relative t said central section of the retainer member from a non-engagin position into an engaging position with respect to said channe by engaging a surface of the grooved channel with engagin portions of the wings as said wings bend into said engagin position. 17. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein th slidably inserting includes bending said wings into said non engaging position. -18.. The method as defined in claim. 16, furthe comprising: aligning an aperture of the fastener member wit an opening in the central section of the retainer member, and engaging a screw in the aperture and through th opening. 19. The method as defined in claim 16, furthe comprising: floating the fastener member between the wings and maintaining registry between an aperture of th fastener member and an opening in the central section of. th retainer member no matter where the fastener member float between the wings. 20. The method as defined in claim 16, furthe comprising: releasing the retainer member in the groove 


channel by spreading apart the wings so that the engagin portions of the wings move out of contact with the surface o the grooved channel and into the non-engaging position, t permit movement of said slidable element along said channel. 21. The method as defined in claim 20, wherein th releasing includes pressing the wings with inclined surface formed on projections on a tool. 22. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein sai engaging includes gripping the surface of• the grooved channe with sharp edges of the engaging portions. 23. The method as defined in claim 16, furthe comprising: mounting a lighting fixture on the grooved channe by a screw engaging said fastener member. 24. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein th bending includes resiliently bending the wings into th engaging position. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
