<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637758</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Photoelectric distance sensor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1708	G01S700	G01C306	G01B1100	H01H3500	G01S1700	G01C306	G01S700	H01H3500	G01B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01C	G01B	H01H	G01S	G01C	G01S	H01H	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S17	G01S7	G01C3	G01B11	H01H35	G01S17	G01C3	G01S7	H01H35	G01B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The photoelectric distance sensor for sensing a 
distance to a sense object by irradiating light to the sense 

object, the photoelectric distance sensor comprises a light-irradiating 
section 3 for irradiating light to a sense 

object 6, a light-receiving section for receiving the 
reflected light from the sense object 6, an operating 

section for outputting the distance to the sense object 6 
and the target value of received light amount fitted to the 

distance on the signal of the light-receiving section 4, and 
a light-irradiation-controlling section 17 for controlling a 

light irradiation amount on the target value of received 
light amount, and the photoelectric sensor is for 

controlling the light irradiation amount in order that the 
received light amount becomes the most fitted value 

according to the distance, and further the photoelectric 
sensor can enlarge the light irradiation amount according to 

the distance in near distances and can make measurement 
precision be improved. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMATAKE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMATAKE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMOTO IKUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMOTO, IKUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a photoelectric
distance sensor for sensing distances to objects by
irradiating light to the objects and by receiving the
reflected light from the objects.Fig. 1 is a block diagram drawn with single lines for
explaining the basic operation of a conventional
photoelectric distance sensor for sensing positions. In Fig.
1, reference numeral 1 denotes a photoelectric distance
sensor, and numeral 2 denotes an optical system mainly
composed of lenses. Numeral 3 denotes a light-irradiating
section mainly composed of a light-emitting device such as
an light-emitting diode. Numeral 4 denotes a light-receiving
section arranged on a light-receiving surface and mainly
composed of light-receiving devices. Numeral 5, 6 and 7
denote a signal-processing section, a sense object and a
background respectively.Fig. 2 is a longitudinal section of a light-position-sensing
device 10 arranged in a direction connecting a
light-receiving axis with a light-irradiating axis on the
light-receiving surface. As the light-position-sensing
device 10, the disclosed in Patent Publication Gazette No.
42411 of 1983 is adopted, for example. It has the
characteristic shown in Fig. 3.The operation of the photoelectric distance sensor 1 
will now be described. Light from the light-irradiating
section 3 is irradiated on the sense object 6 through the
light-irradiating axis, and forms an bright spot on the
sense object 6. Light reflected by the sense object 6
travels into the light-receiving section 4 through the
light-receiving axis. In the light-receiving section 4,
bright spot images are formed on the light-receiving surface
at positions corresponding to distances to the sense object
6. When light travels into a certain position on the light-position-sensing
device 10 located on the light-receiving
surface in order to determine the bright spot positions on
the light-receiving surface with an aim of determining
distances X to the sense object 6, two current outputs Ia
and Ib are obtained from the light-position-sensing device
10, as shown in Fig. 2. Light incidence positions Y into the
light-position-sensing device 10 are obtained by the next
relational expression, where an effective length of the
light-position-sensing device 10 is denoted by L.
(Ia - Ib) / (Ia + Ib) = 2Y / LThe relational expression is depicted in Fig. 3.The relation between the distances X and the light
incidence positions Y is provided in a next relational
expression.
XY = L2L3In the expression, L2 denotes light axis pitches
between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A photoelectric distance sensor comprising:

a light-irradiating section (3) irradiating light to an object (6) and forming
a bright spot on said object (6);
a light-receiving section (4) in which an image of said bright spot on said
object (6) is formed on a light-receiving surface through a lens system

and outputting a received light amount and a position signal
corresponding to the position of said bight spot on the light-receiving

surface;
an operating section (16, 16') calculating the distance of said object (6)
and outputting a distance signal; and
a light-irradiation-controlling section (17) controlling the intensity of the
light from said light-irradiating section (3),

characterized in that

said operating section (16, 16') further outputs a target value for said
received light amount to said light-irradiation-controlling section (17),

said target value being one of target values corresponding to distances,
respectively, and that
said light-irradiation-controlling section (17) controls the intensity of the
light from said light-irradiating section (3) so that said received light

amount at said light-receiving section (4) may correspond to said target
value output from said operating section (16, 16').
The photoelectric distance sensor according to claim 1, wherein said
operating section (16) calculates said target value for said received light

amount corresponding to the distance to said object (6) for outputting to
said light-irradiating-controlling section (17).
The photoelectric distance sensor according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said
operation section (16) comprises:


a distance operating section (18) calculating the distance to said object
(6) from said position signal output from said light-receiving section (4); 

and
a target-received-light-amount-operating section (19) calculating said
target value for said received light amount according to said distance.
The photoelectric distance sensor according to one of the claims 1 to 3,
wherein said light-irradiation-controlling section (17) comprises:


an integrator (21) integrating the received light signal;
a holder (22) holding an output signal of said integrator (21);
a resetter (23) resetting said integrator (21) and said holder (22);
an error determiner (24) receiving an output of said holder (22) and said
target value for said received light amount as inputs, and determining

the error between said received light amount and said target value, and
outputting an output-controlling signal, and
a computer (25) receiving said output of said holder (22) and said target
value for received light amount, and computing a programmed light

irradiation value, and outputting said light irradiation value.
The photoelectric distance sensor according to claim 1, wherein said
operation section (16') comprises:


a distance operating section (18') calculating the distance to said object
(6) from said position signal output from said light-receiving section (4);

and
a setting section (26) outputting a target value for said received light
amount corresponding to a reference distance.
The photoelectric distance sensor according to claim 5, wherein said
setting section (26) comprises:


a manipulating section (15) setting said reference distance;
a coefficient-setting section (27) outputting a coefficient corresponding
to said reference distance; and
a current source (28).
The photoelectric distance sensor according to claim 6, wherein said
manipulating section (15) comprises:


a reference resistor (Rref) and a parallel resistor (Rp) connected to said 
coefficient-setting section (27), respectively;
a parallel resistor (Rtr1) connected to said current source (28); and
a variable resistor (VR1) and a serial resistor (Rtr2) connected between
said coefficient-setting section (27) and said current source (28) in series

to each other.
The photoelectric distance sensor according to one of the claims 1 to 7,
wherein said light-receiving section (4) is composed of an arrangement of

a plurality of light-receiving elements in a specified direction on said
light-receiving surface.
The photoelectric distance sensor according to one of the claims 1 to 7,
wherein said light-receiving section (4) is composed of a light-position-sensing

device (10), the light-position-sensing device (10) outputting two
current outputs (Ia, Ib), wherewith a light incidence position into the

light-position-sensing device (10) is obtained in conformity with a
prescribed relational expression.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
