<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0584968</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modulating valve.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K100	F16K112	F16K3152	F16K31524	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K1	F16K1	F16K31	F16K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modulating valve includes an inlet passage (68) 
and a discharge passage (64), both of which are in communication 

with an internal cavity (60) associated with the valve 
body. An actuator arrangement includes a pivoting actuator 

shaft (76), at least a portion of which is located within 
the internal cavity. A flow-controlling plug member (104) 

includes a first portion (106,108,110) 
extending into one of the passages; 

and a second portion located within the internal 
cavity. The first portion is provided with guide structure 

engageable with one or more walls defining the 
passage, to guide axial movement of the plug member. The 

second portion of the plug member is interconnected with 
the actuator shaft. The plug member second portion and 

the actuator shaft are interconnected in such a manner 
that pivoting movement of the actuator shaft results in 

axially inward or outward movement of the plug member 
within the passage. Flow-controlling structure provided 

on the plug member controls the amount of fluid discharged 
from the valve, depending on the position of the 

plug member relative to the passage. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERIE MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERIE MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHREINER MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHREINER, MICHAEL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to a valve for controlling 
fluid flow, and more Particularly to a modulating 
valve capable of varying the flow rate of fluid in a 
fluid system. In a fluid system, such as a heating and cooling 
system employing a liquid such as wateras the heating 
or cooling medium, conventional two-position prior 
art valves for controlling flow of fluid in the system 
provide either 100% flow of fluid in the system or no 
fluid flow. With this type of valve, temperature output 
by the heating or cooling system constantly fluctuates in 
a small range above and below the set point. Valves of 
this type are desirable for their low cost as well as for 
their reliability. Further, the configuration of such 
valves is known to all manufacturers of heating and 
cooling systems on an OEM basis, and their construction, 
configuration and operation are familiar, known quantities. In recent years, modulating valves have been 
developed to vary the flow rate or fluid in such fluid 
systems. With a modulating valve, interfaced with modern 
electronic controllers, a desired output temperature can 
be maintained relatively stable. Modulating valve as developed to date generally 
employ a plunger, or plug, axially movable into and 
out of an opening associated with a passage, typically 
the inlet passage, of the value. The plug is mounted at 
one end of a stem. The other end or the stem is inter-connected 
with an external actuator arrangement for 
providing axial movement of the stem, and thereby movement 
of the plug, relative to the inlet opening. The 
shape of the plug and the position or the plug relative 
to the inlet opening control the amount of fluid flowing 
through the valve.  Prior art modulating valves of this type are 
expensive due to close tolerances required in manufacture 
as well as certain high cost components formed of stainless 
steel or brass. Further, due to the presence or the 
actuator arrangement and the axial movement of the stem, 
with the actuator arrangement being located on the exterior 
of the valve, the valve configuration differs significantly 
from the known configuration or prior art two-position 
valves as described. It is an object of tho present invention to 
provide a modulating valve which is simple in construction 
and operation, yet which provides the same overall 
valve configuration as prior art two-position valves. It 
is a further object of the invention to provide a modulating 
valve requiring minimal modification from prior 
art two-position valves, in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A valve, comprising: 
   a body defining an internal cavity, a pair of 

openings in communication with the internal cavity, and 
an axial passage defined by one or more walls extending 

from a first one of the openings; 
   a plug member having a first portion extending 

through the first opening and into the passage, and a 
second portion disposed within the internal cavity, 

wherein the plug member first portion includes guide 
structure engageable with the one or more walls defining 

the passage; and 
   an actuator mechanism interconnected with the 

second portion of the plug member for controlling the 
axial position of the plug member relative to the first 

opening, wherein the guide structure cooperates with the 
one or more walls defining the passage to guide axial 

movement of the plug member upon operation of the actuator 
mechanism. 
The valve or claim 1, wherein the actuator 
mechanism comprises a pivotable actuator shaft extending 

into the internal cavity, and a connection arrangement 
interconnecting the actuator shaft and the plug member 

second portion for providing axial movement of the plug 
member in response to pivoting movement of the actuator 

shaft. 
The valve of claim 2, wherein the connection 
arrangenent comprises a slot associated with the 

plug member second portion extending non-parallel to the 
axis of the passage, a pin engaged within the slot, and a 

link extending between and interconnecting the actuator 
shaft and the pin, wherein the pin moves laterally within 

the slot relative to the axis of the passage upon pivoting 
movement of the actuator shaft, to provide axial 

movement of the plug member within the axial passage. 
The valve of claim 3, wherein the slot 
extends along an axis substantially transverse to the 

axis of the passage. 
The valve of claim 1, wherein the guide 
structure comprises one or more ribs provided on the plug 

member first portion. 
The valve of claim 5, wherein the plug 
member first portion includes flow-controlling structure 

cooparable with the first opening for varying the flow of 
fluid through the valve body responsive to the position 

of the plug member relative to the opening. 
The valve of claim 6, wherein the one or 
more ribs extend forwardly of the flow-controlling structure 

through the first opening and into the axial passage. 
The valve of claim 7, wherein the one or 
more ribs comprises a plurality of ribs interconnected 

with each other, the ribs cooperating with the one or 
more walls defining the axial passage to define a plurality 

of flow channels located between adjacent ribs. 
The valve or claim 6, wherein the plug 
member includes a shoulder positionable over the 
first 
opening to cut off flow of fluid therethrough, and wherein 

the flow-controlling structure and the ribs extend 
forwardly of the shoulder. 
In a valve including a body defining an 
internal cavity, an inlet opening for providing fluid to 

the internal cavity, an outlet opening for discharging 
fluid from the internal cavity, an axial passage defined 

by one or more walls extending from one of the inlet and 
outlet openings, and further including a pivoting actuator 

mechanism located within the internal cavity, the 
improvement comprising a plug member for controlling 

discharge of fluid through the outlct opening, the plug 
member including a first portion extending into the axial 

passage through the opening from which the axial passage 
extends, and a second portion disposed within the internal 

 
cavity and interconnected with the pivoting actuator 

mechanism for controlling the axial position of thc plug 
member relative to the opening responsive to the actuator 

mechanism, wherein the plug member first portion includes 
guide structure engageable with the one or more walls 

defining the passage for cooperating with the one or more 
walls defining the passage to guide the axial movement of 

the plug member upon operation of the actuator mechanism. 
A method of guiding axial movement of a 
plug member in a valve, wherein the valve includes an 

internal cavity, an inlet opening for providing fluid to 
the internal cavity, an outlet opening for discharging 

fluid from the internal cavity, and an axial passage 
defined by one or more walls extending from a first one 

of the inlet and outlet openings, wherein at least a 
portion of the plug member is located within the internal 

cavity, the method comprising engaging at least a portion 
of the plug member with the one or more walls defining 

the axial passage to maintain the plug member in axial 
alignment with the first opening during axial movement of 

the plug member relative to the first opening. 
A valve, comprising: 
   a valve body defining an internal cavity, a 

pair or openings in communication with the internal 
cavity, and an axial passage defined by one or more walls 

extending from a first one of the openings, wherein the 
axial passage and the pair or openings are located along 

a common longitudinal axis; 
   a flow-controlling plug member having a first 

portion including flow-controlling structure cooperable 
with the first opening to control the amount of fluid 

discharged from the valve, and a second portion disposed 
within the internal cavity; 

   an actuator mechanism inteconnected with the 
second portion of the plug member for controlling the 

axial position of the plug member relative to the opening, 
the actuator mechanism including a pivotable actuator 

 
shaft located within the internal cavity and extending 

along a pivot axis, wherein the actuator shaft pivot 
axis is offset from the longitudinal axis along which the 

axial passage and the pair or openings are located, and a 
connection arrangement interconnecting the actuator shaft 

with the plug member second portion for providing axial 
movement of the plug member relative to the first opening 

upon pivoting movement of the actuator shaft, and 
   an axial guide arrangement interposed between 

the plug member and the valve body for guiding axial 
movement of the plug member relative to the first opening. 
The valve of claim 12, wherein the axial 
guide arrangement comprises guide structure associated 

with the plug member first portion and engageable with 
the axial passage. 
The valve of claim 13, wherein the guide 
structure comprises a series of axially-extending ribs 

associated with the plug member first portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
