<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652108</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ink jet print head and a method of manufacturing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J216	B41J214	B41J214	B41J216	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ink jet printer head includes a spacer (4) including
pressure generating chambers (48) continuous to nozzle

openings (2), ink supply paths and reservoirs, a cover
member for covering the pressure generating chamber (48)

in a sealing fashion, and pressure generating means (30)
for generating pressure in the pressure generating

chambers (48, 201) in accordance with print data. In
processing a silicon single-crystal substrate vertically

oriented in (110) by anisotropic etching process, one of
the walls of a path hole for forming a pressure

generating chamber (48) is aligned with one of the walls
of a path hole for forming the ink supply path. Walls

defining the path hole for forming a pressure generating
chamber (48), which are located in the vicinity of a

nozzle opening (2), are connected to each other at an
obtuse angle. As a result, the ink supply path serving as

a narrow path for ink flow and the pressure generating
chamber (48) are formed as smooth flow paths. The walls

in an area in the vicinity of the nozzle opening (2)
where ink tends to stay are substantially equally

distanced from the nozzle opening (2). A smooth flow of
ink is ensured.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMOI KAZUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAKURA TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOMOSE KAORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMOI, KAZUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAKURA, TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOMOSE, KAORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ink jet printer
head, a method of manufacturing an ink jet printer head and
a method of processing a silicon single crystal substrate in
use with an ink jet printer head.An ink jet printer head shoots forth ink droplets onto
a recording medium to form dots thereon. Print of extremely
high resolution is realized if the size of the ink droplets is
reduced. For high speed printing, the number of nozzle
openings must be increased. Particularly, in the printer head
of the type in which piezoelectric vibrating elements are used
as an energy source for expelling ink droplets, the pressure
generating chamber must be designed to be as large as possible
in order to efficiently use the energy of the piezoelectric
vibrating element. This requirement for the efficient use of
the energy is contradictory to the current tendency of the size
reduction of the printer head.Measure currently taken for the contradictory problem
is to reduce the thickness of the wall partitioning the 
adjacent pressure generating chambers, and to enlarge the
pressure generating chambers in the longitudinal direction.To form the pressure generating chambers and the
reservoirs, path holes are formed in a spacer for setting the
vibrator plate and the nozzle plate fixed distance apart.
Since the path holes must be formed in conformity with the
pressure generating chambers that are extremely small and
complicatedly shaped, the etching technique is usually used.A photosensitive resin film is usually used for the
spacer. The spacer made of photosensitive resin has a small
mechanical strength. The printer head using such a defective
spacer suffers from cross talk, deflection, and the like, and
attempt to achieve high resolution is accompanied by
deterioration of print quality.To cope with this problem, there are some proposals as
disclosed USP No. 4312008 and Examined Japanese Patent
Publication No. Sho. 58-40509. In the proposals, a silicon
single-crystal substrate vertically oriented in (110) is cut
out so as to have the thickness suitable for the spacer. Path
holes shaped for pressure generating chambers and ink supply
paths are formed in the silicon single-crystal substrate by
anisotropic etching process. The spacer of the silicon single-crystal
substrate has a large mechanical strength. Therefore,
the deflection of the whole print head caused by deformation of
the piezoelectric vibrating elements is minimized. The walls
undergoing etching are substantially vertical to the surface of 
the spacer. Because of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink jet printer head comprising:

spacer (4, 200) including path holes (5, 90) for forming
pressure generating chambers (48, 201) continuous to nozzle

openings (2, 210a, 204), ink supply paths (104, 202), and
reservoirs (203);
a cover member (1, 210) for sealingly covering the pressure
generating chamber (48, 201); and
pressure generating means (30) for generating pressure in
the pressure generating chamber (48, 201) in accordance

with print data,

wherein the spacer (4, 200) includes a vertically oriented
{110} silicon single-crystal substrate (60, 72, 130) which

is processed by anisotropic etching,
characterized in that

said spacer (4, 200) is processed in such a manner that one
of the walls (5a, 5b) defining the path hole (5) being a

through hole and forming the pressure generating chamber
(48) is continuously aligned in line to one of the walls

(7a, 7b) defining a path hole (7) forming the ink supply
path (104, 202), and
 
a plurality of indentations (50) for receiving excessive

adhesive are disposed around the path holes (5, 6, 7, 90,
91, 92).
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1, wherein an
end portion of the path hole (5, 90) forming the pressure

generating chamber (48, 201) is defined by four wide walls
(5a, 5b, 5f, 5g) connected to one another at obtuse angles.

(3, 4, 5).
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
an end portion of the path hole (5, 90) forming the

pressure generating chamber (48, 201) is defined by six
wide walls (5a, 5g, 5f', 5f1', 5f2', 5b) connected to one

another at obtuse angles (4, 5, 6, 7, 8).
The ink jet printer head according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein an end portion of the path hole (5, 90)

forming the pressure generating chamber (48, 201) is
defined by seven wide walls (5a, 5b, 5f, 5g, 5h, 5f1, 5f2)

connected to one another at obtuse angles (4, 5, 6, 7, 8).
The ink jet printer head according to any of the preceding

claims, wherein one of the walls (7a, 7b) defining the end
of the path hole (7) for the ink supply path (202) where

the path hole (7) is connected to the reservoir (203)
consists of two walls (6b, 6c) so that the diameter of the

end of the path hole (7) connecting to the reservoir (203)
gradually increases toward the reservoir (203).
The ink jet printer head according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein one of the walls (7a, 7b) defining the end

of the path hole (7) for the ink supply path (104, 202)
where the path hole is connected to the pressure generating

chamber (48) consists of two walls (5d, 5e, 90e, 90f) so 
that the diameter of the end of the path hole (7)

connecting to the pressure generating chamber (48)
gradually increases toward the pressure generating chamber

(48).
The ink jet printer head according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said indentations are formed by

rectangular indentations (50).
The ink jet printer head according to claim 7, wherein the
opening area of each of the indentations (50) is 0.001 mm
2

to 0.01 mm
2
.
The ink jet printer head according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein a film of silicon dioxide (61,

66, 131, 230) is formed on the surface of the spacer (4,
200).
The ink jet printer head according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein a bridge means (95, 102) is

formed across one or more of the path holes (5, 7, 90, 92)
forming the pressure generating chamber (48, 201) and the

ink supply path (104, 202) respectively.
A method of processing a silicon single-crystal substrate
for use with an ink jet printer head as defined in claim 1,

comprising the steps of:

forming anisotropic etching protecting patterns made of
silicon dioxide, coincident in configuration with patterns

for forming path holes in a mirror image manner on an
obverse and a reverse side of the vertically oriented {110}

silicon single-crystal substrate; and 
forming the path holes from the obverse and the reverse
sides of the silicon single-crystal substrate by

anisotropic etching process, wherein the anisotropic
etching protecting patterns include anisotropic etching

protecting patterns which are positioned at one side of the
silicon single-crystal substrate to form a first path hole

and a second path hole which is narrower in width than the
first path hole and which are aligned with each other,

wherein a blade-like etching protecting pattern is formed
in parallel with the second path hole while being

substantially aligned with a wall of the second path hole.
A method of processing a silicon single-crystal substrate
for use with an ink jet printer head as defined in claim 1,

comprising the steps of:

forming anisotropic etching protecting patterns made of
silicon dioxide, coincident in configuration with patterns

for forming path holes in a mirror image manner on an
obverse and a reverse side of the vertically oriented {110}

silicon single-crystal substrate; and
forming the path holes from the obverse and the reverse
sides of the silicon single-crystal substrate by

anisotropic etching process,

wherein the anisotropic etching protecting patterns include
anisotropic etching protecting patterns which are

positioned at one side of silicon single-crystal substrate
to form a first path hole and a second path hole which is

narrower in width than the first path hole and which are
aligned with each other,
 
wherein a blade-like etching protecting pattern is formed

to align with the longitudinal direction of the second hole
and which is parallel to the second path hole.
The method of processing a silicon single-crystal substrate
according to claim 11 or 12, wherein one of the silicon

dioxide patterns located in a mirror image fashion is
coincident in position with the path hole formed by the

etching process, while the other is dislocated to the inner
side of the path hole to be formed.
The method of processing a silicon single-crystal substrate
according to one of claims 11 to 13, wherein an end region

requiring a smooth wall in the first path hole is
dislocated toward the second wall and an etching protecting

pattern with a protruded part is formed thereon.
The method of processing a silicon single-crystal substrate
according to claim 14, wherein the resultant structure is

processed by anisotropic etching process.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
