<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654118</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROMAGNETIC DOOR LOCK ARMATURE ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05C1916	E05C1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05C	E05C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05C19	E05C19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electromagnetic door lock assembly employs an electromagnet (10) positioned in a frame adjacent to a door, and an adjustable armature assembly positioned in the door for interaction with the electromagnet. The armature assembly (24) includes an armature plate (28) having a pair of shear low-cost, replaceable elements that initially engage the electromagnet (10). A backing plate (46) is situated adjacent to the armature plate, and a stem coupling the backing plate to the armature plate includes a spring biasing the backing plate (46) and armature plate (28) toward each other. A mounting portion for mounting the armature assembly (24) to a door to be locked is provided with adjusting screws for adjustably positioning the backing plate at a fixed position with respect to the mounting portion so that the armature plate (28) is positioned at a first position for optimum interaction with the electromagnet (10), the screws having elongated heads for maintaining the relative alignment between the armature plate (28) and the mounting portion as the armature plate moves between the first position and a position contiguous to the electromagnet (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VON DUPRIN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VON DUPRIN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTZ KEVIN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTZ, KEVIN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to electromagnetic door locking devices 
and more particularly to shear locks having improved features which ensure that the 
lock operates rapidly and positively during both locking and unlocking operations. Various types of electromagnetic door locks are known. One type commonly 
referred to as a shear lock comprises an electromagnet mounted to or in a frame 
defining a doorway. One such device including the features of the 
pre-characterising portion of claim 1 
is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,981,312. An 
armature is movably mounted to travel with a door as the door moves in the doorway 
between an "open" and "closed" position. When the door is in the closed position, the 
armature is positioned in spaced relation from the electromagnet, but is mounted to or 
in the door such that when power is applied to the electromagnet the armature 
responds to the magnetic field and becomes engaged on an adjacent surface of the 
electromagnet. Various styles and types of shoulder means such as ledges, tangs, and tabs have 
been employed to provide some physical interrelationship between the face of the 
electromagnet and the armature to enhance the lock's resistance to a shearing 
movement which would result from any attempt to open the door while power was 
applied to the electromagnet. An example of a device employing this feature is U.S. 
Patent 5,006,723. It has been observed that such shoulder means exhibit increasing 
wear and potentially decreasing performance with time, thus mandating replacement of 
the shoulder elements exhibiting such wear. Where the shoulder elements are integral 
with the major elements of the electromagnetic lock, such replacement can be quite 
costly. It would therefore be desirable to provide such shoulder means in the form of 
easily replaced, separate, low cost elements. Preferably, such replaceable elements are 
constructed to have material hardness less than the material hardness of the elements 
with which they cooperate to achieve the desired physical shear-inhibiting 
interrelationship. This selection of lesser material hardness results in reduced wear on 
the cooperating element thereby extending the life of the lock as a whole.  
 The foregoing illustrates limitations known to exist in present devices and 
methods. Thus, it is apparent that it would be advantageous to provide an alternative 
directed to overcoming one or more of the limitations set forth above. Accordingly, a 
suitable alternative is provided including features more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic door lock assembly of the type having an electromagnet (10) 
including a mounting means (14) for mounting said electromagnet (10) in a frame 

adjacent to a door and an armature means (24) provided for positioning in the door for 
interaction with the electromagnet (10), the armature means (24) including an armature 

plate (28), a backing plate (46) and a biasing means (56) for biasing the armature plate 
(28) away from the electromagnet (10), characterised in that said mounting means 

includes a shoulder means (22) for interacting with said associated armature means (24) 
to enhance resistance to shearing movement between the electromagnet and said 

armature; and there being first and second shear elements (34 and 36) replaceably 
affixed to the armature plate (28) to confront said shoulder means (22), said shear 

elements (34, 36) being composed of a material which will result in differential wear 
occurring upon the shear elements (34, 36) rather than said shoulder means (22). 
A door lock assembly according to claim 1, wherein said shear elements are 
composed of a material having a hardness less than the hardness of said shoulder 

means. 
A door lock assembly according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the removable shear 
elements are composed of a sintered, powdered stainless steel. 
A door lock assembly according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said first and second 
shear elements are attached at opposite ends of the armature plate by a plurality of 

threaded screws. 
A door lock assembly according to claim 4, wherein the first and second shear 
elements are formed to include channel means for enveloping said shoulder means 

extending toward the armature plate from the electromagnet to inhibit relative lateral 
movement of the armature means and electromagnet when the electromagnet is 

energised and the armature means and electromagnet are contiguous to each other.  
 
The door lock assembly of claim 1, wherein the armature means further 
comprises coupling means for coupling the backing plate to the armature plate, said 

biasing means biasing the backing plate and armature plate toward each other. 
The door lock assembly of claim 6, wherein the coupling means comprises a 
first element fixed to the armature plate for movement therewith, the backing plate 

being movable with respect to the first element and said biasing means acting between 
the first element and the backing plate to bias the backing plate and armature plate 

toward each other. 
The door lock assembly of claim 1, wherein the armature means further 
comprises a mounting portion for mounting the armature means to said door to be 

locked, adjusting means for adjustably positioning the backing plate at a fixed position 

with respect to the mounting portion so that a front surface of the armature plate is 
positioned at a first position for optimum interaction with the electromagnet, and 

alignment means for maintaining the relative alignment between the armature plate and 
the mounting portion as the armature plate moves between said first position and a 

position contacting the electromagnet. 
The door lock assembly of claim 8, wherein the adjusting means comprises 
threaded elements engaging the backing plate and rotatable with respect to the 

mounting portion for adjusting the displacement of the backing plate with respect to 
the mounting portion. 
The door lock assembly of claim 8, wherein the armature means further 
comprises spacer means for spacing the armature plate from the backing place by a 

selected minimum distance to prevent contact between the armature plate and backing 
plate upon return of the armature plate to the first position. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
