<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629978</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for recording expense type information in combination with information pertaining to one or more operating characteristics of a vehicle.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07C500	G07C508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07C5	G07C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for monitoring certain vehicle operating information 
and recording other date includes a vehicle interface unit (22) 

permanently mounted to a vehicle, and a data recorder unit (20) 
removably interconnectable with the vehicle interface unit (22). The 

vehicle interface unit (22) receives signals from the vehicle through the 
vehicle's interface connector (24), such as signals pertaining to distance 

travelled and other operating characteristics, e.g. operation of headlights, 
directional signals, brakes or seat belts, and such signals are 

communicated through a communications link to the data recorder unit 
(20). 

The data recorder unit (20) includes a memory in which such 
information is stored, and the data recorder unit (20) can be 

disconnected from the vehicle interface unit (22) and interconnected with 
an external device such as a computer or printer for outputting 

information stored in the memory. The data recorder unit (20) can also 
be used to store other information, such as pertaining to business 

expenses or the like. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSP RECORDING SYST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSPORTATION RECORDING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARMODY C SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRON GREGORY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARMODY, C. SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRON, GREGORY M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system for use in 
combination with a vehicle to monitor and record certain 
information pertaining to operation of the vehicle along 
with other information manually input by the operator, 
such as for use in tracking expenses. Generally, it is beneficial for persons who use 
a vehicle in connection with a business to keep track of 
the number of miles traveled by the vehicle for business 
purposes. When the vehicle owner is an individual using 
his or her personal vehicle for business purposes, this 
information can typically be used to generate a deduction 
on the person's income tax returns. When the owner of 
the vehicle is an employer, it is important to keep track 
of the amount of miles logged by the employee both for 
business and personal purposes. In the past, a typical method of keeping track 
of business and personal use of a vehicle has been to 
maintain a written log in which the operator enters by 
hand the date of operation and information allowing the 
operator to calculate the number of business miles traveled, 
typically start and stop readings taken from the 
vehicle's odometer. One drawback to this type of system 
is that it relies on the operator to accurately record 
the necessary information. Another drawback is that, if 
the operator wishes to keep track of other expenses, such 
as meals, lodging, entertainment or the like, the operator 
must keep a separate log of such information, thus 
generating separate sets of records for related expense 
information. Another drawback is that the operator must 
diligently record expense information including vehicle 
mileage in order to keep an accurate record, which is 
often easily overlooked.  It is an object of the present invention to 
provide a system for monitoring and recording information 
pertaining to vehicle operation for assisting an operator 
to accurately track and record business or personal use 
of the vehicle. It is a further object of the invention 
to provide a system enabling the operator to input and 
record other information, such as expenses pertaining to 
meals, lodging and entertainment. It is a further object 
of the invention to provide such a system which is user-friendly, 
making it as easy as possible for an operator 
to provide an accurate and reliable record of information 
pertaining to expenses and vehicle operation. A further 
object of the invention is to provide such a system which 
is relatively simple in its components and operation, yet 
which provides highly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vehicle monitoring and data recording 
system for use with a vehicle, comprising: 

   a vehicle interface unit adapted for interconnection 
with the electrical system of the vehicle for 

sensing one or more vehicle operating characteristics and 
for outputting a first set of data signals indicative of 

the sensed vehicle operating characteristics; and 
   a portable recorder unit adapted for removable 

interconnection with the vehicle interface unit, comprising 
a memory; an input for receiving the first set of 

data signals from the vehicle interface unit and for 
providing the first set of data signals to the memory; a 

manually operable data entry device for allowing an 
operator to input data and for outputting a second set of 

data signals in response thereto to the memory; and a 
processor interconnected with the memory; wherein the 

data recorder unit is disconnectable from the vehicle 
interface unit and connectable to an external device for 

selectively outputting, to the external device, a third 
set of data signals from the memory which includes at 

least the first and second sets of data signals. 
The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit comprises a module interconnected via a 

series of lines with the vehicle electrical system, each 
line providing a signal to the vehicle interface unit 

module indicative of one of the vehicle's operating 
characteristics. 
The system of claim 2, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit includes a processor interconnected with 

the lines for processing signals received from the lines 
and generating the first set of data signals in response 

thereto. 
The system of claim 3, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit is interconnected with the ignition system 

of the vehicle and includes an arrangement for preventing 
 

vehicle ignition unless the data recorder unit is connected 
to the vehicle interface unit. 
The system of claim 4, wherein the vehicle 
ignition system includes a start terminal and a start 

enable terminal, and wherein the ignition preventing 
arrangement comprises a circuit including the processor 

for detecting connection of the data recorder unit to the 
vehicle interface unit. 
The system of claim 5, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit includes a programmable device for entering 

a unique identifying code for each individual authorized 

to operate the vehicle, and wherein the vehicle 
interface unit processor functions to prevent vehicle 

ignition by an unauthorized individual. 
The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit is interconnected with the input to the 

vehicle's odometer to receive data signals therefrom and 
to enable monitoring of the vehicle's mileage. 
The system of claim 7, wherein the manually 
operable data entry device comprises a keypad including a 

key allowing an operator to input a signal to the memory 
of the data recorder unit indicative of business or 

personal operation of the vehicle. 
The system of claim 7, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit is further interconnected with the electrical 

system of the vehicle to sense one or more of the 
following vehicle operating characteristics; brake operation, 

directional signal operation, and headlight operation, 
and seat belt operation. 
The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle 
interface unit is interconnected with an electrical 

interface connector associated with the vehicle for 
receiving signals therefrom indicative of one or more of 

the vehicle operating characteristics. 
A method of monitoring vehicle operating 
conditions and recording data, comprising the steps of:

 
   sensing one or more vehicle operating characteristics; 

   generating a first set of data signals indicative 
of the one or more sensed vehicle operating characteristics; 

   storing the first set of data signals in a 
portable recorder unit removably interconnected with the 

vehicle; 
   generating a second set of data signals by 

manual operation of a data entry device; 
   storing the second set of data signals in the 

portable recorder unit; 
   disconnecting the portable recorder unit from 

the vehicle and interconnecting the portable recorder 
unit with an external device; and 

   selectively outputting, to the external device, 
a third set of data signals from the portable recorder 

unit which includes at least the first and second sets of 
data signals. 
The method of claim 11, wherein the step 
of sensing one or more vehicle operating characteristics 

is carried out by permanently mounting a vehicle interface 
unit to the electrical system of the vehicle for 

receiving signals therefrom indicative of one or more 
vehicle operating characteristics, wherein the portable 

recorder unit is removably interconnectable with the 
vehicle interface unit. 
The method of claim 12, wherein the step 
of generating a second set of data signals by manual 

operation of a data entry device is carried out by manual 
operation of a keypad provided on the portable recorder 

unit. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the step 
of generating a second set of data signals comprises 

generating a set of data signals indicative of personal 
or business use of the vehicle by manual operation of the 

keypad. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
