<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649508</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND PLANT FOR CONVERTING GAS INTO HYDRATE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10L900	C10L900	F17C1100	F17C1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10L	C10L	F17C	F17C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10L9	C10L9	F17C11	F17C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for converting a hydrate-forming gas (2) into a hydrate (5), as the gas (2) combines with a hydrate-forming liquid (3) which is supplied to the gas (2) in finely dispersed shape at hydrate generating pressure and temperature conditions. A subsequent storing and/or transportation of said gas (2) in the shape of gaseous hydrate (5) may also be included. The converting process takes place in at least one chamber (1), as the following process steps are undertaken. Said gas (2) is supplied to the chamber (1) at a hydrate-forming pressure, preferably equal to the working pressure of said gas and at a random temperature, preferably equal to the working temperature of said gas. A temperature controlling medium (11), preferably having a high heat capacity, is guided into the gas-filled portion of said chamber (1) at a temperature below the hydrate generating temperature of said gas (2), and the temperature controlling medium (11) is guided out of the chamber (1), after having passed through the chamber (1) in direct contact with said gas (2) and said hydrate-forming, finely dispersed liquid (3), the medium hereby bringing out at least a substantial part of the latent heat liberated during the generation of said hydrate (5).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORSKE STATS OLJESELSKAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEN NORSKE STATS OLJESELSKAP A.S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKOVHOLT OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORP TORE ANDREAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKOVHOLT, OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORP, TORE, ANDREAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD AND PLANT FOR CONVERTING GAS INTO HYDRATE,The present invention relates to a method for storing gas by generating hydrate. The invention also relates to a method for subsequent extraction of gas from the generated hydrate. Further the invention relates to a plant for storing and for extracting of gas. The hydrate is generated in at least one chamber; as hydrate-forming gas is brought together with a finely distributed hydrate-generating liquid in the chamber at such temperature and pressure conditions that the hydrate will be formed. Later on an extraction of gas from said hydrate may be obtained by heating the hydrate.Storing of gas is an efficient method both of adapting deliveries to variations in the market and to obtain a more efficient transportation of gas in pipes. Storage also secures against failure in gas supplies and is in this con¬ nection of the greatest importance when stores are located close to the consumers or close to the market. Conventionally gas is stored in underground reservoirs such as emptied oil and gas reservoirs or in subterranean water magazines. Then a prerequisite is that extraordinary geological structures exist at the location where the store is to be placed. Storing of gas in subterranean salt strata has also been attempted, but then the salt deposits have to be present at the site where the gas is to be stored.It has to be mentioned that conventional storing of natural gas substantially has been obtained either by cryo¬ genic cooling treatment to liquefy the gas (LNG=Liquefied Natural Gas) or by heavy compression of the gas (CNG=Com- pressed Natural Gas) . These methods are used both for stor¬ age and transportation, however both represent very expensiv storage methods which involve many risks. The above men¬ tioned conditions have made it possible to arrange high 

capacity gas storage close to the consumer only in a few special cases.It is also previously known to convert gas, e.g. natura gas, into hydrate by cooling the gas together with water until hydrate(s) is/are formed. Such storage of gas in the shape of hydrate is previously known, in particular for transportation purposes. In this connection reference is made to Norwegian printed application No. 149,976, Norwegian patent application No. 90.0395, US patent No.3,888,434 and PCT application No. NO91/00104 of 8th June 1991.Hydrates can store large amounts of gas. In optimal conditions 1 m3 of water may absorb approx. 180 3 natural gas, thus representing a considerable storage capacity. However, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 C l a i m s
1. A method for convertion of a hydrate-forming gas (2) into hydrate (5) by exposing the gas (2) to a hydrate-formin liquid (3) which is added to the gas (2) in a finely dis- persed form at hydrate generating pressure and temperature conditions, possibly followed by storing and/or transporta¬ tion of the gas (2) as a gaseous hydrate (5) , said conver¬ tion taking place in at least one chamber (1) , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that during the converting of the gas (2) into a hydrate (5) the following process steps are executed: the gas (2) is supplied to the chamber (1) at a hydrate generating pressure, preferably equal to the existing workin pressure of the gas and at a random temperature, preferably equal to the existing working temperature of the gas, a temperature regulating medium, preferably having a high heat capacity, is supplied into the gas-filled portion of said chamber (1) at a temperature below the hydrate-form¬ ing temperature of said gas (2) , and that - the temperature regulating medium; after being transpor ted through the chamber (1) in direct contact with the gas (2) and the hydrate-forming, finely dispersed liquid (3) ; is transported out of the chamber (1) taking with it at least a substantial part of the latent heat which is released durin the formation of the hydrate (5) ; during a possible storage of the generated hydrate the following process steps may al be executed: a cooling of the generated hydrate (5) as a controlled amount of the cooled temperature regulating medium, at a controlled temperature lower than the hydrate-forming tempe ature, is continued to be transported into the chamber (1) after the generation of said hydrate; and that during a possible reconvertion of gas (2) from the generated hydrate; - the temperature controlling medium (11) is supplied to the chamber (1) at a temperature above the hydrate-forming temperature. 


2. Method according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the generated hydrate (5) is stored in the chamber (1) until the gas (2) is desired to be used, as the gas (2) is then dissociated at the desired speed from the hydrate (5) by introducing the temperature regulating medium (11) into the chamber (1) at a temperature which is greater than the hydrate-forming temperature (Th) and that the amount and/or the temperature of the medium (11) is regulated in accordance with the speed and the pressure with which it is desired the gas is to be released.
3. Method according to one of claims l or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the temperature regulating medium (11) is introduced into the generating chamber (1) in the form of jet streams with a compact pattern of diverging, converging, crossing and/or parallel jet streams, and where preferrably at least some of the jet streams change direction and/or strength as a function of time.
4. Method according to one of claims 1 - 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the temperaure regulating medium (11) is introduced at such a high jet stream speed that the gas (2) is set into strong agitation inside the generating chamber (1) .
5. Method according to one of the claims 1 - 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the temperature regulating medium (11) as it is discharged from the generating chamber (1) is recirculated and underway is again regulated for temperature.
6. Method according to one of the claims 1 - 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the generated hydrate (5) is extracted continually or in batches from the generating chamber (1) and is transported to another place of use or storage.
7. Method according to one of claims 1 - 6, 


c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the pressure (P) at which the gas (2) is supplied is in the region of 5-100 barg and preferrably in the region 10-50 barg.
8. Method for converting and subsequent storage of gas, according to one of the above claims, where storage is carr¬ ied out as the gas is converted so that it becomes part of a hydrate (5) when it is brought together with a hydrate-for¬ ming liquid (3) at temperature/pressure conditions which lea to hydrate forming, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the chamber(s) (l) in which the hydrate (5) is formed, is(are) supplied with gas (2), preferrably at the prevailing process temperature, and that
- a temperature regulating medium (11) is introduced into the chamber(s) (1) through special jets (6) , in a cooled condition when more gas (2) is desired stored and/or when the hydrate (5) produced is desired coole so that it is retained in the hydrate form; and in a heated condition when extraction of gas (2) is desired from the hydrate (5) .
9. Method according to one of the claims 1 - 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that cooling of gas and heating of hydrate respectively occurs substantially by direct cont¬ act between the gas or hydrate and the temperature regulatin medium (11) which is recirculated through a heat exchaner (8) installed outside the chamber(s) (1) and that preferrably th same heat exchanger (8) is used for cooling or heating the recirculated temperature regulating medium (11) both during the formation of hydrate (5) and during the extraction of ga (2) from the hydrate (5) .
10. Method according to one of the previous claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the temperature regulating medium and/or an extra, auxiliary medium (9,13) to cool/heat the circulating, temperature regulating medium (11) , is take 


from an available source of water with a suitable tem¬ perature.
11. Method according to one of the claims l - 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the temperature regulating medium (11) has the same, or substantially the same, composi¬ tion as the hydrate-forming liquid (3) and that the medium and the liquid are introduced at least in part through the same pipe system.
12. Method according to one of the claims 1 - 11, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the temperature regulating medium (11) and/or the hydrat-forming liquid (3) is comprised mainly of water, possibly with some additives.
13. Means for convertion of a hydrate-forming gas (2) to a hydrate (5) , by exposing the gas (2) to a hydrate-forming liquid (3) which is added to the gas (2) in a finely dispers¬ ed form, under hydrate generating pressure and temperature conditions, and with any subsequent storage and/or transport of the gas (2) in the form of a gas hydrate (5) , said conver¬ tion taking place in at least one chamber (1) , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means includes at least one chamber (1) with inlet openings (4) for the hydrate- forming liquid (3) and at least one inlet opening (10) for the gas (2) , and that the means includes besides: at least one set of jets (6) for supply of a temperatur regulating medium (11) , and at least one outlet (7) for superfluous amounts of the temperature regulating medium (11) .
14. Means according to claim 13, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it also includes: - a pressure regulator (18) preferably located at the gas's (2) intake opening (10) to regulate the pressure (P) o the gas (2) so that it will remain inside the region of pressure in which hydrate can be formed. 


15. Means according to claim 13 or 14, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it also includes a recir- culation means (16,17) for the superfluous amount of tempera ture regulating medium (11) , as well as a heat exchanger plant (8) for regulating the temperature of the medium (11) .
16. Means according to one of the claims 13 - 15, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the jets (6) for supplying the termperature regulating medium (11) are jet nozzles adapted for providing jet streams at high pressure, each individual stream having a small cross-section.
17. Means according to one of the claims 13 - 16, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at least one of the jets (6) for supplyingthe temperature regulating medium (11) is placed near the area where the gas (2) is introduced into th generating chamber (1) and preferrably so that the pattern o jet streams will be most compact in exactly this region.
18. Means accoding to one of claims 13 - 17, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it also includes a dis¬ charge opening (14) for generated hydrate (5) .
19. Means according to claim 18, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the discharge opening (14) for hydrate is provided with a transport device (15,25) for hydrate.
20. Means according to one of claims 13 - 19, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the generating chamber (1) is located on, or is an integral part of, a transport device particularly an ocean-going vessel.
21. Means according to one of the claims 13 - 20, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the chamber (1) is a relat ively small, mobile or even portable cylinder (20) which is closed at one of its ends (21) and open at its other end (22), said cylinder (20) is equipped with inlets (4,6,10) fo gas (2) , hydrate-forming liquid (3) and the temperature 


regulating medium (11) , which in this instance operates exclusively as a cooling medium, at its closed end; and preferrably is equipped with a discharge mouthpiece (23) at its open end.
22. Means according to one of the claims 13 - 21, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the gas inlet/gas outlet (10) communicates directly with gas pipes between the place of production and the consumer.
23. Means according to one of the claims 13 - 22, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the jets (4) for supply of the hydrate-forming liquid (3) are providedwith a mechanical, high frequency generator, e.g. in the form of an ultra sound source.
24. Means according to one of the claims 13 - 23, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the chamber (s) (l) is/are constructed in a geological formation, especially in the form of chamber(s) in rock. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
