<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656808</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FILTRATION MEDIUM AND METHOD FOR MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D3908	B01D3908	B01D3916	B01D3916	B01D6900	B01D6912	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D39	B01D39	B01D39	B01D39	B01D69	B01D69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel filtration medium (10), preferably of the closed loop belt type, comprising a woven substrate (12) which is overlaid by a disparate layer comprising a plurality of individual thermoplastic resin particulates (18) which are controllably spaced apart from one another and bonded at fixed spaced apart locations to one to another and to the strands of the woven substrate (12). These resin particulates (18) serve to define the pore structure and pore size for the medium (10). A method for the manufacture of the filtration medium (10) is disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CER WAT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CER-WAT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE CHARLES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, CHARLES, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FILTRATION MEDIUM AND METHOD FOR MAKING SAMEThis invention relates to filtration media in general, and in particular to planar filtration media which comprise a substrate and one or more disparate layers overlaid thereon, such layer or layers serving to alter and/or adjust the filtration capabilities of the media.In the prior art, filtration media have included many variations of planar substrates, such as screens, which have openings or pores through the thickness of the substrate through which there will pass one or more of the components of a mixture of materials that is deposited on the medium. These filtration media must provide the physical support required of the medium when a mixture of materials to be separated is deposited on one of the planar surfaces of the medium and one or more of the components of the mixture is caused to flow through the open passageways defined between the opposite planar surfaces of the medium. Application of pressure or vacuum may be used to enhance the rate of filtration and thereby further subject the medium to forces that tend to distort the screen, to increase the rate of wear of the screen, and to contribute to clogging of the openings through the screen. For physical support, at times it is required that the substrate be relatively massive and accordingly will define only gross, i.e. relatively large, open passageways through the thickness of the medium. It has been proposed heretofore that additional layers of filtration medium (e.g. additional screens), each having progressively smaller average sizes of open passageways through their respective thicknesses (termed "pores" in many instances), be overlaid onto the base filtration medium so that the end result is a composite filtration medium which has a combination of average pore sizes that has enhanced capability to perform the desired separation and which better withstands the wear and other forces that tend to distort and/or destroy a filtration medium during use.Among the problems of the composite or multi-layered filtration media of the prior art are the difficulty of 

adding to a substrate one or more of the desired additional layers in a manner which provides uniformity of filtration, which provides continued retention of the added layer or layers on the substrate during use of the medium, which permits the medium to be used throughout a range of operating temperatures (particularly relatively high temperatures), and which does not result in inordinate clogging of the medium during use. Further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A filtration medium comprising a planar porous substrate means having first and second substantially planar opposite surfaces and which provides support for the medium and further defines a plurality of substantially uniformly sized open passageways between said opposite surfaces to define the gross filtration capacity of the medium, and a layer of discrete and substantially uniformly spaced-apart thermoplastic resin particulates of substantially uniform particle size overlaid on one of said surfaces of said substrate, said resin particulates being bonded at spaced apart locations to said substrate, the particle size of the particulates of said resin particulates being selected to controllably define structured open passageways through the layer of resin particulates and prevent their ready passage through the open passageways of said substrate means prior to their being bonded to said substrate.
2. The filtration medium of Claim 1 wherein said resin particulates prior to becoming bonded to said substrate are of a particle size that is essentially equal to or greater than the size of the open passageways through said substrate whereby unbonded resin particulates will not readily pass through said open passageways.
3. The filtration medium of Claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic resin is chosen from the class consisting of polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl alcohol, polyurethane, polyester, polypropylene, polyethylene and acrylic.
4. The filtration medium of Claim 1, wherein said openings through said substrate prior to the addition of said resin are about 100 times larger than the size of the openings defined by said resin after it has been bonded to said substrate.
5. The filtration medium of Claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a woven web of a thermoplastic resin.
6. The filtration medium of Claim 5 wherein said substrate comprises woven polyester strands.
7. The filtration medium of Claim 1 wherein the 


diametral dimension of open passageways defined by said resin particulates is between about 20 and about 200 microns.
8. A method for the formation of a filtration medium capable of providing at least one generally planar filtration surface comprising the steps of
selecting a planar substrate having first and second substantially planar opposite surfaces and having defined therein a plurality of open passageways which extend between said opposite surfaces,
admixing particulates of a fugitive particulate material and particulates of a thermoplastic resin,
depositing a layer of said admixed particulates onto one of said surfaces of said substrate,
thereafter heating said layer of admixed particulates to a temperature at which said resin becomes sufficiently fluid to bond to said substrate,
thereafter cooling said substrate and said layer to a temperature below the glass transition temperature of said resin whereupon said resin particulates become bonded at spaced-apart locations to said substrate, and
thereafter removing said fugitive material from said layer of resin particulates without materially 


 altering the bonded relationship of said resin particulates to said substrate and leaving open passageways between said resin particulates, said passageways being substantially smaller in cross-section than the cross-section of said open passageways through said substrate prior to the addition of said resin thereto.
9. The method of Claim 8 wherein said layer on said substrate is heated by means of heat applied to that surface of said substrate opposite the surface which carries said layer.
10. The method of Claim 8 wherein the size of said fugitive particulates are orders of magnitude smaller than the size of particulates in said mixture.
11. The method of Claim 8 wherein the quantity of said calcium carbonate and said resin comprising said layer on said substrate is sufficient to reduce the average cross-sectional area of said passageways between the opposite surfaces of said substrate by a factor of about 100 when deposited on one of said surfaces as a mixture of particulates and thereafter heated to a temperature at which said resin becomes sufficiently fluid to form a bond between said resin particulates and said substrate.
12. The method of Claim 8 wherein said fugitive particulate material is calcium carbonate.
13. The method of Claim 9 wherein said calcium carbonate is precipitated calcium carbonate.
14. A method for the formation of a filtration medium comprising the steps of selecting a woven planar substrate of a closed-loop belt geometry having first and second substantially planar opposite substantially parallel surfaces and having defined therein a plurality of open passageways which extend between said opposite surfaces, 


admixing particulates of calcium carbonate and a thermoplastic resin,
depositing a layer of said admixed particulates onto one of said surfaces of said substrate,
thereafter heating said layer of admixed particulates to a temperature at which said resin becomes sufficiently fluid to bond to said substrate,
thereafter cooling said substrate and said layer to a temperature below the glass transition temperature of said resin whereupon adjacent ones of said resin particulates become bonded to said substrate, and
thereafter removing said calcium carbonate from said filtration medium without materially altering the bonded relationship of said resin particulates to said substrate. 

15. The method of Claim 8 and including the steps which include, prior to the deposition of said layer of mixed fugitive particulates and said resin particulates, depositing onto one surface of said substrate a quantity of resin particulates having a diametral size greater than the diametral size of said open passageways through said substrate, thereafter heating said resins on said substrate to its glass transition temperature whereupon said resin flows and migrates to the perimeters of said open passageways through said substrate and bonds to said substrate to partially and permanently reduce the size of said open passageways, and thereafter cooling said resin to solidify the said resin.
16. The method of Claim 15 and wherein the steps of Claim 15 are repeated one or more times and employing a smaller size of resin particulates in each repetition. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
