<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654108</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED BUILDING WALL AND METHOD OF CONSTRUCTING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B1300	B32B1302	C04B2800	C04B2802	E04B286	E04B286	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	C04B	C04B	E04B	E04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B13	B32B13	C04B28	C04B28	E04B2	E04B2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A simple, environmentally benign building (2) for on-site erection and fabrication is made of monolithic, architectural, strutural walls (1), beams, girders, joists and panels (8) of relatively high physical strength which exhibit great durability and resistance to fire, wind and seismic damage and which have highly desirable acoustic and thermal transfer characteristics. The wall is constructed by casting a core (10) of flowable fibrous, foam cement mix between two, thin panels (8) of manufactured, exterior-grade fiberglass reinforced cement board. Particles and proteins from the core mix penetrate, migrate into and fill interstitial spaces in the cement board, forming a strong, continuous and homogenous bond between the fill material (10) and the board itself. This imparts additional strenght to the cement board by filling the interstitial voids, creating a solid, homogeneous wall. The wall, girder, etc. structure is fabricated at the building site to form seamless, monolithic wall units according to the lost-form system of casting by erecting, assembling and appropriately connecting the fiber cement boards (8). An outer cement board (8) is used as a permanent form creating one side of the building wall. The fiber-foam-cement core supplies structural strength, insulating properties and monolithic bonding of all components. An inner, cement board (8) creates the interior side of the wall.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOUR CORNERS GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOUR CORNERS GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES ROGER H JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LICATA RICKY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, ROGER, H., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LICATA, RICKY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED BUILDING WALL AND METHOD OF CONSTRUCTING SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to the construction of building structures such as walls, beams, girders and the like. Most modern construction systems fall into one of the following broad categories:1. On-site or pre-manufactured wood and/or metal frame construction.2. Masonry, joined or assembled at the building site and composed of various materials, including stone, brick, and precast concrete-masonry building units.3. Manufactured or precast concrete panels.4. Cast-in-situ concrete structural walls (including composite concrete and insulation material "sandwich" structures and lost-form systems) . 5. Tilt-up, cast-on-site concrete walls.Such systems require mechanical or chemical (bonding) attachment of, or include as components within themselves, environmentally unsafe, if not hazardous, wind and/or vapor barriers, waterproofing and various thermal and acoustic insulation. For example, they generally rely upon pre-manufactured batts or panels for insulation and wind and weatherproofing. Such batts or panels are composed of some or all of: plastic sheeting, kraft paper, aluminum foil, fiberglass, rock wool, petroleum tars, expanded plastics and the like. They require skilled, experienced labor and specialized tools for their construction. They are therefore costly and time consuming to complete. Teaching the skills required to construct these systems is an expensive process, often requiring years of education, formal training and hands-on experience.Furthermore, many aspects of these systems are environmentally unfriendly; some are even toxic. Wood-based systems require the cutting of large tracts of forest, which 

is environmentally harmful, and wood is often treated with toxic chemicals to retard combustion, reduce decay or protect against insect infestations. Autoclaved concrete and metal-based systems require large quantities of thermal energy for their manufacture and fabrication. Most commonly used systems further require at least some environmentally harmful, often toxic, moisture and vapor proofing and insulation.The safety and durability of these systems are also less than ideal. Wood systems are subject to destruction or damage by insects, rot, fire and catastrophic events such as tornadoes, hurricanes and floods. Metal-based, concrete and masonry systems frequently fail at inter-component connecting points during earthquakes or because of soil movement. Complex; e.g. framed systems and most of the composite
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A building structure comprising first and second, spaced-apart boards defining an interior space between them and having porous surfaces facing the interior space, and a lightweight core formed of a mixture comprising at least cured cement, a multiplicity of closed voids distributed throughout the core, and a multiplicity of relatively short plastic fibers distributed throughout the core, some of the cured cement of the core and some of the fibers extending past the porous surfaces into the boards to form a uniform, high- strength bond between the core and the boards.
2. A building structure according to claim 1 wherein the fibers comprise nylon fibers.
3. A building structure according to claim 1 including a plurality of spacers in the interior space having ends in contact with the porous board surfaces, and connecting means in a vicinity of the spacers biasing the boards against the spacers; whereby the spacers and the connecting means secure the boards to each other in their desired relative positions to define the interior space into which uncured, fluid core mix materials can be placed for subsequent curing to form the core and bond the core to the porous board surfaces.
4. A building structure according to claim 3 wherein the spacers and the connecting means are constructed of a plastic material to reduce heat transfer between the boards.
5. A building structure according to claim 3 wherein the spacers and the connecting means are at least partially constructed of materials selected from the group consisting of wood, bamboo, reed and hemp twine. 


 6. A building structure according to claim 3 wherein the boards have outer surfaces facing away from the inner space, and wherein the connecting means is recessed from the respective outer surfaces of the boards so that no part of the connecting means protrudes past the outer surfaces.
7. A building structure according to claim 3 wherein the boards have outer surfaces facing away from the inner space, and wherein the connecting means includes a string portion and at least two knot portions carried by the string portion, the knot portions being spaced apart a distance no less than a distance between outer surfaces of the boards.
8. A building structure according to claim 3 wherein the string portion and the knot portions are made of a single piece of uniform material.
9. A building structure according to claim 1 wherein said structure is a building wall defined by a first, lower wall section and a second, upper wall section disposed on top of the first wall section, the second section comprising third and fourth porous boards placed on top of and in surface alignment with the first and second boards and defining a further interior space between them aligned with the first-mentioned interior space, the third and fourth boards also having porous surfaces facing the further interior space, and a further lightweight core formed of a mixture comprising at least cured cement, a multiplicity of closed voids distributed throughout the further core and a multiplicity of relatively short plastic fibers distributed throughout the further core, some of the cured cement of the further core and some of the fibers in the further core extending into the third and fourth boards past their porous surfaces to form a uniform, high-strength bond between the further core and the third and fourth boards, and 


 anchoring means located between the first and second wall sections preventing relative lateral movements between them in a direction transverse to the boards.
10. A building structure according to claim 9 wherein the lateral anchoring means includes a channel formed in an upwardly facing surface of the first- mentioned core and a protrusion disposed in the channel formed by the further core.
11. A building structure according to claim 9 wherein the lateral anchoring means comprises a plurality of spaced-apart metal rods extending from the first- mentioned core into the further core, the metal rods being embedded in said cores.
12. A building structure according to claim 1 "wherein the structure is a building wall and including a support surface for carrying the wall, the support surface defining a channel forming a channel base and upright channel sides, and wherein outer surfaces of the boards facing away from the interior space abut the channel sides.
13. A building structure according to claim 1 wherein the structure is a building wall and including a plurality of sets of spaced-apart first and second boards, the plurality of boards being in horizontal alignment with each other and spaced apart so that edges of the boards define an upright gap between adjacent first boards and adjacent second boards, and wherein the mixture of the core fills the gaps and forms a bond with the board edges.
14. A building structure according to claim 1 wherein the structure is a building wall and wherein the wall defines a first, lower wall section, and including a second, upper wall section constructed identically to the 


first wall section and disposed on top of the first wall section so that the sections form a multi-story wall, and including a horizontally oriented ledger board disposed in a vicinity of where the first and second wall sections meet, and means for securing the ledger board to an outer surface of at least one board facing away from the interior space.
15. A building structure according to claim 14 wherein the securing means includes a plurality of threaded bolts each having a free end projecting from the board and including a portion embedded in and thereby secured to the core, the free end protruding past the ledger board, and nut means carried by the bolt and tightened against the ledger board to thereby secure the ledger board to the multi-story wall.
16. A building structure according to claim 15 including a saddle plate embedded in the core of at least one of the wall sections, the saddle plates including cutouts extending substantially parallel to the porous boards and filled with the mixture forming the core, and means securing the saddle plate to the porous surface of at least one of the boards until after the mixture forming the core has been poured and cured.
17. A building structure according to claim 16 including a saddle plate for each threaded bolt, the saddle plates being embedded in the cores of the upper and lower wall sections and including means for engaging the bolts, whereby the saddle plates support the bolts until after the core has been poured and cured.
18. A building comprising a substantially horizontal support surface; a continuous, upwardly open channel formed in the support surface, bounded by upwardly oriented channel sides and arranged so that the channel coincides with the location of a desired building 


wall; upright, opposing fiber-reinforced, porous cement boards having lower end portions disposed in the channel and in contact with the channel sides, spacers between opposing boards, and tie means in a vicinity of the spacers and extending through substantially aligned holes in the cement boards from one cement board to the other; and a solid core disposed in an interior space between the opposing cement boards, the core being formed by pouring a fluid core mix including cement, a foam and relatively short nylon fibers into the interior space, the cement having cured, a portion of the core mix including at least some cement and some fibers being disposed in pores of the cement boards, the some fibers protruding from the pores into the solid core so that a uniform, intimate bond is formed between the solid core and the cement boards, whereby the boards and the core define a homogeneous building wall over the length of the "channel.
19. A building according to claim 18 wherein the channel comprises a plurality of channel sections, at least one of the sections being angularly inclined relative to another channel section, and wherein the homogeneous building wall extends over the plurality of channel sections.
20. A building comprising a support surface defining a plurality of continuous, upwardly open channel sections bounded by lateral, spaced-apart, upright channel side walls, at least one channel section being angularly inclined relative to another channel section, and a homogeneous building wall extending upwardly from the channel sections and exhibiting a substantially uniform rate of thermal expansions and contractions when subjected to temperature changes; the wall including spaced-apart, outer, fiber-reinforced, porous cement boards aligned with the channels and a fiber-foam cement core filling an interior space between the spaced-apart 


cement boards and extending from a base of the channel sections to a top of the boards; the cement core being formed in situ in the interior space and comprising cured cement; a foam forming a multiplicity of voids distributed throughout the core; and a multiplicity of relatively short nylon fibers, at least some of the cement and some of the fibers being disposed in pores of the cement boards, the at least some of the fibers extending partially from the cement board into the core so that materials of the core and the boards only form an intimate and uniform bond between the core and the boards; whereby the generation of temperature induced stresses and cracks resulting therefrom in the wall are substantially prevented.
21. A method of constructing a building wall comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a set of first and second boards, each board having at least one porous surface; (b) positioning the boards so that the porous surfaces face each other;
(c) placing a plurality of spacers between the opposing porous surfaces;
(d) biasing the boards against the spacers so that the boards define a casting form with an interior space between them;
(e) pouring into the interior space a fluid mix comprising at least cement, a foam equally distributed through the mix so that, upon pouring, the mix disposed in the space includes a multiplicity of closed voids, and a multiplicity of relatively short plastic fibers throughout the mix;
(f) penetrating pores in the boards with at least some cement and some fibers so that portions of the at least some fibers extend from the pores into the fluid mix in the interior space; and 


 (g) curing the mix to form a solid core and an intimate, uniform bond between the solid core and the boards and thereby complete the wall.
22. A method according to claim 21 including the step of moving the boards and the spacers as a unit to a desired location for the wall after the step of biasing and prior to the step of pouring.
23. A method according to claim 22 including the step of forming a channel in a support surface for the wall, the channel having a width substantially equal to a spacing between exterior surfaces of the boards facing away from the core, and wherein the step of moving includes the step of placing lower end portions of the boards into the channel.
24. A method according to claim 23 wherein the step of forming the channel comprises the step of forming the channel so that the boards can gravitationally drop into the channel during the moving step, and including the step of sealing the interior space from the exterior along the channel by biasing the lower end portions of the boards into intimate contact with upright sides of the channel to prevent a migration of the fluid mix out of the channel during the pouring and curing steps.
25. A method according to claim 24 including the step of repeating steps (a)-(d) with a second set of opposed boards; thereafter placing the second set of boards on top of the previously formed wall, and thereafter repeating steps (e)-(g) so that the fluid mix poured into the interior space between the second set of boards contacts and therewith bonds to an upper surface of the solid core between the first-mentioned set of boards, whereby a multi-story wall is completed. 


 26. A method according to claim 21 wherein the step of biasing comprises the step of extending an elongated member through the boards and the interior space so that ends of the member project past outer surfaces of the boards facing away from the internal space, applying tension to the member and transferring tension forces in the member to the exterior sides of the boards to thereby bias the boards against the spacer, and, after curing, severing the ends of the members at points inward of the outer board surfaces.
27. A method according to claim 21 including the steps of repeating steps (a)-(d) prior to the pouring step to form a second set of interconnected boards, thereafter moving the first-mentioned set of boards adjacent the second set of boards so that edges of the boards in the respective sets are opposite each other and 
"
 form gaps between them, sealing the gaps in substantial alignment with exterior sides of the boards of the sets facing away from the respective interior spaces between the boards of the sets, and thereafter performing steps (
e
)-(9) with respect to the interior spaces defined by the sets of boards including the gaps, whereby, following the curing step, a homogeneous wall is formed by the sets of boards and the solid core therein and an exterior surface of the wall defined by the exterior board surfaces and cured fluid mix in the gaps is substantially continuous and smooth.
28. A method of constructing a building having upright walls comprising the steps of:
(a) preparing a support surface for the walls;
(b) forming elongated channels having upright, laterally spaced sides on the support surface where walls are to be erected;
(c) assembling multiple sets of first and second, fiber-reinforced, porous cement boards face-to- 


 face and firmly securing the board of each set in parallel, spaced-apart relationship to each other so that the sets form and can be moved as units and define a hollow interior space between the board of each unit, the boards being spaced so that a distance between their exterior surfaces facing away from the interior space is substantially equal to a spacing between the channel sides and permits the units to gravitationally drop into the channels; (d) positioning the units side-by-side in the channels so that opposing edges of the boards of adjacent units are separated by gaps;
(e) sealing the gaps over a height of the boards in substantial alignment with the exterior board surfaces;
(f) mixing a flowable core fill including cement, a foam, and relatively short nylon fibers so that
"
 a substantially homogeneous mix is formed which includes evenly distributed, closed voids and nylon fibers; (g) pouring the flowable core fill into the interior spaces and the gaps defined by the units in the channels;
(h) causing the flowable core fill including at least cement and nylon fibers to enter pores of the boards facing the interior spaces so that some of the nylon fibers have portions disposed inside the board and in the interior spaces; and
(i) thereafter curing the flowable core fill to form a lightweight, solid core including a multiplicity of evenly distributed closed voids and nylon fibers and the boards and the rigid core become intimately and uniformly bonded to each other and the cured core fill in the gaps bonds and thereby interconnects the opposing edges of adjoining boards and forms, with the exterior board surfaces, a substantially continuous, smooth exterior wall surface; whereby temperature changes in the building walls cause substantially uniform thermal 


expansions and contractions therein to prevent the formation of temperature induced stresses and cracks in the building walls. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
