<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634649</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for thermal conductivity measurements
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2520	G01N2520	G01N2518	G01N2518	G01N2548	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N25	G01N25	G01N25	G01N25	G01N25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is a method and apparatus 
for measuring the
 thermal conductivity of materials 
using modulated differential scanning calorimetry 

(MDSC). Two MDSC heat capacity measurements are made 
consecutively. One measurement is made under conditions 

which ensure obtaining a fairly accurate value 
for the heat capacity of the material. Another 

measurement is made under conditions such that the 
measured effective heat capacity differs from the 

accurate value of the heat capacity due to thermal 
conductivity effects. The thermal conductivity of the 

material is then calculated. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TA INSTR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TA INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCUS SANFORD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
READING MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCUS, SANFORD M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
READING, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and
methods using Modulated Differential Scanning Calorimetry
("MDSC") to measure the thermal conductivity of
materials.Thermal conductivity characterizes the ability
of a material to conduct heat. Traditional methods
for measuring the thermal conductivity of materials
comprise imposing a temperature gradient upon a
material of known geometry, and measuring the heat
flow through the material. The heat flow is measured
by, for example, measuring the temperature drop across
a sheet of known thermal conductivity.P. G. Knibbe, J. Phys. E: Sci. Instrum.,
vol. 20, pp. 1205-1211 (1987) describes a "hot wire"
technique for measuring the thermal conductivity of a
material. This technique uses a temperature-sensitive
resistor wire embedded in a sample of the material.
The resistor wire serves the dual function of supplying
heat to the specimen, and measuring the 
temperature change at the wire. This rate of change
is related to the thermal conductivity of the sample
of the material.D. G. Cahill and R. O. Pohl, Phys. Rev. B.
vol. 35, p. 4067 (1987), and D. G. Cahill, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. vol. 61(2), pp. 802-808 (1990), describe a
"3ω" technique for measuring thermal conductivity.
This technique uses a temperature sensitive resistive
metal film evaporated as a narrow line onto the surface
of the sample to simultaneously heat the sample
and detect the flow of heat away from the metal line.
A current at angular frequency ω heats the metal line
at a frequency of 2ω. Because the resistance of a
metal increases with increasing temperature, and this
temperature is modulated by the sample thermal conductivity,
this produces a small oscillation in the
resistance of the metal line, resulting in a voltage
across the resistor at a frequency of 3ω. The thermal
conductivity of the sample is then calculated from the
amplitude of the 3ω voltage oscillations.J. H. Flynn and D. M. Levin, Thermochimica
Acta, vol. 126, pp. 93-100 (1988), describes a thermal
conductivity measurement method, suitable for measuring
the thermal conductivity of sheet materials, based
upon first-order transitions in a sensor material. A
film of the sensor material is placed on a surface of 
the sheet material. The thermal conductivity measurement
is made at the temperature at which the sensor
material undergoes a first order transition. For
example, if indium is used as the sensor material, the
measurement is made at the melting point of indium,
i.e., at the temperature at which indium undergoes a
first order
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of measuring the thermal conductivity of a material compnsing:

(a) providing a modulated differential scanning calorimeter (111) having a sample
position (112) and a reference position (113), said modulated differential scanning calorimeter

also comprising means for modulating the temperature of the sample and reference positions at
selected modulation angular frequencies and modulation amplitudes;
(b) measuring the heat capacity of a sample (201, 213, 217, 221, 225, 303, 308,
401) of the material placed in the sample position in the calorimeter by measuring the

differential heat flow to the sample position with respect to the reference position under quasi-ideal
conditions;
(c) measuring the effective heat capacity of a sample (201, 213, 217, 221, 225,
303, 308, 401) of the material in the calorimeter by measuring the differential heat flow to the

sample position with respect to the reference position under non-ideal conditions; and
(d) calculating the thermal conductivity of the material from the sample dimensions,
sample weights, the heat capacity measured under quasi-ideal conditions, and the effective heat

capacity measured under non-ideal conditions.
A method according to Claim 1, and further comprising:

placing a sample of the material on the sample position (308) and a matching sample
(303) of the material on the reference position; 
placing a specimen (309) having a known heat capacity on top of the sample on the
sample position and
measuring the effective heat capacity of the specimen; wherein the thermal
conductivity of the material is calculated also from the dimensions and weight of the

specimen, from the known heat capacity of the specimen, and from the effective heat
capacity of the specimen.
A method according to Claim 1 and further comprising:

placing a specimen (309) on the sample position;
measunng the true heat capacity of the specimen (309) in the calorimeter under quasi-ideal
conditions;
removing the specimen (309) from the sample position;
placing a sample (308) of the material on the sample position and a
matching sample (303) of the material on the reference position;
placing the specimen (309) on top of the sample on the sample position and
measuring the effective heat capacity of the specimen; wherein the thermal conductivity
of the material is calculated also from the dimensions and weight of the specimen, from

the true heat capacity of the specimen and from the effective heat capacity of the
specimen.
A method according to Claims 2 or 3 wherein the sample or one of the samples of the
material is a thin film material in the form of a disc or wafer. 
A method according to Claim 1 wherein the material (404) is a liquid material and the
method further comprises:


placing a crucible (401) containing a sample of the liquid material (404) on the sample
position (112), and a matching crucible containing a matching sample of the liquid

material on the reference position (113);
placing a specimen (402) having a known heat capacity on top of the sample of the
liquid material at the sample position, said specimen being supported by a support (403,

405) of low-conductivity and measuring the effective heat capacity of the specimen
(402); wherein the thermal conductivity of the liquid material is also calculated from the

depth of the liquid material in the crucible, the dimensions of the crucible, from the
dimensions and weight of the specimen, from the known heat capacity of the specimen,

and from the effective heat capacity of the specimen.
A method according to Claim 5 wherein the specimen (402) is supported by a plurality
of low-conductivity rods (403).
A method according to Claim 1 wherein the material is a metal, such as aluminium, and
the method further comprises:


preparing a first sample (201) of the material in the form of a thin wafer, for example a
circular disc, having a known thickness, preferably 1mm or less, known dimensions and

known weight;
encapsulating the first sample of the material in a thin layer of conforming high thermal
conductivity material (202), the mass of said thin layer of high thermal conductivity

material having a first value; 
preparing a second sample of the material as a right angle cylinder (206), preferably a
circular right angle cylinder, having flat and parallel top and bottom surfaces, the height

of said cylinder being greater than the thickness of the first sample of the material;
placing the first sample in the sample position of the calorimeter;
placing a thin wafer (203) of the high thermal conductivity material on the reference
position of the calorimeter, the mass of said thin wafer of high thermal conductivity

material having the first value;
measuring the effective heat capacity of the first sample by:

selecting a modulation angular frequency and a modulation amplitude;
varying the temperature of the sample position and the reference position according
to the selected modulation amplitude and modulation angular frequency; and

recording a differential signal representative of differential changes in the heat flow
to and from the sample position with respect to the heat flow to and from the

reference position;
removing the first sample from the sample position;
removing the thin wafer of high thermal conductivity material from the
reference position;
placing the second sample on the sample position of the calorimeter;
measuring the effective heat capacity of the second sample by:

selecting a modulation angular frequency and a modulation amplitude; 
varying the temperature of the sample position according to the selected
modulation amplitude and modulation angular frequency and recording a

differential signal representative of differential changes in the heat flow to and
from the sample position with respect to the heat flow to and from the reference

position, wherein the thermal conductivity of the material is also calculated
from the measured heat capacities of the first sample and of the second sample,

from the dimensions and weights of both the first sample and of the second
sample and from the modulation angular frequency.
A method according to Claim 7, wherein the second sample (206) is mounted onto the
sample position by attaching a first surface of a first wafer of metal foil (212) to the second

sample using high thermal conductivity material (214), and then attaching a second surface of
the first wafer of metal foil to the sample position using high thermal conductivity material

(216).
A method according to Claim 8 and further comprising attaching a second wafer of
metal foil to the reference position, said second wafer having the same thickness and

dimensions as the first wafer and said second wafer being made being made from the same
material as the first wafer.
A method according to Claim 1, wherein the material is a thin film and the method
further comprises:


preparing a right angle cylinder (301) of a material, for example of a metal, such as
aluminium, having a known heat capacity, said cylinder having flat and parallel top and

bottom surfaces and having a known cross-sectional area and preferably a circular cross
section; 
preparing two wafers, (303, 308) for example circular discs of the material, said wafers
having similar dimensions and thicknesses, and measuring the thickness of the two

wafers;
placing a layer of high thermal conductivity material, such as heat sink compound,
(302) uniformly over the sample position of the calonmeter;
placing an amount of the high thermal conductivity material (305) over the reference
position of the calorimeter equal to the amount placed over the sample position;
mounting the cylinder (309) on the sample position of the differential scanning
calorimeter;
selecting a modulation angular frequency and a modulation amplitude;
measunng the true heat capacity of the cylinder, using the selected modulation angular
frequency and the selected modulation amplitude;
removing the cylinder form the sample position;
mounting one wafer of the material onto the sample position, and the other wafer of the
material to the reference position;
mounting the cylinder of the known heat capacity material over the wafer on the sample
position and
measuring the effective heat capacity of the cylinder using the selected modulation
angular frequency and the selected modulation amplitude, wherein the thermal

conductivity of the material is also calculated from the true heat capacity of the 
cylinder, the effective heat capacity of the cylinder, the thickness of thin films, the

selected modulation angular frequency and the cross-sectional area of the cylinder.
A method according to Claim 1 and further comprising:

preparing, as a sample of the material, (206, 213, 227) a right angle cylinder, preferably
of a circular cross section, having flat and parallel top and bottom surfaces, the height

of said cylinder being greater than 1mm;
measuring the height of the cylinder, the dimensions of its cross-section, and the weight
of the cylinder;
placing the sample of the material on the sample position of the calorimeter;
measuring a first effective heat capacity of the sample by:
selecting a first modulation angular frequency and a first modulation amplitude;
varying the temperature of the sample position and the reference position according to
the selected first modulation amplitude and first modulation angular frequency and
recording a differential signal representative of differential changes in the heat flow to and
from the sample position with respect to the heat flow to and from the reference

position;
measuring a second effective heat capacity of the sample by:
selecting a second modulation angular frequency differing from the first modulation
angular frequency by at least a factor of two:
selecting a second modulation amplitude, 
varying the temperature of the sample position and the reference position according to
the selected second modulation amplitude and second modulation angular frequency,

and
recording a differential signal representative of differential changes in the heat flow to
and from the sample position with respect to the heat flow to and from the reference

position: wherein the thermal conductivity of the material is also calculated from the
first and second effective measured heat capacities of the sample, from the height and

cross-sectional dimensions of the cylinder, from the weight of the sample, and from the
first and second angular modulation frequencies.
A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 11 and further compnsing:

selecting a known material having a known thermal conductivity;
preparing a sample of the known thermal conductivity material having dimensions
similar to the dimensions of the sample or one of the samples;
measuring the thermal conductivity of the sample of known thermal conductivity;
calculating a correction factor; and
calculating a corrected value of the thermal conductivity of the material.
A method according to Claim 1 and further comprising:

selecting a known material having a known thermal conductivity;
preparing samples of the known thermal conductivity material having dimensions
similar to the dimensions of the samples used in steps (b) and (c); 
measuring the thermal conductivity of the sample of known thermal conductivity;
calculating a correction factor from the measured thermal conductivity of the sample of
known thermal conductivity and the known thermal conductivity and
re-calculating a corrected value of the thermal conductivity of the material from the
calculated correction factor and the calculated thermal conductivity.
A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 13 wherein the sample in step (c) is the
same sample as the sample in step (b), and the heat capacity measurement is carried out in step

(b) at a first modulation angular frequency, and the heat capacity measurement in step (c) is
carried out at a second modulation angular frequency.
A method of measuring the thermal conductivity of a material according to any one of
Claims 1 to 13 wherein the sample used in step (c) is the same as that used in step (b) and the

heat capacity measurement is carried out in step (b) at a first modulation amplitude, and the
heat capacity measurement in step (c) is carried out at a second modulation amplitude.
A method according to Claim 1 wherein the sample in step (b) is a small sample (201)
encapsulated in high-conductivity material (202), and the sample in step (c) is a larger

unencapsulated sample (206).
A method according to any one of the Claims 1 to 16 and further comprising allowing
the modulation temperature amplitude to stabilise prior to carrying out the heat capacity

measurements.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
