<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A machine for rolling up laminar bodies
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C5300	B29C5344	B65B6304	B65B6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C53	B29C53	B65B63	B65B63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Laminar bodies such as sheets of instructions or labels 
(F) are taken from a pack housed in a box (21) in order 

to be wound around a rotary head (8) which exerts a 
pneumatic gripping action on the laminar bodies (7) in 

order to roll them up to form cylindrical or tubular 
bodies. Each cylindrical or tubular body is then 

deposited in a housing cell (V). 
 
Alternatively, the same machine may also be used to 
produce container bodies formed by rolling up a laminar 

element. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to machines for rolling 
up laminar bodies. 
In particular, the invention is intended to enable 
laminar bodies to be rolled up in order to form 
cylindrical or tubular bodies as a result of the 
rolling. The invention has been developed with particular 
attention to its possible use in automatic packaging 
lines for products such as, for example, food products. 
In a particularly advantageous form of use, the machine 
according to the invention may be used to roll up 
automatically, at a high speed and with great 
precision, sheets representing instructions or 
information to be inserted in cylindrical containers 
such as, for example, containers for housing small toys 
which in turn are intended to be inserted as 
"surprises" in food products such as chocolate eggs and 
the like. However, the invention has a very wide range of 
possible applications. In particular, it may be used 
for automatically producing cylindrical wrappers for 
containing various products, from laminar bodies. Specifically, the present invention relates to a machine 
according to the preamble of claim 1, which is known, e.g. from 
EP-A-0 161 357. The object of the present invention is essentially to 
make the rolling action as rapid and precise as 
possible; this factor assumes considerable importance 
when the invention is used in an industrial field, and 
also in view of the fact that the rolled material 
(which, typically, is constituted by sheets of paper 
printed on one or both faces) tends to be quite  
 
slippery and deformable. According to the present invention this object is 
achieved by virtue of a machine having the further specific 
characteristics set forth in claim 1. The invention will now be described, purely by way of 
non-limiting example, with reference to the appended 
drawings, in which: 
Figure 1 is a general perspective view of a machine 
formed according to the invention, Figure 2 is a section taken on the line II-II of Figure 
1, Figure 3 is a section taken on the line III-III of 
Figure 2, and Figures 4 to 7 show schematically the operating 
sequence of a machine according to the invention. In the drawings, a machine for automatically rolling up 
laminar bodies constituted, in the embodiment 
illustrated, by generally elongate sheets or labels F, 
is generally indicated 1. In the embodiment 
illustrated, the sheets or labels F are constituted by 
elongate rectangular strips of paper one or both faces 
of which are printed with wording such as, for example, 
instructions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A machine for rolling up laminar bodies (F) in order 
to form cylindrical or tubular bodies as a result of 

the rolling, comprising: 

a winding core (7) which can perform a rotary 
movement about its principal axis (X7), 
retention means (26) on the winding core for bringing 
about a connection by contact with the laminar bodies 

(F) to be rolled up, and 
reaction means (27) substantially coextensive with 
the portion of the winding core (7) in which the 

connection is brought about by contact with the laminar 
bodies (F) so that, as a result of the rotation of the 

winding core (7), the laminar bodies (F) are wound 
around the winding core (7), the reaction means (27) 

defining, with respect to the winding core, a chamber 
for the winding and for restraining the cylindrical or 

tubular bodies resulting from the rolling-up of the 
laminar bodies (F),
 
characterized in that the winding core can 

form, with the laminar bodies (F), an adhesive 
connection oriented generally tangentially to the 

winding core (7), and in that the 
reaction means (27) associated with the winding core (7) 

comprise a cowl formation (27) which surrounds 
the winding core (7) at least partially so as to create 

a cylindrical space around the core (7) in which the 
laminar bodies (F) are rolled up and the cylindrical or 

tubular bodies are consequently formed, as a result of 
the rotation of the winding core (7) with the cowl 

formation (27) kept in a substantially fixed position. 
A machine according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the winding core (7) is associated with: 


a device (5, 6) for supporting the winding core (7), 
which is mounted to the device so as to be rotatable 

relative thereto (10), 
an element (20) which causes rotation and is movable 
relative to the device (5), and 
gear means (15 to 19) interposed between the element  
 

(20) which causes rotation and the winding core in an 
arrangement such that the relative movement of the 

device (5) and of element (20) which causes rotation 
results in the rotation of the winding core (7) by 

means of the gear means (15 to 19). 
A device according to Claim 2, characterized in that 
the device (5, 6) is a movable device (3) and in that 

the element (20) which causes rotation is mounted in a 
generally fixed position relative to the movable device 

(3). 
A device according to Claim 2 or Claim 3, 
characterized in that the element (20) which causes 

rotation is constituted by a rack. 
A machine according to any one of Claims 2 to 4, 
characterized in that the gear means (15 to 19) 

comprise at least one first gear (15) keyed to the 
winding core (7) and at least one second gear (16, 19) 

meshed with the element which causes rotation. 
A machine according to any one of Claims 2 to 5, 
characterized in that the gear means (15 to 20) are 

permanently meshed so that a reciprocal motion imparted 
(4) to the movable element (5) causes a corresponding 

reciprocal rotary motion of the winding core (7). 
A machine according to any one of Claims 2 to 6, 
characterized in that the winding core (7) is 

associated with at least one gear (15) which forms part 
of the gear means (15 to 19); the at least one gear 

(15) being mounted on the winding core (7) and fixed 
for rotation therewith but slidable axially relative 

thereto, so that the winding core (7) can perform a  
 

general sliding movement along its principal axis (X7) 
relative to the gear means (15, 20). 
A machine according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that: 


it has means (21) for storing the laminar bodies in 
an extended condition as well as means (V) for housing 

the cylindrical or tubular bodies resulting from the 
winding, 
tile winding core (7) is associated with drive means 
(4) which can impart to the winding core (7) a general 

reciprocating motion between the storage means (21) and 
the housing means (V) as well as transmission means (15 

to 19) so that the reciprocating motion determines, by 
virtue of the transmission means, a corresponding 

rotary motion of the winding core (7) and a consequent 
winding of the laminar bodies (F) around the winding 

core (7) during the movement of the winding core (7) 
between the storage means (21) and the housing means 

(V). 
A machine according to Claim 8, characterized in 
that the winding core (7) is associated with further 

drive means (9) which can cause the winding core (7) to 
travel axially along its principal axis (X7), the 

further drive means (9) being operable in coordination 
with the drive means (4) so that the winding core (7) 

cooperates with the storage means (21) in order to 
withdraw the laminar bodies (F) in a first axial 

position and subsequently to deposit the cylindrical or 
tubular bodies resulting from the winding in the 

housing means (V) after it has travelled axially along 
its principal axis (X7) under the action of the further  

 
drive means (9). 
A machine according to Claim 9, characterized in 
that the axial travel is a downstroke. 
A machine according to Claim 8 or Claim 9, 
characterized in that the drive means (4) and/or the 

further drive means comprise pneumatic jacks (9). 
A machine according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that it comprises means for 

storing the laminar bodies (F) in the extended 
condition, the storage means being constituted 

essentially by a box-like structure (21) in which the 
laminar bodies (F) are arranged in the form of a pack 

the box-like element having a window (22) generally 
facing the winding core (7) so that one end of each 

laminar body (F) can be gripped by the winding core 
(7). 
A machine according to Claim 12, characterized in 
that at least one pressure element (33) is associated 

with the box-like means (21) in order to consolidate 
the laminar elements (F) in the pack. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the winding core (7) has 

an internal cavity (23) which can be brought to a 
subatmospheric pressure (24) and which communicates 

with the external surface of the winding core by means 
of holes (26) which can be brought into contact with 

the laminar bodies (F) so that the winding core (7) can 
pick up the laminar bodies by a general pneumatic 

gripping mechanism.  
 
A machine according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the cowl formation (27) has a skirt surface with a 

hole forming a window through which the laminar bodies 
(F) can come into contact with the rotary body (7). 
A machine according to Claim 15, characterized in 
that the window (25) is defined, within the cowl 

formation (27), by at least one surface (31) extending 
generally tangentially to the surface of the rotary 

body. 
A machine according to Claim 1 and 
Claim 2, characterized in that restraining 

means (30) are interposed between said device (5, 6) and 
the cowl formation (27) for preventing the cowl 

formation (27) from rotating during the rotation of the 
winding core (7). 
A machine according to Claim 17, characterized in 
that the restraining formation is formed generally like 

a spring (30).  
 
A machine according to Claim 1 and Claim 8, 
characterized in that the housing means (V) are formed 

generally like cells (V) with respective mouth 
portions, and in that the cowl formation (27) has a 

wider portion (27a) with generally larger dimensions 
than those of the mouth portions of the cells (V), so 

that the cowl formation (27) can follow the movement of 
the winding core (7) into the cell until the wider 

portion (27a) reacts against the mouth portion of the 
cell (V) whilst the winding core (7) continues to 

travel into the cell (V), depositing the cylindrical or 
tubular body in the cell (V). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises several 

identical units (1) in a paired arrangement. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
