<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655698</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low level flight flyability transformation of digital terrain elevation data.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C2100	G01C2100	G05D100	G05D106	G06F1750	G06F1750	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G05D	G05D	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C21	G01C21	G05D1	G05D1	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flyability index represents a quantified low level flight risk associated with each 
data post in a digital terrain elevation data (DTED) aircraft flight system. Data posts 

immediately surrounded by terrain slope approximately equal to or less then the climb or 
dive angle capability of the aircraft have a zero flyability index, and thereby indicate no 

risk to a low level, set clearance terrain following flight thereover. As the surrounding 
terrain rises or descends at a greater rate, i.e., greater than aircraft capability, the 

flyability index values increase to show increasing risk in low level, e.g., terrain 
following, flight thereover. The illustrated method of transformation provides a single 

flyability index value for association with each data post of interest, and can be thereby 
easily integrated into an existing DTED database system. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRICE DAVID N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRICE, DAVID N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to use of digital terrain elevation data 
(DTED), and particularly to a method of transforming conventional digital terrain 
elevation data to derive a flyability index for each data post of the digital terrain elevation 
data. Digital terrain elevation data represents surface altitude at discrete "data posts." 
Each data post has a surface location or address, e.g., latitude and longitude, and an 
associated altitude, e.g., vertical offset relative to sea level. Thus, a simple form of a 
DTED database would deliver a scaler altitude in response to longitude and latitude 
input. More complicated DTED databases have been developed for certain applications. 
For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,899,292 issued February 6, 1990 to J. F. Dawson and 
E. W. Ronish shows a tessellation method for creating a spherical database by warping a 
digital map, including digital terrain elevation data, by longitude and latitude parameters. DTED database systems are used in flight mission computer systems and flight 
planning strategy in military applications to aid in, for example, covert and evasive flight 
operations. As used in mission computer systems, a DTED database can aid a pilot in 
recommending time-critical maneuvers. A DTED database may be referenced to aid in the selection of flight routes, but 
must be accurate in the results obtained. Referencing a DTED database to select a given 
route must provide a flight path meeting a variety of potentially critical requirements 
ranging from threat visibility concerns to aircraft flight capability concerns with respect 
to the terrain slope, especially in the context of low level terrain following flight. As may 
be appreciated, the accuracy in characterizing the flyability of a given flight route can be 
vitally critical. If a route is selected for low level terrain following flight, but the terrain 
contour makes impossible such flight, the mission could fail. Thus, improvements in 
methods of characterizing terrain based upon DTED analysis are not simply 
improvements in computational elegance, but can be life-saving and critical to mission 
success.  Terrain following flight becomes particularly critical when executed at low above 
ground elevations, especially at fixed above ground elevations. If the terrain following 
flight is to be executed with little or no active sensor data, it is necessary to view a 
DTED database in a manner revealing appropriate, i.e., possible or relatively risk-free, 
flight routes for low level
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for evaluating flyability for a given aircraft having a given flight 
capability above a given ground terrain represented by terrain data including altitude 

posts, the apparatus characterised by: 
   means to select a given post; 

   means to calculate a terrain slope summation as the sum of altitude differences 
between the selected post and a set of surrounding posts; 

   means to calculate a slope threshold as a function of the given aircraft flight 
capability; 

   means to compare said terrain slope summation and said slope threshold; and 
   means to evaluate flyability above said given post as a function of the output of 

said means to compare. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised by means to evaluate 
flyability for low level terrain following flight of said given aircraft above the given 

ground terrain. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 or 2 characterised by means to calculate 
a slope threshold as a function also of a separation between the given post and at least 

one of said set of surrounding posts. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim, characterised in that said 
given aircraft flight capability represents at least one of a maximum climb angle and a 

maximum dive angle for said aircraft. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim characterised in that the 
means to evaluate comprises means to calculate a flyability index associated with said 

given post wherein said flyability index equals a given value when said terrain slope 
summation bears a first relationship to said slope threshold and a quantified value when 

said terrain slope summation bears a second relationship to said slope threshold, said 
quantified value being a function of the output of the means to compare. 
Apparatus according to Claim 5 characterised in that said quantified value 
corresponds in magnitude to a difference between said terrain slope summation and said 

slope threshold. 
Apparatus according to any preceding Claim characterised by means to 
further execute the flyability evaluation against a collection of selected posts 

corresponding to a given ground region to determine flyability over said given ground 
region. 
A method of evaluating flyability for a given aircraft having a given flight 
capability above a given ground terrain represented by terrain data including altitude 

posts, the method characterised by: 
   selecting a given post; 

   calculating a terrain slope summation as the sum of altitude differences between 
the selected post and a set of surrounding posts; 

   calculating a slope threshold as a function of the given aircraft flight capability; 
   comparing said terrain slope summation and said slope threshold; and 

   evaluating flyability above said given post as a function of said comparing step. 
A method according to Claim 8 characterised in that said method is 
executed to evaluate flyability for low level terrain following flight of said given aircraft 

above the given ground terrain. 
A method according to Claim 8 or 9 characterised in that said step of 
calculating a slope threshold is a function also of a separation between the given post 

and at least one of said set of surrounding posts. 
A method according to any of Claims 8 to 10 characterised in that said 
given aircraft flight capability represents at least one of a maximum climb angle and a 

maximum dive angle for said aircraft. 
A method according to any of Claims 8 to 11 characterised in that said 
step of evaluating comprises calculating a flyability index associated with said given post 

wherein said flyability index equals a given value when said terrain slope summation 
bears a first relationship to said slope threshold and a quantified value when said terrain 

slope summation bears a second relationship to said slope threshold, said quantified value 
being a function of said comparing step. 
A method according to any of Claims 8 to 12 characterised in that said 

quantified value corresponds in magnitude to a difference between said terrain slope 
summation and said slope threshold. 
A method according to any of Claims 8 to 13 characterised in that said 
method is further executed against a collection of selected posts corresponding to a 

given ground region to determine flyability over said given ground region. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
