<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616748</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO TELEVISION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N700	H04N700	H04N1106	H04N1116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	H04N11	H04N11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH BROADCASTING CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROLL MICHAEL GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASTERBROOK JAMES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROLL, MICHAEL GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASTERBROOK, JAMES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO TELEVISIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to color television systems and in particular to improved color video encoders and decoders for use in color television systems.More particularly the invention is concerned with composite color television systems in which the main signal is conveyed using fewer than the total number of available active television lines. An example of such a system is one which uses a 16:9 aspect ratio. A 16:9 aspect ratio signal can be displayed on a special 16:9 wide aspect ratio receiver, or can be displayed on an existing conventional 4:3 aspect ratio receiver with what is known as a "letterbox" display, see, for example, IBC 1992 Amsterdam, IEE Conference Publication No. 358, July 1992, pages 203 to 207, and other papers in the same publication.In a letterbox display, illustrated in Figure 1, the wide aspect ratio image is displayed with full horizontal width in the vertically central part of the screen, and the top and bottom of the picture are blanked off to black. This subjective effect is sometimes seen already when wide-screen cinematographic films are transmitted by broadcast television. In a 625/50/2:1 standard PAL transmission system, it has already been proposed to transmit the signal on the middle 432 active lines of each picture, which are then displayed on a 4:3 aspect ratio receiver in letterbox format. This leaves 144 spare lines, namely 72 at each of the top and bottom of the picture. These portions are referred to as the borders.The letterbox system achieves compatible broadcasting of wide screen pictures by having black bars above or below the wide screen picture. However, the enhanced wide screen picture now occupies less of the transmission channel capacity than it did in 

 the original picture, and it is necessary to transmit additional helper information during the black bar or border periods, so that the finally decoded enhanced picture on a 16:9 receiver has at least as good a resolution as a 4:3 picture would have done. Several methods of using the black bar period have been proposed to provide a helper for the luminance component,including that described in our International Patent Application No. PCT/GB92/01988 (published under the number 093/ on 1993) claiming priority from United Kingdom Patent Application No. 9123004.5.Within enhanced composite terrestrial transmission systems, much attention has been paid to achieving a good horizontal and vertical luminance response. However, we have appreciated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A method of transmitting a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines which does not carry the active picture is used to carry helper information, there being n times as many lines in the main group as there are in the auxiliary group, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal; the method comprising deriving the chrominance helper signal from the chrominance component in the main line group to form output lines by the following steps, taken in either order or simultaneously:
(a) horizontally extending each line by a factor r so that the chrominance signal from a line of the main group is extended over r output lines; and
(b) vertically sub-sampling the chrominance component of the lines in the main line group to produce a smaller number of output lines, which is smaller than the number of lines in the auxiliary group by at least a factor r times n.
2. A method according to claim 1, including the step of low-pass filtering the signal with a vertical low-pass filter.
3. A method according to claim 1, including the step of high-pass filtering the signal with a horizontal high-pass filter.
4. A method according to claim 1, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
5. A method according to claim 1, in which the auxiliary group of lines comprises lines in the video blanking interval. 


 6. A method according to claim 1, in which the factor n is three.
7. A method according to claim 1, in which the factor r is two.
8. A method according to claim 1, in which the said steps are applied separately to two color component signals U and V, and further comprising combining the U and V outputs into the format U+V and U-V on alternate lines.
9. Apparatus for transmitting a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, In which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines which does not carry the active picture is used to carry helper information, there being n times as many lines in the main group as there are in the auxiliary group, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal; the apparatus comprising means for deriving the chrominance helper signal from the chrominance component in the main line group to form output lines by the following steps, taken in either order or simultaneously:
(a) horizontally extending each line by a factor r so that the chrominance signal from a line of the main group is extended over r output lines; and
(b) vertically sub-sampling the chrominance component of the lines in the main line group to produce a smaller number of output lines, which is smaller than the number of lines in the auxiliary group by at least a factor r times n.
10. Apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising vertical low-pass filter means for low-pass filtering the chrominance signal.
11. Apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising horizontal high-pass filter means for high-pass filtering the chrominance signal. 


 12. Apparatus according to claim 9, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
13. Apparatus according to claim 9, in which the auxiliary group of lines comprises lines in the video blanking interval.
14. Apparatus according to claim 9, in which the factor n is three.
15. Apparatus according to claim 9, in which the factor r is two.
16. Apparatus according to claim 9, including separate deriving means for processing two color component signals U and V respectively, and further comprising means for combining the U and V outputs into the format U+V and U-V on alternate lines.
17. A method of transmitting a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main grout of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines is used to carry helper information, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal, the chrominance helper signal consisting of output lines derived from the chrominance component in the main line group, the chrominance component output in the main group comprising frequency components up to a maximum horizontal frequency and a maximum vertical frequency; and the method comprising deriving from the main line group frequency components of horizontal frequency higher than the said maximum horizontal frequency for vertical frequenices which are low relative to the said maximum vertical frequency, to form the chrominance helper signal. 


 18. A method according to claim 17, in which the chrominance helper signal is derived from the main line group by reducing the effective horizontal frequencies of the chrominance components by a factor r for transmission as the chrominance helper signal.
19. A method according to claim 17, in which the frequency components from the main line group used in deriving the chrominance helper signal do not include at least some of the components of low horizontal frequency.
20. A method according to claim 17, in which the active picture corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 4:3 and the main line group corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 16:9.
21. A method according to claim 17, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
22. Apparatus for transmitting a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines is used to carry helper information, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal, the chrominance helper signal consisting of output lines derived from the chrominance component in the main line group, the chrominance component output in the main group comprising frequency components up to a maximum horizontal frequency and a maximum vertical frequency; and the apparatus comprising means for deriving from the main line group frequency components of horizontal frequency higher than the said maximum horizontal frequency for vertical frequencies which are low relative to the said maximum vertical frequency, to form the chrominance helper signal. 


 23. Apparatus according to claim 22, in which the means for deriving the chrominance helper signal from the main line group reduces the effective horizontal frequencies of the chrominance components by a factor r for transmission as the chrominance helper signal.
24. Apparatus according to claim 22, in which the means for deriving the chrominance helper signal from the main line group excludes at least some of the components of low horizontal frequency.
25. Apparatus according to claim 22, in which the active picture corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 4:3 and the main line group corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 16:9.
26. Apparatus according to claim 22, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
27. A method of receiving a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines which does not carry the active picture is used to carry helper information, there being n times as many lines in the main group as there are in the auxiliary group, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal, the method comprising processing a received chrominance helper signal by the following steps (a) and (b) taken in either order or simultaneously:
(a) horizontally compressing each line by a factor r so that the chrominance signal from r lines is compressed onto one output line; and 


 (b) vertically super-sampling the chrominance component of the lines in the received helper signal to produce a larger number of output lines, which is larger than the number of lines in the auxiliary group by at least a factor r times n; and subsequently adding the thus-processed chrominance helper signal to the chrominance component received in the main line group.
28. A method according to claim 27, including the step of vertically sub-sampling the chrominance component of the lines in the received main line group to produce a smaller number of lines, which is smaller than the number of lines in the auxiliary group by at least a factor of r times n, and subtracting the resultant from the horizontally compressed received chrominance helper signal.
29. A method according to claim 28, including the step of filtering the vertically sub-sampled signal with a horizontal high-pass filter before the subtraction.
30. A method according to claim 28, in which the subtraction takes place on the horizontally compressed received chrominance helper signal before the vertical super-sampling.
31. A method according to claim 27, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
32. A method according to claim 27, in which the auxiliary group of lines comprises lines in the video blanking interval.
33. A method according to claim 27, in which the factor n is three.
34. A method according to claim 27, in which the factor r is two. 


 35. A method according to claim 27, in which the received chrominance helper signal is in the format U+V and U-V on alternate lines, and further comprising as an initial step deriving separated U and V signals from the U+V and U-V signals.
36. Apparatus for receiving a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines which does not carry the active picture is used to carry helper information, there being n times as many lines in the main group as there are in the auxiliary group, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal, the apparatus comprising means for processing a received chrominance helper signal by the following steps (a) and (b) taken in either order or simultaneously:
(a) horizontally compressing each line by a factor r so that the chrominance signal from r lines is compressed onto one output line, and
(b) vertically super-sampling the chrominance component of the lines in the received helper signal to produce a larger number of output lines, which is larger than the number of lines in the auxiliary group by at least a factor r times n; and means for subsequently adding the thus-processed chrominance helper signal to the chrominance component received in the main line group.
37. Apparatus according to claim 36, further comprising means coupled to receive the chrominance component of the main line group for vertically sub-sampling the chrominance component of the lines in the received main line group to produce a smaller number of lines, which is smaller than the number of lines in the auxiliary group by at least a factor of r times n, and means for subtracting the resultant from the horizontally compressed chrominance helper signal. 


 38. Apparatus according to claim 37, further comprising means coupled between the vertical sub-sampling means and the subtracting means for filtering the vertically sub-sampled signal with a horizontal high-pass filter function.
39. Apparatus according to claim 37, in which the processing means comprises horizontal-compression means coupled to receive the received chrominance helper signal and vertical super-sampling means coupled between the horizontal-compression means and the adding means.
40. Apparatus according to claim 39, in which the subtracting means is located between the horizontal-compression means and the vertical super-sampling means.
41. Apparatus according to claim 36, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
42. Apparatus according to claim 36, in which the auxiliary group of lines comprises lines in the video blanking interval.
43. Apparatus according to claim 36, in which the factor n is three.
44. Apparatus according to claim 36, in which the factor r is two.
45. Apparatus according to claim 36, further comprising means for receiving the chrominance helper signal in the format U+V and U-V on alternate lines and for deriving therefrom separated U and V signals for application to respective processing means. 


 46. A method of receiving a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a man- group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines is used to carry helper information, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal, the method comprising processing the received chrominance helper signal by increasing the effective horizontal frequency of the chrominance components by a factor r, and adding the thus-processed chrominance helper signal to the chrominance component received in the main line group to provide a chrominance output signal.
47. A method according to claim 46, in which the adding step comprises a cross-fade function between the chrominance frequency components re.v.-ived through the main line group and the chrominance frequency coκ;
.
,.onents derived from the chrominance helper signal.
48. A method according to claim 46, in which chrominance frequency components of low vertical frequency and low horizontal frequency are derived from the main line group.
49. A method according to claim 46, in which chrominance frequency components of low vertical frequency received in the main line group are subtracted from corresponding components received in the auxiliary line group.
50. A method according to claim 46, in which the active picture corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 4:3 and the main line group corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 16:9.
51. A method according to claim 46, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture. 


 52. Apparatus for receiving a color video signal of the type formed by fields of scanned lines and which includes separate luminance and chrominance components, in which the active picture occupies only some of the scanned lines of each field forming a main group of lines, and an auxiliary group of lines is used to carry helper information, and the auxiliary line group carrying as its chrominance component a chrominance helper signal, the apparatus comprising means for processing the received chrominance helper signal by increasing the effective horizontal frequency of the chrominance components by a factor r, and means for adding the thus-processed chrominance helper signal to the chrominance component received in the main line group to provide a chrominance output signal.
53. Apparatus according to claim 52, in which the adding means comprises a cross-fader for cross-fading between the chrominance frequency components received through the main line group and the chrominance frequency components derived from the chrominance helper signal.
54. Apparatus according to claim 52, including means for deriving for the output signal chrominance components of low vertical frequency and low horizontal frequency from the main line group.
55. Apparatus according to claim 52, further comprising means for subtracting chrominance frequency components of low vertical frequency received in the main line group from corresponding components received in the auxiliary line group.
56. Apparatus according to claim 52, in which the active picture corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 4:3 and the main line group corresponds to a picture of aspect ratio 16:9. 


 57. Apparatus according to claim 52, in which the main group of lines occupies a central part of the active picture area, and the auxiliary group of lines occupies border regions above and below the main group of lines in the picture.
58. A chrominance video signal encoder, comprising: an input for receiving a chrominance video input signal; an output for providing an encoded chrominance video output signal; vertical sub-sampling means coupled between the input and the output for vertically sub-sampling the chrominance signal to produce a smaller number of lines therefrom, and horizontal expansion means coupled between the input and the output for ext?
τ
.ding each input line onto two or more output lines.
59. An encoder according to claim 58, further comprising horizontal high-pass filter means coupled between the input and the output.
60. An encoder according to claim 58, further comprising vertical low-pass filter means coupled between the input and the output.
61. A chrominance signal video decoder, comprising: an input for receiving an encoded chrominance video input signal; an output for providing a decoded chrominance video output signal; horizontal compression means coupled between the input and the output for compressing the chrominance signal such that each output line is formed from two or more input lines; and vertical super-sampling means coupled between the input and the output for vertically super-sampling the chrominance signal to produce a larger number of lines therefrom. 


 62. A decoder according to claim 61, in which the said input is a first input for receiving an encoded chrominance video input signal from a first group of lines, and including a second input for receiving a second video Input signal from a second group of lines, and adding means coupled to the output and the second input for adding the decoded signal to the second video input signal.
63. A decoder according to claim 62, in which the adding means comprises a cross-fader.
64. A decoder according to claim 62, further comprising a subtractor having its non-inverting input coupled to the output of the horizontal compression means, and vertical sub-sampling means coupled to the second input to receive the second input signal and to produce a smaller number of lines therefrom, the inverting input of the subtractor being coupled to the output of the vertical sub-sampling means.
65. A decoder according to claim 64, further comprising horizontal high-pass filter means coupled in series with the vertical sub-sampling means.
66. A decoder according to claim 64, in which the horizontal compression means is connected to the input and the vertical super-sampling means is coupled between the horizontal compression means and the output.
67. A decoder according to claim 66, in which the subtractor is connected between the horizontal compression means and the vertical super-sam ling means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
