<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657659</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Universal joint.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16B2100	F16B2118	F16C3504	F16C35077	F16D316	F16D338	F16D341	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16B	F16B	F16C	F16C	F16D	F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16B21	F16B21	F16C35	F16C35	F16D3	F16D3	F16D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a Hookes universal joint, each of the bearing cups (12) carried by 
the trunnions (11b) of the cross member, is secured in the respective 

end yoke (20) opening (22) by a snap ring (30) engaging both an internal 
groove (25) in the opening (22) and an external groove (17) in the 

bearing cup. The snap ring (30) includes a central protion (31) 
accommodated in a recessed area (26) of the surface of the end yoke arm 

(21) adjacent the opening (22), the recessed area (26) extending to 
below the internal groove (25). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AIKEN ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AIKEN, ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to universal joints 
and in particular to an improved structure for retaining a 
bearing cup mounted on a universal joint cross within an 
opening formed through an arm of an end yoke during use. Universal joints are well known devices which provide 
a driving connection between two members adapted to rotate 
about non-aligned axes of rotation. For example, universal 
joints are widely used between two rotatable drive shafts 
in vehicle drive train systems. Typically, such a 
universal joint includes a cross having a central body with 
four trunnions extending outwardly therefrom. The 
trunnions are oriented in a single plane and extend at 
right angles relative to one another. A bearing cup is 
mounted on the end of each of the trunnions. One pair of 
opposed bearing cups is connected to a first end yoke 
secured to the first drive shaft, while the other pair of 
opposed bearing cups is connected to a second end yoke 
secured to the second drive shaft. Needle bearings or 
similar means are provided between each of the trunnions 
and its associated bearing cup to permit the bearing cup to 
freely rotate relative to the trunnion. Typically, each of the end yokes is formed having a 
pair of opposed arms, and each of these arms has an opening 
formed therethrough. The opposed bearing cups are received 
within the openings formed through the opposed arms of the 
associated end yoke during assembly. Thereafter, retaining 
structures are usually mounted on the end yoke over the 
ends of the openings to prevent the bearing cups from 
moving outwardly apart from one another. A number of 
bearing cup retainer structures are known in the art for  
 
this purpose. However, it has been found that known 
bearing cup retainer structures are relatively complicated 
and expensive in structure and are relatively difficult to 
assemble and disassemble. Accordingly, it would be 
desirable to provide an improved bearing cup retaining 
structure for a universal joint which is simple and 
inexpensive to construct, assemble, and disassemble. This invention relates to an improved structure for 
retaining a bearing cup mounted on a universal joint cross 
within an opening formed through an arm of an end yoke 
during use. An external circumferential groove is formed 
about the outer surface of the bearing cup. An internal 
circumferential groove is formed about the inner surface of 
the opening formed through the arm of the end yoke. A 
recessed area is formed on a surface of the arm of the end

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A universal joint and end yoke assembly 
comprising: 

   a cross having an outwardly extending trunnion; 
   a bearing cup rotatably mounted on said trunnion, said 

bearing cup defining an external surface having an external 
groove formed therein; 

   an end yoke including an arm having a surface and an 
opening formed therethrough from said surface, said opening 

defining an internal surface having an internal groove 
formed therein, a recessed area being formed in said 

surface of said arm adjacent to said opening, said recessed 
area being of sufficient depth to extend below said 

internal groove; and 
   a snap ring having a first portion and a second 

portion, said second portion of said snap ring extending 
into both said external groove formed in said bearing cup 

and said internal groove formed in said opening to retain 
said bearing cup in said arm, said first portion of said 

snap ring being maintained in said recessed area. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 1 wherein said external groove extends 

circumferentially about said external surface of said 
bearing cup. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 1 wherein said internal groove extends 

circumferentially about said internal surface of said 
opening. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 1 wherein said first portion of said snap ring is 

a central portion and said second portion of said snap ring 
is a first leg portion, and further including a second leg 

 
portion extending from said central portion, both of said 

first and second leg portions of said snap ring extending 
into both said external groove formed in said bearing cup 

and said internal groove formed in said opening to retain 
said said bearing cup in said arm, said central portion of 

said snap ring being maintained in said recessed area. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 4 wherein said snap ring defines an arc from an 

end of said first leg portion to an end of said second leg 
portion which in the range of 234° to 238°. 
A universal joint and end yoke assembly 
comprising: 

   a cross having a plurality of outwardly extending 
trunnions; 

   a bearing cup rotatably mounted on each of said 
trunnions, each of said bearing cups defining an external 

surface having an external groove formed therein; 
   an end yoke including a plurality of arms, each of 

said arms having a surface and an opening formed 
therethrough from said surface, each of said openings 

defining an internal surface having an internal groove 
formed therein, a recessed area being formed in each of 

said surfaces of said arms adjacent to said openings, said 
recessed areas being of sufficient depth to extend below 

said internal grooves; and 
   a plurality of snap rings, each of said snap rings 

having a first portion and a second portion, said second 
portions of each of said snap rings extending into 

associated pairs of both said external grooves formed in 
said bearing cups and said internal grooves formed in said 

openings to retain said bearing cups in said arms, said 
first portions of said snap rings being maintained in said 

recessed areas. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 6 wherein each of said external grooves extends 

circumferentially about said external surfaces of said 
bearing cups. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 6 wherein each of said internal grooves extends 

circumferentially about said internal surfaces of said 
openings. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 6 wherein said first portions of said snap rings 

are central portions and said second portions of said snap 
rings are first leg portions, each of said snap rings 

further including a second leg portion extending from said 
central portions, said first and second leg portions of 

each of said snap rings extending into associated pairs of 
both said external grooves formed in said bearing cups and 

said internal grooves formed in said openings to retain 
said said bearing cups in said arms, said central portions 

of said snap rings being maintained in said recessed areas. 
The universal joint and end yoke assembly defined 
in Claim 9 wherein each of said snap rings defines an arc 

from an end of said first leg portion to an end of said 
second leg portion which in the range of 234° to 238°. 
An end yoke comprising: 
   a plurality of arms, each of said arms having a 

surface; 
   an opening formed through each of said arms from said 

surface, each of said openings defining an internal surface 
having an internal groove formed therein; and 

   a recessed area formed in each of said surfaces of 
said arms adjacent to said openings, said recessed areas 

 
being of sufficient depth to extend below said internal 

grooves. 
The end yoke defined in Claim 11 wherein each of 
said internal grooves extends circumferentially about said 

internal surfaces of said openings. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
