<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650388</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANIMATED DISPLAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09F1900	G09F1902	G09F1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09F19	G09F19	G09F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An animated display comprises a frame (16), arms (46) pivotted to an upper part of the frame and articulated legs (36, 54, 55) pivotted to a lower part of the frame. The arms and legs are pivotted and articulated by a common drive which includes a rocker bar (26) driven by an electric motor (18).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAUNDERS DARREN GARETH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAUNDERS, DARREN GARETH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUNDERS DARREN GARETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUNDERS, DARREN GARETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANIMATED DISPLAYThis invention relates to an animated display and in particular, though not exclusively, to such a display which reproduces the walking or running action of the male or female human body.Animated displays exist at present for so-called animated tableaux seen in shops and arcades, and other public places around Christmas time, or on fairground organs and so on. In such displays each figure is only capable of very limited movement, for example turning the head back and for 1. or raising and lowering an arm, and the display does not simulate lifelike movement. With such existing arrangements it is difficult if not impossible to provide realistic fluid movement. Complex animatronic devices exist for simulating human or animal movements but these are extremely expensive to produce and reguire extensive computer or electronic programming.I have found that by selecting a natural rhythmic motion of a human or animal, such as walking or running, it is possible to provide an apparatus operating on a cyclic basis for reproducing a fluid movement of the human or animal action without requiring the complexity of construction, or programming of the animatronic display . Accordingly, in one aspect, this invention provides an animated display comprising a support frame means, two leg members pivotally mounted in an upper end region with 

respect to said support frame means, and drive means for reciprocating said leg members thereby to simulate the walking or running action of a human or animal.In this invention, the term "running" should be interpreted broadly as including jogging, walking, and sprinting.In another aspect, this invention provides an articulatable limb for simulating a human or animal limb or tail or other flexible body part, which comprises an inner articulatable frame part at least partially encased by a casing of foam, rubber, or rubber-like material.Whilst the invention has been described above it includes any inventive combinations of the features set out above or in the following description. The invention may be performed in various ways and two embodiments and methods of construction thereof will now be described in detail, reference being made to the accompanying drawings in which:-Figure 1 is a general perspective view of a first embodiment of animated display for simulating the walking or running action of a human;Figure 2 is a front view of the central part of the embodiment of Figure 1;Figure 3 is a side view of the central part of the embodiment of Figure l;Figures 4 (a)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS 1. An animated display, comprising a support frame means, two leg members pivotally mounted in an upper end region with respect to said frame means and drive means for reciprocating said leg members.
2. An animated display according to Claim 1, wherein said drive means comprises a rotary drive means connected to a rocking drive member pivotally mounted on said frame means and respective link means connecting each leg member to said rocking drive member whereby movement of said rocking drive member applies reciprocal movement to said leg members.
3. An animated display according to Claim 6, including a hip simulating region comprising one or more surfaces for being moved to simulate the movement of a female's hips, and a hip rocker member for moving said one or more surfaces, said hip rocker member being connected by link means to said rocking drive member, to move in predetermined relationship with said leg members.
4. An animated display according to any preceding claim, wherein each of said leg members comprises an upper leg part articulated at a knee joint to a lower leg part.
5. An animated display according to Claim 4, including articulating means for articulating each leg member in predetermined relationship with said reciprocal pivotal movement.
6. An animated display according to Claim 5, when dependent on Claim 2, wherein the articulating means 


comprises, for each leg member, an elongate flexible element extending along at least part of the upper leg part and connected at one end to said lower leg part, the flexible element being extensible or retractable to allow or impart articulation of said leg member, and extension/retraction means for extending and retracting said elongate flexible member.
7. An animated display according to Claim 6, wherein said extension/retraction means includes a cam follower means associated with said flexible element and a cam means driven by said rotary drive means.
8. An animated display according to Claim 5, wherein the profile of said cam means is selected according to the particular action to be simulated by the display. 9. An animated display according to Claim 8, wherein the cam profile is generally convex except for a concave portion corresponding to the period when the lower part of the leg member is adjacent the lowest part of its locus of movement. 10. An animated display according to any preceding claim, including two arm members pivotally mounted on said frame means and arm drive means for reciprocally moving said arm members.
11. An animated display according to Claim 10 when dependent on Claim 2, wherein said arm drive means comprises link means connecting each arm member to said rocking drive member.
12. An animated display according to Claim 1, wherein 


said drive means comprises a rotary shaft means which carries two spaced crank arm means each carrying a peg or finger element which engages a respective slot or guide surface in or on each leg member, whereby rotation of said shaft means effects reciprocal pivoting movement of said leg members.
13. An animated display according to Claim 12, wherein each of said leg members comprises an upper leg part articulated at a knee joint to a lower leg part. 14. An animated display according to Claim 13, including articulating means for articulating each leg member in predetermined relationship with said reciprocal pivotal movement.
15. An animated display according to Claim 13, wherein the articulating means comprises, for each leg member, an elongate flexible element extending along at least part of the upper leg part and connected at one end to said lower leg part, the flexible element being extensible or retractable to allow or impart articulation of said leg member, and extension/retraction means for extending and retracting said elongate member.
16. An animated display according to Claim 15, wherein said extension/retraction means includes two eccentric members disposed on a further ε. ft means. 17. An animated display according to any of Claims 12 to 15, including two arm members pivotally mounted on said frame means and arm drive means for reciprocally moving said arm members. 


 18. An animated display according to Claim 17, wherein said arm drive means comprises a rotary arm drive shaft means which carries two spaced crank arm means each carrying a peg or finger element which engages a respective slot or guide in or on each arm member, whereby rotation of said shaft means effects reciprocal pivoting movement of said arm members.
19. An animated display according to Claims 12 and 18, wherein at least the rotary shaft means and the arm drive shaft means are driven from a common drive.
20. An animated display according to Claim 19, wherein said common drive comprises a motor connected to a pulley means which drives one or more belts to apply drive to said rotary shaft means and said arm drive shaft means. 21. An animated display according to any preceding claim, wherein each leg member comprises an inner articulated frame part at least partially surrounded by a foam casing to simulate the appearance of a human or animal leg. 22. An animated display according to Claim 21, wherein each inner frame part is disposed within a flexible tubular member and secured therein at locations spaced along its length, said foam casing generally surrounding said tubular member. 23. An animated display according to Claim 22, wherein said tubular member includes helically extending or annular strengthening ribs or elements.
24. An animated display according to any of Claims 21 


to 23, wherein said foam casing is at least partially covered by a skin of rubber or rubber-like material.
25. An animated display according to any of Claims 21 to 24, wherein an insert element or region of relatively stiff material is disposed adjacent the articulated region to simulate a patella.
26. An animated display according to any of Claims 21 to 25, wherein said foam casing is mounted on said frame part by means allowing limited movement of the casing relative to the frame part in a direction transverse to the plane of pivotal movement of the leg member.
27. An animated display according to any of Claims 21 to 26, wherein said leg member is made by moulding an outer skin member, locating said articulated frame part within said outer skin member and filling at least part of the space therebetween with a foam or foamable material.
28. An animated display according to any of Claims 21 to 27, wherein at least part of the outer surface of the display is covered with a stretchable covering material. 29. An articulatable limb for simulating a human or animal limb or tail or other flexible body part, comprises an inner articulatable frame part at least partially encased by a casing of foam, rubber, or rubber-like material.
30. An articulatable limb according to Claim 29, wherein said articulatable frame part comprises a skeletal central member jointed or otherwise articulatable and disposed within a tubular outer sleeve, the outer sleeve being encased by said foam, rubber or rubber-like material. 


 31. An animated display substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
31. An articulatable limb substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
