<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651368</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Active matrix liquid crystal display apparatus with signal pulse modulation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G336	G02F113	G09G336	G02F1133	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G02F	G09G	G02F	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G02F1	G09G3	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The active matrix liquid crystal 
display apparatus includes a matrix structure in which there 

are scanning lines and signal lines which intersect with each 
other in the form of a matrix and liquid crystal pixels 21 

and switching elements are arranged at the intersections. 
The signal lines consist of transparent electrodes D formed 

in liquid crystal cells, and the scanning lines consist of 
discharge channels formed in plasma cells. The discharge 

channels are constituted by cathodes K and anodes A and 
function as switching elements. A scanning circuit 22 

selects the switching elements row by row through the 
cathodes K. A drive circuit 23 writes signal voltages 

through the selected switching elements into the respective 
liquid crystal pixels 21 via the transparent electrodes D. 

The drive circuit 23 distributes pulses having pulse heights 
corresponding to the signal voltages to the liquid crystal 

pixels 21, and controls the pulses so that the product of the 
pulse height V and the pulse width W is the same for all the 

pulses. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an active matrix liquid
crystal display apparatus and for example to a plasma address
type active matrix liquid crystal display apparatus having a
laminated panel structure in which display cells and
addressing plasma cells are superposed, or to an active
matrix liquid crystal display apparatus having a monolayer
panel structure in which switching elements and pixel
electrodes are integrally formed on the same substrate.The structure of a conventional active matrix liquid
crystal display apparatus of the plasma address type will be
briefly described with reference to Fig. 3. A liquid crystal
display apparatus of the plasma address type is disclosed,
for example, in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication H.4-265931.
As shown in Fig. 3, column transparent electrodes 2
are formed in the form of stripes on the inner surface of an
upper glass substrate 1 and constitute signal lines. Row
discharge electrodes 4 are formed in the form of stripes on
a lower glass substrate 3 and alternately function as anodes
A and cathodes K. Ribs 5 are formed along the respective
discharge electrodes 4. The edge portions of the discharge
electrodes 4 are exposed in regions surrounded by adjacent 
ribs 5 and constitute stripe-shaped row discharge channels
which correspond to scanning lines. The lower glass
substrate 3 is joined to an intermediate substrate 6
consisting of thin plate glass or the like to constitute a
plasma cell. The above-mentioned upper glass substrate 1 is
joined to the upper surface of the intermediate substrate 6
with a predetermined gap being provided between the two and
liquid crystal 7 is held in the gap to constitute a liquid
crystal cell. Thus a liquid crystal display apparatus of the
plasma address type has a laminated panel structure in which
plasma cells and liquid crystal cells are superposed on each
other. A polarizing plate or a back-light or the like is
required depending upon the type of the liquid crystal 7;
however, it is omitted from Fig. 3.As described above, the stripe-shaped column transparent
electrodes formed in the liquid crystal cell correspond to
signal lines. Also, the stripe-shaped row discharge channels
formed in the plasma cell correspond to scanning lines. The
liquid crystal pixels are regulated by the intersecting
portions of the row transparent electrodes and the column
discharge channels. The discharge channels located at the
intersecting portions constitute switching elements.Fig. 4 shows an equivalent circuit of the liquid crystal
display apparatus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An active matrix liquid crystal display device
comprising:


scanning lines (35) and signal lines (34) intersecting in the form
of a matrix;
liquid crystal elements (21) and switching elements (36) disposed
at the intersections of the scanning lines and the signal

lines;
a scanning circuit (22) for selecting the switching elements
row by row through the scanning lines;
a drive circuit (23) for providing signal voltages to the
respective liquid crystal pixels (21) through the signal lines (34) and

through the selected switching elements (36), the drive circuit (23)
having means for supplying each pixel with a pulse having a

height Vn corresponding to a signal voltage and controlling the
pulses so that the product Vn x Wn of the pulse height Vn and the pulse

width Wn is the same for all the pulses.
An active matrix liquid crystal device according to
claim 1, wherein:


the signal lines comprise stripe-shaped column
transparent electrodes formed in liquid crystal cells

containing liquid crystal;
the scanning lines comprise stripe-shaped row discharge 
channels formed in plasma cells superposed on the liquid

crystal cells; and
the switching elements comprise the regions of the
discharge channels located at the intersections.
An active matrix liquid crystal device according to
claim 2, wherein:

   the liquid crystal is held between facing substrates and
the column transparent electrodes are formed on the inner

surface of one of the substrates.
An active matrix liquid crystal device according to
claim 1, wherein:


the signal lines and the scanning lines comprise wiring
patterns formed on a first substrate;
the switching elements comprise switching circuit
elements formed on the first substrate; and
the liquid crystal pixels comprise pixel electrodes
formed on the first substrate, facing electrodes formed on a

second substrate disposed facing the first substrate, and
liquid crystal regions interposed between the pixel

electrodes and the facing electrodes.
An active matrix liquid crystal device according to
claim 1, wherein:
 
   the drive circuit is provided with means for inverting

the polarity of the pulses every row.
An active matrix liquid crystal device according to
claim 1, wherein:

   the drive circuit is provided with means for inverting
the polarity of the pulses every field.
A drive circuit (23) of an active matrix liquid crystal
display device having liquid crystal pixels (21) and switching

elements (36) at the intersections of scanning lines (35) and signal
lines (34) disposed in the form of a matrix, which drive circuit (23),

when the device performs image display by switching elements (36)
being selected row by row through the scanning lines (35) and

signal voltages being written through the signal lines (34) and
through the selected switching elements (36) into the respective

liquid crystal pixels, supplies each pixel (21) with a pulse
having a height Vn corresponding to a signal voltage and

controls the pulses so that the product Vn x Wn of the pulse height Vn
and the pulse width Wn is the same for all the pulses.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
