<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632189</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An exhaust gas purifier
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N900	B01D4644	F01N322	F01N330	F01N3027	F02B306	F01N330	F01N322	F01N320	F01N3023	F02B300	F01N900	B01D4646	F01N320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	B01D	F01N	F01N	F01N	F02B	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F02B	F01N	B01D	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N9	B01D46	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F02B3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F02B3	F01N9	B01D46	F01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An exhaust gas purifier includes a filter (2) for collecting 
particulates, a heater (11) for firing the particulates, a blower (13) 

for 
feeding air and controller (8) for controlling power supply to the 

heater (11) and air flow rate of the blower (13). The air flow rate is 
varied in the resuscitaion period for improving the 

resuscitaion efficiency and for protecting the filter (2). 
For example, the air flow rate is suppresed in the firing 
and burning period and increased after the firing and burnning 

period which is set before the particulates collected at 
center portion, in the radial direction, in a down stream 

portion of the filter (2) is burnt. 
By means of increasing the air flow rate after suppresing 
the air flow rate, the air blowing in the early time through 

the center portion, in the radial direction, of the filter is 
inhibited. Therefore, a remainnig
 of the particulates at an 
outer peripheral portion in down stream portion of the filter (2). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an exhaust gas purifier 
for collecting and burning particulates exhausted out of a 
diesel engine. Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication (KOKAI) No.4-255518 
discloses an exhaust gas purifier. A filter of the exhaust gas 
purifier is regenerated by supplying electric power to 
a heater placed near an upper stream end surface of the filter 
and by feeding air into an upper stream portion of an exhaust tube placed 
between the diesel engine and the filter. Namely, particulates collected in the filter burns from an 
upper stream side portion of the filter to a down stream 
portion of the filter. It is known to keep air supply after 
cutting off the power supplied to the heater in order to cool the 
filter. However, it is difficult to burn out perfectly 
particulates in every portion of the filter. Especially, it is 
difficult to burn out particulates collected in an outer  
 
peripheral portion of the down stream side of the filter. If the particulates remain in the filter after the 
resuscitation operation, it causes a 
pressure loss through the filter. Further, it causes a high 
temperature burning in a next resuscitation operation, a 
possibility of accidental melting or cracking the filter. The resuscitation means a regeneration in the present specification. We researched and found that the particulates remains in 
the outer peripheral portion of the down stream side of the filter, 
because the outer peripheral portion of the filter 
is cooled and a burning velocity in the outer peripheral portion 
of the filter becomes slower than the velocity in a center 
portion or a middle portion in a radial direction of the 
filter. It is possible to increase the air flow rate in order to 
increase the temperature of the outer peripheral portion of the 
filter. However, the particulates in the outer peripheral portion 
of the filter can not be decreased by merely increasing 
the air flow rate. Namely, we found that an increase of the air flow rate 
causes an increase of the burning velocity in the center portion 
in the radial direction of the filter. Consequently, as shown Figure 12(a), most of the fed 
air flows through the center portion in the radial direction  
 
of the filter and does not result in an increase of the air flow 
rate in the outer peripheral portion of the filter and a 
reduce of the remaining of particulates in the outer 
peripheral portion of the filter as shown in Figure 12(b). Further, the increase of the air flow rate causes the melt or crack 
of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An exhaust gas purifier comprising: 

a filter (2) placed in an exhaust tube (3) of a diesel 
engine so as to collect particulates exhausted out of said 

diesel engine; 
a heating means (11) placed near an end surface of an 
upper stream side of said filter (2) so as to fire said 

particulates; 
an air supply means (13) driven by electric power so as 
to supply the air into an upper stream portion of said 

exhaust tube (3) located between said engine and said filter 
(2); and 
a control means (8) for controlling the regeneration 
operation and for controlling a heating power supplied to 

said heating means (11) and an air flow rate of said air 
supply means (13); 
characterized in that
said control means (8) changes said air flow rate in 
accordan
ce with a predetermined pattern during a regeneration 
period in which at least one of said air supply 

means (13) and said heating means (11) is driven, and 
said regeneration period includes a burning period and 
at least one blowing period, wherein said control means (8) 

keeps a slow burning velocity during said burning period and 
keeps a high burning velocity during the first blowing period 

set after said burning period. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) changes said air flow rate in 

accordance with a predetermined pattern after firing of said 
particulates.  

 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1,
characterized in that
 
said control means (8) changes said air flow rate in 

accordance with a predetermined pattern after ending of 
supplying of said heating power. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 2,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) keeps said slow burning velocity 

at a center portion in a radial direction in a down stream 
portion of said filter (2) during a predetermined period by 

means of supplying a reduced volume of said air supply and 
changes said burning velocity at said center portion into 

high before a burning area reaches an end surface of a down 
stream side of said filter (2) by means of increasing said 

air flow rate. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 4,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) decreases or cuts off said 

heating power during said first air blowing period. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 4,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) increases said air flow rate 

during a second blowing period set after said first blowing 
period in order to cool said filter (2). 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 4,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) increases an air flow rate during 

a pre-heating period in comparison with said air flow rate 
during said burning period, said pre-heating period has a 

period set from ending of said heating power supplying till 
firing of said particulates. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1 or 4 or 7,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) decreases said heating power 

supplied during a pre-heating period in comparison with said  
 

heating power supplied during said burning period, said pre-heating 
period has a period set from ending of said heating 

power supplying till firing of said particulates. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1 or 4 or 7,
characterized by
 
   further comprising air flow rate detecting means (15) 

for detecting said air flow rate, wherein said control means 
(8) controls said heating power in accordance with said air 

flow rate and heats said particulates during a pre-heating 
period set before firing of said particulates. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1 or 4 or 7,
characterized by
 
   further comprising an air flow rate detecting means (15) 

for detecting said air flow rate, wherein said control means 
(8) controls said air flow rate by means of a feedback 

control method in order to correspond said air flow rate with 
a predetermined value. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1 or 4 or 7,
characterized by
 
   futher comprising air temperature detecting means (6) 

for detecting an air temperature, wherein said control means 
(8) controls said volume of air supply in accordance with 

said air temperature and said air flow rate in order to 
correspond an air mass flow with a predetermined value. 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1 or 4 or 7,
characterized by
 
   further comprising an air pressure detecting means (7) 

for detecting an air pressure, wherein said control means (8) 
controls said volume of air supply in accordance with said 

air pressure and said air flow rate in order to correspond an 
air mass flow with a predetermined value.  

 
An exhaust gas purifier according to claim 1 or 4 or 7,
characterized in that
 
   said control means (8) sets a pre-cooling period for 

cooling said filter (2) by means of feeding a predetermined 
air flow rate of air before starting of said heating power 

supply. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
