<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624988</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Strobing camera system and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N718	H04N5225	H04N718	H04N5225	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N5	H04N7	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The system comprises a time-delay and integration 
camera assembly (A) mounted to view a rotating or other 

cyclically moving object (B). A lens (30) focuses light 
from a field of view (10) onto an array (32) of light 

sensitive elements having N lines of elements. A 
tachometer (50) monitors rotation of the rotating object 

and a timing control (54) causes a light sensitive array 
control (34) to start stepping lines of data through the 

lines of light sensitive elements toward a shift register 
(36) as a leading edge (20) of a region of interest (12) 

enters the field of view. Each time the region of 
interest moves 1/Nth of the way across the field of view, 

the lines of data are stepped another time along the lines 
of light sensitive elements. Digital video signals are 

sorted (74) among a plurality of image memories (76₁, 76₂, 
..., 76
M
) each image memory corresponding to a 
corresponding region of interest (12₁,12₂, ..., 12
M
).
 

Scan converters (80) convert the frame image 
representations in the image memories into a series of 

human-readable displays. In this manner, the image memory 
corresponding to each region of interest is updated with 

each revolution of the object (B) to produce a cinematic 
video strobe image in a constantly illuminated environment. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PICKER INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PICKER INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASTRO PETER S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILBLOM DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASTRO, PETER S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILBLOM, DAVID L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to strobing camera systems and
methods.Heretofore, strobe lights have commonly been used for
cyclically moving, and randomly moving objects or structure.
Typically, the strobe light includes a high intensity light
source which is pulsed very rapidly, typically 10-15
microsecond pulses. The high intensity light is flashed
synchronously with the rotation of the object to be examined.
This causes the same portion of the object to be illuminated
in each rotation or cycle. Because only the same portion of
the object is repeatedly illuminated in every revolution or
cycle, the viewer, whether the human eye or an opto-electrical
device or photographic film, "sees" the same
portion of the object in each rotation or cycle as if it were
standing still.The use of strobe lights had several drawbacks. First,
the strobe lights required high intensity, 10-15 microsecond
light pulses. Few light sources could produce such short
pulses. Second, photographic cameras were generally required
for making permanent records. Third, because strobe lights
tended to interfere with each other, only one could be
utilized ata time in a given area. Moreover, strobe lights
were not conducive to use with video cameras. A lack of
synchronization between the vertical refresh rate and the
strobe light led to dark banding and other artifacts in a
video image.It is an object of the present invention to provide a
strobing camera system and method which overcomes the above-referenced
problems.According to one aspect of the present invention there is
provided a strobing camera system for monitoring a cyclically
moving object having a region of interest which periodically
sweeps through a field of view comprising: a lens for
focusing light from the field of view onto a light sensitive 
element array of a time-delay and integration camera, the
array having a plurality of lines of light sensitive
elements, which lines are orientated perpendicular to the
direction of movement of the image of the region of interest
across the array; light sensitive element control means for
shifting lines of data produced by the array through the
lines of light sensitive elements of the light sensitive
element array; synchronizing means for monitoring movement of
the object to be examined and for causing the light sensitive
element control means to shift the lines of data in
synchronism with the sweeping of the region of interest
through said field of view; and means for utilising the lines
of data from the sensitive element array to produce an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A strobing camera system for monitoring a cyclically
moving object (B) having a region of interest (12) which

periodically sweeps through a field of view comprising: a
lens (30) for focusing light from the field of view (10)

onto a light sensitive element array (32) of a time-delay
and integration camera (A), the array having a plurality

of lines of li ht sensitive elements, which lines are
orientated perpendicular to the direction of movement of

the image of the region of interest across the array;
light sensitive element control means (34) for shifting

lines of data produced by the array (32) through the lines
of light sensitive elements of the light sensitive element

array (32); synchronizing means (C) for monitoring
movement of the object (B) to be examined and for causing

the light sensitive element control means (34) to shift
the lines of data in synchronism with the sweeping of the

region of interest (12) through said field of view (10);
and means (A,D) for utilising the lines of data from the

sensitive element array (32) to produce an image of the
region of interest each time the region of interest sweeps

through the field of view, so that the region of interest
appears to be stationary in the image.
A system according to Claim 1 wherein the object (B)
rotates about an axis and the synchronizing means (C)

includes a rotation monitoring means (50) for producing
signals indicating each time said region of interest (12)

of the object (B) reaches the field of view (10), the
synchronization means (C) causing the control means (34)

to stop the shifting of lines of data when said region of
interest (12) exits the field of view (10).
A system according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 further
including a video processing means (42) for converting the

lines of data from the light sensitive element array (32) 
into analog video signals.
A system according to Claim 3 further including an
analog-to-digital converter (70) for converting the analog

video signals into digital video signals.
A system according to Claim 2 wherein the object (B)
includes at least first and second regions of interest (12
1
,
12
2
), the first and second regions (12
1
, 12
2
) each sweeping
periodically through the field of view (10), and the

synchronizing means (C) causing the control means (34) to
start to shift the lines of data through the lines of light

sensitive elements as each region (12
1
, 12
2
) sweeps into the
field of view (10).
A system according to Claim 5 further including a
sorting means (74) controlled by the synchronizing means

(C) for sorting output signals corresponding to the first
region (12
1
) into a first image memory (76
1
) and output
signals corresponding to the second region (12
2
) into a
second image memory (76
2
).
A system according to Claim 6 further including a scan
converter means (80
1
, 80
2
) for use in converting the image
data in the first and second image memories (76
1
, 76
2
) into
human-readable displays.
A system according to any preceding claim wherein the
synchronizing means (C) includes an adjustable timer (56)

for causing the light sensitive element control means (34)
to start and stop the shifting of lines of data at

adjustable intervals.
A system according to any preceding claim wherein said 
means (A, D) for producing an image includes a shift

register (36) into which each line of data is shifted after
having been shifted through each of the lines of light

sensitive elements, the control means (34) clocking the
shift register (36) at a sufficiently high rate that all

data of the data line in the shift register (36) are
clocked out serially before a next line of data is clocked

into the shift register (36).
A system according to any preceding claim including:
an illumination means (62) for selectively illuminating

said region(s) of interest (12
1
, 12
2
, etc) in the field of
view (10); and an illumination control means (60) for

controlling the illumination means (62) such that the or
each region of interest is illuminated for a duration

during which that region (12
1
, 12
12
, etc.) is in the field of
view (10).
A system according to any preceding claim wherein the
light sensitive array (32) is a CCD array which has N lines

of CCD elements, and the synchronizing means (C) causes the
control means (34) to shift the lines of data by one line

of CCD elements each time a region of interest (12
1
, 12
2
,
etc.) moves (1/N)th of the way across the field of view (10).
A system according to Claim 11 wherein the
synchronizing means (C) discards the first N lines of data

and stores the (N+1)th and subsequent lines of data in an
image memory means (76).
A strobing method comprising: focusing light from a
field of view (10) onto a light sensitive element array

(32) of a time-delay and integration camera means (A);
orienting the time-delay and integration camera means (A) 

such that the light sensitive element array (32) has lines
of light sensitive elements parallel to an axis of rotation

of a cyclically moving object (B); at a selected angular
position of the object (B), initiating operation of the

time-delay and integration camera means (A) such that lines
of data are shifted through the lines of light sensitive

elements in synchronism with rotation of a region of interest (12) of
said object (B) until the region of interest

(12) has swept through the field of view (10) such that the
time-delay and integration camera means (A) generates a

video image of the region of interest (12) in each
rotation, so that the region of interest (12) appears to

stand stationary in the video image.
A method according to Claim 13, further including
controlling starting of the shifting of lines of data at a

time interval depending on the speed of rotation of the
object (B) so that the region of interest (12) appears to

stand stationary in the video image with said object (B)
rotating at constant speed
A method according to Claim 13 or Claim 14 wherein the
light sensitive element array (32) has N lines of light

sensitive elements and wherein the first N lines of data
are discarded.
A method according to Claim 15 wherein the (N+1)th
through (2N)th lines of data are converted into a frame of an

image representation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
