<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614588</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIO FREQUENCY INTERFERENCE FILTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H100	H03H100	H04B302	H04B326	H04B328	H04M1738	H04M1738	H04M174	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H1	H03H1	H04B3	H04B3	H04B3	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A Radio Frequency Interference Filter (10, 12) is connectable in series in the tip (T) and ring (R) branches of a telephone circuit. A first suppression stage (20) has a first inductor (L1) connectable to the tip (T) branch of the circuit and a second inductor (L2) connectable to the ring (R) branch of the circuit. The second suppression stage (22) of one embodiment of the filter (10) has a transformer (T1) with one winding (W1) connected in series with the first inductor (L1) for the tip (T) branch of circuitry and the second winding (W2) connected in series with the second inductor (L2) for the ring (R) branch of circuitry. In a second, alternative embodiment of the filter (12), the second suppression stage (22) has one ferrite-core inductor (L3) connected in series with the first inductor (L1) for the tip (T) branch of circuitry and a second ferrite-core inductor (L4) connected in series with the second inductor (L2) for the ring (R) branch of circuitry. A fuse (F1, F2) may precede each inductor (L1, L2) to protect the filter (10). The filter (10, 12) may be encapsulated to provide protection from adverse environmental changes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENEDIOS TOM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENEDIOS, TOM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENEDIOS TOM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENEDIOS, TOM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RADIO FREQUENCY INTERFERENCE FILTERTECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a Radio FrequencyInterference (RFI) filter for a telecommunications device, and more particularly to an RFI filter for telephone equipment that suppresses frequencies in the range from about 450 kHz to about150 MHz.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONElectromagnetic interference in the so-called radio frequency range is commonly referred to as Radio Frequency Interference (RFI). RFI can occur in a telecommunications network whose wiring is subject to strong radio frequency electrical fields. RFI is a problem in telecommunications because it impairs reception of the signal transmitted through the telecommunications network. Impairment of a transmitted signal is particularly undesirable in the transmission of voice frequency signals because of the need for a telephone subscriber to receive clear, accurate voice communications.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide a means for suppressing RFI in voice frequency loops of telecommunication circuitry.It is a further object of the invention to provide such suppression of RFI in the range of 450 kHz to 150 MHz. According to the invention, each of a pair of inductors has a lead connectable respectively to tip and ring leads of the 

telephone circuitry. The second lead of each inductor is connected to a respective coil of a transformer. To complete the tip and ring series circuits, the free lead of each coil of the transformer is connectable to respective tip and ring leads. The pair of inductors form a first stage of filtering while the transformer provides a second stage of filtering. In an alternative embodiment, each of a pair of inductors has a lead connectable respectively to tip and ring leads of the telephone circuitry. The second lead of each inductor is connected to a ferrite-core inductor. To complete the tip and ring series circuits, the free lead of each ferrite-core inductor is connectable to respective tip and ring leads. The pair of inductors form a first stage of filtering while the ferrite-core inductors provide the second stage of filtering. Each device provides suppression of RFI from 450 kHz to 150 MHz. A fuse may precede each inductor to protect the device from power surges and the like.Other aspects, objects, features, and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the detailed description of preferred embodiments.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFig. 1 is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
What is claimed is:
(1) A filter for suppressing longitudinally-conducted RFI in voice frequency loops comprising: a first inductor; a second inductor; and a transformer having a first winding and a second winding; wherein said first inductor and said first winding of said transformer are coupled in series and said second inductor and said second winding of said transformer are coupled in series.
(2) The invention of claim 1, further comprising fuse means for protecting said first inductor, said second inductor and said transformer.
(3) The invention of claim 1, wherein said first inductor, said second inductor and said transformer are enclosed to provide protection from environmental changes.
(4) A filter for a telephone line circuit having a tip branch of circuitry and a ring branch of circuitry comprising: a first inductor; a second inductor; and a transformer having a first winding and a second winding; wherein said first inductor and said first winding of said transformer are coupled in series and connectable in series in the tip branch of circuitry and said second inductor and said second winding of said transformer are coupled in 


 series and connectable in series in the ring branch of circuitry. /
(5) The invention of claim 4, further comprising fuse means for protecting said first inductor, said second inductor and said transformer.
(6) The invention of claim 4, wherein said first inductor, said second inductor and said transformer are enclosed to provide protection from environmental changes.
(7) A method of suppressing longitudinally-conducted RFI in voice frequency loops having two circuit branches comprising inserting in series in each of the branches an inductor coupled with a winding of a transformer.
(8) The invention of claim 7, wherein a fuse is inserted in series respectively preceding said first inductor and said second inductor.
(9) The invention of claim 7, further comprising the step of encapsulating said first inductor, said second inductor and said transformer for protection from environmental changes.
(10) A filter for suppressing longitudinally-conducted RFI in voice frequency loops comprising: a first inductor; a second inductor; 


a first ferrite-core inductor; and a second ferrite-core inductor; wherein said first inductor and said first ferrite-core inductor are coupled in series and said second inductor and said second ferrite-core inductor are coupled in series.
(11) The invention of claim 10, further comprising fuse means for protecting said first inductor, said second inductor, said first ferrite-core inductor, and said second ferrite-core inductor.
(12) The invention of claim 10, wherein said first inductor, said second inductor, said first ferrite-core inductor, and said second ferrite-core inductor are enclosed to provide protection from environmental changes.
(13) A filter for a telephone line circuit having a tip branch of circuitry and a ring branch of circuitry comprising: a first inductor; a second inductor; a first ferrite-core inductor; and a second ferrite-core inductor; wherein said first inductor and said first ferrite-core inductor are coupled in series and connectable in series to the tip branch of circuitry, and said second inductor and said second ferrite-core inductor are coupled in series and connectable in series to the ring branch of circuitry.
(14) The invention of claim 13, further comprising fuse means for 


protecting said first inductor, said second inductor, said first ferrite-core inductor, and said second ferrite-core inductor.
(15) The invention of claim 13, wherein said first inductor, said second inductor and said transformer are enclosed to provide protection from environmental changes.
(16) A method of suppressing longitudinally-conducted RFI in voice frequency loops having two circuit branches comprising inserting in series in each of the branches an inductor coupled with a ferrite-core inductor.
(17) The invention of claim 16, wherein a fuse is inserted in series respectively preceding said first inductor and said second inductor.
(18) The invention of claim 16, further comprising the step of encapsulating said first inductor, said second inductor, said first ferrite-core inductor, and said second ferrite-core inductor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
