<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613408</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVELOPED BLANK LAYOUT ANGLE BRACKET.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4748	A61K4748	B21D5300	B21D5300	B21D5374	E04G500	E04G502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	B21D	B21D	B21D	E04G	E04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K47	B21D53	B21D53	B21D53	E04G5	E04G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIBLET HENRY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIBLET, HENRY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIBLET HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIBLET, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEVELOPED BLANK LAYOUT ANGLE BRACKETBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates in general to an angle bracket for use in supporting various structures. More particularly, this invention pertains to an improved angle bracket of simple construction.2. Background DiscussionBrackets are utilized in a number of applications to support various structures. For example, angled brackets are often utilized to support planks to form a shelf or scaffold structure. Reference is made herein to U.S. Patent Numbers 3,970,277, 3,473,774 and 4,103,856, each relating to brackets for supporting scaffold structures. Although the brackets disclosed in these patents function quite satisfactorily, they each employ a plurality of components. Each of these prior art brackets utilizes a plurality of main structural components and a plurality of connecting parts such as nuts, bolts, rods and pins to interconnect the main structural components. Because of the plurality of parts involved, these prior art brackets are somewhat costly to manufacture and somewhat difficult to assemble. 

 Accordingl , it is an object of the present invention to provide an angle bracket that functions as well or better than known prior art brackets but is less costly and simpler to construct.It is a further object of the present invention to develop a method for constructing a simpler and less costly angle bracket.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION To accomplish the foregoing and other objects, features and advantages of the invention, there is provided a single piece angle bracket constructed from a metal blank. In one embodiment of the invention, the angle bracket has a substantially U-shaped cross section supplying added support and stability.There is further provided a method for constructing a single piece angle bracket from a metal blank. The method includes the steps of establishing transverse fold lines in the blank, folding the blank along the transverse fold lines to form a substantially triangular shape and interconnecting opposite ends of the blank so that the blank maintains its triangular shape.The present invention further provides a method for constructing a single piece scaffold bracket with a substantially U-shaped cross section. The method includes the steps of establishing longitudinal fold lines in the blank and folding the blank along the longitudinal fold lines to form a substantially U-shaped cross section. 

 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSNumerous other objects, features and advantages of the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for constructing an angle bracket including the steps of: providing a substantially planar elongated metal blank, the blank having first and second ends oppositely disposed about a length of the blank, forming a plurality of separately spaced transverse fold lines disposed along the length of the blank; folding the metal blank along the transverse fold lines to form a substantially triangular shape comprised of first, second and third legs, interconnecting the ends such that the blank maintains its substantially triangular shape.
2. A method for constructing an angle bracket as described in claim 1 further including the steps of: forming a plurality of longitudinal fold lines extending substantially along the length of the blank, folding the blank along at least some of said longitudinal fold lines to create a plurality of upstanding sidewalls extending from a base of each leg such that the blank forms a substantially U-shaped cross-section. 

3. A method for constructing an angle bracket as described in claim 2 further including the step of: folding the blank along additional longitudinal fold lines to create a plurality of flanges extending from said plurality of upstanding sidewalls, the plurality of flanges comprising coplanar first and second flanges extending along each leg.
4. A method for constructing an angle bracket as described in claim 3 wherein said step of folding the blank to create a plurality of flanges includes: folding the plurality of first and second flanges inward toward each other.
5. A method for constructing an angle bracket as described in claim 3 wherein said step of folding the blank to create a plurality of flanges includes: folding the plurality of first and second flanges outward away f om each other.
6. An angle bracket formed from a single piece metal blank, the angle bracket comprising: first, second and third legs, the first leg being contiguous with the second leg, the second leg being contiguous with the third leg, said legs being positioned to define a substantially triangular bracket, said first and third legs having means for defining an interconnection between said first and third legs. 


 7. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 6 wherein said means for defining an interconnection includes the first leg having a tab and the third leg having means for defining a slot, the tab being interlocked with the slot to interconnect the first and third legs.
8. An angle bracket as defined in claim 7 wherein said first, second and third legs have a substantially U-shaped cross-section.
9. An angle bracket as defined in claim 8 wherein said U-shaped cross-section is defined by each leg having first and second upstanding sidewalls extending normally from a base.
10. An angle bracket as defined in claim 9 wherein each leg further includes: first and second flanges respectively extending normally from the first and second upstanding sidewalls.
11. An angle bracket as defined in claim 10 wherein said first and second flanges extend inward toward each other.
12. An angle bracket as defined in claim 10 wherein said first and second flanges extend outward away from each other. 


 13. An angle bracket comprising: a single piece substantially planar elongated metal blank, the blank having first and second ends oppositely disposed about a length of the blank, the blank further having a plurality of separately spaced transverse fold lines disposed along the length of the blank; the metal blank forming a substantially triangular shape comprised of first, second and third legs, the second leg intersecting with the first and third legs at locations along the metal blank defined by transverse fold lines, the metal blank further having means for defining an interconnection between the first and second ends such that the blank maintains its substantially triangular shape.
14. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 13 wherein the blank includes a plurality of longitudinal fold lines extending substantially along the length of the blank, the bracket having a plurality of upstanding sidewalls extending from a base of each leg such that the blank forms a substantially U-shaped cross-section, the sidewalls extending from the base of each leg at locations defined by at least some of said longitudinal fold lines. 


 15. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 14 having a plurality of flanges extending from said plurality of upstanding sidewalls, the plurality of flanges comprising coplanar first and second flanges extending along each leg, the plurality of flanges extending from the plurality of upstanding sidewalls at locations defined by additional longitudinal fold lines.
16. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 15 wherein the plurality of first and second flanges face inward toward each other.
17. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 15 wherein the plurality of first and second flanges face outward away from each other.
18. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 14 wherein the plurality of upstanding sidewalls extend upward from a first surface of the base along the first and third legs and extend downward from a second surface of the base along the second leg.
19. A method for constructing an angle bracket as described in claim 2 wherein the step of folding the blank to create the plurality of upstanding sidewalls includes folding the blank downward from a first surface of the blank along one of said first, second 


 or third legs, and folding the blank upward from a second surface of the blank along the other two of said first, second and third legs.
20. An angle bracket comprising: a substantially planar elongated metal blank, the blank having at least one transverse fold line disposed along the length of the blank; the bracket including first, second and third legs, at least the first and second legs being formed from the metal blank and intersecting at a location along the metal blank defined by the transverse fold line; the bracket further including means for defining an interconnection between the first and third legs such that the first, second and third legs form a substantially triangular shape.
21. An angle bracket comprising: first, second and third legs forming a substantially triangular shape, said first, second and third legs having substantially U-shaped cross-sections.
22. An angle bracket as defined in claim 21 wherein said U-shaped cross-section is defined by each leg having first and second upstanding sidewalls extending normally from a base. 


 23. An angle bracket as defined in claim 22 wherein each leg further includes: first and second flanges respectively extending normally from the first and second upstanding sidewalls.
24. An angle bracket as defined in claim 23 wherein said first and second flanges extend inward toward each other.
25. An angle bracket as defined in claim 23 wherein said first and second flanges extend outward away from each other.
26. A method for constructing at least one leg of an angle bracket including the steps of: providing a substantially planar elongated metal blank, the blank having first and second ends oppositely disposed about a length of the blank; forming a plurality of longitudinal fold lines extending substantially along the length of the blank, folding the blank along at least some of said longitudinal fold lines to create a plurality of upstanding sidewalls extending from a base of the leg such that the blank forms a substantially U-shaped cross-section.
27. A method for constructing at least one leg of an angle bracket as described in claim 26 further including the step of: 


 folding the blank along additional longitudinal fold lines to create a plurality of flanges extending from said plurality of upstanding sidewalls, the plurality of flanges comprising coplanar first and second flanges extending along the leg.
28. A method for constructing at least one leg of an angle bracket as described in claim 27 wherein said step of folding the blank to create a plurality of flanges includes: folding the plurality of first and second flanges inward toward each other.
29. A method for constructing at least one leg of an angle bracket as described in claim 27 wherein said step of folding the blank to create a plurality of flanges includes: folding the plurality of first and second flanges outward away from each other.
30. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 6 further comprising: strengthening means for strengthening an interconnection between said first and second legs.
31. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 30 wherein said strengthening means includes at least one tab extending from said first leg and at least one slot within the second leg for receiving said tab. 


 32. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 30 wherein said strengthening means includes at least one tab extending from said second leg and at least one slot within the first leg for receiving said tab.
33. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 6 further comprising: strengthening means for strengthening an interconnection between said second and third legs.
34. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 33 wherein said strengthening means includes at least one tab extending from said third leg and at least one slot within the second leg for receiving said tab.
35. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 33 wherein said strengthening means includes at least one tab extending from the second leg and at least one slot within the third leg for receiving said tab.
36. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 13 further comprising: strengthening means for strengthening the intersection between said first and second legs.
37. An angle bracket as claimed in claim 20 further comprising: strengthening means for strengthening the intersection between said first and second legs. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
