<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619939</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Machine for splitting up and spreading of straw bales.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01F2900	A01F2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01F	A01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01F29	A01F29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The machine comprises a container (1) which has a width a 
little larger than the width of a straw bale, and a length 

which preferably is shorter than the length of a straw bale. 
On each end of the the long side at the top of the container 

is swingably mounted fence organs, which can consist of a 
platform (3) with an end piece (5), between which end pieces 

a straw bale can be accommodated in the longitudinal direction, 
when the platforms (3) are in their horizontal 

position. Each platform (3) is by means of a swing arm (6) 
at the front end of the container (1) and a spring (7) 

coupled to a tilting arm (8), which at the centre of the 
container (1) comes to rest against a piston (10) which is 

movable in the vertical direction. The machine can be suspended 
in a tractor, and the piston (10) is part of a so-called 

PTO coupling (27). When the machine is lifted, the 
piston (10) is moved upwards whereby the platforms (3) are 

swung upwards to an inclined position (fig.2). In the bottom 
of the container (1) is mounted a rotatable disk (16), which 

is coupled to a gear arrangement (23), which is mounted on 
the underside of the container (1), and above a shaft (24) 

it is coupled to the PTO coupling (27), which is coupled to 
the power take off shaft of the tractor. On the upper side 

of the disk (16) is mounted stripping irons (19), which for 
example can be located in a helical pattern over the disk 

(16). Between the stripping irons (19) can be mounted driving 
pins 
(21) for the disk (16). At the rear end of the 
machine the part of the disk (16) which rotates in the direction 

out of the machine is fitted with spreading organs, 
which can consist of a series of holding-up irons (28), 

which are adjustably mounted in a beam (29,30), which is 
swingably suspended from pins (33) and actuated by a compression 

spring (35) in a direction opposite to the direction 
of rotation of the disk (16). 
By means of the machine a straw bale can be stripped and 
spread without the straw having to be cut. The machine is  

 
simple of construction and therefore cheap to produce. 

Furthermore, it has a comparatively low power consumption. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERBORG MASKINFAB AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASKINFABRIKKEN HERBORG A S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTENSEN KURT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORSEVAD MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTENSEN KURT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORSEVAD MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a machine for the cutting 
up and spreading of straw bales, large-size straw bales in 
particular. The machine is preferably used for the spreading of straw 
in cattle yards. Up to now the straw has been spread manually. This is very 
time consuming work, and quite often a straw bale is not 
thoroughly split up, but scattered in flakes with a consequent 
large consumption of straw. Furthermore, a machine is on the market, which cuts the 
straw and blows it rearwards over a large area behind the 
machine. These known machines are complicated of construction 
and therefore expensive to produce, and they have a 
high power consumption and are therefore expensive in operation. 
In many cattle yards the indoor climate makes it necessary 
that two opposite outer walls are constructed as 
partly open structures to facilitate draught in the cattle 
shed. Cut-up straw material will therefore blow away before 
it can settle down.Cut-up straw also has several undesirable 
characteristics compared with ordinary straw. These known 
machines are therefore not well suited for cattle yards. It is the purpose of the present invention to describe a 
machine which can split up and spread a straw bale without 
cutting the straw. This is achieved by embodying the machine 
as described in the characterizing part of claim 1. The machine according to the invention is of simple construction 
and therefore cheap to produce. It has a low power 
consumption and is therefore cheap in operation. Furthermore, 
it is easy to operate. Claim 2 deals with a special embodiment of the fence organs 
for a machine according to the invention. Claim 3 deals with special means which ensure that the power 
transmission to the tilting function of the fence organs is 
elastic.  Claim 4 deals with other means with which to damp down the 
power transmission to the tilting function of the fence 
organs. Claim 5 deals with a special embodiment of the machine so 
that it can be mounted on a tractor. Claim 6 deals with a preferred positioning of the stripping 
irons on the rotating disk for a machine according to the 
invention. Claim 7 deals with a preferred embodiment of the stripping 
irons for a machine according to the invention. Claim 8 deals with special driving studs mounted on the 
rotating disk for a machine according to the invention, and Claim 9 deals with a preferred embodiment of the spreading 
organs for a machine according to the invention. The invention is explained in detail below with reference to 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Machine for the cutting-up an spreading of straw bales, 
especially large-size straw bales, characterized 

in that the machine comprises a container (1), which has a 
width a little greater than the width of a straw bale and a 

length which preferably is shorter than the length of a 
straw bale, that the top of the container (1) is fitted with 

movable fence organs (3-8) against which a straw bale in an 
initial position can come to rest accurately on top of the 

container in a position in which the centre portion of the 
long side of a straw bale is in a position above the middle 

of the container (1), that the bottom of the container (1) 
is fitted with a turnable disk (16) which on its top side at 

the centre is embodied with a distance piece (18), which can 
keep the bottom of the centre portion of a straw bale at a 

distance from the disk, and with a number of straw stripping 
irons (19) distributed over the disk (16) in such a way that 

the whole bottom of a straw bale can be stripped, when the 
disk (16) rotates, and that the machine is embodied with 

spreading organs (28-34) which can spread the straw strippings 
rearward and to the side when the disk (16) rotates. 
Machine according to claim 1 characterized 
in that the fence organs (3-8) are embodied as two preferably 

uniform platforms (3), which each is swingably hinged 
on a pin (4) each to its own end of the container (1), that 

each platform (3) is embodied with an end piece (5) and is 
of such a length that a straw bale can be accommodated in 

the longitudinal direction between the end pieces (5), and 
that each pin (4) is carried through the wall of the container 

(1) and at the front end of the container (1) attached 
on a fixed pivot to one end of a tilting arm (6), 

which at its other end by means of a link (7) is link-connected 
to one end of a tilting arm (8), which is swingably 

hinged to the container (1) on a pin (9) and at its other 
end, the one closest to the centre of the container (1), 

comes to rest against a vertically movable piston (10), 
whereby the platforms (3) can be moved from a horizontal 

initial position to a upward inclined terminal position. 
Machine according to claim 3 characterized 
in that the link (7) consists of a tension spring connected 

to the arms (6) and (8) on pins (11) and (12), respectively. 
Machine according to claims 2 and 3 characterized 
in that each arm (6) between the pins (4) and (11) 

by means of a pin (14) has a swingably coupled damper cylinder 
(13), which is swingably hinged to the container (1) 

on a pin (15). 
Machine according to claims 1 and 2 characterized 
in that the machine can be suspended in a tractor, 

that the disk (16) is coupled to a gear arrangement (23) 
which is mounted on the underside of the container (1) and 

which via a shaft (24) by means of a claw clutch (25) can be 
coupled to the tractor's power take-off shaft, and that the 

piston (10) is part of a so-called PTO coupling and is in 
its bottom position, where the platforms (3) are in their 

horizontal initial position when the machine stands on 
the ground, but is moved up to its top position whereby the 

platforms (3) are moved up in an upward inclined terminal 
position, when the machine is lifted. 
Machine according to claim 1 characterized 
in that the machine has an innermost (19') and an outermost 

(19'') stripping iron and a number of intermediary stripping 
irons (19), where each successive stripping iron (19) is located 

in a definite mutual angle and in an evenly increasing 
distance from the centre of the disk (16). 
Machine according to claims 1 and 6 characterized 
in that the stripping irons (19) are embodied as 

flat iron bars, which can have an inclination in relation to 
and are adjustably fastened to the disk (16) and have an 

upper obliquely cut edge (20). 
Machine according to claims 1 and 6 characterized 
in that the disk (16) midway between each stripping 

iron (19) is fitted with a cylindrical driving pin (21) of 
approximately the same height as the stripping irons (19), 

and which inclines outward towards the periphery of the disk 
(16) and at its top has a sharp edge (22). 
Machine according to claim 1 characterized 
in that the spreading organs (28-35) are embodied as a 

series of holding-up irons (28) which are located above the 
disk (16) on the side of the disk which rotates in the direction 

out of the machine and which extends over an area of 
the disk (16) from the disk's periphery towards a 

 
centre plane (0-0) through the machine, and that the holding 

-up irons (28) are adjustably mounted at a mutual distance 
on a beam (29,30), which is swingable suspended on pins (33) 

in the container (1) and actuated by a compression spring 
(35) in the direction opposite to the direction of rotation 

of the disk (16). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
