<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656188</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical apparatus for applying surgical fasteners
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B17068	A61B17072	A61B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-contained gas powered endoscopic surgical 
apparatus so is provided for placing lateral lines of surgical 

fasteners into body tissue. The apparatus includes an anvil 
member 56 and a surgical fastener cartridge member 58 mounted 

to the distal end of an elongated endoscopic portion. A 
tubular collar 220 of the endoscopic portion moves distally to 

engage the anvil member and bias the anvil member and the 
cartridge member into cooperative alignment, thereby clamping 

body tissue to be fastened between the anvil member and the 
cartridge member. A self contained pneumatic system 68 is 

optionally disposed in the surgical apparatus and is actuable 
to eject and/or form the surgical fasteners in the clamped body 

tissue. The apparatus further comprises a locking means 176 
for preventing firing of the instrument after it has been fired 

a predetermined number of times. A counter 400, 406, 450 for 
displaying the number of times the apparatus has been fired may 

be provided. A firing interlock is also shown which prevents 
accidental actuation of the firing trigger. A clamping 

interlock 408, 410 is shown which prevents approximation of the 
jaws when the jaws are either misaligned or improperly inserted 

into the instrument. The instrument also includes means 480 
for disabling the actuation system after a cartridge has been 

fired and means 490 for identifying a cartridge member having 
firing characteristics compatible with the pneumatic actuation 

system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLI ALIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORRENTINO GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLI, ALIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORRENTINO, GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surgical stapling apparatus,
and more particularly to surgical apparatus to perform sequential
operations such as tissue clamping, staple forming and/or tissue
cutting such as is disclosed in EP-A-552 423 on which the first
part of claim 1 below is based.Surgical stapling apparatus is known wherein tissue is
first grasped or clamped between opposing jaw structure and then
fastened by means of fasteners. In some instruments a knife is
provided to cut tissue which has been joined. The fasteners are
typically in the form of surgical staples; however, two part
polymeric type fasteners are also known.Instruments for this purpose can comprise two elongated
fingers which are respectively used to capture or clamp tissue.
Typically, one of the fingers carries a disposable cartridge
housing a plurality of staples arranged in at least two lateral
rows while the other finger comprises an anvil for curling the
staple legs into hook form upon their being driven against the
anvil. The stapling operation is effected by a cam bar which
travels longitudinally along the cartridge carrying finger,
acting on transversely mounted pushers which in turn act upon the
staples to place rows of staples in body tissue. A knife may
optionally be positioned to operate sequentially immediately
behind the cam bar and laterally positioned between the staple
rows to longitudinally cut and/or open the stapled tissue between
the rows of staples. Such instruments are disclosed in U.S. Pat.
No. 3,079,606 to Bobrov et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 3,490,675 to
Green. The instruments disclosed therein comprise apparatus for
simultaneously making a longitudinal incision and applying a row
of staples on both sides of an incision.A later development disclosed in U.S. Pat. No.
3,499,591 to Green applies a double row of staples on each side
of the incision. This is accomplished by a cartridge assembly 
assembly wherein a cam member moves within a guide path between
two sets of staggered staple carrying grooves. Staple drive
members located within the grooves each have two staple pusher
plates, and sloping surfaces disposed within the guide path so
as to be contacted by the longitudinally moving cam and be
driven along the groove to effect ejection of two staples.The cartridge assemblies typically come in a
plurality of sizes, each varying in wire diameter, staple size
and number of staples contained therein. Depending on the
procedure to be performed, the surgeon must select the
appropriate cartridge assembly. The instruments
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical apparatus (50) for driving surgical
fasteners comprising:


a) a frame portion (52) ;
b) an elongated body portion (54) extending from
said frame portion;
c) a fastener applying assembly operatively
associated with a distal end portion of said body

portion and including:

i) a cartridge member (58) having a plurality
of surgical fasteners disposed therein; and
ii) an anvil member (56) mounted adjacent said
cartridge member against which fasteners

ejected from said cartridge member are
driven;
d) fastener ejection means (274, 278) actuable from
said frame portion for ejecting said plurality of

surgical fasteners from said cartridge assembly;
e) a pneumatic actuation system (68) disposed within
said frame portion and operatively associated

with said fastener ejection means;
f) a trigger (96) operatively associated with said
frame portion for actuating said pneumatic

actuation system;
g) counter means (400) for indicating to a user the
number of times said pneumatic actuation system

may be operated; and
h) means (112a, 474) operatively associated with
said counter means for inhibiting the operation

of said pneumatic actuation system after said
apparatus has been operated a predetermined

number of times, said apparatus being

characterised in that
:

said counter means comprises a linear rack member
(456) configured to translate longitudinally with 

respect to said frame portion, and a
reciprocating indexing shaft (452) configure
d to
interact with said rack member to advance said

rack member when said pneumatic actuation system
is operated,
said inhibiting means comprises a blocking tab
(112a) which extends from a triggering rod (112)

and is dimensioned and configured to interact
with said rack member (456) after said apparatus

has been operated said predetermined number of
times.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein
said pneumatic actuation system includes a longitudinally

translating piston member (104), a gas power source (88) to
drive said fastener ejection means, and a rocking lever (120)

engagable with said piston member (104) and said power source in a
first position and disengaged from said piston member in a second

position.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said
triggering rod (112) is operatively associated with

said frame portion for engagement with said piston member to actuate
said pneumatic actuation system.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 3, further
including disabling means (480) operatively associated with

said pneumatic actuation system for inhibiting the operation
of said triggering rod (112) in the absence of an unfired

cartridge member.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, wherein
said disabling means includes:


a) stop means (480) for preventing a full return of
said piston member (104) after said fasteners have been

ejected from said cartridge; and 
b) means (490) for maintaining said rocking lever in
said second position until said piston member is fully

returned.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, wherein
said stop means includes:


a) stop member (480) associated with said elongated
body portion; and
b) a stop engaging member (482) associated with
said piston member (104) such that said stop

engaging member engages said stop member after
ejection of said plurality of fasteners to

prevent full return of said piston member to a prefired
position.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, wherein
said stop member is a radially inward projection in said

elongated body portion and said stop engaging member is a
corresponding projection associated with said fastener

ejection means.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, 6 or 7, wherein
said maintaining means includes a camming surface (144) along

one edge of said piston member (104) for camming said rocking lever into
said second position and means (114) associated with said

piston member for preventing said rocking lever from attaining said
first position until said piston member is fully returned to said

prefired position.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 ,
wherein said disabling means further includes blocking means

(112b) associated with said triggering rod for preventing
engagement of said triggering rod with said piston member until

said rocking lever is in said first position. 
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 9, wherein said
blocking means includes a projection (112b) on said triggering rod

engagable with said rocking lever when said rocking
lever is in said second position, such that said triggering rod

is blocked from engaging said piston member and
disengagable from said rocking lever when said rocking lever

is in said first position.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims further comprising:


identification means (490) associated with said fastener
ejection means for preventing actuation thereof when an

incompatible cartridge member is inserted within said distal
end portion of said body portion.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 11, wherein said
identification means comprises a bridge member (490)

associated with said fastener ejection means adapted to
disable said cartridge member.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 12, wherein said
fastener ejection means comprises a channel (192) and said

bridge (490) is formed on said channel.
The apparatus as claimed in Claim 12 or 13 , in
combination with a compatible cartridge which includes

ramping structure (198, 200) which is slidably mounted for
reciprocal longitudinal motion.
The apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein 

a stop engaging member (482) prevents full return of said fastener
ejection means after said fasteners have been ejected from

said cartridge member.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
