<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648338</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATED ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT HAVING A FLUID SAMPLE HOLDING TRAY TRANSPORT ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3502	G01N3502	G01N3504	G01N3504	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automated analytical instrument for conducting assays for components of interest in fluid samples. The instrument includes a testing system for assaying a fluid sample for a component of interest, a fluid dispensing assembly, an assembly for providing an assay module to the testing system and a fluid sample holding tray transport assembly for transporting a fluid sample holding tray carrying fluid sample holding containers to the fluid dispensing assembly and away from the fluid dispensing assembly. The transport assembly includes a conveyor, a fluid sample holding tray loading unit and a fluid sample holding tray unloading unit. The conveyor includes a carriage which is slidably mounted on a rail and moved along the rail by an endless belt which is fixedly attached to the carriage and driven by a reversible motor. In the operation of the instrument, one or more fluid sample holding trays are placed onto the fluid sample holding tray loading unit. Each fluid sample holding tray so loaded on to the fluid sample tray loading unit is then automatically transferred one at a time onto the carriage, moved by the carriage to the fluid dispensing assembly where fluid samples are aspirated therefrom and then moved to the fluid sample holding tray unloading unit where it is automatically unloaded.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHRING DIAGNOSTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHRING DIAGNOSTICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANINO F THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANINO, F., THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATED ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT HAVING A FLUID SAMPLE HOLDING TRAY TRANSPORT ASSEMBLYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to automated analytical instruments and more particularly to automated analytical instruments for conducting assays for components of interest in fluid samples.In recent years, a number of automated instruments have been developed to perform analyses of fluid samples. As is known in the art, such instruments may be used to test various types of biological fluids for substances of interest, for example, to find evidence of disease, to monitor therapeutic drug levels, and the like. Typically, such automated analytical instruments utilize either liquid reagents or dry reagents to assay for a substance of interest. Various different types of assay devices are known for use in such automated instruments including, for example, dry thin-film multilayer assay elements which are typically mounted in an assay module and capillary assay devices.Generally speaking, automated analytical instruments for conducting assays for substances of interest in fluid samples typically include a plurality of containers for holding the fluid samples to be tested and may include containers for holding the desired reagents. The instruments also typically include one or more fluid dispensing units for metering out quantities of the fluid samples to be analyzed, a temperature controlled chamber wherein the assay devices are allowed to incubate for an appropriate period of time, an analyzing system for measuring some property related to the substance of interest in the fluid samples being tested and some mechanism for bringing the sample holding containers to a location where they can be accessed by a fluid dispensing unit. 

 In copending, commonly assigned United States patent application serial number 732,053 filed on July 18, 1991 in the name of Robert C. Maclndoe, Jr. there is disclosed an automated analytical instrument of the type which uses assay modules to perform assays for components of interest in fluid samples. The instrument includes a supply apparatus for holding a supply of assay modules, a testing system which includes apparatus for testing the fluid samples using the assay modules, a fluid sample cup holder having a plurality of fluid sample holding cups, a pair of fluid sample dispensing units and an assay module transfer apparatus for transferring an assay module to be used from the supply apparatus to the testing system. The assay module transfer apparatus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An automated analytical instrument for use in conducting assays for a component of interest in a fluid sample, said automated analytical instrument comprising: a. an assay module supply unit, said assay module supply unit being adapted to hold a supply of assay modules; b. a testing system for assaying a fluid sample for a component of interest using an assay module; said testing system including a fluid dispensing assembly; c. an assay module transport assembly for transporting an assay module from said assay module supply unit to said testing system; d. a fluid sample holding tray transport assembly for transporting a fluid sample holding tray carrying fluid sample holding containers, wherein said fluid sample holding tray transport assembly includes: i. a conveyor for transporting a fluid sample holding tray along a path past said fluid dispensing assembly whereat quantities of sample fluids can be aspirated from said fluid sample holding containers and for transporting the fluid sample holding tray away from said fluid dispensing assembly; ii. afluid sample holding tray loading unit for loading a fluid sample holding tray onto said conveyor for transport to said fluid dispensing assembly, said loading unit adapted to hold a plurality of fluid sample holding trays thereon and including means for detecting the presence of a fluid sample holding tray thereon; and iii. a fluid sample holding tray unloading unit for unloading a fluid sample holding tray from said conveyor at a location past said fluid dispensing assembly, said unloading unit adapted to hold a plurality of fluid sample holding trays thereon; and 



 e. a microprocessor for controlling the operations of said automated analytical instrument.
2. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 1 wherein said conveyor comprises: a. a rail, b. a carriage slidably mounted on said rail, said carriage adapted to carry a fluid sample holding tray, and c. means for moving said carriage along said rail.
3. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 2 wherein said means for moving said carriage along said rail comprises: a. an endless belt fixedly attached to said carriage, and b. a motor for driving said endless belt.
4. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 3 wherein said fluid sample holding tray loading unit includes: a. a framed structure, and b. a movable belt mounted on said framed structure for moving a fluid sample holding tray from one location on said framed structure to another location on said framed structure.
5. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 1 wherein said fluid sample holding tray unloading unit includes means for detecting the presence of a fluid sample holding tray thereon.
6. A system for transporting fluid samples for use in an automated analytical instrument comprising: a fluid sample holding tray transport assembly for transporting a fluid sample holding tray, said fluid sample holding tray transport assembly comprising: a. a conveyor for transporting a fluid sample holding tray; b. a fluid sample holding tray loading unit for holding a plurality of fluid sample holding trays and for loading a fluid sample holding tray onto said conveyor, wherein said fluid sample holding tray loading unit 


includes means for detecting the presence of a fluid sample holding tray thereon; and c. a fluid sample holding tray unloading unit for unloading a fluid sample holding tray from said conveyor, said unloading unit adapted to hold a plurality of fluid sample holding trays thereon.
7. The transport system as defined in claim 5 wherein said conveyor comprises: a. a rail; b. a carriage slidably mounted on said rail, said carriage adapted to carry a fluid sample holding tray; and c. means for moving said carriage along said rail.
8. The transport system as defined in claim 7 wherein said means for moving said carriage along said rail comprises: a. an endless belt fixedly attached to said carriage; and b. a motor for driving said endless belt.
9. The transport system as defined in claim 8 wherein said fluid sample holding tray loading unit includes: a. framed structure; and b. a movable belt mounted on said framed structure for moving a fluid sample holding tray from one location on said framed structured to another location on said framed structure.
10. The transport system as defined in claim 6 wherein said fluid sample holding tray unloading unit includes means for detecting the presence of a fluid sample holding tray thereon. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
