<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634019</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMMUNOASSAYS EMPLOYING GENERIC ANTI-HAPTEN ANTIBODIES AND MATERIALS FOR USE THEREIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33554	G01N33556	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOWAL ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARSONS ROBERT G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUE VINCENT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOWAL ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARSONS ROBERT G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUE VINCENT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMMUNOASSAYS EMPLOYING GENERIC ANTI-HAPTEN ANTIBODIES AND MATERIALS FOR USE THEREINField of Invention This invention relates to the field of immunoassays.Background of the InventionIn-vitro diagnostic tests via immunoassays typically involve antibodies with specific binding affinity toward the analytes of interest. In such test configurations, antigenic analytes either bind directly with the antibody or compete with a hapten-label conjugate (competition assay). in the former case, the antibody-antigen complex may be allowed to grow as in agglutination assays. Alternatively, in sandwich assays, another antibody with affinity to the antigen can be conjugated to a signal label and allowed to bind the primary antibody-antigen complex. The signal response is directly proportional to the analyte concentration.In competition assays, competition is established between the analytes, typically small molecules in nature, and the hapten-label conjugates. The signal response is inversely proportional to the analyte concentration.Most target analytes can, in principle, be detected using either the competition assay or the sandwich assay format. While there are numerous examples where the stated methods served the purpose very well, the utility of these approaches however, were somewhat limited in that a single assay is specific for a single analyte only. A multi-analyte assay is difficult. The following exemplifies the different available immunoassay formats. U.S. Pat. No. 4,185,084 to Mochida et al., discloses non-homogeneous assays with wash and separation steps. An insolubilized anti-analyte antibody acts as a primary capture phase for the analyte which is conjugated to a hapten (hapten-analyte conjugate). After washing, soluble labelled anti-hapten antibody is added and the complex of (anti-analyte antibody/hapten-analyte conjugate/anti-hapten antibody) is 

detected. U.S. Pat. No. 4,243,749, to Sadeh et al., discloses another similar sandwich assay format. Sadeh et al., is specifically oriented towards measuring low molecular weight (hapten) antigens. The unknown analyte and the hapten-analyte conjugate are incubated together with the insoluble anti- analyte antibody in " a competitive assay format. Following the wash step, soluble labeled anti-hapten antibody is added and the system is washed again and the labeled complex of (anti- analyte antibody/hapten-analyte conjugate/anti-hapten antibody) detected.Kang et al., Clin. Chem.. 22(9):1682-1686 (1986) describes two assay formats. The first assay format
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We claim:
1. An immunoassay method for detecting or quantifying an analyte (A) in a sample, comprising the steps of:
(a) exposing the sample to an anti-analyte antibody (αA), anti-hapten antibody (αH), and hapten-analyte conjugate (H-A) for a sufficient time to allow the formation of a complex comprising {(αH)(H-A)(αA)} and a complex comprising {(αA)(A)}; and
(b) separating the complex of {(αH)(H-A)(αA)} from (αA), (H-A), and {(αA)(A)}; and
(c) detecting and measuring the presence of {(αH)(H- A)(αA)} or {(αA)(A)}, wherein the amount of {(αH)(H-A)(αA)} is inversely proportional to the amount of analyte in the sample, whereas the amount of {(αA)(A)} is directly proportional to the presence of the analyte in the sample.
2. The immunoassay method of claim 1 , wherein the anti-analyte antibody is labelled.
3. The immunoassay method of claim 2, wherein the anti-hapten antibody is attached to a solid phase.
4. The immunoassay method of claim 3, wherein the hapten-analyte conjugate and anti-analyte antibody are in a liquid phase.
5. The immunoassay method of claim 1, wherein the analyte is selected from the group consisting of: low molecular weight substances, relatively low molecular weight substances, and high molecular weight substances.
6. An immunoassay method for detecting or quantifying an analyte (A) in a sample, comprising the steps of:
(a) exposing the sample to an anti-analyte antibody (αA), anti-hapten antibody (αH), and hapten-analyte conjugate 


(H-A) for a sufficient time to allow the formation of a complex comprising {(αH)(H-A)(αA)}; and
(b) detecting and measuring the presence of {(αH)(H- A)(αA)}, wherein the amount of {(αH)(H-A)(αA)} is inversely proportional to the amount of analyte in the sample.
7. The immunoassay method of claim 6, wherein the anti-hapten antibodies are coated onto particles, and agglutination of the particles indicates the presence of {(αH)(H- A)(αA)}.
8. The immunoassay of claim 7, further comprising second particles uncoated with antibodies to the hapten, wherein each of the coated particles and the uncoated particles has a different color, the color of the uncoated particles is different from that of the coated particles, and the absence of agglutination is detected by the combined colors of the coated and uncoated particles, and the presence of agglutination is detected by the color of the agglutinated coated particle against the background color of the uncoated particles.
9. The immunoassay method of claim 8, wherein about equal numbers of the coated and uncoated particles are used.
10. The immunoassay method of claim 7, wherein the particles are microparticles.
11. The immunoassay method of claim 7, wherein the particles are selected from the group consisting of: cells, latex microparticles, plastic microparticles, selenium microparticles, iron microparticles, and gold microparticles.
12. The immunoassay method of claim 11 , wherein the cells are dyed erythrocytes. 


 13. The immunoassay method of claim 6, wherein the analyte is selected from the group consisting of: low molecular weight substances, relatively low molecular weight substances, and high molecular weight substances.
14. The immunoassay method of claim 13, wherein the analyte is selected from the group consisting of: haptens, antigens, and antibodies, wherein said haptens are not the same as those recognized by the anti-hapten antibodies coated on the particles, or the haptens in the hapten-analyte conjugates.
15. The immunoassay method of claim 14, wherein the analyte is selected from the group consisting of: drugs, toxins, vitamins, hormones, antigens of microorganisms, cellular antigens, tissue antigens, allergens and enzymes.
16. The immunoassay of claim 15, wherein the drug is a drug of abuse or a therapeutic drug, and is selected from the group consisting of: phencyclidines, opiates, cannabinoids, amphetamines, cocaines, and steroids.
17. An immunoassay for detecting and measuring the presence and amount of an antibody (αA) in a sample, comprising the steps of: (a) exposing the sample to anti-hapten antibodies
(αH), and haptens conjugated to antigens which the antibody binds (H-Ag), and labeled antibodies (αA*); and
(b) detecting the presence of a complex of {(αH)(H-Ag)(αA*)}, or free (αA
*
), the amount of the complex {(αH)(H-Ag)(αA*)} being inversely proportional to the amount of the antibody (αA) in the sample, and the amount of (αA*) being directly proportional to the amount of (αA) in the sample .
18. A direct agglutination assay for detecting and assaying for the presence and amount of antibody (αA) in a sample, comprising the steps of: 


 (a) exposing the sample to particles coated with anti-hapten antibodies (P-αH), and conjugates comprising haptens and antigens to the antibodies (H-Ag); and
(b) detecting and assaying the agglutination of the coated particles, the agglutination being directly proportional to the amount of antibodies in the sample.
19. A reagent for assaying analytes, comprising: (a) anti-analyte antibodies; and (b) particles coated with antibodies directed against a hapten which is not the analyte.
20. An immunoassay kit comprising:
(a) a first container containing anti-analyte antibodies;
(b) a second container containing particles coated with anti-hapten antibodies (αH-P); and
(c) a third container containing conjugates comprising haptens conjugated to the analytes (H-A).
21 . The immunoassay kit of claim 20, wherein the anti- hapten antibodies are selected from the group consisting of: anti-fluorescein antibodies, anti-rhodamine antibodies, anti- biotin antibodies, and antibodies directed against dinitro- phenyl groups.
22. An immunoassay kit comprising:
(a) a first container containing anti-analyte antibodies, and particles (P) coated with anti-hapten antibodies (αH-P); and
(b) a second container containing conjugates comprising haptens conjugated to the analytes (H-A).
23. An immunoassay device for detecting and quantifying different analytes in a sample, comprising multiple chambers, wherein each chamber contains conjugates of a hapten and a specific analyte to be detected in the chamber, and 


means for introducing a portion of the sample into each chamber and mixing it with the conjugates in that chamber to form a mixture and means preventing the mixture in one chamber from entering another chamber.
24. The device of claim 23, wherein the particles are selected from the group consisting of: cells, latex microparticles, plastic microparticles, selenium microparticles, iron microparticles, and gold microparticles.
25. The device of claim 21 , wherein the hapten is selected from the group consisting of: fluorescein, rhodamine, biotin, and dinitro-phenyl groups.
26. An agglutination assay method for simultaneously detecting or quantifying more than one analyte in a sample, comprising the steps of:
(a) employing a device which contains more than one chamber, wherein each chamber contains a conjugate (H-A) of a hapten specific to an analyte to be detected in said chamber;
(b) mixing the sample with particles coated with anti-hapten antibodies (P-αH) and antibodies to each analyte to be detected, to form a mixture; (c) introducing a portion of the mixture into each chamber, whereby the portion, once introduced into the chamber would not escape and enter other chambers, and the portion becomes mixed with the conjugate (H-A) in that chamber; (d) detecting or measuring the presence of agglutination in each chamber, the amount of agglutination in each chamber being inversely proportional to the amount of analyte in the sample which is specifically being assayed for in that chamber.
27. An erythrocyte coated with antibodies and dyed a color different from the original color of the coated 


erythrocyte, said dyed and coated erythrocyte is capable of agglutinating in an agglutination assay.
28. The coated and dyed erythrocyte of claim 27, wherein the erythrocyte is fixed.
29. The coated and dyed fixed erythrocyte of claim 28, wherein the dye used to dye the erythrocyte is selected from the group consisting of: Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250, Cibacrome Blue 3GA, Reactive Color Series, diazonium dyes, organic dyes with Iodoacetamide or maleimide coupling chemistry.
30. The coated and dyed erythrocyte of Claim 29, wherein the organic dyes with iodoacetamide or maleimide coupling chemistry are selected from the group consisting of: Rhodamine iodoacetamide, Rhodamine maleimide, Eosine iodoacetamide, Eosine maleimide, Tetramethylrhodamine maleimide, and Tetramethylrhodamine iodoacetamide; and the Reactive Color Series is selected from the group consisting of: Reactive Red, Reactive Green, Reactive Yellow, and the diazonium dyes are selected from the group consisting of: Fast Black K and Fast Blue B.
31. The coated and dyed erythrocyte of claim 27, wherein the dye covalently binds to the erythrocyte.
32. An agglutination assay kit for an analyte comprising: (a) a first container containing erythrocytes coated with anti-hapten antibodies and dyed a color different from the erythrocytes' original color, and
(b) a second container containing another reagent for agglutination assay.
33. The agglutination assay kit of claim 32, wherein 


dye used to dye the erythrocyte is selected from the group consisting of: Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250, Cibacrome Blue 3GA, Reactive Color Series, diazonium dyes, organic dyes with Iodoacetamide or maleimide coupling chemistry.
34. The agglutination assay kit of Claim 33, wherein the organic dyes with iodoacetamide or maleimide coupling chemistry are selected from the group consisting of: Rhodamine iodoacetamide, Rhodamine maleimide, Eosine iodoacetamide, Eosine maleimide, Tetramethylrhodamine maleimide, and
Tetramethylrhodamine iodoacetamide; and the Reactive Color Series is selected from the group consisting of: Reactive Red, Reactive Green, Reactive Yellow; and the diazonium dyes are selected from the group consisting of: Fast Black K and Fast Blue B.
35. The agglutination assay kit of Claim 33, wherein the erythrocytes are fixed erythrocytes.
36. The agglutination assay kit of Claim 33, further comprising a third container containing uncoated erythrocytes of a color different from that of the coated erythrocytes.
37. An immunoassay kit for an analyte comprising dyed fixed erythrocytes of different colors coated with different antibodies. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
