<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659619</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A windshield heating assembly having an electric resistance heating element in the parking area of windshield wipers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B384	B60S102	H05B384	B60S102	B60S104	B60S104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	B60S	H05B	B60S	B60S	B60S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	B60S1	H05B3	B60S1	B60S1	B60S1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrangement for heating upper (32) and lower (30) 
windshield wiper blades parked proximate the lower edge of a 

windshield (10) utilizes an electric heating grid placed against 
the inside surface of the windshield, substantially in 

alignment with the parked wiper blades. The electric heating 
grid (42,44,46) is comprised of a first wire (42) in alignment 

with the lower 
blade (30), an intermediate wire (44) and an upper wire (46) 

in alignment 
with the upper blade (32). The wires have opposite ends which are 

connected to busses that are disposed at the lower edge of 
the windshield, the busses having leads for connection to 

power circuitry. The power circuitry includes a climate 
control system having a switch which is rotatable to a 

defrost position. When the switch is rotated to the defrost 
position so that the climate control system defrosts the 

windshield, current flows through the grid. As long as the 
switch is in the defrost position, the current continues to 

flow. The power circuitry also includes a windshield wiper 
deicing switch which operates independently of the defrost 

switch. Associated with the windshield wiper deicing switch 
is a timer which opens the closed deicing switch after a 

selected interval of time. This arrangement provides an 
inexpensive reliable system for deicing windshield wiper 

blades because the wires are disposed on the windshield 
against the inside surface of the windshield. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHRYSLER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHRYSLER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNUDSEN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNUDSEN, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to arrangements
for heating windshield wipers. More particularly, the
present invention relates to arrangements for heating
windshield wipers utilizing electric current.In freezing weather, windshield wiper blades
can become frozen to the windshield of a motor vehicle
when the wiper blades are in their parked position
proximate the lower edge of the windshield. When one
attempts to activate the windshield wipers, the torque
of the motor applied through a driving linkage for
oscillating the wipers may be insufficient to overcome
the force with which the wipers are adhered to the
windshield. The wiper blades may simply not move as
the torque is applied which requires that the driver
leave the car and manually break the adhesion between
the windshield wiper blades and windshield. This is,
of course, an undesirable aggravation. Further still,
the linkage which connects the windshield wipers to the
motor may fail if the torque of the motor is too high
or a fuse may blow, resulting in wipers which are
inoperable. Drivers who must use their vehicles
immediately or who are impatient may then be tempted to
drive without operating windshield wipers which is, of
course, especially hazardous in winter when windshields
can become covered with salt and sand, obscuring the
driver's vision. Even if the blades of the windshield 
wiper are not adhered, there is the difficulty of wiper
blades having deposits of ice thereon which at least
initially compromises their effectiveness.
Accordingly, there is a need for an arrangement which
prevents adhesion of windshield wiper blades to
windshields and which prevents the accumulation of ice,
frozen snow and frost on wiper blades.The problem is recognized in the prior art in
patents such as U.S. Patent 4,549,471 to Kochy et al.
in which heated air from a defroster system is directed
by secondary air ducts to an area of the windshield
where windshield wiper blades rest when the wipers are
parked. A difficulty with this approach is that it is
necessary to warm up the engine and heat the cooling
fluid of the engine to a relatively high level before
heated air is available for application to the
windshield. This may take a considerable amount of
time, especially on very cold days and tempt the driver
to activate the windshield wipers before the ice or
snow adhering the wipers the windshield has melted
which can result in damage to the wipers or perhaps a
blown fuse as described above. Another approach is set
forth in U.S. Patent 3,738,252 to Cardinale
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A windshield heating assembly including an automobile windshield (12)
having an inside surface (26) and an outside surface (24) including a parking area

where a pair of windshield wiper blades (30,32) rest when in a parked mode, a
windshield wiper heater including an electric resistance heating element disposed in

contact with said inside surface (26) at an area aligned with said parking area of said
outside surface (24), and a power circuit for supplying electric current connected to

said heating element to melt ice or snow accumulated on said parking area around the
windshield wiper blades, characterized in that the first of said wiper blades (30) is

disposed below the second of said wiper blades (32) when in parked mode, and in that said heating element
includes a grid localized at the center of the windshield (12), said grid (40)

including three electric wires (42, 44, 46) disposed in alignment with said parking area
on said outer surface (24) of said windshield (12) so as to locally heat said parking

area, the first of said wires (42) being aligned with the lower windshield wiper blade
(30), the second of said wires (44) being disposed between the lower and upper

windshield wiper blades (30, 32), and the third of said wires (46) being aligned with
the upper windshield wiper blade (32), said grid (40) including first and second ends

(52, 54) joined to first and second busses (56, 58) which extend from said grid (40) to
locations proximate to side edges of said windshield (12), said busses (56, 58) having

leads (60, 62) thereon for connection to the power circuit.
A windshield heating assembly according to claim 1 characterized
in that the parking area on the outside surface (24) of the windshield (12) is spaced by

selected distances from side edges of the windshield (12), and in that the grid (40) is
disposed only in an area aligned with the parking area.
A windshield heating assembly according to claim 1 or 2, characterized
in that the power circuit further includes a climate control system for an automobile

interior, said climate control system having a defrost setting (84) that causes air to heat
the inside surface (26) of the windshield (12), said climate control system having a

mode control switch (84) connected to the grid (40) such that when said switch (84)
is in a defrost setting said grid (40) is energized. 
A windshield heating assembly according to any of claims 1 to 3,
characterized further by a deicing switch (86) coupled to the power circuit in parallel

with the mode control switch (84) to connect the grid (40) to the power source
independently of the mode control switch's (84) defrost setting, said deicing switch

(86) having a timer (88) to open said
switch (86) after a selected period of time so as to interrupt power to said grid (40).
A windshield heating assembly according to any of claims 1 to 4,
characterized in that the electric wires (42, 44, 46) of the grid (40) each have a

diameter of substantially 12.7 micrometers (0.0005 inches).
A windshield heating assembly according to any of claims 1 to 5,
characterized in that the wires (42, 44, 46) of the grid (40) have a resistance in the

range of substantially 6.0 to substantially 7.5 ohms.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
