<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645079</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J508	A01J5017	A01J500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01J	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01J5	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a construction for the 
automatic milking of animals, such as cows, by means of a 

milking robot (5) and teat cups (6). For coupling the teat cups 
(6) to the teats and/or determining the teat positions, the 

construction is provided with one or more searching devices (6; 
82), by means of which the udder region is scanned in search of 

teats. To achieve a simple and efficient operation, the 
searching devices (6; 82) are pneumatically operated. In a 

particular embodiment, the searching device is part of a teat 
cup (6). In other embodiments, the teat cups (6) and searching 

devices (82) are separate from each other. The searching device 
(6; 82) may also serve as an implement for cleaning the teats 

and/or animals. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a construction for
the automatic milking of animals, such as cows, comprising
one or more searching devices with a suction mouthpiece which
comprises one or more openings through which air can be
sucked in for the determining of the position of the teats
and/or for the connecting of the teat cups to the teats, said
device being in contact or at short distance to the teats or
the udder of the animal when searching for the teats.Such a construction is known from FR-A-2 408 300.In this construction the suction mouthpiece is
operated by the vacuum applied in the milk line of the teat
cups. Furthermore the position of the teat cups is detected
by means of a camera. Furthermore it may be advantageous to
use less electronics under certain conditions, especially for
detecting the position of the teats.Further it is desirable to clean the udder and
teats of the animal, and to connect the teat cups to the
teats in a proper way.It is an objective of the invention to provide a
construction of the above type, in which the search for the
teats of an animal takes place in a simple way.According to the invention, this is achieved in
that the construction comprises one or more touching or
searching devices for the determining of the position of the
teats and/or for the connecting of the teat cups to the
teats, said device being in contact or at short distance to
the teats or the udder of the animal when searching for the
teats. According to a further feature of the invention, the
searching device can operate pneumatically. According to the
invention, the searching device is for this purpose connected
to an air hose, in which a vacuum can be developed, so that
air can be sucked into the searching device. When the 
searching device is in the vicinity of a teat, according to
the invention, the teat is drawn into the direction of the
searching device by means of a suction mouthpiece which
belongs to the searching device and is provided with one or
more openings, through which air can be sucked in.In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the
suction mouthpiece is circular or semi-circular. To determine
whether the searching device has found a teat, according to 
the invention, the searching device is provided with one or
more sensors, which produce a signal when the air flow
changes in the suction mouthpiece and/or air line.To enable the searching device to be moved
underneath the udder, according to the invention, the
searching device is suitable for cleaning a part of the
animal.In a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for the automatic milking of
animals, such as cows, comprising one or more searching

devices (6; 82) with a suction mouthpiece (81) which
comprises one or more openings through which air can be

sucked in for the determining of the position of the teats
and/or for the connecting of the teat cups (6) to the teats,

said device (6; 82) being in contact or at short distance to
the teats or the udder of the animal when searching for the

teats, characterized in that the suction mouthpiece (81) is
provided with a separate air line (79) by means of which it

is able to produce an underpressure in the mouthpiece (81)
apart from the underpressure in the teat cups (6) which is

produced by a milk line (72) of the teat cup (6). 
A construction according to claim 1, characterized
in that the searching device (6; 82) can operate

pneumatically.
A construction according to claim 1 or 2,
characterized in that an air hose (79) is connected to the

searching device (6; 82), in which a vacuum can be created,
so that air can be drawn into the searching device (6; 82).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction

mouthpiece (81) is circular or semi-circular.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the searching device

(83) is suitable for cleaning a part of the animal.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the searching device

(6; 82) is provided with one or more sensors (84), which
produce a signal when the air flow changes in the suction

mouthpiece (81) and/or the air hose (79).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the searching device

(6; 82) is part of a teat cup (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the connecting of the

teat cups (6) to the teats takes place by means of a suction 
system provided with one or more suction mouthpieces (81).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a teat cup (6) is

provided with a suction mouth (81), while there is further
provided a principally continuously sucking pump for drawing-in

air through this suction mouth.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction

mouthpiece (81) is constituted by the upper part of the teat
cups (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the outer edge of the

suction mouthpiece (81) is made of a flexible material.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction

mouthpiece (81) is made of rubber or plastic.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction

mouthpiece (81) has a diameter of the same order as the teat
cup diameter.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

continuously sucking pump for drawing-in air through the
suction mouthpiece (81).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the searching device

(6; 82) is connected to a continuously sucking pump through
an air outlet line (79).
A construction according to claim 15, characterized
in that the air outlet line (79) is provided near the upper

side of a teat cup (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction system

comprises means, with the aid of which the air line (79)is
closed during milking or in the condition of rest.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction force in

the air line (79) is adjustable.
A construction according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises one or

more sensors (73), by means of which data concerning the
position of a teat in the teat cup (6) can be obtained, while

also the suction force in the air line (79) is automatically
adjusted in accordance with said data.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the suction

mouthpiece (81) is provided with a certain profile allowing
air to be drawn in when a teat is against the suction

mouthpiece (81).
A construction according to claim 18, characterized
in that the profile comprises ridges (88) extending in the

longitudinal direction of a teat cup.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the teat cups (6) are

provided with closing means which close the milk line when
air is drawn in through the suction mouthpiece (81) and the

air line (79).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises means,

by means of which the suction mouthpieces (81) are
automatically movable such that the animal's udder and/or

teats are automatically cleanable by means of the suction
system and suction mouthpieces (81).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that coupling the teat

cups (6) to the animal's teats is principally based on moving
the openings (80) of the teat cups (6) along the animal's

udder, with a vacuum prevailing in these openings (80).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
