<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652839</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERMOPLASTIC COMPOSITE LAYERED SQUEEZE TUBE AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D3508	B65D3502	B32B2708	B32B2708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B32B	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D35	B65D35	B32B27	B32B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermoplastic tube (1), and method for forming such a tube, has a tube body portion formed from an inner layer (15) of thermoplastic material, a barrier layer (21), and an outer layer (25) of thermoplastic material. The outer layer does not extend completely about the periphery of the tube body and a strip (15) of thermoplastic material having the same composition as the inner layer, fills each gap in the outer layer to form a smooth surface about the tube. The strip may be transparent or of a color different than the color of the outer layer. In a preferred tube, a first layer (19) of adhesive material is provided between the inner layer and the barrier layer, and a second layer (23) of adhesive material is provided between the barrier layer and the outer layer and strip.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COURTAULDS PACKAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COURTAULDS PACKAGING INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLOUBEK GEORGE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHOADES JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLOUBEK, GEORGE H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHOADES, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a thermoplastic tube 
formed from an extruded multi-layer tubular cylinder, which tube 
has at least one strip along the tube, in the axial direction of 
the tube, which is of a different transparency or color than the 
remainder of the tube. Thermoplastic tubes in the form of squeeze tubes have 
been commercially available for use in the packaging of 
toothpaste, shampoo, cosmetics, foodstuffs, and the like. Such 
tubes may be produced by severing a tube blank from an extruded 
tubular cylinder, which tube blank has open ends, and forming a 
head on one end of the tube blank which has a threaded neck or 
other means for releasably securing a cap on that end of the 
tube. After filling the capped tube from the other open end, 
that other open end is then sealed, such as by heat sealing, to 
protect the tube contents and to complete the filled tube for 
subsequent sale. The formation of such thermoplastic squeeze tubes from 
multi-layered material, or extruded composites, has been found 
useful in that a barrier layer may be provided, such as an oxygen 
impermeable layer, which barrier layer prevents escape of 
essential oils, or the like, from the tube contents, and protects 
the contents of the tube from discoloration, change in taste, or  
 
other detrimental affect of oxygen on the tube contents. The 
formation of extruded composite tubular cylinders for use in 
forming tube blanks is a known procedure, as for example 
described in US-A-4,723,902, entitled Balanced Flow Extrusion 
Crosshead and Die Assembly, assigned to the assignee of the 
present invention, the contents of said patent incorporated by 
reference herein. As described, such tubes generally have five 
layers which comprise innermost and outermost layers of a 
thermoplastic material, a central layer of a barrier polymeric 
material, and adhesive polymeric material layers, one between the 
innermost thermoplastic layer and the barrier layer and the other 
between the outermost thermoplastic layer and the barrier layer. 
In some instances, where the inner and outer layers adhere 
sufficiently themselves to the barrier layer, the separate 
adhesive layers may not be necessary, and a three layered 
extruded composite tube may be provided. Such thermoplastic multi-layered tubes have been 
readily accepted and have been provided with various decorative 
features and indicia. Indicia, decorative features, and printed 
matter may be applied to thermoplastic tubes by hot stamping or 
dry printing, or application
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermoplastic composite layered tube comprising 
a tube body portion(3) formed as a multi-layered hollow 

cylindrical body having a longitudinal axis, said tube body 
portion having at least three layers, an inner layer(15) of 

thermoplastic material, a barrier layer(21) superimposed 
over said inner layer, and an outer layer(25) of 

thermoplastic material, and a head(5) on one end of said 
tube body portion(3), said head having an orifice (7) 

therethrough and means(9) thereon for releasable securement 
of a cap thereto, characterised in that said outer layer is 

superimposed over only a portion of said barrier layer so 
as to provide at least one gap(27) in said outer layer 

parallel to said longitudinal axis, there being a strip (15) 
of thermoplastic material, of the same composition as said 

inner layer, filling the or each gap(27) to provide a 
substantially smooth outer surface for said tube body 

portion(3). 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in Claim 1 wherein said inner layer(15) of thermoplastic 

material, said barrier layer(21), and said strip (15) of 
thermoplastic material are substantially transparent and 

said outer layer of thermoplastic material is non-transparent. 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in Claim 1 wherein as least one of said inner layer(15) of 

thermoplastic material, said barrier layer(21), and said 
strip(15') of thermoplastic material is of a first colour, 

and said outer layer(25) of thermoplastic material is of a 
different colour.  

 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in Claim 1, wherein said outer layer(25) of thermoplastic 

material is opaque. 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in Claim 1, wherein said outer layer(25) of thermoplastic 

material is coloured. 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in Claim 1 wherein said inner layer(15) and strip(15') of 

thermoplastic material comprise a clear polyethylene 
material and said outer layer of thermoplastic material 

comprises a white polyethylene material. 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in any one of Claims 1 to 3 wherein five layers are 

provided in said tube body portion, comprising said inner 
layer(15) of thermoplastic material, a first adhesive 

layer(19) superimposed over said inner layer, said barrier 
layer(21) superimposed over said first adhesive layer (19), 

a second adhesive layer (23) superimposed over said barrier 
layer, and said outer layer(25) of thermoplastic material 

superimposed over only a portion of said second adhesive 
layer so as to provide said at least one gap(27) in said 

outer layer. 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in Claim 7 wherein said inner layer is between 0.101-0.177 

mm (0.004-0.007 inch) thick, said first adhesive 
layer is between 0.050-0.025 mm (0.0002-0.001 inch) thick, 

said barrier layer is between 0.013-0.050 mm (0.0005-0.002 
inch) thick, said second adhesive layer is between 0.050-0.025 

mm (0.0002-0.001 inch) thick, and said outer layer 
and said strip of thermoplastic material are each between 

0.203-0.304 mm (0.008-0.012 inch thick).  
 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube according to 
Claim 7 as dependent on Claim 2 wherein said adhesive 

layers(19,23) are transparent. 
A thermoplastic composite layered tube as defined 
in any one of the preceding Claims wherein a plurality of 

said gaps(27) are provided in said outer layer(25), each 
said gap filled with a respective said strip(15') of 

thermoplastic material of the same composition as said 
inner layer(15). 
A method of forming a thermoplastic composite 
layered tube comprising extruding a multi-layered cylinder 

with a longitudinal axis, having an inner layer of 
thermoplastic material, a barrier layer(21) superimposed 

over said inner layer, and an outer layer(25) of 
thermoplastic material, and forming a head(7) on said tube 

blank, said head having means(9) thereon for releasable 
securement of a cap thereto, characterised in that the 

outer layer(25) is superimposed over only a portion of said 
barrier layer(21) so as to provide at least one gap(27) in 

said outer layer parallel to said longitudinal axis, and a 
strip(15') of thermoplastic material, of the same 

composition as said inner layer, filling each said gap(27) 
to provide a substantially smooth outer surface for said 

cylinder. 
The method of forming a thermoplastic composite 
layered tube as defined in Claim 11 wherein a first 

adhesive layer(19) is extruded between said inner layer(15) 
of thermoplastic material and said barrier layer(21), and 

a second adhesive layer(23) is extruded between said 
barrier layer(21) and said outer layer(25) and said 

strip (15') of thermoplastic material of the same 
composition as said inner layer.  

 
The method of forming a thermoplastic composite 
layered tube as defined in Claim 11 or 12 wherein said 

inner layer(15) of thermoplastic material and said 
strip(15') of thermoplastic material are provided from a 

common supply of thermoplastic material. 
The method of forming a thermoplastic composite 
layered tube as defined in Claim 11, 12 or 13 wherein a 

plurality of said gaps(27) are provided in said outer 
layer(25), and a respective strip (15') of said 

thermoplastic material, of the same composition as said 
inner layer, fills each said gap. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
