<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629098</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Domestic meter and utility supply system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J1300	H02J1300	G08C1700	H04Q900	H04Q900	G08C1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	G08C	H04Q	H04Q	G08C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J13	H02J13	G08C17	H04Q9	H04Q9	G08C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A meter for remote reading of a utility such as gas, water or electricity 
comprises a measurement sensor (30), a radio receiver (31) and a radio 

transmitter (32), for transmitting measurement information generated by the 
sensor. The radio receiver and transmitter cooperate to pass on information 

from other meters. 
Flow control means can be connected to the receiver to enable remote control. 
Communication between each meter and a hub (5) is carried out by hopping 

along chains of meters in neighbouring premises. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOGICA UK LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOGICA UK LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISHOP DR PHILIP JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISHOP, DR. PHILIP JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a communication system comprising a
chain of meters, and a meter for use in such a system.Reading of utility meters provided in domestic and industrial premises has
traditionally been undertaken manually. In the electricity and gas industry,
readings are taken once per quarter, though in an effort to reduce the
manpower required, there is currently a move towards customer-read, or
estimated readings, with readings by the utility taking place only once per
year.Automated meter reading would reduce the manpower cost, but could
involve a large capital outlay, both in the provision of new meters, and in
the communication links required. Particularly in the case of domestic
metering, the outlay could be large relative to the amounts billed from each
customer.In considering the communication costs, to avoid expensive cabling
schemes, it is known to use radio communications. However, there are a
number of disadvantages with radio communications, including the limited
range which is possible using the available bands, the cost of the large
number of repeater stations that would be required, and the lack of
reliability of communication at extreme range due to interference from other
radios, due to the weather, and due to the local topography.WO 93/02515 describes a wide area communications network communicating data
from a plurality of network service modules through a plurality of remote cell nodes and
intermediate data terminals to a central data terminal. The wide area communications
network collects network generated by a plurality of physical devices such as gas, water or
electricity meters, located within a geographical area. The wide area communications
network is a layered network having a hierarchical communications topology. The central
data terminal controls network operation. Intelligence exists at all layers of the network,
thereby easing the workload of the central data terminal. The intelligence attributed to each
module is a function of the application of that module.US-A-4 230 981 describes a radio communication system including a polling central
station and a number of remote stations. Each remote station is identified by a unique 
address transmitted from the central station preceding a message intended for such remote
station. Each of the remote stations also may be programmed to respond to the address of a
"partner" station in addition to responding to its own address. The "partner" station address is
employed whenever one of the remote stations is located
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A meter for liquid or gas metering for use in a communication system, said
communication system comprising a chain of such meters and being for remote

reading of a gas or liquid utility supplied, produced or used at a given location, said
meter comprising:


a measurement means (30), for the utility supplied, produced or used;
a radio receiver (31);
a radio transmitter (32), for transmitting measurement information generated
by the measurement means, and arranged to operate with the radio receiver to

pass on information received by the receiver;

   
characterized by
:

pressure control means for allowing the gas or liquid to be supplied at a
reduced pressure, according to commands received by the receiver.
A meter according to Claim 1, arranged to receive and store measurement
information from a neighbouring meter and pass this information on when failure of

the neighbouring meter is detected.
A meter according to Claim 1 or 2, comprising:

means (36), for storing and updating a tariff of charges; and
processing means (33), for calculating a total charge from a plurality of
readings charged at different rates.
A meter according to any of Claims 1 to 3, for remote reading of gas or liquid

utilities in domestic premises, comprising:

means for monitoring the gas or liquid pressure;
means for storing a reference pressure level; and
means for indicating when the monitored pressure is over or under the
reference level.
A communication system comprising a chain of meters according to claim 1,
each meter being adapted to communicate with others in the chain to pass

information along the chain.
A communication system according to Claim 5, comprising:

a hub (5), connecting a plurality of said chains of meters in a star formation
or a loop formation.
A communication system according to Claim 6, comprising:

a data gatherer (2), connecting a plurality of said hubs in a star formation or
a loop formation.
A communication system according to any of Claims 5 to 7, wherein two or
more communication paths are defined along one chain or part of a chain, each

path being created by bypassing the meters used by the other path or paths.
A communication system as defined in Claim 8, wherein said multiple
communication paths are provided in the vicinity of junctions between chains, or in

the vicinity of a hub.
A communication system as defined in Claim 8 or Claim 9, wherein each
meter determines part of the route of the communication path, by bypassing

neighbouring meters.
A communication system as defined in any of Claims 8 to 10, wherein the
hub determines part of the route of the communication path.
A communication system according to any one of Claims 5 to 11,
comprising:


a plurality of said hubs, each connected to a plurality of said meters, wherein
upon failure of a hub (cell G), neighbouring hubs are reconfigurable to communicate

with meters normally adapted to communicate with the failed hub.
A communication system according to Claim 12, wherein each hub contains
a map of meters normally adapted to communicate with it, and a map of meters

normally adapted to communicate with neighbouring hubs.
A communication system according to Claim 12 or Claim 13, wherein the
hubs are adapted to communicate with a network management system (7), for

instructing the neighbouring hubs to reconfigure, in response to an indication that
the failed hub has failed.
A utility supply system comprising a plurality of meters for use in a
communication system, said communication system comprising a chain of such

meters and being for remote reading of a utility supplied, produced or used at a
given location, said meters comprising:


a measurement means (30), for the utility supplied, produced or used;
means for monitoring a parameter of quality of the utility supplied;
a radio receiver (31); and
a radio transmitter (32), for transmitting measurement information generated
by the measurement means, and arranged to operate with the radio receiver to

pass on information received by the receiver;

said meters being for use in domestic premises and the supply system being

characterized by
:

means for controlling the supply of the utility from a central source to the
domestic premises in response to quality information transmitted by the meters.
A utility supply system according to claim 15, wherein the utility is a gas, a
liquid or electricity.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
