<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631278</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Speed and skew independent, air bearing slider.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B558	G11B558	G11B560	G11B560	G11B2120	G11B2120	G11B2121	G11B2121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air bearing slider incorporating the invention has both 
front and rear pads extending from a generally planar body. 

Both pads have bearing faces separated by a gap that is 
substantially in excess of any fly height of the slider. The 

sides of both pads are oriented at a rake angle that is 
approximately equal to the maximum expected skew angle. The 

separation of the pads enables the slider to exhibit good 
pitch stability, and the pad rake angles provide resistance to 

roll effects that occur at large skew angles. Both pad faces 
exhibit extremely small taper angles that enable "inlet 

throttling" of air entrained by the slider. Such inlet 
throttling provides the slider with a fly height that is 

substantially independent of relative speed changes between 
the slider and a recording medium. A further embodiment 

includes a rear slider for contact recording applications. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRIKS FERDINAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RE MARK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRIKS, FERDINAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RE, MARK E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to magnetic head, gas bearing 
slider assemblies, and more particularly, to air bearing 
slider assemblies that exhibit a fly height that is 
substantially independent of recording media speed and skew 
variations. This patent application is related to U.S. Patent Application 
Serial No. 82,210, entitled Speed Independent Air Bearing 
Slider, filed on even date herewith. Over more than three decades, various gas bearing slider 
designs (e.g. air bearing sliders) have been created in an 
attempt to solve the problem of fly height variation. While 
there is no generally agreed upon single "figure of merit" for 
an air bearing slider, it is undeniable that it should, at 
least, have the following qualities: low stiction; low take-off 
and landing speeds; a low sensitivity of fly height to 
skew angle variations (i.e. angle between the central axis of 
the slider and the axis of movement of the recording media); 
and a low sensitivity of fly height to disk speed variations 
and to manufacturing errors, such as crown (a distortion of 
the slider). For magnetic recording purposes, constancy of 
recording gap is important, even in the presence of disturbing 
mechanical excitations, e.g., disk roughness, spindle run-out, 
aerodynamic buffeting, etc. The prior art evidences a number of techniques for attempting 
to overcome the aforementioned effects and disturbances. U.S.  
 
Patent 3,197,751 to Felts shows a flying magnetic head 
assembly wherein a generally planar slider has a recording 
head mounted behind its trailing edge. The recording head is 
positioned so that it penetrates an air film over the disk and 
maintains that position irrespective of moderate variations of 
angle of attack between the slider and the disk surface. The 
leading edge of the slider is rounded or beveled to provide a 
"ski nose" to enable air to be compressed beneath the slider. U.S. Patent 3,573,768 to Harris illustrates an air bearing 
slider that includes a pair of stepped regions, one upstream 
from another. The two level steps enable a low stiction line 
contact between the slider body and the recording surface when 
the recording surface is at rest. Further, as a result of the 
height difference between the steps, no taper is required of 
the step surfaces. The distance between the front and rear 
steps is indicated as being approximately equal to the desired 
flying height of the slider. Harris states that this distance 
should be approximately 50 microinches. Chang et al. in U.S. Patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An air bearing slider having a central axis, said air 
bearing slider comprising: 

front pad means and rear pad means, both extending from a 
generally planar body and having bearing faces opposed to 

a recording medium, said front pad means and rear pad 
means separated by a gap that is substantially larger 

than a fly height of said air-bearing slider, said faces 

disposed in parallel orientation but not co-planar, each 
said front pad means and rear pad means having a leading 

edge and a shorter trailing edge and sides connecting 
said edges to create bearing faces having closed 

trapezoidal shapes. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1 wherein both 
said front pad means and rear pad means exhibit leading 

edge to trailing edge taper angles that assure inlet 
throttling of entrained air between contact faces of said 

front pad means and rear pad means and a recording 
medium. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said rear pad means has a bearing face that is 

less in area than the area of the face of said front pad 
means. 
An air bearing slider for supporting a transducer over a 
moving recording surface and having a central axis, said 

air-bearing slider comprising: 
   a slider body having a major surface opposed to said 

recording surface, said slider body also having 
leading and trailing edges oriented along an axis of 

motion of said recording surface;
 

   front pad means depending from said major surface 
and substantially adjacent said leading edge of said 

slider body and having a leading edge and a shorter 
trailing edge, both said edges connected by sides, 

said front pad means thereby exhibiting a 
trapezoidal face opposed to said recording surface; 

   rear pad means depending from said major surface and 
substantially adjacent said trailing edge of slider 

body and having a leading edge and a shorter 
trailing edge, both said edges connected by sides, 

said rear pad means thereby exhibiting a trapezoidal 
face opposed to said recording surface, said leading 

edge of said rear pad means separated from a 
trailing edge of said front pad means by a distance 

that is substantially greater than a fly height of 
said air bearing slider, said faces of said front 

pad means and rear pad means having taper angles 
that provide an inlet throttling effect for said air 

bearing slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 4, wherein 
said sides of said front pad means and rear pad means 

each define an acute angle ϑ with respect to said central 
axis, said angle ϑ approximating a maximum skew angle 

between said central axis of said slider and an axis of 
motion of said recording surface. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said taper angles of said front pad means 

and rear pad means do not exceed approximately one 
milliradian. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said taper angles of said front pad means 

and rear pad means are in a range of approximately 100 to 
500 microradians. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said face of said rear pad means has a 

surface area that is less than the surface area of said 
face of said front pad means. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said surface area of said face of said 

rear pad means has a surface area that is approximately 
75% of the surface area of said face of said front pad 

means. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said distance between said leading edge 

of said rear pad means and said trailing edge of said 
front pad means is approximately one half of a 

longitudinal length of said slider body along said axis 
of motion of said recording surface. 
An air bearing slider for contact recording and having a 
central axis, said air bearing slider comprising: 

   front pad means and rear pad means, both extending 
from a generally planar body and having bearing 

faces opposed to a recording medium, said front pad 
means and rear pad means separated by a gap that is 

a substantial percentage of a length of said air-bearing 
slider, a bearing face of said front pad 

means having a taper angle that assures inlet 
throttling of entrained air therebeneath, said front 

pad means having a leading edge and a shorter 
trailing edge and sides connecting said edges to 

create a bearing face having a closed polygonal 
shape, said rear pad means having a bearing face 

whose linear dimensions are approximately an order 
of magnitude less than dimensions of said bearing 

face of said front pad means. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said front pad means and rear pad means 

are symmetrical about said central axis and the sides of 
said front pad means and/or rear pad means, each define 

an acute angle ϑ with respect to said central axis, said 
angle ϑ approximately equal to a maximum skew angle 

between said central axis and a recording medium. 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said bearing face of said front pad means 

or said planar faces of said front pad means and said 
rear pad means each exhibits a taper angle αp, said taper 

angle αp no greater than 
α, wherein 

 
where: 

µ =dynamic gas viscosity U =disk speed Pa =ambient pressure ht =trailing edge gap 
The air bearing slider according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein a channel is formed in said front pad 

means to provide added roll stability for said air 
bearing slider, said channel creating a pair of front pad 

means, each one of said pair having sides with rake 
angles of ϑ. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
