<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620919</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR DETERMINING GAS HOLD-UP
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2722	G01N2722	G01N33487	C12M134	C12M134	G01N33487	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	C12M	C12M	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N33	C12M1	C12M1	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for determining gas hold-up in a fermentation culture, in which, prior to aeration and during fermentation, a high frequency alternating signal is input to electrodes in electrical contact with the culture, the magnitude of the reactive current signal leading the voltage in the electrode circuit is determined and the difference in said magnitudes prior to aeration and during fermentation is used as a measure of the gas hold-up. The system may be combined with various methods of measuring biomass to give a gas hold-up corrected value of biomass.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABER INSTR LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABER INSTRUMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD, ROBERT, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to determination of gas hold-up in a 
fermentation process and has wider implications for 
determination of cellular biomass or biovolume and to 
processes in which such determination is made. One of the most important variables in a fermentation or 
other process using biological cells is the reactor biomass 
concentration, that is the concentration of microbial or 
other biological cells in the reactor, because the 
productivity of a process under a given set of conditions is 
proportional to the biomass concentration. For monitoring purposes during a fermentation it is 
particularly useful to be able to estimate the biomass on a 
real time basis rather than at some time in the past. This 
generally requires the utilisation of physical properties 
that can be measured in situ rather than properties which 
require sampling and analysis. However, the conditions 
within fermentation reactors do not lend themselves to the 
use of all physical techniques. Our European Patent No. 0281602 and published European 
Patent Application No. 0282532 describe a method and 
apparatus for the determination of biomass in a culture 
medium in which a signal dependent on the electrical 
capacitance or dielectric permittivity is generated, at a 
suitable frequency or range of frequencies, between 
electrodes mutually spaced in the medium, and determining 
from the capacitance or permittivity dependent signal, the 
volume fraction enclosed by the cytoplasmic membranes of the 
cells. The basis of this approach is that biological cells, in 
contrast to macromolecules, ionic solutions and gas bubbles, 
have molecularly thin lipid membranes which (when measured  
 
at suitable frequencies) can be shown to have a large 
electric capacitance per unit membrane area. When suspended 
in a conductive medium, the measured capacitance exhibits a 
frequency dependence known as the beta dispersion. By 
measuring the capacitance at suitable frequencies it is 
possible to estimate the magnitude of the beta dispersion 
and in turn the biomass concentration. In a development of the above approach a conductance signal 
representative of the culture conductivity at respective 
high and low frequencies may also be used. These methods work in many processes, but a problem that 
limits their accuracy is the varying quantity of gas that 
may be present in the culture. During fermentation the 
medium in a bioreactor may consist of multiple phases of 
gases, liquids and solids, and because the permittivity of 
gases is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining gas hold-up in a fermentation 
culture, the method comprising, prior to aeration and during 

fermentation, inputting a high frequency alternating signal 
to electrodes in electrical contact with the culture, 

determining the magnitude of the reactive current signal 
leading the voltage in the electrode circuit and using the 

difference in said magnitudes prior to aeration and during 
fermention as a measure of the gas hold-up. 
A method according to claim 1 in which the high 
frequency is above or within the top end of the range of 

frequencies at which β dispersion occurs. 
A method according to claim 1 in which the high 
frequency is within the range of frequencies at which β 

dispersion occurs and a curve fitting technique is used to 
determine the reactive current signal above the β dispersion 

range. 
A method according to any preceding claim further 
comprising determining biovolume in a culture by inputting 

respective high and low frequency alternating signals to an 
electrode circuit including electrodes in electrical contact 

with the culture, deriving a conductance signal 
representative of the culture conductivity at each frequency 

and processing said conductance signals to provide an output 
indicative of the biovolume and utilising said gas hold-up 

determination to provide a corrected biovolume estimate. 
A method according to claim 4 in which the conductance 
signals are generated by determining for each frequency a 

signal related to the in-phase component of current within 
the electrode circuit.  

 
A method according to claim 4 or claim 5 in which the 
output is subjected to a temperature dependent adjustment. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 6 in which the 
gas hold-up high frequency signal is one of the signals used 

for deriving biovolume. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 6 in which the 
gas hold-up high frequency signal is a separate high 

frequency signal not used for deriving biovolume. 
A method according to any preceding claim in which at 
least some of the differing frequency signals are input to 

the electrode circuit simultaneously. 
A method according to any of claims 4 to 9 in which at 
least some of the differing frequency signals are input to 

the electrode circuit sequentially. 
Apparatus for determining gas hold-up in a fermentation 
culture, the apparatus comprising means for inputting a high 

frequency alternating signal to an electrode circuit that 
includes electrodes in electrical contact with the culture, 

means for inputting the voltage over the inter electrode gap 

to a phase sensitive detector, means for imposing a 90° 
phase lag on a current signal from the electrode circuit and 

for inputting said lagged signal to the phase sensitive 
detector to produce a signal related to a quadrature 

component of current in the electrode circuit and a 
difference circuit for receiving a signal related to the 

quadrature component of current before onset of aeration of 
the culture subsequently receiving a signal related to the 

quadrature component during fermentation and establishing a 
difference value which is output as a measure of gas 

hold-up.  
 
Apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising 
means for determining biovolume comprising means for 

inputting respective high and low frequency alternating 
signals to the electrode circuit and generating from the 

relative magnitude of the in-phase components of current 
and/or voltage at the respective high and low frequencies an 

output signal indicative of biovolume. 
Apparatus according to claims 11 or 12 in which the 
alternating signals are input to the electrode circuit by 

induction. 
Apparatus according to claim 12 or claim 13 in which 
the means for generating comprises band-pass filters tuned 

to a respective one of the frequencies and connected to 
means for obtaining an in-phase component of current signal 

relative to the respective voltage signal, the outputs of 
which are input to a difference circuit. 
Apparatus according to claim 14 including means for 
sampling voltage signals over an inter-electrode gap and 

means for determining current signals in the electrode 
circuit, the voltage signals being input to the band-pass 

filters and the current signals input, along with the output 
from the band-pass filters to the means for obtaining the 

in-phase component. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 12 to 15 further 
comprising means for adjusting the output signal indicative 

of biovolume in dependence upon temperature sensed in the 
culture. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 12 to 16 further 
comprising means for adjusting the output signal indicative 

of biovolume in dependence upon the magnitude of said 
dfference value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
