<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615578</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE WITH VARIABLE COMBUSTION CHAMBER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B100	F02B104	F02B300	F02B306	F02B4100	F02B4104	F02B7502	F02B7502	F02D1302	F02D1302	F02D1500	F02D1504	F02F142	F02F142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02F	F02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B1	F02B1	F02B3	F02B3	F02B41	F02B41	F02B75	F02B75	F02D13	F02D13	F02D15	F02D15	F02F1	F02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal combustion engine and method for operating the same wherein the combustion chamber volume can be varied depending on throttle position by a member (9) that is inserted into the combustion chamber, and wherein the intake valve (34) is closed before the piston (32) completes its intake stroke so that the expansion stroke is effectively lengthened. In the case of a two-stroke engine, some of the intake gas is expelled before combustion to achieve an effective lengthening of the expansion stroke.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RILEY MICHAEL B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RILEY MICHAEL B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY MICHAEL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY MICHAEL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE WITH VARIABLE COMBUSTIONCHAMBERFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an internal combustion engine having a variable volume combustion chamber to optimize fuel-air ignition pressure at a variety of throttle rates, and having a lengthened expansion stroke to increase efficiency.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIt has long been known that increasing the compression ratio of an internal combustion engine increases its thermodynamic efficiency. The assumption used is that, for ideal cycles, a normally aspirated engine achieves full cylinder filling at atmospheric pressure. In this case the geometric volume ratio (of cylinder plus combustion chamber compared to combustion chamber alone) is designed to give a pre-combustion pressure just below the auto-ignition point of recommended fuels in gasoline engines, at the upper temperature regions of normal operation. For such engines operating at less than full load, however, the pressure of the mixture filling the cylinder is less than atmospheric. Consequently, while the geometric volume ratio remains constant, the pressure ratio is decreased, resulting in a mixture in the combustion chamber whose pressure is below that obtained at full throttle. One approach to restoring the full pre- combustion pressure (or achieving the desired pressure ratio) is to vary the volume of the combustion chamber. Designs to achieve this are numerous, but most lack the simplicity of design, and the robustness, to make their implementation practical. Some of the prior art is summarized below.U.S. Patent No. 741,824 by Pehrsson describes a 4-stroke, internal combustion engine with a cam operated exhaust valve and a vacuum operated intake valve, and with a main cylinder-diameter auxiliary 

 piston used to manually vary the combustion chamber volume, to obtain the maximum pre-combustion pressure. The position of the auxiliary piston defines the limits of travel of the inlet valve. In U.S. Patent No. 1,167,023 by Schmidt, there is disclosed a conventional 4-stroke engine with an auxiliary cylinder and piston above the main cylinder, to vary the combustion chamber volume. The auxiliary piston position is controlled by a spring, and the load of combustion is taken up by hydraulic pressure. The position of the auxiliary piston is therefore dependent on the load, as the rate of supply and escape of oil from above the auxiliary piston (or the top half of it) is limited by the rate with which it can enter or escape through the oil ports. The outlet port
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. An assembly for varying the combustion chamber volume in an internal combustion engine, comprising a housing with a chamber in communication with the combustion chamber; a piston slidably and adjustably extending into the housing chamber to adjust the volume of the combustion chamber; and cushion means for cushioning the piston from the combustion chamber pressure.
2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the cushioning means includes hydraulic fluid.
3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the cushioning means includes an hydraulic chamber substantially enclosed by the piston and the housing on the opposite side of the piston from the combustion chamber.
4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein the cushioning means further includes an hydraulic fluid channel from the hydraulic chamber to outside the hydraulic chamber to allow controlled flow of hydraulic fluid therebetween.
5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the hydraulic fluid channel is sized such that the hydraulic fluid flows through the channel turbulently.
6. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the hydraulic fluid flows through the hydraulic fluid channel from inside the hydraulic chamber to outside the hydraulic chamber upon an increase in piston pressure caused by combustion in the combustion chamber.
7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein the hydraulic fluid channel is sized such that the pressure in the hydraulic fluid in the hydraulic chamber during combustion and expansion of the combusted gases is greater than the pressure of the hydraulic fluid outside the hydraulic chamber. 


 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein the cushioning means further includes an hydraulic fluid port from inside the hydraulic chamber to outside the hydraulic chamber, the hydraulic port having an operable valve to open and close it and being sized substantially larger than the hydraulic fluid channel to allow a flow rate substantially greater than the flow rate through the hydraulic fluid channel.
9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the cushioning means further includes an hydraulic fluid inlet from outside the hydraulic chamber to inside the hydraulic chamber, the hydraulic fluid inlet being sized substantially larger than the hydraulic fluid channel to allow a flow rate substantially greater than the flow rate through the hydraulic fluid channel.
10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the hydraulic fluid inlet has a one-way valve positioned therein so that hydraulic fluid can flow only into the hydraulic chamber through the inlet. 11. The assembly of claim 4, further comprising means for adjustably sliding the piston through the housing chamber to adjust the volume of the combustion chamber.
12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein said adjusting means includes a screw extending through the housing, the longitudinal axis of the screw being parallel to the sliding axis of the piston, screw drive means, and means to connect the screw to the piston.
13. The assembly of claim 12, wherein the screw drive means includes a geared wheel on the screw.
14. The assembly of claim 12, wherein the connect means includes a spring between the screw and the piston to absorb part of the combustion pressure on the piston. 15. The assembly of claim 4, further comprising limiting means for limiting the slide of the piston in the housing. 


 16. The assembly of claim 15, wherein the limiting means includes a closure on the hydraulic chamber side of the piston to mate with and close the hydraulic fluid channel when the piston is slid a predetermined distance into the hydraulic chamber.
17. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the hydraulic fluid channel is in a wall of the housing opposite the piston, and the closure includes a plug to mate with the channel that is positioned outside the channel and urged toward the piston by a spring.
18. The assembly of claim 15, wherein said limiting means includes a land in the housing wherein the housing on the piston side of the hydraulic chamber extends in the direction radial from the axis of piston travel a first distance and a second distance, the first distance being greater than the second distance, and the first distance and second distance having a land between them to stop the piston from travelling past the land toward the hydraulic chamber wall opposite the piston.
19. The assembly of claim 15, wherein the limiting means includes means for limiting the slide of the piston away from the hydraulic chamber and into the combustion chamber. 20. The assembly of claim 19, wherein said means for limiting the slide of the piston away from the hydraulic chamber and into the combustion chamber includes a stop on the housing on the combustion chamber side of the piston extending from the housing into the path of travel of the piston.
21. The assembly of claim 20, wherein said stop is a ring.
22. The assembly of claim 4, further comprising means for limiting the skew of the piston in relation to the axis of travel.
23. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the means for limiting the skew of the piston includes a 


perforated hollow rod, one end of which is attached to the hydraulic chamber side of the piston and the other end of which is slidably mounted in the housing wall opposite the piston. 24. A four-stroke internal combustion engine, comprising a cylinder; a working piston reciprocally mounted in the cylinder; a set of valves to control gas flow into and out of the cylinder; means for operating the valves in timing with the reciprocation of the piston, whereby compressed gas in a combustion volume in the cylinder is ignited and expands to drive the piston through a power stroke and is then exhausted to outside the cylinder, and whereby the intake valves are closed before the piston completes the intake stroke; and means to vary the combustion volume by the insertion of a member into the cylinder.
25. The engine of claim 24, wherein the volume-varying means is a volume varying piston slidably mounted in the cylinder in communication with the combustion volume.
26. A two-stroke internal combustion engine, comprising a cylinder; a set of valves to control gas flow into and out of the cylinder; means for operating the valves in timing with the reciprocation of the piston, whereby compressed gas in a combustion volume in the cylinder is ignited and expands to drive the piston through a power stroke and is then exhausted to outside the cylinder, and whereby some of the intake gas is expelled prior to combustion; and means to vary the combustion volume by the insertion of a member into the cylinder.
27. The engine of claim 26, wherein the valves include a bleed valve to allow the escape of some of the gas from the cylinder prior to combustion. 28. The engine of claim 27, wherein the bleed valve bleeds gas from the cylinder to the compression chamber or intake manifold. 


 29. A method of operating a four-stroke internal combustion engine having a cylinder, a working piston reciprocally mounted in the cylinder, a set of valves to control gas flow into and out of the cylinder, and means for operating the valves in timing with the reciprocation of the cylinder whereby gas is compressed by the piston to a combustion volume and is ignited and expands to drive the piston through a power stroke and is then exhausted to outside the cylinder, the method comprising closing the intake valves before the piston reaches the bottom of the intake stroke; and adjusting the combustion volume based on the throttle position of the engine, whereby the combustion volume is reduced for low throttle. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said step of adjusting of the combustion chamber volume includes adjustably inserting a member into the combustion chamber.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein said member is a volume adjusting piston slidably mounted in a housing attached to the cylinder, the volume adjusting piston and housing enclosing an hydraulic fluid chamber to cushion the pressure exerted on the volume adjusting piston by the combustion of gasses in the cylinder.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising controllably allowing hydraulic fluid to be expelled from the hydraulic fluid chamber upon the exertion of pressure on the volume-adjusting piston by the combustion of gases in the cylinder, and controllably replacing said expelled hydraulic fluid upon the termination of such combustion pressure.
33. The method of claim 32 wherein said controlling of expulsion and replacement of hydraulic fluid includes the use of a bleed channel from the hydraulic chamber to outside the hydraulic chamber for hydraulic fluid to pass through. 


 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the adjustment of said volume adjusting piston is by turning a screw one end of which is attached to the piston and the other end of which is threaded through the housing.
35. The method of claim 34, further comprising absorbing a portion of the combustion pressure on the volume-adjusting piston with a spring between the screw and the piston. 36. The method of claim 33, further comprising abruptly draining the hydraulic chamber to accommodate abrupt withdrawal of the volume-adjusting piston into the hydraulic chamber, by opening an hydraulic fluid port having a size substantially larger than the size of the hydraulic fluid bleed channel to allow the passage of hydraulic fluid therethrough substantially faster than through the hydraulic fluid bleed channel.
37. A method of operating a two-stroke internal combustion engine having a cylinder, a working piston reciprocally mounted in the cylinder, a set of valves to control gas flow into and out of the cylinder, and means for operating the valves in timing with the reciprocation of the piston whereby gas is compressed by the piston to a combustion volume and is ignited and expands to drive the piston through a power stroke and is then exhausted to outside the cylinder, the method comprising expelling a portion of the intake gas prior to combustion; and adjusting the combustion volume, based on the throttle position of the engine whereby the combustion volume is reduced for low throttle.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the expulsion of intake gas is through a bleed valve from the cylinder to the intake manifold or compression chamber. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
