<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650638</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTROLS FOR ELECTRICAL HEATING APPLIANCES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H916	H01H916	H01H1900	H01H1902	H01H2100	H01H2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H9	H01H9	H01H19	H01H19	H01H21	H01H21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An energy regulator having a rotary control member has an integral indicator for indicating visually the state of the heating means in use. The indicator may be provided adjacent the main control housing, or in certain embodiments, in the control member itself. The indicator may also indicate the power setting of the heating means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STRIX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STRIX LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR JOHN CRAWSHAW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, JOHN, CRAWSHAW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Controls for Electrical Heating AppliancesThe present invention relates to control units in the form of energy regulators or thermostats, for example, for the heating means of electrical heating appliances such as cooker hot plates, hobs, grills and electrical ovens, of a type comprising rotary control members.In electric cookers or hobs it is usual, for reasons of economy, to provide a single neon indicator on the cooker to indicate that one of the hot plates is energised. The indicator remains illuminated whilst any of the hot plates is on and is not extinguished while the hot plates cycle during their normal operation. This is not satisfactory since not only does the indicator give no indication as to which hot plate is energised, but also the electrical wiring of, for example, four separate hot plate control units to a remote indicator is both time consuming and expensive, requiring the provision of two lengths of wire with four push-on connectors for each control unit. More sophisticated appliances may include a separate neon indicator for each hot plate, but there remains the need to wire each indicator to the appropriate control unit during assembly of the appliance and also to mount each indicator separately within the appliance.The present invention seeks to overcome the above problem, and from a first aspect provides a control unit for an electrical heating means, comprising a rotary control member and an indicator, preferably a neon indicator, for indicating visually the state of said heating means in use, the indicator being incorporated in the control unit.Such an arrangement allows separate indicators to be provided for each heating means of an appliance, e.g. 

 for a plurality of cooker hot plates to indicate that a particular hot plate is energised. At the same time, the invention obviates the need for clumsy and relatively expensive electrical wiring between each control unit and a remote single indicator or plurality of indicators in that in accordance with the invention an indicator is an integral part of each control unit and the electrical connections to the indicator are advantageously made during assembly of and within the control unit. Further, since the indicator is incorporated in the control unit, the need for separate means for mounting the indicator within an appliance in addition to the means required in any event for mounting the control unit may be obviated. The control unit may comprise an energy regulator. These devices, which are well known in the art, regulate the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A control unit for an electrical heating means, comprising a rotary control member and an indicator, for indicating visually the state of said heating means in use, the indicator being incorporated in the control unit.
2. A control unit as claimed in claim 1 wherein said indicator is a neon indicator.
3. A control unit as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said control unit is an energy regulator for a multi-hot plate cooking apparatus.
4. A control unit as claimed in claim 3 wherein said indicator is mounted within a part of a plastics housing of the control unit.
5. A control unit as claimed in claim 4 wherein a mask is provided which fits over that part of the regulator housing containing the indicator and which is provided with a window, lens or other light transmission means in a position which indicates visually which hot plate is controlled by the energy regulator.
6. A control unit as claimed in claim 5 wherein the mask comprises further much smaller, light transmitting means arranged so as to indicate the positions of the other non-controlled hot plates.
7. A control unit as claimed in claim 5 or 6 wherein the mask is mounted to a lens moulding which is mounted to or forms part of the control unit housing.
8. A control unit as claimed in claim 7 wherein the lens is translucent. 


 9. A control unit as claimed in any of claims 5 to 8 wherein the lens is formed as a projection in the upper surface of a lens moulding and the mask is adapted to fit over the projection to be located in position.
10. A control unit as claimed in claim 9 wherein the lens moulding is adapted so as to be mountable to the control unit in different rotational orientations so as to permit one moulding to be used to give a number of different visual indications.
11. A control unit as claimed in any of claims 4 to 10 wherein the indicator is located in a housing part which is integral with and extends to one side of a main control unit housing such that the indicator is adapted to be positioned next to a control knob for the unit in use which knob will be in front of the main housing.
12. A control unit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the indicator is mounted within or on the rotary control member itself.
13. A control unit as claimed in claim 12 wherein the control member comprises a hollow spindle, with the indicator arranged at least partly within the spindle.
14. A control unit as claimed in claim 13 wherein the indicator is mounted on a fixed support member extending through the spindle.
15. A control unit as claimed in claim 13 or 14 wherein the indicator extends beyond the open end of the hollow spindle.
16. A control unit as claimed in claim 13, 14 or 15 wherein a knob is mounted to said spindle. 


17. A control unit as claimed in claim 16 wherein said knob contains light guide means.
18. A control unit as claimed in claim 16 or 17 wherein means are provided for varying the degree of illumination associated with the knob to represent the setting of the control.
19. An electrical control comprising a rotary control member such as a knob and means associated with the control member for varying the illumination thereof in response to its rotation, to represent the setting of the control.
20. A control or control unit as claimed in claim 18 or 19 comprising an iris arranged within the knob or control member.
21. A control or control unit as claimed in claim 18 or 19 comprising a shutter selectively for illuminating different portions of the knob.
22. A control or control unit as claimed in claim 21 wherein a peripheral portion of the knob is illuminated.
23. A control or control unit as claimed in claim 21 or 22 wherein said shutter comprises a number of resilient segments selectively raised and lowered in response to rotation of the knob or control member.
24. An electrical appliance comprising a control or control unit as claimed in claim 23 and cam means for selectively deflecting said shutter segments.
25. An appliance as claimed in claim 24 wherein said cam means comprises a plurality of concentric cam rings. 


26. A control unit as claimed in claim 18 or 19 wherein the degree of illumination of a stalk of the knob is varied.
27. A control unit as claimed in any preceding claim wherein two indicators are provided.
28. A control unit as claimed in claim 27 wherein both indicators are provided within the knob.
29. A control unit as claimed in claim 28 wherein a first indicator illuminates a central portion of the knob and a second indicator illuminates a region of the knob therearound.
30. An electrical appliance comprising a control or control unit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 28 or 26 to 29.
31. An electrical appliance comprising a plurality of heating means, each controlled by a respective control unit as claimed in claim 1 or 2, said appliance having mask means arranged over respective said control units, each mask means comprising means for transmitting the light produced by an indicator of a respective control unit through a selected part of the mask which indicates graphically which heating means is controlled by the control unit underlying that mask.
32. A mask for use in a control unit or electrical appliance as claimed in any of claims 5 to 31. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
