<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0732088</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Expandable stent forming projecting barbs
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F282	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F200	A61F284	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An intraluminal stent for implanting in a body lumen 
in which a plurality of connecting members are deformed 

radially outwardly to form projecting barbs for attaching the 
stent to a body lumen. The stent has a first, unexpanded low 

profile diameter for intraluminal delivery, and a second, 
larger expanded diameter for implanting in a body lumen in 

which projecting barbs are formed and which penetrate the body 
lumen to assist in attaching the stent to the walls of the body 

lumen. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to endoprostheses
and, more specifically, to an intraluminal stent for repairing
a damaged or diseased artery, or to be used in conjunction with
a tube graft for delivery to an area of a body lumen that has
been weakened by damage or disease, such as an aneurysm of the
abdominal aorta. Several areas of the body are particularly
suitable for receiving an endoprosthesis, commonly referred to
as an intraluminal stent, to hold open and insure the patency
of a body lumen. Two such areas include the coronary arteries
and the aorta, especially in the area where an aneurysm has
developed.An abdominal aortic aneurysm ("AAA") is an abnormal
dilation of the arterial wall of the aorta in the region of the
aorta that passes through the abdominal cavity. The condition
most commonly results from atherosclerotic disease.
Frequently, abdominal aortic aneurysms are dissecting
aneurysms, that is aneurysms that are formed when there is a
tear or fissure in the arterial lining or wall through which
blood is forced and eventually clots, forming a thrombosis
which swells and weakens the vessel. Abdominal aortic
aneurysms do not cause pain, but are easily detected in a
thorough physical examination. If the aneurysm is not detected
and treated, it is likely to rupture and cause massive
hemorrhaging fatal to the patient.Treatment of AAAs comprises some form of arterial
reconstructive surgery which commonly is referred to as a
"triple-A" procedure. One such method is by-pass surgery, in
which an incision is made into the abdominal cavity, the aorta
is closed off above and below the site of the aneurysm, the
aneurysm is resected, and a synthetic graft or tube sized to
approximate the diameter of the normal aorta is sutured to the
vessel to replace the aneurysm and to allow blood flow through
the aorta to be reestablished. The graft commonly is
fabricated of a biocompatible material that is compliant and
thin-walled. Nylons and synthetic fibers such as those
manufactured under the trademarks DACRON or TEFLON of the E.I.
DuPont de Nemours, Co. have been found to be suitable for the 
construction of the graft. Studies have shown that the
mortality rate associated with this surgical procedure is
favorable (less than 5%) when it is performed prior to rupture
of an aneurysm. However, patients having an AAA typically are
over 65 years of age, and often have other chronic illnesses
which increase the risk of perioperative or post-operative
complications. Those patients thus are not ideal candidates
for this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An expandable intraluminal stent (10) for
implanting in a body lumen, comprising:


a first stent section (11) having at least one
cylindrical element (13) ;
a second stent section (12) adjacent said first
stent section (11), said second stent section (12)

having at least one cylindrical element (13);
a plurality of connecting members (20) connecting
said first and second stent sections (11,12) back to

back; and
a weakened portion (21) in at least some of said
connecting members (20), said connecting members (20)

being deformable at said weakened portion (21) when
subject to a compressive force to form a plurality of

projecting barbs (22), the overall length of the stent
(10) in the unexpanded configuration and in the

expanded configuration being substantially the same.
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
weakened portion (21) includes at least one notch in

said connecting members (20) .
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
stent (10) has a smooth outer surface having no

projections or rough edges and a first, unexpanded
diameter providing a low profile for intraluminal

delivery.
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
stent (10) has a second, expanded diameter so that

said outer surface of said stent (10) contacts the
body lumen and said plurality of projecting barbs

contact the body lumen. 
The intravascular stent of claim 4, wherein said
plurality of projecting barbs (22) are capable of

penetrating the body lumen.
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
stent (10) is attached to a tubular graft (35).
The intravascular stent of claim 1 wherein said
stent (10) is formed from a single piece of tubing.
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
stent (10) is formed from a flat sheet of material.
The intravascular stent of claim 8, wherein said
flat sheet of material has a first longitudinal edge

and a second longitudinal edge, and said stent (10) is
rolled into a cylindrical configuration from said flat

sheet of material so that said first longitudinal edge
abuts said second longitudinal edge and is attached

thereto.
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
first stent section (11) and said second stent section

(12) are expanded from within causing said connecting

members (20) having a weakened portion (21) to deform
outwardly.
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein said
first stent section (11) is twisted relative to said

second stent section (12) in order to deform said
connecting members (20) having a weakened portion (21)

and form said projecting barbs (22).
The intravascular stent of claim 1, wherein at
least some of said connecting members (20) have a

plurality of notches (21).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
