<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618988</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A FLUID DISCHARGE VALVE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K31385	E03D130	E03D130	E03D134	F16K3136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	E03D	E03D	E03D	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K31	E03D1	E03D1	E03D1	F16K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluid discharge device, primarily for w.c. cisterns, has a housing (4, 9) with an outlet (5) through the base of the cistern (1). A main valve assembly (20) with a seal (21) normally blocks this outlet (5). A substantially closed variable volume chamber (26) is formed in the housing (4, 9), the main valve assembly (20) providing its base. A pilot valve (12, 30, 36), controllable externally of the cistern, can open this chamber (26) to the outlet, and there is a restricted passage (10, 49, 58, 88) between the chamber (26) and the interior of the cistern (1). On opening the pilot valve, water (and sometines air under pressure) escaping the chamber (26) alters the pressure balance and the main valve assembly (2) lifts to generate the full discharge. The flow of water can help keep this valve assembly (20) lifted, and a low pressure zone in the discharge passage can be used to keep the chamber (26) scavenged. The valves close when the discharge is completed, and replenishment water penetrates the chamber (26) via the restricted passage (10, 49, 58, 88).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYPIPE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYPIPE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FROST DOUGLAS ROBERT DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FROST, DOUGLAS ROBERT DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fluid discharge valves 
similar to that disclosed in US-A-2,993,676, which is primarily intended to provide a light action, easily 
operable, fast flowing valve for emptying cisterns or other 
types of liquid storage containers or tanks. It is particularly, 
although not exclusively, applicable to being used 
flushing domestic toilets or w.cs. Flushing toilet pans or bowls have been established 
for a great many years and the w.c. in one form or 
another is commonplace in every modern home. With the 
conventional modern low flush toilet cistern, the 
arrangement for achieving the flush basically consists of an 
inverted U tube or siphon with sides of unequal length 
configured such that the longer side of the U tube extends 
downwards through the bottom of the cistern, into which it 
is fixed by a bulkhead fitting. It is then connected to the 
toilet pan either directly or by a short length of pipe. At 
the end of the shorter side, there is an enlarged inverted 
bucket-shaped section, the larger open end of which lies 
close to the bottom inside the cistern. This enlarged 
section contains a plunger with a non-return valve, and on 
operation of a lever or handle on the outside of the 
cistern, the plunger moves inside the enlarged section 
forcing water over the bend of the inverted U tube and into 
the outlet pipe. This, when filled, creates a siphonic 
action for maintaining the flush until the cistern is empty. Flushing devices can, however, vary considerably 
in performance and the majority do not operate  
 
satisfactorily below a medium water level setting. Most 
w.c.s require quite a lot of water to produce an effective 
flush, they can be slow to discharge and, in some cases, 
their efficiency can be significantly impaired by small 
reductions in the set water level in the cistern. There are also flush operating devices which, 
particularly at certain water level settings, demand 
substantial effort and speed of actuation. This precludes 
operation by certain disabled persons, some old people and 
most young children. According to the present invention there is 
provided a discharge valve device for total immersion in a 
fluid, the device comprising a housing, an upwardly movable 
main valve assembly within the housing and forming with the 
upper part thereof a variable volume upper chamber, a 
restricted passage between the upper chamber and the 
exterior thereof, an outlet leading down from the lower part 
of the housing, a seat for the main valve assembly at the 
entr
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A discharge valve device for total immersion 
in a fluid, the device comprising a housing (4,9), an 

upwardly movable main valve assembly (20) within the housing 
and forming with the upper part (9) thereof a variable 

volume upper chamber (26), a restricted passage 
(10,49,58,88) between the upper chamber (26) and the 

exterior thereof, an outlet (5) leading down from the lower 
part (4) of the housing, a seat (6) for the main valve 

assembly at the entry to the outlet (5) so that normally, in 
the lowered position of the main valve assembly, the outlet 

is blocked against ingress of fluid in which the device is 
immersed, and a pilot valve (12,30,36) actuable remotely 

from the housing (4,9) to put the upper chamber (26) in free 
communication with the outlet (5), the arrangement being 

such that, on such free communication being established, 
fluid escapes the upper chamber (26) and the change in 

relative pressures above and below the main valve assembly 
(20) causes the latter to unseat thereby permitting flow of 

the immersing fluid into the outlet and its substantially 
complete discharge, such that cessation of flow of the 

immersing fluid allows the main valve assembly (20) to 
revert to its seated position with the pilot valve (12,36) 

cutting off said free communication, and such that, on 
replenishment, the immersing fluid penetrates the upper 

chamber (26) via said restricted passage (10,49,58,88) to 
create a nett downward pressure on the main valve assembly 

and thereby keep it seated.  
 
A device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
free communication is via a passage (22) through the main 

valve assembly (20). 
A device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein the 
pilot valve has a member (25,31) which co-operates with said 

passage (22) to open or close it as said member is moved. 
A device as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said 
pilot valve member (25) is moved downwards to open said 

passage (22). 
A device as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said 
pilot valve member (31) is moved upwards to open said 

passage. 
A device as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said 
pilot valve member (31) opens said passage (22) when moved 

either up or down. 
A device as claimed in Claim 5 or 6, for 
liquid, wherein control means for said pilot valve member 

carries a stop (57) and a float (56) captively guided to 
engage the stop and actuate the pilot valve when the liquid 

level exceeds a predetermined limit. 
A device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the 
pilot valve (36) governs a passage (41,35,40,42) through the 

housing from the upper chamber (26) to the outlet (5). 
A device as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the 
main valve assembly (20) carries a secondary valve (30) 

which, when the main valve assembly is raised, meets an 
abutment (34) which causes that secondary valve (30) to 

unseat and thereby provide more direct communication between  
 

the upper chamber (26) and the outlet (5) than the pilot 
valve passage. 
A device as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the restricted passage includes at least one 

aperture (10) in the upper part (9) of the housing. 
A device as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the restricted passage includes at least one port 

(58) in the main valve assembly. 
A device as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein a flexible diaphragm (8) interconnects the main 

valve assembly (20) and the housing (4,9) to form part of 
the bottom of the upper chamber (26). 
A device as claimed in Claim 12, wherein the 
restricted passage includes at least one port (50) in the 

diaphragm (8). 
A device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
11, wherein the main valve assembly (20) forms a piston 

which co-operates closely with the inside wall of the 
housing (4,9). 
A device as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the main valve assembly (20) is denser than the 

fluid in which it is intended to be immersed, and will thus 
seat by gravity. 
A device as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein a spring (75) acts between the housing (4,9) and the 

main valve assembly (20) to assist its seating. 
A device as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the contours of the underside of the main valve  

 
assembly (20), the lower part of the housing (4) and outlet 

(5) channel the liquid flow, once the assembly (20) is 
unseated, to promote lift of that assembly (20). 
A device as claimed in Claim 2 and any 
preceding Claim, wherein the contours of the underside of 

the main valve assembly (20), the lower part of the housing 
(4), and the outlet (5) channel the liquid flow, once the 

assembly (20) is unseated, to create a progressive pressure 
drop in the liquid, and wherein there is communication 

between the upper chamber and a low pressure zone so 
created, whereby liquid in the upper chamber is scavenged 

and discharged with the main_flow. 
A device as claimed in Claim 18 as appendant 
to Claim 2, wherein the communication with the low pressure 

zone is via said passage (22). 
A device as claimed in Claim 18 as appendant 
to Claim 11, wherein the communication with the low pressure 

zone is via said port (58). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
