<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621718</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data broadcasting system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H6037	H04H2053	G07F1716	H04N7167	G06Q3000	H04H2095	H04H6047	G06Q3000	H04H6065	G07F1700	H04N100	H04N100	H04H2000	H04N7167	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	H04H	G07F	H04N	G06Q	H04H	H04H	G06Q	H04H	G07F	H04N	H04N	H04H	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H60	H04H20	G07F17	H04N7	G06Q30	H04H20	H04H60	G06Q30	H04H60	G07F17	H04N1	H04N1	H04H20	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data broadcasting system for the low-cost 
delivery of character-heavy data such as newspapers and 

magazines. In the novel constitution, newspaper data are 
transmitted from a newspaper publisher to an artificial 

satellite via a broadcasting center to be relayed to a 
subscriber. The subscriber receives the data by means of a 

receiver via an outdoor apparatus. The received data are 
sent to a recorder to be recorded on a recording medium 

such as a compact magneto-optical disc for later display. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a data 
broadcasting system suitable for electronically 
distributing, via an artificial satellite, such information 
mainly composed of texts (or characters) as newspapers, 
magazines, and books that are conventionally distributed 
directly to readers or sold at stores on a daily or 
otherwise regular basis. Conventionally, newspapers, magazines, and books 
are distributed in hardcopy in most cases. However, recent 
advancement in data communications technologies is making 
it possible to distribute information hitherto conveyed in 
printed matters such as mentioned above through electronic 
means. For example, on-line network services are widely 
available in which a database containing information such 
as obtained from newspapers and the like can be accessed by 
personal computers via a public telephone network for 
information retrieval.  
 In addition, there already exists a service for 
distributing desired newspaper or magazine articles to 
contracted subscribers by means of facsimile. However, the distribution of information in 
hardcopy presents following problems for example: 
(1) As long as one reads only one copy of 
newspaper or magazine on a regular basis, there may be 
little problem in handling the copy; however, as the number 
of copies increases, they become too bulky to handle them 
with convenience; (2) If a family or an office subscribes only one 
copy of newspaper for example, only one family or office 
member can read the copy at a time; (3) Consumption of a huge volume of paper caused 
by hardcopy distribution is presenting an environmental 
problem in terms of deforestation; (4) Transportation and delivery of hardcopy 
require a lot of manpower, thereby increasing 
transportation cost; and (5) Transportation and delivery of hardcopy 
require a lot of vehicles driven by internal combustion 
engines, thereby presenting an air-pollution problem. Conventionally, however, the information delivery by 
electronic means is too costly for the general public to use it 
conveniently because of a relatively high fee for using the 
database service plus a telephone charge for accessing it. NHK Laboratories Note. No. 187 July 1975. "Broadcasting 
of still images" discusses the broadcasting of still images 
using terrestrial broadcasting channels or cable networks. 
There is no disclosure of the use of satellite channels or 
encryption. US-A-5,070,404 discloses an apparatus for adding data to a 
broadcast television channel which may be a satellite channel. 
Th
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data broadcasting method for transmitting 
predetermined data via a broadcasting channel, comprising the 

steps of: 

scrambling retrieval page and article page data of one of 
a newspaper, a magazine, and a book using a scramble key to 

obtain scrambled data; 
encrypting data related to the scramble key, common 
information, a receiver ID, and subscription terms to obtain 

encrypted related data; 
inserting the scrambled data and the encrypted related 
data into a predetermined artificial satellite channel; 
transmitting the predetermined channel including the 
scrambled data and encrypted related data via an artificial 

satellite; 
receiving the transmitted scrambled data and encrypted 
related data from said artificial satellite; 
decrypting the received encrypted related data to obtain 
decrypted related data; and 
unscrambling the received descrambled data using the 
received scrambler key to obtain unscrambled data to reproduce 

said newspaper, magazine, and book. 
A data broadcasting method according to claim 1, 

further comprising the step of:
 
   recording the unscrambled data onto a recording medium. 
A data broadcasting method according to claims 1 or 
2, wherein said artificial satellite channel is a digital data 

transmitting channel of one of a broadcasting satellite and a 
communications satellite. 
A data broadcasting system for transmitting 
predetermined data via broadcasting channel, comprising: 


scrambling means (14) to scramble retrieval page and 
article page data of one of a newspaper, a magazine, and a book 

using a scramble key to obtain scrambled data; 
encrypting means (11) for encrypting data related to the  
 

scramble key, common information, a receiver ID, and 
subscription terms to obtain encrypted related data; 
multiplexing means (12, 15, 17) for multiplexing the scrambled 
data and the encrypted related data with a broadcast signal to 

generate a multiplexed signal; 
transmitting means (16, 18, 21) for transmitting said 
multiplexed signal to a predetermined artificial satellite 

channel; 
receiving means (5,6) for receiving said multiplexed 
signal via said predetermined artificial satellite channel; 
separating means (74) for separating said data from said 
multiplexed signal received by said receiving means; 
decrypting means (82) for decrypting the received 
encrypted related data to obtain decrypted related data; and 
unscrambling means (87) for unscrambling the received 
scrambled data by using the received scrambler key to obtain 

unscrambled data to reproduce said newspaper, magazine, and 
book. 
A data broadcasting system according to claim 4, 
further comprising:
 
   recording means (7) for recording the unscrambled data 

onto a recording medium. 
A data broadcasting system according to claims 4 or 
5, wherein said artificial satellite channel is a digital data 

transmitting channel of one of broadcasting satellite and a 
communications satellite. 
A data broadcasting system according to claims 4, 5 
or 6, wherein said multiplexing means is adapted to multiplex 

an audio signal and a video signal with the scrambled data and 
the encrypted related data to generate said multiplexed signal. 
A data broadcasting apparatus according to claims, 
4, 5, 6 or 7 wherein said retrieval data includes a pointer for 

indicating said article data. 
A data broadcasting apparatus according to claims  
 

4, 5, 6, 7, or 8, wherein said scrambling key for scrambling 
said data is predetermined and said multiplexing means is adapted 

to multiplex said predetermined scramble key with said 
scrambled data. 
A data broadcasting apparatus according to any one 
of claims 4 to 9, wherein said multiplexing means is adapted to multiplex 

subscription terms information with said scrambled data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
