<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644679</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remote supervisory system for network elements.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1226	H04L1226	H04L12403	H04L12403	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a remote supervisory system in which 
slave supervisory apparatus (S-SV) for supervising 

network elements can be polled from a master supervisory 
apparatus (M-SV), and yet each S-SV is able to send an 

alarm signal to the M-SV at any appropriate time. In 
this system, a first transmission path connected to the 

M-SV is connected via a switch to a second transmission 
path leading from each S-SV. The switch is controlled in 

accordance with the presence of a signal on the first 
transmission path and also with the presence of a signal 

on the second transmission path. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMAIZUMI HIDEKI C O FUJITSU LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMAIZUMI, HIDEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a centralized 
supervisory system, and more particularly to a remote 
supervisory system that can reduce a time delay occurring 
at a master station (the central station) in detecting 
alarms from slave stations (the stations supervised by 
the master station). Usually, in a communications network, slave 
stations are provided which supervise network elements, 
such as transmitting equipment, that form part of the 
communications network, and a master station having the 
facilities for remotely supervising the slave stations is 
provided, thus implementing a remote supervisory system 
for remotely supervising the network elements at the 
master station. Generally, in this type of remote supervisory 
system, a polling selection system is employed. In 
polling, master supervisory equipment (M-SV) responsible 
for centralized supervision transmits a polling signal (a 
send request signal) to slave supervisory equipment (S-SV) 
provided for network elements (NEs), in response to 
which signal the S-SV reports the current conditions of 
the NEs to the M-SV. The polling signal is sent out at 
fixed time intervals; the signal can also be sent out at 
any desired time when a maintenance person makes a 
request by designating a specific NE or all the NEs. 
This polling system has the advantage that the condition 
of any specific NE or all the NEs can be checked at any 
time since the maintenance person can transmit a send 
request at any desired time. On the other hand, the 
disadvantage of this system is that there is a time lag 
between the occurrence of an alarm and the detection of  
 
that alarm because a fault condition (alarm) occurring at 
a certain NE cannot be detected by the M-SV unless the M-SV 
issues a send request to the S-SV that supervises the 
NE that is causing the alarm. On the other hand, an instantaneous alarm 
transmit system is known whereby an alarm is sent to the 
M-SV upon the occurrence of an alarm condition. With 
this system, an alarm can be detected without delay, but 
the drawback is that the M-SV cannot issue a send request 
to the S-SV. It is an object of the present invention to provide 
a remote supervisory system that overcomes the 
disadvantages of the above-described polling system and 
the instantaneous alarm system while retaining their 
advantages. According to the present invention, there is 
provided a remote supervisory system for centralized 
supervision of a plurality of network elements forming a 
communications network, comprising:
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A remote supervisory system for centralized 
supervision of a plurality of network elements forming a 

communications network, comprising: 
   a plurality of slave supervisory 

apparatuses coupled to the respective network elements; 
   a master supervisory apparatus; 

   a first transmission path coupled to the 
master supervisory apparatus; 

   a plurality of second transmission paths 
coupled to the respective slave supervisory apparatuses; 

   a plurality of switch means connected 
between the first transmission path and the plurality of 

second transmission paths; and 
   control means for controlling the switch 

means in accordance with the presence of a signal on the 
first transmission path and also with the presence of a 

signal on the second transmission paths. 
A system according to claim 1, wherein the 
control means includes: 

   a first signal detection circuit for 
detecting the presence of a signal on the first 

transmission path and thereby outputting a first 
detection signal; 

   a second signal detection circuit for 
detecting the presence of a signal on the second 

transmission paths and thereby outputting a second 
detection signal; 

   an exclusive-OR circuit for accepting the 
first and second detection signals and outputting the 

exclusive-OR of the first and second detection signals; 
and 

   a switch activating circuit for activating 
the switch means in accordance with the output of the 

exclusive-OR circuit. 
A system according to claim 2, wherein the 
first and second signal detection circuits include a 

 
first capacitor and a second capacitor, respectively, for 

converting a signal consisting of a plurality of pulses 
into a continuous signal. 
A system according to claim 3, wherein the 
first and second transmission paths each include a pair 

of balanced electrical signal lines. 
A system according to claim 3, wherein the 
first transmission path is realized by a transmission of 

an overhead bit on an optical transmission path that 
forms part of the communications network. 
A system according to claim 3, wherein the 
first transmission path is realized by a transmission of 

an overhead bit on a radio transmission path that forms 
part of the communications network. 
A system according to claim 1, wherein the 
first transmission path includes a first polling signal 

path for carrying a polling signal from the master 
supervisory apparatus to the slave supervisory apparatus, 

and a first alarm signal path for carrying an alarm 
signal from the slave supervisory apparatus to the master 

supervisory apparatus, 
   the second transmission paths each include a 

second polling signal path for carrying the polling 
signal to the slave supervisory apparatus coupled 

thereto, and a second alarm signal path for carrying the 
alarm signal from the slave supervisory apparatus coupled 

thereto, 
   the switch means are each connected between the 

first alarm signal path and the second alarm signal path, 
and 

   the second polling signal path is connected to 
the first polling signal path. 
A system according to claim 7, wherein when a 
signal is present on the first alarm signal path, the 

control means holds the switch means off until the signal 
is removed, and when a signal is present on the second 

alarm signal path, holds the switch means on until the 
 

signal vanishes. 
A system according to claim 8, wherein the 
first and second polling signal paths and the first and 

second alarm signal paths include a pair of balanced 
electrical signal lines. 
A system according to claim 1, wherein when a 
signal is present on the second transmission path or when 

a polling signal destined for the slave supervisory 
apparatus from the master supervisory apparatus is 

present on the first transmission path, the control means 
holds the switch means on until the signal vanishes, and 

when an alarm signal destined for the master supervisory 
apparatus from the slave supervisory apparatus is present 

on the first transmission path, holds the switch means 
off until the signal vanishes. 
A system according to claim 10, wherein the 
first and second transmission paths include a pair of 

balanced electrical signal lines. 
A system according to claim 1, wherein the 
first transmission path is realized by a transmission of 

an overhead bit for carrying an SV signal over a main 
transmission path that forms part of the network, 

   the second transmission paths each include an 
extraction electrical signal line for carrying the SV 

signal extracted from the main transmission path to the 
slave supervisory apparatus coupled thereto, and an 

insertion electrical signal line for inserting the SV 
signal from the slave 
supervisory apparatus coupled 
thereto into the main transmission path, 

   the switch means is connected in series to the 
insertion electrical signal line, and 

   the control means holds the switch means off 
when an alarm signal from other slave supervisory 

apparatus is present on the extraction electrical signal 
line, until the signal vanishes. 
A system according to claim 12, wherein the 
main transmission path is an optical transmission path. 
A system according to claim 13, wherein the 
extraction electrical signal line and the insertion 

electrical signal line each include a pair of balanced 
electrical signal lines. 
A system according to claim 13, wherein the 
optical transmission path is a time-compression-multiplexing 

optical transmission path. 
A system according to claim 14, wherein the 
optical transmission path is a time-compression-multiplexing 

optical transmission path. 
A system according to claim 13, wherein the 
optical transmission path is a wavelength-division-multiplexing 

optical transmission path. 
A system according to claim 14, wherein the 
optical transmission path is a wavelength-division-multiplexing 

optical transmission path. 
A system according to claim 12, wherein the 
main transmission path is a radio transmission path. 
A system according to claim 19, wherein the 
extraction electrical signal line and the insertion 

electrical signal line each include a pair of balanced 
electrical signal lines. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
