<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637748</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Correlated multi-dimensional chromatography.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3000	G01N3046	G01N3086	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a two-dimensional gas chromatography system 
(200), it is necessary to "pair" peaks (1A1, 1A2, 1A3, 

1A4, 1A5) from one chromatogram with respective peaks 
(1B1, 1B2, 1B3, 1B4, 1B5, 1B6) of another chromatogram. 

Both peaks of a pair should correspond to the same 
sample component. Confirmation or disconfirmation of 

pairs may be speculative or arbitrary. A hybrid 
chromatographic column (2AB) is designed so that the 

retention time of a sample component is the average of 
the retention times of that component in the two 

independent columns (2AA, 2BB). Thus, a peak location 
in the hybrid chromatogram can be calculated for each 

pair of peaks. The absence of a peak at that location 
or the inconsistency of the area of a peak at that 

location disconfirms the pairing. Higher dimensional 
systems and other separation technologies may also be 

used. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRY BO U
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON GARY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRY, BO.U.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, GARY B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to analytical chemistry and, more particularly, to correlated 
multidimensional chromatography. A major objective of the present invention is to 
provide for improved correlation of peaks from independent chromatographic separations 
of sample components. Analytical chemistry has provided for fundamental advances in environmental and 
medical sciences. At the heart of analytical chemistry are techniques that provide for the 
separation, identification and quantification of components of a sample. 
"Chromatography" denotes a class of analytic methods that separate a sample into 
components as it moves along a separation path and typically provide for sequential 
quantification of the separated components. Herein, "chromatography" includes not only 
gas chromatography (GC) and liquid chromatography (LC), but also capillary 
electrophoresis (CE) and gel capillary electrophoresis (GCE). In GC and LC, a sample is carried by a fluid (gas or liquid) that flows past a stationary 
support. As they flow past the support, some sample molecules are adsorbed to the 
support. The adsorption is reversible in that adsorbed sample molecules are desorbed 
to the fluid. Adsorbed sample molecules are considered to be in a "stationary phase", 
while desorbed molecules are considered to be in a "mobile phase". As the number of adsorbed molecules increases, the rate of desorption increases until 
adsorption and desorption equalize. When equality is achieved, the proportions of each 
sample component in the mobile and stationary phases are in equilibrium. The 
partitioning of a component between the stationary phase and the mobile phase at 
equilibrium is a function of the component, the support material and the carrier fluid. 
For a given support material and carrier fluid, partitioning is a function of the 
sample components.  Sample components with a relatively large proportion of their molecules in the stationary 
phase, spend relatively less time in the mobile phase. Therefore, the migration rates for 
such components are less than the migration rates for sample components with relatively 
small proportions of their molecules in the stationary phase. It is this difference in 
migration rates that effects liquid and gas chromatographic separations. In CE, an electric field is applied along a separation path. The electric field propels 
molecules in proportion to their charge, while viscous drag counters the propulsion in 
relation to the molecules size. Thus, CE separates sample components
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multidimensional chromatography method (500) 
comprising the steps of: 


a) separating components of a sample according to N 
independent separation procedures (501) and a hybrid 

separation procedure (511), N being an integer greater 
than unity, 

   said N separation procedures resulting in N 
independent concentration distributions, 

   said hybrid separation procedure resulting in 
an actual hybrid concentration distribution, 

   each of said hybrid and independent 
concentration distributions including a respective 

series of peaks at respective locations within the 
respective distribution; 

   said hybrid separation procedure being 
selected so that an estimated hybrid peak location 

for a respective one of said sample components can 
be calculated from the locations of N independent 

peaks, each from a respective one of said N 
independent concentration distributions and each 

corresponding to said respective sample component, 
said estimated hybrid peak location being 

calculable according to a function that varies with 
each of said N independent peak locations; 
b) proposing (502) an assignment of N peaks from 
respective ones of said N independent concentration 

distributions to said sample component; 
c) calculating (503) the estimated location of a 
confirming peak along said hybrid concentration 

distribution; and 
d) examining (504) said hybrid concentration 
distribution for the presence of a confirming peak at 

said expected location; 
 
   whereby the absence of a confirming peak can 

disconfirm (514) said proposed assignment of N peaks. 
A method as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising a step of comparing (505) the area of said 

confirming peak with the areas of said N peaks; 
   whereby, a disconfirmation (515) can result despite 

the presence of a peak at said estimated location when 
the area of said confirming peak is significantly less 

than the area of the peak of minimum area among those 
proposed for assignment in step b. 
A method as recited in Claim 1 or 2, wherein 
said hybrid separation procedure involves component 

separation along a path that has a continuous hybrid 
selectivity characteristic. 
A method as recited in Claim 1 or 2, wherein 
   said N independent separation procedures include a 

first independent separation procedure in which said 

sample components are separated along a first 
independent separation path that has a first selectivity 

characteristic, 
   said N independent separation procedures include a 

second independent separation procedure in which sample 
components are separated along a second independent 

separation path that has a second selectivity 
characteristic, 

   said hybrid separation procedure includes 
separation of sample components along a hybrid 

separation path including a first segment that has said 
first selectivity characteristic and a second segment 

that has said second selectivity characteristic, said 
second segment being downstream of said first segment. 
A method as recited in Claim 4 wherein said 
hybrid separation path includes a third segment 

downstream of said second segment, said third segment 
having said first selectivity characteristic. 
A multidimensional chromatography system (200) 
comprising: 

   N independent separation paths (2AA, 2BB) that have 
N different selectivity characteristics, said N 

independent separation paths including a first 
independent separation path (2AA) that has a first 

selectivity characteristic and a second independent 
separation path (2BB) that has a second selectivity 

characteristic, said second selectivity characteristic 
being different from said first selectivity 

characteristic; 
   a hybrid separation path (2AB; 3AB; 4AB) that has a 

hybrid selectivity characteristic, said hybrid 
selectivity characteristic being a combination of said N 

different selectivity characteristics; and 
   a detector (22A, 22B, 22H) that produces respective 

chromatograms for each of said independent and hybrid 
separation paths. 
A system as recited in Claim 6 wherein said 
hybrid separation path (3AB; 4AB) includes: 

   a first segment (301; 401) that has said first 
selectivity characteristic; and 

   a second segment (302; 402) that has said second 
selectivity characteristic; 

   said second segment being downstream of said first 
segment. 
A system as recited in Claim 6, wherein said 
hybrid separation path (4AB) includes a first group of 

segments (401, 403, 405, 407, 409) that have said first 
selectivity characteristic, said hybrid path further 

 
including a second group of segments (402, 404, 406, 

408, 410) that have said second selectivity 
characteristic, segments of said first and second groups 

being mutually interposing. 
A system as recited in Claim 6, wherein said 
hybrid separation path (2AB) is continuously has said 

hybrid selectivity characteristic. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
