<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650538</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ALUMINA SUPPLY APPARATUS FOR ELECTROLYTIC SMELTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25C314	C25C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25C	C25C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25C3	C25C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A feeder assembly for an alumina eletrolysis cell includes an alummina dose holder (5) defined between inner and outer walls (6, 7, 7') with an inlet port in the outer wall above an outlet port in the inner wall. The inlet and outlet ports (8, 11) are closable and openable by valve means formed by relative movement between the outer wall (7, 7') and a valve seat (10, 12) cooperating with a seating edge of the outer wall (7, 7'). The valve means is moved by drive means (13) including a pneumatically operated piston (14) movable within a cylinder (15) concentric with the shaft (2) of an electrolyte crust-breaking plunger (1). The plunger shaft (2) is axially slidable within an annular sleeve (18) of the piston (14) which is connected to at least one movable component of the valve means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTLAND SMELTER SERV PTY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTLAND SMELTER SERVICES PTY. LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KISSANE JAMES PATRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KISSANE, JAMES PATRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for the 
controlled supply of alumina or other solid materials to 
an electrolytic cell in which the alumina is converted to 
aluminum. In the electrolysis of alumina, solid alumina is 
dissolved in a tank or pot containing molten electrolyte 
such as cryolite and it is desirable to maintain the 
alumina concentration in the electrolyte within a 
predetermined range. In current practice for the 
electrolysis of alumina, the alumina is fed in successive 
doses of predetermined size into one or more holes which 
are made in the electrolyte crust so that the alumina can 
be admitted when required. As the electrolysis of the 
alumina proceeds continuously, it would be desirable if 
the alumina consumed in the electrolysis process could be 
continuously replaced so as to maintain the optimum 
alumina concentration in the electrolyte. However, the 
optimum operating conditions are such that the electrolyte 
crust continuously reforms on the surface of the 
electrolyte, making it difficult to supply alumina 
continuously to the molten electrolyte beneath the crust. For this reason, known alumina feeding procedures 
involve the use of a crust breaker which is operated 
intermittently to break the electrolyte crust and form a 
hole through which the solid alumina can be fed. However, 
the action of the crust breaker is necessarily such that 
the crust breaking mechanism, such as a pneumatically 
operated shaft with an appropriate chisel means 
(hereinafter referred to as a plunger) at its free end, 
will be moved in and out of the hole formed by the plunger. In one known feeding procedure, a single pneumatic 
mechanism is used to operate the crust breaking mechanism, 
and the discharge of alumina from a storage device is 
co-ordinated with the downward movement of the crust 
breaker. In this procedure, the alumina charge is thus 
released when the crust breaker is through the crust so 
that the alumina is not free to enter the hole in the  
 
crust until the crust breaker is retracted. While this 
procedure has the advantage of a single pneumatic system, 
it is obvious that not all the alumina will be able to 
pass through the hole into the electrolyte immediately 
when the crust breaker is retracted. It will also be apparent that with this form of 
mechanism, the plunger must travel through the crust each 
time a charge of alumina is to be introduced into the 
electrolyte. This not only involves use of sufficient air 
to drive the plunger but also may involve dipping the 
plun
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A feeder assembly for an alumina electrolysis cell 
including a crust-breaking mechanism having a plunger 

with a cutting edge mounted on a reciprocal plunger shaft 
and being operable to break a hole in a crust formed on 

the surface of molten electrolyte, a dose holder (5) in 
the form of a chamber defined relative to the plunger 

shaft between inner and outer walls (6, 7, 7') and 
including an inlet port (8) and an outlet port (11), the 

inlet port being located above the outlet port such that 
alumina can flow through the dose holder from the inlet 

port to the outlet port under the influence of gravity, 
and an alumina storage container adapted to release 

alumina as required into the inlet port of the dose 
holder, characterised in that the inlet and outlet ports 

are formed at the outer wall of the dose holder and are 
closable and openable by valve means formed by relative 

movement between the outer wall (7, 7') of the dose 
holder and at least one valve seat (10, 12) which co-operates 

with a sealing edge of the outer wall, and drive 
means (13) operable to move the valve means to open and 

close the ports independently of the operation of the 
plunger shaft, the drive means including a pneumatically 

operated piston (14) movable within a cylinder concentric 
with the plunger shaft (2), the piston having an annular  

 
sleeve axially slidable within the cylinder and the 

plunger shaft being axially slidable within the sleeve, 
the drive means further including an extension sleeve 

(18) extending between the annular sleeve and at least 
one movable component of the valve means so as to enable 

the valve means to move to open and close the ports in 
response to movement of the piston relative to the 

cylinder. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised in that the inner and outer walls of the 

dose holder (5) are concentric with each other and with 
the plunger shaft (2). 
A feeder assembly as claimed in either claim 1 or 
2 characterised in that the inlet port (8) is closed by 

a movable upper portion of the outer wall seatable in a 
fixed upper seat and the outlet port is closed by 

movement of a movable lower seat into abutment with a 
fixed lower portion of the outer wall. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in claim 3 
characterised in that the drive means is connected to 

move the upper portion of the outer wall of the dose 
holder and the movable lower seat simultaneously.  

 
A feeder assembly as claimed in claim 3 
characterised in that the drive means is connected to 

move the upper portion of the outer wall of the dose 
holder and the movable lower seat independently of each 

other. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in claim 5 
characterised in that the piston is connected to move the 

inner wall and the valve seat associated with the outlet 
port, and the upper portion of the outer wall of the dose 

holder is connected to the cylinder wall which is movable 
concentrically with the piston to control the operation 

of the valve means associated with the inlet port. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in any one of claims 
3 to 6 characterised in that movable lower seat is 

connected to the inner wall. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in either Claims 3 or 
4, characterised in that the upper portion of the outer 

wall is connected to the inner wall. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the extension sleeve forms the 

inner wall of the dose holder.  
 
A feeder assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the dose holder is concentric with 

the plunger shaft and a housing surrounds the plunger 
shaft and dose holder, the lower end portion of the 

housing tapering inwardly with its lower edge defining 
the periphery of a release port though which alumina 

leaves the housing and falls towards the hole formed in 

the electrolytic crust by the plunger. 
A feeder assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the dose holder is 

concentric with the plunger shaft and a housing surrounds 
the plunger shaft and dose holder, the lower end portion 

of the housing being formed to provide two or more 
downwardly tapering outlets directed towards the hole 

formed in the electrolytic crust by the plunger. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
