<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636179</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OIL-BODY PROTEINS AS CARRIERS OF HIGH-VALUE PEPTIDES IN PLANTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14415	C12N1529	C12N1582	A01H500	C12N1529	A01H500	C12N1509	C12N1582	C12N1509	C12P2102	C07K	C07K14415	C12N	C07K1900	C12P2102	C12N1562	C12N510	C12N1562	C12N510	C07K1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C12N	C12N	A01H	C12N	A01H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C07K	C07K	C12N	C07K	C12P	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	A01H5	C12N15	A01H5	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C07K	C07K14	C12N	C07K19	C12P21	C12N15	C12N5	C12N15	C12N5	C07K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and compositions for use therein are described for expressing a polypeptide of interest in a seed cell as a fusion protein with an oil body protein. By this means, the fusion protein is targeted to the oil bodies of a seed cell. The oil body is easily separated from other cellular material following lysis of the seed cell, for example by using the partitioning/surface properties of the oil body. The fusion protein may be isolated for example by affinity chromatography using antibodies directed to the oil body protein. Where desired, the polypeptide of interest can be recovered by treatment of the fusion protein with for example a protease capable of recognizing a proteolytic recognition site in the oil body protein proximal to the N-terminus of the polypeptide of interest.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMBIOSYS GENETICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMBIOSYS GENETICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLONEY MAURICE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLONEY, MAURICE, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for the
production by recombinant means of a protein of interest
which is easily purified from host cell components. The
method is exemplified by expression of the protein of
interest in plants, particularly seeds, as a chimeric
peptide comprising an oil-body protein and the protein of
interest.A variety of proteins have been expressed in
plants. However, while the general feasibility of
obtaining expression of foreign proteins in plants has been
demonstrated, obtaining purified proteins from this source
has some limitations. These limitations include the
purification step necessary to obtain pure protein
essentially free of plant derived materials and the
degradation that may occur in extracts prepared during the
purification procedure when the recombinant proteins
obtained are in contact with aqueous buffers.Plants bearing oilseeds such as soybean,
rapeseed, sunflower and a number of other plant species
such as corn, carrot, etc., store triglycerides in their
seeds. In the plant, these triglycerides act as a source of
energy for a germinating seed and the subsequent seedling.
The triglycerides are widely used as vegetable oils in foods
and in food preparation and also for some industrial
applications.Triglycerides are immiscible with water and
partition by floating on the surface of aqueous solutions or
by forming small globules or liposomes as a suspension in 
the aqueous phase. Such globules will naturally coalesce if
they are not stabilized by a modified surface layer. This
coalescence can result in a suspension of globules of random
sizes. In seeds, when triglyceride is stored, the oil
globules are actually encapsulated lipid or oil bodies
normally of uniform size. Associated with the surface of
these oil bodies is a half unit membrane studded with
several proteins, generally referred to as oil-body
proteins.At least one class of oil-body proteins has some
characteristics which are highly conserved between species.
This class of oil-body proteins is referred to as an
"oleosin." The hydrophilic N- and C-termini of these
proteins appear to be quite divergent, whereas the
lipophilic internal region (central core) appears to be
highly conserved between species. The oleosins are
strongly associated with the oil bodies; this strong
association to the oil-bodies may, in major part, be due to
the lipophilic nature of these central core. It is
therefore of interest to determine whether oil body
proteins such as oleosins may be useful in a method for the
production of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A chimeric DNA construct encoding a chimeric polypeptide and
comprising:


(a) a first DNA sequence encoding at least the central hydrophobic core of an oil
body protein and sufficient to provide for targeting of the fusion polypeptide to an oil

body and
(b) a second DNA sequence encoding a peptide wherein said peptide is other than
a polypeptide naturally present in an oil body.
The chimeric DNA construct according to claim 1, further comprising:

vector DNA containing at least one regulatory sequence operatively associated
with said chimeric DNA sequence which is capable of directing replication of said

chimeric DNA in a host cell.
The chimeric DNA construct according to claim 2 wherein said regulatory
sequence is further capable of directing expression of said chimeric DNA in a host

cell.
The chimeric DNA construct according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein said DNA is cDNA.
An expression cassette comprising as components, in the direction of
transcription:


a regulatory DNA sequence comprising a sufficient portion of the region 5' to the
translational start site of a gene expressed in seed to provide for expression of a DNA

sequence in seed;
a chimeric DNA sequence encoding a chimeric polypeptide and comprising:

(a) a first DNA sequence encoding at least the central hydrophobic region of an oil
body protein and sufficient to provide for targeting of the chimeric polypeptide to an

oil body, said first DNA sequence including at least one restriction site, and 
(b) a second DNA sequence encoding a peptide wherein said peptide is other than a
polypeptide naturally present in an oil body; and
a translational and transcriptional termination region;

wherein said components are operably linked and expressed by said chimeric DNA
sequence which is regulated by said regulatory DNA sequence. 
The expression cassette according to claim 5, wherein said regulatory
DNA sequence is from a gene expressed in a cereal or grain seed cell.
The expression cassette according to claim 5 or claim 6 wherein said
regulatory DNA sequence is of an oil body protein gene.
The expression cassette according to claim 5, wherein at least one of said
regulatory DNA sequence and said first DNA sequence comes from the genome of


Arabidopsis thaliana.
The expression cassette according to any one of claims 5-8, wherein said
expression cassette includes at least one restriction site between just 5' to the codon for

the initiating methionine and 5' to the translational stop signal of said oil body protein gene.
The expression cassette according to claim 9 wherein said restriction site
is a synthetic restriction site.
The expression cassette according to any one of claims 5-10, further
comprising an oligonucleotide adapter coding for a protease recognition site inserted

into said restriction site.
The expression cassette according to claim 11, wherein said protease is
collagenase.
A method for obtaining expression of a peptide of interest in seed, said
method comprising: 


transforming a host plant cell with an expression cassette according to any
one of claims 5-12 or a DNA construct according to any one of claims 1-4 under

genomic integration conditions.
A method according to claim 13 comprising growing said plant to produce
seed whereby said polypeptide of interest is expressed as a chimeric protein with the

expression product of said oil body protein gene.
The method according to claim 14, further comprising: isolating said
chimeric protein from oil bodies in cells of said seed.
The method according to claim 15, wherein said isolating comprises:

lysing cells of said seed to release said oil bodies; and
disrupting said oil bodies whereby said chimeric protein is released.
The method according to claim I S or claim 16, wherein said isolating
further comprises:


contacting said chimeric protein with a protease capable of recognising a
protease recognition site in said chimeric protein located prior to the N-terminus

of said peptide of interest.
The method according to claim 17, further comprising:

prior to said contacting, binding said chimeric protein to a solid support
comprising an antibody capable of binding to the expression product of

said oil body protein gene.
A method according to any one of claims 13-18 which method comprises
purifying said peptide of interest.
The method according to any one of claims 13-19, wherein said peptide of
interest is other than a peptide encoded by a plant genome. 
A seed, a plant or a plant cell comprising an expression cassette
according to any one of claims 5-12 or a DNA construct according to any one of

claims 1-4.
A chimeric polypeptide comprising at least the central hydrophobic
core of an oil body protein and sufficient to provide for targeting to an oil body and

a second polypeptide, said chimeric polypeptide being expressed by the expression
cassette according to any one of claims 5-12 or a chimeric DNA construct

according to any one of claims 1-4.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
