<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1210909</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for acquiring image data relating to an external body portion and/or a product applied thereto
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N100	A61B5103	H04N104	G06T100	H04N104	A61K800	A61K800	A61B5107	H04N100	A61B500	A61B500	A61B5103	A61B5107	G06T100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	A61B	H04N	G06T	H04N	A61K	A61K	A61B	H04N	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	A61B5	H04N1	G06T1	H04N1	A61K8	A61K8	A61B5	H04N1	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G06T1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process is disclosed for acquiring scanned image data relating to
an external body portion and/or a product applied to the external body

portion. The process includes placing a transfer member (34) in contact with an
external portion of an individual to obtain a transfer image on the transfer

member. The transfer image of the transfer member is scanned with an
optical image scanner (12) to obtain scanned image data. The scanned image

data may be sent from a first computer (14) associated with the scanner to a
second computer (20) at a remote location. An image corresponding to the

scanned image data may be displayed and viewed to analyze a
characteristic of the external body portion and/or a characteristic of a

product applied to the external body portion. The process may also involve
determining a recommendation of a treatment for the external portion and

providing this recommendation. Another aspect relates to evaluating the
product applied to the external body portion. In addition, the process may

include monitoring the status of the external body portion during treatment.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OREAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L'OREAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAZIN ROLAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOUBLET ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAZIN, ROLAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOUBLET, ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for acquiring scanned image data relating to an external body portion and/or a product applied thereto, wherein the process involves the use of a transfer member. Such a process could include sending of the scanned information from a first location to a second location remote from the first location. Another aspect of the present invention relates a process for providing a treatment recommendation for the external body portion and/or monitoring of the external body portion. An additional aspect relates to evaluating a product.Accurate diagnosis of cosmetic and dermatological related conditions often requires consultations with professionals having the requisite level of proper skill and training. In the past, such consultations required the individual seeking advice to travel to a site and conduct a personal meeting with a professional who would visualize the individual's skin condition, for example, sometimes with special instruments, and prescribe a corrective treatment plan involving one or more cosmetic and/or dermatological products.Recently, advances in technology have led to a number of attempts at obviating the need for some of these personal, face-to-face meetings requiring travel. In particular, some consultants provide remote cosmetic or dermatological consultations where the individual in need of the consultation can be located at a geographic location different from that of the skilled cosmetician or dermatologist. These attempts have been primarily limited because there has been no easy way of sending all of the necessary information to the remote professional.GB 2 288 511 discloses a method and apparatus for use in diagnosing medical conditions, such as skin conditions, where there are visual symptoms. This reference discloses operating either a video camera, a camcorder, or a digital still camera to generate an electrical signal that is digitized, compressed, and transmitted to an expert consultant, such as a dermatologist. This technique, however, suffers from a number of drawbacks and limitations. In particular, it is time consuming to operate the video camera, run the software necessary to digitize and compress the image captured by the camera, and then send the compressed image to the consultant. An even more significant limitation relates to the fact that there is no easy way to standardize the image. For example, incorrect lighting, inferior equipment, non-uniform cameras and software programs, incorrect camera operation, or other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for acquiring scanned image data relating to an external non-dermatoglyphic body portion and/or a product applied to the external body portion, the process comprising:

placing a transfer member (32 ; 34) in contact with an external non-dermatoglyphic body portion of an individual so as to obtain a transfer image on the transfer member; and
scanning the transfer image with an optical image scanner (12) for scanning documents to obtain scanned image data for an image representative of at least one characteristic of
the external dermatoglyphic body portion, and/or
at least one product applied to the external dermatoglyphic body portion.
The process of claim 1, wherein the transfer member (34) includes adhesive material provided on a backing, the adhesive material of the transfer member being placed in contact with skin and the transfer member being removed from the skin to transfer cells from the skin of the individual to the transfer member.
The process of claim 2, further comprising placing the adhesive material of the transfer member in contact with adhesive material of a second transfer member and separating the transfer members to transfer a portion of the skin cells to the second transfer member.
The process of claim 1, wherein the transfer member is placed in contact with an external body portion including a cosmetic product applied thereto, and wherein the image of the scanned image data is representative of at least one characteristic of the cosmetic product.
The process of claim 4, wherein the external portion includes lips and wherein the cosmetic product is one of a lip care product and a lip makeup product.
The process of claim 4, wherein the external portion includes skin and wherein the cosmetic product is foundation makeup.
The process of claim 6, wherein the transfer member is formed of fabric.
The process of claim 7, wherein the transfer member is an article of clothing.
The process of claim 1, wherein the transfer member is a sheet of material, and wherein the process includes placing the sheet of material in contact
 with lips of the individual and transferring a lip product from the lips to the sheet of material.
The process of claim 9, wherein the lip product is lipstick.
The process of claim 1, wherein the transfer member is a moldable material, and wherein the process includes placing the moldable material in contact with the skin of the individual to produce, on the moldable material, the surface profile of the skin.
The process of claim 1, wherein the transfer member is a window, the window being a portion of the image scanner defining a scanning region.
The process of claim 1, wherein the transfer member is one of a hair comb and a hair brush, wherein the placing of the transfer member in contact with the external body portion includes passing said one of the hair comb and the hair brush through hair, and wherein the transfer image on the transfer member includes at least one of strands of hair and skin cells.
The process of claim 1, further comprising placing the external portion of the individual in the vicinity of a scanning region of the scanner, and scanning the external portion with the image scanner.
The process of claim 14, wherein the scanning of the transfer image of the transfer member and the scanning of the external portion occur one of simultaneously and one after another.
The process of claim 14, wherein the external portion of the individual is placed into contact with the scanning region of the scanner.
The process of claim 16, wherein the scanner is a flat bed scanner and wherein the external portion of the individual is moved into contact with the scanning region.
The process of claim 16, wherein the scanner is a hand-held scanner and wherein the scanner is moved into contact with the external portion of the individual.
The process of claim 14, further comprising placing liquid between the external body portion and the scanning region, the liquid altering the index of refraction to improve visualization of said at least one characteristic.
The process of claim 14, further comprising placing at least one of a dye and a pigment on the external portion to improve visualization of said at least one characteristic.
The process of claim 1, wherein the external portion includes at least one of the skin of the individual, at least one strand of hair of the individual, at least one fingernail of the individual, at least one toe nail of the individual, and at least one tooth of the individual.
The process of claim 21, wherein the external portion includes the skin of the individual, and wherein the external portion is located on one of the hand, foot, arm, leg, torso, and face of the individual.
The process of claim 22, wherein the external portion is located on the lips of the individual.
The process of claim 21, wherein the external portion includes said at least one strand of hair, and wherein said at least one strand of hair is one of a strand of hair from the scalp of the individual, an eyelash of the individual, and an eyebrow hair of the individual.
The process of any one of claims 1 to 24, wherein the image scanner (12) is associated with a first computer (14) located at a first location, and wherein the process further comprises transferring the scanned image data from the first computer to a second computer (20) located at a second location remote from the first location.
The process of claim 25, wherein the transferring includes transmitting the scanned image data via the Internet.
The process of claim 25, further comprising storing the scanned image data on a data storage medium, wherein the transferring includes shipping the data storage medium to the second location.
The process of any one of claims 25 to 27, further comprising transferring questionnaire answers from the first location to the second location, at least some of the questionnaire answers being related to at least one of a condition of the external portion and the product applied to the external body portion.
The process according to any one of the preceding claimss, further comprising collecting information relating to the transfer image of the transfer member to form a database for use in at least one of diagnoses, treatment recommendation determinations, product evaluations, and product formulations.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scanned image data includes data regarding color of said transfer image.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scanning includes emitting light from the scanner onto the transfer member.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the process further comprises scanning, with the image scanner, a calibration member having one of a predetermined size and a predetermined color.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the process further comprises obtaining scanned image data relating to multiple scanned images.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the transfer image on the transfer member indicates a condition of the external portion.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the transfer member is configured to change color in response to a condition of the external portion.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising treating at least one of the transfer member and the external body portion to enhance the transfer image on the transfer member.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the process further comprises treating at least one of the transfer member and the external body portion, and removing the transfer member from the external body portion to transfer material to the transfer member, and wherein said treatment increases the amount of transferred material.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising analyzing at least one of the external body portion and the transfer member with analysis equipment.
The process of claim 38, wherein the analysis equipment is chosen from one of a corneometer, a dermal torque meter, an image analyzer, a PH meter, and a device for measuring hydration of the skin.
The process according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising providing a grade indicative of at least one of the condition of the external portion and performance of the product.
The process of claim 40, further comprising storing information relating to the grade in a database.
A process of analyzing at least one characteristic of an external body portion of an individual and/or at least one product applied to the external body portion, the process comprising:

acquiring scanned image data according to the process of any one of claims 1 to 41; and
displaying an image corresponding to the scanned image data; and
viewing the displayed image to analyze said at least one characteristic.
The process of claim 42, wherein the image scanner is associated with a first computer at a first location, wherein the process further comprises transferring the scanned image data from the first computer to a second computer at a second location remote from the first location, and wherein the image is displayed at the second location.
The process of claims 42 or 43, further comprising sending the scanned image data to a plurality of locations so that the at least one characteristic may be analyzed numerous times.
The process of any one of claims 42 to 44, further comprising monitoring status of the external portion during treatment of the external portion.
The process of claim 45, wherein the monitoring includes repeating at least the acquiring.
The process of any one of claims 42 to 46, further comprising providing a recommendation for a cosmetic treatment of the external portion based on the monitored status.
The process of any one of claims 42 to 47, further comprising providing the individual with information regarding the effectiveness of the treatment.
The process of any one of claims 42 to 48, further comprising comparing the displayed image to at least one image formed from image data stored in an image database.
A process for recommending a cosmetic treatment for an external body portion, the process comprising:

analyzing at least one characteristic of an external body portion according to the process of any one of claims 42 to 49;
determining a recommendation of at least one treatment for the external portion; and
providing the cosmetic treatment recommendation so that the external portion of the individual may treated according to the recommendation.
The process of claim 50, wherein the treatment recommendation is a recommendation regarding use of a cosmetic product, in particular one of a makeup product, a care product, a hair product, a skin product, and a sun exposure product.
The process of claim 51, wherein the treatment recommendation is a recommendation regarding application of said at least one of the cosmetic product to the external portion.
The process of any one of claims 50 to 52, wherein the providing of the treatment recommendation includes transmitting said recommendation to said at least one of the individual and a treatment provider via the Internet.
The process of any one of claims 50 to 53, wherein a computer at least partially performs the determining of the treatment recommendation, the computer being located at a location remote from that of the image scanner.
A process of evaluating a product applied to an external body portion, the process comprising:

analyzing at least one characteristic of a product applied to an external body portion according to the process of any one of claims 42 to 49.
The process of claim 55, wherein the transfer member is placed in contact with an external body portion including a cosmetic product applied thereto, and wherein the scanned image data is representative of at least one characteristic of the cosmetic product.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
