<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1008099</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICALLY-BASED METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING DOCUMENT AUTHENTICATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T100	G06T100	G07D700	G07D712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G07D	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T1	G06T1	G07D7	G07D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for authenticating a document (10). The method includes the steps of: (a) providing a document (10) to be authenticated; (b) illuminating at least a portion (12) of the document with laser light (14) that exceeds a threshold fluence; (c) detecting (16) a narrow band laser-like emission of at least one wavelength from the document in response to the step of illuminating (14); and (d) declaring the document to be authentic only if the laser-like emission is detected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV BROWN RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROWN UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRISCOLL TIMOTHY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWANDY NABIL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRISCOLL, TIMOTHY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWANDY, NABIL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICALLY-BASED METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMINGDOCUMENT AUTHENTICATIONCROSS-REFERENCE TO A RELATED PATENT APPLICATION:This patent application is a continuation-in-part of related U.S. Patent Application Serial No.: 08/401,356, filed March 9, 1995, which is a divisional patent application of U.S. Patent Application Serial No.: 08/210,710, filed March 18, 1994, entitled "Optical Sources Having a Strongly Scattering Gain Medium Providing Laser- Like Action", by Nabil M. Lawandy, now U.S. Patent No.: 5,448,582, issued September 5, 1995.FIELD OF THE INVENTION:This invention relates generally to optically-based methods and apparatus for determining and validating the authenticity of currency, checks, negotiable instruments, and other types of document.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:In U.S. Patent No. 5,448,582, issued September 5, 1995, entitled "Optical Sources Having a Strongly Scattering Gain Medium Providing Laser-Like Action", the inventor disclosed a multi-phase gain medium including an emission phase (such as dye molecules) and a scattering phase (such as Ti02) . A third, matrix phase may also be provided in some embodiments. Suitable materials for the matrix phase include solvents, glasses and polymers. The gain medium is shown to provide a laser-like spectral linewidth collapse above a certain pump pulse energy. The gain medium is 

disclosed to be suitable for encoding objects with multiple-wavelength codes, and to be suitable for use with a number of substrate materials, including polymers and textiles.It is well known in the art to use security threads in paper to hinder a non-authorized production of the paper or to authenticate already manufactured paper and/or a document or currency printed on the paper. Reference in this regard can be had to the following U.S. Patents: 5,486,022, "Security Threads Having At Least Two Security Detection Features and Security Papers Employing Same, by T.T. Crane; 4,534,398, "Security Paper", by T.T. Crane; and 4,437,935, "Method and Apparatus for Providing Security Features in Paper", by F.G. Crane, Jr.A problem currently exists in accurately authenticating certain documents, such as currency, bank drafts, stock certificates, bonds, checks, and negotiable instruments in general . It is widely known that modern counterfeiters have access to sophisticated technology, and can reproduce nearly indistinguishable copies of currency and other documents. As a result, it has become very difficult to unambiguously authenticate a given document.OBJECTS OF THE
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method for authenticating a document, comprising the steps of:
providing a document to be authenticated;
illuminating at least a portion of the document with laser light that exceeds a threshold fluence;
detecting a narrow band laser-like emission of at least one wavelength from the document in response to the step of illuminating; and
declaring the document to be authentic only if the laser-like emission is detected.
2. A method as in claim 1, wherein step of providing a document provides a document having embedded threads, individual ones of which comprise a substrate material and an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission in response to the step of illuminating.
3. A method as in claim 1, wherein step of providing a document provides a document having an ink bearing surface, the ink including an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission in response to the step of illuminating.
4. A method as in claim 1, wherein step of providing a document provides a document having a fluorescent whitening agent (FWA) , the FWA functioning as an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing 


the laser-like emission in response to the step of illuminating.
5. A method as in claim 1, wherein step of providing a document provides a document having embedded threads, individual ones of said threads being coated with a polymer-based coating, the polymer-based coating functioning as an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission in response to the step of illuminating.
6. A method as in claim 1, wherein step of providing a document provides a document having embedded threads, each of the threads being comprised of N filaments individual ones of which comprise a substrate material and an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission in response to the step of illuminating, wherein each thread emits light at N distinguishable wavelengths.
7. A method as in claim 1, wherein step of providing a document provides a document having embedded threads, each of the threads being comprised of a multilayered structure having a least one layer comprised of the optical gain material, and an underlying metalization layer.
8. A method as in claim 7, wherein the at least one layer of optical gain material is differentiated into a plurality of regions, each of the regions emitting with a characteristic wavelength.
9. A method as in claim 7, wherein the underlying metalization layer is patterned.
10. A method as in claim 7, wherein the underlying metalization layer is patterned and modulates a thickness 


of an overlying layer comprised of the optical gain material.
11. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the step of detecting detects a presence of a secondary emission peak that results from a photoconversion of a primary emission peak.
12. A document, comprising:
a matrix formed as a planar substrate; and
at least one security structure embedded in said matrix, said at lest one security structure comprising an optical gain medium that is responsive to illumination with laser light that exceeds a threshold fluence for emitting a narrow band laser-like emission of at least one wavelength.
13. A document as in claim 12 , wherein said security structure is comprised of a metalized substrate having a coating comprised of said gain medium on at least one surface.
14. A document as in claim 12 , wherein said security structure is comprised of one or more filaments that include said gain medium.
15. A document as in claim 12, wherein said security structure is comprised of a planchette that includes said gain medium.
16. A document as in claim 12, wherein said security structure is comprised of a metalized substrate having a coating comprised of said optical gain medium on at least one surface, said metalized substrate being disposed such 


that a distance from said at least one surface to an illuminated surface of said planar substrate varies along a length of said metalized substrate.
17. Apparatus for authenticating a document, comprising:
a laser for illuminating all or a portion of a document, said laser outputting light having wavelengths that are predetermined to generate a laser-like emission, having at least one predetermined emission wavelength, from the document or a structure contained within the document;
at least one photodetector responsive to said predetermined emission wavelength for detecting the presence of the at least one predetermined emission wavelength; and
decision means, having an input coupled to an output of said at least one photodetector, for indicating the authenticity of the document based at least in part on a detection of the at least one predetermined emission wavelength.
18. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of an embedded security thread comprised of a substrate material and an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission.
19. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the document has an ink bearing surface, the ink including an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission. 

20. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the document has a fluorescent whitening agent (FWA) , the FWA functioning as an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission.
21. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of an embedded security thread coated with a polymer-based coating, the polymer-based coating functioning as an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission.
22. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of an embedded security thread comprised of N filaments individual ones of which comprise a substrate material and an optical gain medium in combination with scatterers for providing the laser-like emission, wherein each thread emits light at N distinguishable wavelengths.
23. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of an embedded multilayered security thread having at least one layer comprised of the optical gain material, and an underlying metalization layer.
24. Apparatus as in claim 23, wherein the at least one layer of optical gain material is differentiated into a plurality of regions, each of the regions emitting with a characteristic wavelength.
25. Apparatus as in claim 23, wherein the underlying metalization layer is patterned.
26. Apparatus as in claim 23, wherein the underlying metalization layer is patterned and modulates a thickness of an overlying layer comprised of the optical gain material . 

27. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of a metalized substrate having a coating comprised of an optical gain medium on at least one surface.
28. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of one or more filaments that include an optical gain medium integrally formed therewith or coated thereon.
29. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of a planchette that includes an optical gain medium.
30. Apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said structure is comprised of a metalized substrate having a coating comprised of an optical gain medium on at least one surface, said metalized substrate being disposed such that a distance from said at least one surface to an illuminated surface of said document varies along a length of said metalized substrate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
