<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1029409</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR JOINT EQUALIZATION AND DETECTION OF MULTIPLE USER SIGNALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M1300	H03M1341	H04B306	H04B306	H04L2503	H04L2503	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M13	H03M13	H04B3	H04B3	H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An iterative approach is used to find maximum likelihood sequence estimates of a transmitted symbol sequence. Each possible transmitted signal is represented by an indicator vector which selects the transmitted symbol from a symbol library vector. Channel estimates are generated representing the estimated impulse response of the communication channel to each transmitted symbol. The channel estimates are used to form a matched medium response vector and an interaction matrix. The matched medium response vector represents the matched medium response of the receiver to both a transmitter and the channel for each transmitted symbol. The interaction matrix represents the ISI between symbols. The matched medium response vector and the interaction matrix are fed to an estimated symbol probability vector generator which calculates in an iterative manner the estimated symbol probability vectors corresponding to each transmitted symbol. The estimated symbol probability vectors can be output to a hard-decision generator which makes a hard-decision about the transmitted symbols. Alternatively, the estimated symbol probability vectors can be output to a soft-decision decoder.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLNAR KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLNAR, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR JOINT EQUALIZATION AND DETECTION OF MULTIPLE USER SIGNALSField of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to signal processing in a telecommunications system, and, more particularly, to methods for joint equalization and detection of symbol sequences.Background of the inventionThe basic function of a communication system is to send information from a source that generates the information to one or more destinations. In a radio communication system, a number of obstacles must be overcome to successfully transmit and receive information including channel distortion which may cause, for example, intersymbol interference (ISI) and additive noise. The receiver must compensate for the effects of channel distortion and the resulting intersymbol interference. This is usually accomplished by means of an equalizer/detector at the receiver.A number of different equalization schemes have been used in the past to eliminate or minimize intersymbol interference. The most commonly used approaches include decision feedback equalization (DFE) and maximum likelihood sequence estimation (MLSE). In a maximum likelihood sequence estimation equalization scheme, a detector produces the most probable symbol sequence for the given received sample sequence . An algorithm for implementing maximum likelihood sequence detection is the Viterbi algorithm, which was originally devised for decoding convolutional codes. The application of the Viterbi algorithm to the problem of sequence detection in the presence of ISI is described by Gottfried Ungerboeck in "Adaptive Maximum Likelihood Receiver for Carrier Modulated Data Transmission Systems," IEEE Transactions on Communications, Volume CO -22, #5, May 1974. This MLSE approach employs a matched filter followed by a MLSE algorithm and an auxiliary channel estimation scheme. 

 A major drawback of using maximum likelihood sequence detection for communications channels which may experience intersymbol interference is that the computational complexity grows exponentially as a function of the span of the intersymbol interference and the number of interfering users. Consequently, maximum likelihood sequence detection is practical only for single user signals where the intersymbol interference spans only a few symbols. Therefore, there is great interest in finding new approaches to sequence estimation which reduce the computational complexity associated with maximum likelihood sequence detection.Summary of the InventionThe present invention provides an iterative method
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A method for demodulating a received signal corresponding to a transmitted symbol sequence having a plurality of symbols comprising the steps of: a) receiving the signal over a communication channel; b) forming a symbol library vector representing possible transmitted symbols in the transmitted symbol sequence; c) generating channel estimates representing the estimated impulse response of the communication channel to each transmitted symbol; d) forming a matched medium response vector based upon the received signal, the channel estimates, and the symbol library vector; e) forming an interaction matrix based upon the channel estimates and the symbol library vector; and f) forming an estimated symbol probability vector having a plurality of elements for selecting an estimate of each transmitted symbol in the transmitted symbol sequence, wherein the estimated symbol probability vector is formed by recursively estimating each element of each estimated symbol probability vector based upon the matched medium response vector, the interaction matrix, and a previous estimate of the estimated symbol probability vector for interfering symbols.
2. The demodulation method according to claim 1 wherein the recursive estimation of each element of each estimated symbol probability vector is performed until a pre-defined convergence criteria is satisfied.
3. The demodulation method according to claim 1 wherein the recursive estimation of each element of each estimated symbol probability vector is performed for a pre-determined number of iterations. 

4. The demodulation method according to claim 1 wherein the estimated symbol probability vector is output as a soft decision vector.
5. The demodulation method according to claim 1 further including the step of selecting a symbol from the symbol library vector based upon the estimated symbol probability vector and outputting the selected symbol as a hard decision.
6. The demodulation method according to claim 1 further including the step of regenerating the channel estimates during the iterative calculation of the estimated symbol probability vectors.
7. The demodulation method according to claim 1 wherein a function of the previous estimated symbol probability vector is used to calculate the estimate for the symbol probability vector on the next iteration.
8. A method for demodulating multiple user signals each of which corresponds to a transmitted symbol sequence having a plurality of symbols, said demodulation method comprising the steps of: a) receiving said multiple user signals over a communication channel; b) forming a symbol library vector for each user signal representing possible transmitted symbols in the transmitted symbol sequence; c) generating channel estimates representing estimated impulse responses of the communication channel to each transmitted symbol in each of the user signals; d) forming a matched medium response vector for each of the user signals based upon the user signal, the corresponding channel estimates and the corresponding symbol library vectors; e) forming an interaction matrix for each of the user signals based upon the corresponding channel estimates and the symbol library vector; and f) forming estimated symbol probability vectors having a plurality of elements for selecting an estimate of each transmitted symbol in each of 



 the user signals, wherein said estimated symbol probability vectors are formed by recursively estimating each element of each of the estimated symbol probability vectors based upon the matched medium response vector, the interaction matrix, and a previous estimate of the estimated symbol probability vector for interfering symbols.
9. The demodulation method according to claim 8 wherein each element of the estimated symbol probability vectors is calculated recursively based upon a previous estimate of the estimated symbol probability vector.
10. The demodulation method according to claim 8 wherein the recursive estimation of each element of each of the estimated symbol probability vectors is performed until a pre-defined convergence criteria is satisfied.
11. The demodulation method according to claim 8 wherein the recursive estimation of each element of each of the estimated symbol probability vectors is performed for a pre-determined number of iterations.
12. The demodulation method according to claim 8 wherein the estimated symbol probability vector is output as a soft decision vector.
13. The demodulation method according to claim 8 further including the step of selecting a symbol from the symbol library vector based upon the indicator vector and outputting the selected symbol as a hard decision.
14. The demodulation method according to claim 8 further including the step of regenerating the channel estimates during the iterative calculation of the estimated symbol probability vectors.
15. The demodulation method according to claim 8 wherein a function of the previous estimated symbol probability vector is used to calculate the estimate for the symbol probability vector on the next iteration.
16. A method for demodulating a received signal corresponding to a transmitted symbol sequence having a plurality of symbols comprising the steps of: 


 a) receiving a signal over a communication channel; b) forming a symbol library vector representing possible transmitted symbols in the transmitted symbol sequence; c) generating channel estimates representing the estimated impulse response of the communication channel to each transmitted symbol; d) forming a matched medium response vector based upon the received signal, the channel estimates, and the symbol library vector; e) forming an interaction matrix based upon the channel estimates and the symbol library vector; and f) forming an estimated symbol probability vector based upon said matched medium response vector and said interaction matrix for selecting an estimate of each transmitted symbol, wherein said estimated symbol probability vector includes a plurality of elements corresponding to the elements of the symbol library vector, and wherein each element of the estimated symbol probability vector represents the probability of the corresponding element in the symbol library vector being the transmitted symbol.
17. The demodulation method according to claim 16 wherein the estimated symbol probability vector is output as a soft decision vector.
18. The demodulation method according to claim 16 further including the step of selecting a symbol from said symbol library vector based upon said indicator vector and outputting said selected symbol as a hard decision.
19. The demodulation method according to claim 16 further including the step of regenerating the channel estimates during the iterative calculation of the estimated symbol probability vectors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
