<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1005059</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thermal switch
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H3700	H01H3700	H01H3732	H01M220	H01M234	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H37	H01H37	H01H37	H01M2	H01M2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal switch assembly has a stiffener disc positioned
against a support flange that extends inwardly from a peripheral wall of a

plastic assembly grommet. An actuator member of shape memory metal is
received in a recess in the stiffener disc, and an insulator ring lies against the

disc and actuator member on the opposite side of the disc from the support
flange. A cap member is positioned against the insulator on the opposite side

thereof from the stiffener disc, and a resilient actuator blade on the actuator
member extends through a central opening in the insulator into engagement

with the cap member. The actuator blade normally completes a circuit
between the stiffener disc and the cap member, and automatically disengages

from the cap member at an elevated transition temperature to open the circuit.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMERSON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALAPODIS JAMES BERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOTLEY WAYNE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN WILLIAM FREDRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALAPODIS, JAMES BERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOTLEY, WAYNE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN, WILLIAM FREDRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates to the art of thermal switches and, more
particularly, to thermal switches that use current carrying actuators of shape
memory metal. The invention is particularly applicable for use with
rechargeable batteries to prevent thermal runaway and will be described with
specific reference thereto. However, it will be appreciated that the invention
has broader aspects and can be used for other purposes in applications where
protection against excessive current and overheating are desired.Rechargeable batteries have various physical sizes to fit within
electrical devices that are powered by the batteries. Thermal switches that
protect rechargeable batteries against excessive current and overheating must
fit within the same physical battery envelope. The switch must be very small
in order to avoid any significant increase in the physical size of the battery,
and to avoid any significant reduction in the size or capacity of the electrochemical
cell.Because of the very small size of such switches and their
components, it is difficult to crimp a switch assembly into a battery case
without distorting the switch and its components. Such distortion may render
the switch inoperative or undesirably change its operational characteristics so
that it no longer will perform its intended function. It would be desirable to
have a miniature switch assembly that can be crimped into a battery case
without distorting the switch assembly or its operational components in a
manner that renders the switch inoperative or changes its operating
characteristics. A thermal switch having a current carrying actuator of shape
memory metal includes a plastic assembly grommet having a peripheral wall
and a support flange extending inwardly from the peripheral wall. A stiffener
disc is positioned on the support flange within the peripheral wall and a
diametrical recess in the stiffener disc receives an actuator member of shape
memory metal. An insulator ring is positioned on the stiffener disc and the
actuator member, and a cap member is positioned on the insulator ring. A
resilient blade on the actuator member extends upwardly into engagement with
the cap member to complete an electrical circuit between the stiffener disc and
the cap member. Heat is transferred to the actuator member by conduction,
radiation and I2R heating. When the temperature of the actuator member
reaches the austenite transition phase of the particular memory metal, the
actuator blade deforms away from the cap member to open the electrical
circuit.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal switch assembly including a stiffener plate
having a plate upper surface, a recess in said plate upper surface, said recess

having a recess depth, a current carrying actuator member of shape memory
metal having a substantially flat base with a base thickness, said base being

received in said recess and said recess depth being substantially the same as
said base thickness, said base having a base upper surface that is substantially

flush with said plate upper surface, an annular electrical insulator positioned
against said plate and base upper surfaces, a cap member positioned against

said insulator, and said actuator member having an actuator blade extending
past said insulator into engagement with said cap member.
The switch assembly of claim 1 wherein said recess has
a recess width and said actuator blade has a blade width, and said recess width

is greater than said blade width.
The switch assembly of claim 2 wherein said recess
width is at least 20% greater than said blade width.
The switch assembly of claim 1 wherein said actuator
blade has upper and lower blade surfaces and a blade periphery, and said upper

and lower blade surfaces and said blade periphery being coated with a precious
metal.
The switch assembly of claim 1 including a plastic
assembly grommet having a peripheral wall and a support flange extending

inwardly from said peripheral wall, and said stiffener plate being positioned
against said support flange within said peripheral wall.
The switch of claim 1 wherein said stiffener plate is a
circular disc having a disc periphery and said actuator member has opposite

actuator member curved ends, and said disc periphery and said curved ends lie
on the periphery of a common circle.
The switch assembly of claim 1 including a plastic
assembly grommet having a peripheral wall and a support flange extending

inwardly from said peripheral wall, said stiffener plate being positioned
against said support flange within said peripheral wall, and a retainer ring

positioned against said cap member on the opposite side thereof from said
insulator, said retainer ring being in radial engagement with said peripheral

wall.
The switch assembly of claim 1 wherein said stiffener
plate has a central opening there through, and a rupturable foil member

positioned against said stiffener plate on the opposite side thereof from said
actuator member to normally close said central opening in said stiffener

member.
A thermal switch assembly comprising a plastic
assembly grommet having a peripheral wall and a support flange extending

inwardly from said peripheral wall, a stiffener disc positioned against said
support flange within said peripheral wall, an actuator member of shape

memory metal positioned against said stiffener disc on the opposite side
thereof from said support flange, an insulator ring positioned against said

stiffener disc and said actuator member, and a cap member having a cap
member peripheral portion positioned against said insulator ring, said actuator

member having a resilient actuator blade extending away from said stiffener
disc into engagement with said cap member.
The switch assembly of claim 9 including a retainer ring
positioned against said cap member peripheral portion within said peripheral

wall of said assembly grommet, said retainer ring being in radial engagement
with said peripheral wall of said assembly grommet.
The switch assembly of claim 9 wherein said stiffener
disc has a diametrical recess therein having a recess depth and said actuator

member has an actuator member thickness, said recess depth being
substantially the same as said actuator member thickness, and said actuator

member being received in said recess.
The switch assembly of claim 11 wherein said recess
has a recess width and said actuator member has an actuator member width,

and said recess width being at least 20% greater than said actuator member
width.
The switch assembly of claim 9 wherein said stiffener
disc has at least one disc opening therein and further including a rupturable

foil member positioned between said stiffener disc and said support flange to
normally close said disc opening.
An actuator member of shape memory metal
comprising a base having opposite sides, opposite ends and opposite faces,

said base having a transverse slit therein located intermediate said ends and
extending from one of said sides toward the other of said sides, a longitudinal

slit in said base located intermediate said sides and extending from said
transverse slit toward one of said ends, said slits and a portion of said one of

said sides forming a periphery of a movable actuator blade having a free end
located adjacent said transverse slit, and said movable actuator blade being

deformable to move said free end in a direction transversely of said faces.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein said movable
actuator blade has opposite actuator blade faces, and said opposite actuator

blade faces and said movable actuator blade periphery being coated with a
precious metal.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein said base is
substantially flat and said movable actuator blade normally extends out of the

plane of said base and deforms back toward the plane of said base responsive
to an elevated temperature.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein said base has
a central longitudinal axis extending in a direction between said opposite ends

and said longitudinal slit is located between said axis and one of said opposite
sides.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein each of said
opposite ends is curved to lie on the circumference of a common circle.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein said base has
a base center located at the midpoint between said opposite ends and said

opposite sides, and said ends being curved on a radius that is centered on said
base center and has a radius length that is equal to one-half the length of said

base.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein said
transverse slit is located closer to one of said opposite ends than to the other of

said opposite ends.
The actuator member of claim 14 wherein said opposite
sides are substantially parallel and said transverse slit extends substantially

perpendicular to said opposite sides and said longitudinal slit extends

substantially parallel to said opposite sides.
A thermal switch assembly including a stiffener plate having a plate upper
surface, a recess in said plate upper surface, said recess having a recess depth, a current

carrying actuator member of shape memory metal having a substantially flat base with a base
thickness, said base being received in said recess, an annular electrical insulator positioned

against said plate and an upper surface of said base, a cap member positioned against said
insulator, and said actuator member having an actuator blade extending past said insulator

into engagement with said cap member.
The switch assembly of claim 22 wherein said recess has a recess width
and said actuator blade has a blade width, and said recess width is greater than said blade

width.
The switch assembly of claim 23 wherein said recess width is at least
20% greater than said blade width.
The switch assembly of claim 22 wherein said actuator blade has upper
and lower blade surfaces and a blade periphery, and said upper and lower blade surfaces and

said blade periphery being coated with a precious metal.
The switch assembly of claim 22 including a plastic assembly grommet
having a peripheral wall and a support flange extending inwardly from said peripheral wall,

and said stiffener plate being positioned against said support flange within said peripheral
wall.
The switch assembly of claim 26 wherein said actuator member
cooperates with said peripheral wall to position said actuator member within said grommet.
The switch assembly of claim 22 wherein said stiffener plate is a circular
disc having a disc periphery and said actuator member has opposite actuator member curved

ends, and said disc periphery and said curved ends lie on the periphery of a common circle.
The switch assembly of claim 22 including a plastic assembly grommet
having a peripheral wall and a support flange extending inwardly from said peripheral wall,

said stiffener plate being positioned against said support flange within said peripheral wall,
and a retainer ring positioned against said cap member on the opposite side thereof from said

insulator, said retainer ring being in radial engagement with said peripheral wall.
The switch assembly of claim 22 wherein said stiffener plate has a central
opening therethrough, and a rupturable foil member positioned against said stiffener plate on

the opposite side thereof from said actuator member to normally close said central opening
in said stiffener member.
The switch assembly of claim 22 wherein said actuator blade is defined
by at least one slit in said actuator member.
The switch assembly of claim 31 wherein said base includes opposite
sides, opposite ends and opposite faces, said actuator blade being formed intermediate said

opposite ends.
The switch assembly of claim 32 wherein said actuator blade is defined
by a first slit formed in said base and extending inwardly from one of said opposite sides and

opposite ends.
A thermal switch assembly comprising a plastic assembly grommet having
a peripheral wall and a support flange extending inwardly from said peripheral wall, an

actuator member of shape memory metal supported on said support flange, said peripheral
wall cooperates with end portions of said actuator member to position said actuator member,

an insulator ring positioned against a surface of said actuator member opposite said support
flange, and a cap member having a cap member peripheral portion positioned against said

insulator ring, said actuator member having a resilient actuator blade extending away from
said stiffener disc into engagement with said cap member.
The switch assembly of claim 34 including a retainer ring positioned
against said cap member peripheral portion within said peripheral wall of said assembly

grommet, said retainer ring being in radial engagement with said peripheral wall of said
assembly grommet.
The switch assembly of claim 34 wherein said stiffener disc has a
diametrical recess therein having a recess depth and said actuator member has an actuator

member thickness, said recess depth being substantially the same as said actuator member
thickness, and said actuator member being received in said recess.
The switch assembly of claim 36 wherein said recess has a recess width
and said actuator member has an actuator member width, and said recess width being at least

20% greater than said actuator member width.
The switch assembly of claim 34 wherein said stiffener disc has at least
one disc opening therein and further including a rupturable foil member positioned between

said stiffener disc and said support flange to normally close said disc opening.
A thermal switch assembly comprising a plastic assembly grommet having
a peripheral wall and a support flange extending inwardly therefrom, an actuator member of

shape memory alloy, an insulator member supported on said actuator member and a cap
member supported on said insulator member, said actuator member including an actuating

blade extending through said insulator into engagement with said cap member and said
peripheral wall being operative to retain said actuator member, said insulator member and

said cap member in assembled relationship.
An actuator member of shape memory metal comprising an elongated base
having opposite sides, opposite ends and opposite faces, said base having a slit therein

located intermediate said ends and extending inwardly from one of said sides to define a
movable actuator blade having a free end, and said movable actuator blade being deformable

to move said free end in a direction transversely of said faces.
The actuator member of claim 40 wherein said movable actuator blade
has opposite actuator blade faces, and said opposite actuator blade faces and said movable

actuator blade periphery being coated with a precious metal.
The actuator member of claim 40 wherein said base is substantially flat
and said movable actuator blade normally extends out of the plane of said base and deforms

back toward the plane of said base responsive to an elevated temperature.
The actuator member of claim 40 wherein said base has a central
longitudinal axis extending in a direction between said opposite ends and said longitudinal

slit is located between said axis and one of said opposite sides.
The actuator member of claim 40 wherein each of said opposite ends is
curved to lie on the circumference of a common circle.
The actuator member of claim 40 wherein said base has a base center
located at the midpoint between said opposite ends and said opposite sides, and said ends

being curved on a radius that is centered on said base center and has a radius length that is
equal to one-half the length of said base.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
