<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1060299</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF ETCHING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25F300	C25F314	H05K307	H05K307	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25F	C25F	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25F3	C25F3	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of making, by etching, depressions (7) in selected portions of an etching surface of an electrically conductive etching material (5), the depressions (7) forming an etching pattern, comprises the step of contacting the etching material (5) with an etchant (22). A passivating layer is formed on the etching material, which layer decreases or stops the etching capability of the etchant on the surface and which is dissolved in a chemical reaction when exposed to electromagnetic radiation. An electrode (1) with electrically conductive electrode portions (3) in selected portions of an electrode surface is provided, the electrode portions (3) forming an electrode pattern corresponding to the etching pattern. The electrode (1) is arranged in contact with the etchant (22) and with the electrode portions (3) facing the etching surface of the etching material (5), an electric voltage is applied between the electrode (1) and the etching material (5), and the etching material is exposed to electromagnetic radiation essentially perpendicular to the etching surface to remove the passivating layer from the surfaces that are to be etched.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OBDUCAT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OBDUCAT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDARI BABAK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLSSON LENNART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDARI, BABAK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLSSON, LENNART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF ETCHINGField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method, an electrode and a device according to the preamble to appended claims 1, 14 and 17. Background ArtIn wet etching methods, a fluid is usually employed, which comprises an etchant capable of reacting in an etching manner with an etching material . In chemical etching, the etchant reacts spontaneously with the etch- ing material, and in electrolytic etching, the etchant reacts by electrochemical reactions on the surface of the etching material when an etchant, with voltage applied, carries a current .When the purpose of etching is to provide a struc- ture in the etching material by etching away selected parts thereof, the etching material surface which is not to be etched away is usually coated with an etching preventing layer, a so-called mask or resist, which is insensitive or less sensitive to the etchant than the etching material. Such an etching preventing layer is produced in a multistage operation with an initial coating step and a subsequent step for partially removing the layer.A common etching preventing layer is a photoresist. When using a photoresist, the surface of the etching material is coated in a first step with the photoresist which is sensitive to light. In a next step, the surface areas of the photoresist where etching is to be carried out are exposed to light, and in a subsequent step, these areas are developed and dissolved, thus uncovering the areas of the etching material that are to be etched. This method is currently used, for instance, when manufacturing printed circuit boards for etching away material to form gaps between conductors . The manufacture of an etch- 

ing preventing layer in prior-art manner thus is complicated and time-consuming.In wet etching methods, mainly in chemical etching, so-called underetching takes place owing to the isotro- pic etching properties, i.e. etching away material under the surface coated with an etching preventing layer. In consequence, it is not possible to make gaps having a greater depth than width by pure chemical etching. Nor is it possible in electrolytic etching to etch, in small dimensions, gaps the depth of which exceeds the width. The possibilities of making narrow gaps, for instance, to arrange conductors close to each other, are thus limited when applying wet etching methods. It is also not possible today to achieve even structures by wet etching methods, for instance, gaps with straight walls whose width or depth is below 1 μm. Summary of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
14
CLAIMS
1. A method of making, by etching, depressions (7) in selected portions of an etching surface of an electrically conductive etching material (5) , the depressions (7) forming an etching pattern, the method comprising the step of contacting the etching material (5) with an etchant (22) , c h a r a c t e r i s e d by the steps of forming on the etching material a passivating layer, which reduces or prevents the etching capability of the etchant on the surface and which is dissolved in a chemi- cal reaction when exposed to electromagnetic radiation, providing an electrode (1) with electrically conductive electrode portions (3) in selected portions of an electrode surface, said electrode portions (3) forming an electrode pattern corresponding to the etching pattern, arranging the electrode (1) in contact with the etchant (22) and with the electrode portions (3) facing the etching surface of the etching material (5) , and applying an electric voltage between the electrode (1) and the etching material (5) , and exposing the etching material to electromagnetic radiation essentially perpendicular to the etching surface to remove the passivating agent from the surfaces to be etched.
2 . A method as claimed in claim 1 , c h a r a c - t e r i s e d in that the electrically conductive portions let electromagnetic radiation through at least in one wavelength range , and that the etching material is exposed to radiation through the electrode portions (33) essentially perpendicular to the etching surface. 


 15
3. A method as claimed m claim 1 or 2 , c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation is m the range 0.1-10 micrometer.
4. A method as claimed m claim 1, 2 or 3 , c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the etching material is coated with a passivating layer by adding to the etching fluid a substance which forms a passivating layer on the etching material .
5. A method as claimed m any one of preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the etchant is present m a concentration of at most 200 mM, preferably m a concentration of at most 100 mM, more preferably m a concentration of at most 50 mM and most advantageously m a concentration below 10 mM. 6. A method as claimed m any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the etchant m concentrated solution is capable of etching the etching material (5) m the absence of an electric field.
7. A method as claimed m any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the etchant m concentrated solution is capable of etching the etching material (5) isotropically m the absence of an electric field, the etching material (5) being contacted with the etchant (22) m such a diluted solution that the etchant is unusable for isotropic etching.
8. A method as claimed m any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that anisotropic etching of the etching material (5) is carried out when a voltage is applied between electrode (1) and etching material (5) .
9. A method as claimed m any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the electrode (1) is provided with electrically insulating portions (2) between the electrode portions of the electrode surface. 10. A method as claimed m any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d m that the electrode (1) between the electrode portions of the electrode sur- 


 16 face is provided with portions (2) which are impermeable to radiation.
11. A method as claimed in claim 9, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the insulating portions (2) of the electrode (1) are provided by an insulating layer being applied to the etching surface of the electrode (1) between the electrode portions (3), which are defined by the insulating layer (2) .
12. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the electrode portions (3) are arranged at a distance from the etching material (5) , which distance is smaller than 2000 μm, preferably smaller than 1000 μm and more preferably smaller than 500 μm. 13. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that etching takes place during a plurality of first periods, between which the electric field changes, said change preferably comprising the step of giving the field a reversed direction during second periods.
14. An electrode for etching depressions in an etching surface of an electrically conductive etching material (5) , c h a r a c t e r i s e d by electrically conductive electrode portions (3) in selected portions of an electrode surface, which electrode portions (3) form an electrode pattern, to form, during etching, depressions (7) in the etching surface according to an etching pattern which corresponds to the electrode pattern, and which electrode portions (33) are capable of letting through radiation (λ) from a source of radiation.
15. An electrode as claimed in claim 14, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the electrode (1) has electrically insulating portions (2) between the electrode por- tions (3) , and the insulating portions (32) form a barrier against said radiation. 


 17
16. An electrode as claimed in claim 15, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the insulating portions (2) of the electrode (1) comprise an insulating layer which is applied to the etching surface of the electrode (1) between the electrode portions (3), which are defined by the insulating layer (2) .
17. A device for etching comprising an etching vessel (21) which contains a quantity of etching fluid (22) , and a voltage source (23), which has connecting means for an electrode (1) and an etching material (5) , c ha r a c t e r i s e d in that it comprises an electrode (1) according to any one of claims 14-16. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
