<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1174659</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ILLUMINATOR AND LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY COMPRISING THE ILLUMINATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F21V800	F21V800	G02B600	G02B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F21V	F21V	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F21V8	F21V8	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An illuminator requiring no prism sheet and having a high light efficiency and a liquid crystal display comprising the same. The
illuminator has groups of grooves (2), each group including one or more grooves made in the lower face (9) of a light guide (1) and

extending generally parallel to one side (10) of the light guide (1) on which a light source (3) is disposed. The depth h of the grooves
gradually increases from the one side (10) toward the other side. Between the adjacent groups (2) of grooves, a flat face (16) is so provided

in the lower face of the light guide (1) as to connect the groups (2), enhancing the light efficiency of the illuminator.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PANASONIC PHOTO 
&
 LIGHTING CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PANASONIC PHOTO 
&
 LIGHTING CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UEHARA DAISHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UEHARA, DAISHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an illuminator for use as a back light of
liquid crystal display (LCD) and an LCD device using the illuminator. More
specifically, the invention relates to an illuminator of a simplified structure which
provides a high lighting efficiency, and to an LCD device using the illuminator.The LCDs have been widely used in personal computers, word processors,
VCR cameras, etc. as image display means. Field of the application is expected to
further expand and diversified.FIG. 15 shows a conventional LCD device. Referring to FIG. 15, a light
guide 51 is provided with a light diffusion face 52, which diffusion face comprising a
plurality of dot patterns printed with white ink on the bottom surface or a plurality
of protrusions provided on the diffusion face. A light source 53 is formed of a cold-cathode
fluorescent tube, for example. A light reflector 54 reflects the light
generated from the cold-cathode fluorescent tube. A reflector sheet 55 is provided
on the bottom surface, and a light diffusion plate 56 is provided close to the upper
surface of the light guide 51. A prism sheet 57 is provided on the light diffusion
plate 56. An LCD element 7 is provided on the upper surface of the prism sheet 57.When the light source 53 is lit, both the direct light and the light reflected
by the reflector 54 are delivered to the light guide 51 and the incident light
propagates in the light guide 51, and diffused by the light diffusion face 52 to be sent
out of the light guide 51. The light sent out from the bottom surface of the light 
guide 51 is reflected by the reflector sheet 55 to be returned again into the light
guide 51, which light is ultimately emitted from the upper surface of the light guide
51.The light discharged from the upper surface of the light guide 51 is diffused
by the light diffusion plate 56, which blinds, for example, the dot patterns. The
light diffused by the light diffusion plate 56 is regulated by the prism sheet 57 to the
direction towards front for illuminating the LCD element 7 from the behind. When
the LCD element 7 is driven by a driving circuit (not shown), the display device
exhibits images to be recognized by the eyes.Another example of the conventional illuminators (not shown) comprises a
light guide of a rectangular parallelepiped shape, where the upper surface is
substantially parallel to the bottom surface. The rest of the sections being
structured similar to the conventional illuminators.There are a number of problems with the conventional illuminators.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An illuminator comprising

a light source,
a light guide, the upper surface of which is horizontal while the bottom
surface is slanting to the upper surface, provided with said light source disposed

close to a side face of greater thickness.
a reflector for reflecting the light of said light source towards said side face,
a reflection sheet provided close to the bottom surface of said light guide,
and
a light diffusion plate provided on the upper surface of said light guide;
wherein
said light guide is provided in the bottom surface with a plurality of groove
groups extending substantially parallel to said side face, the depth of a constituent

groove of said plurality of groove groups gradually increasing along with an
increasing distance departing from said side face towards the other side face.
The illuminator of claim 1, wherein
   said plurality of groove groups are disposed at substantially the same pitch

throughout the region from said side face to the other side face of said light guide.
The illuminator of claim 1. wherein
   said light guide is provided in the bottom surface with grooves of

substantially the same depth in a region from said side face to the proximity area.
from said proximity area towards the other side face of said light guide the groove

depth is gradually increased.
An illuminator comprising

a light guide the thickness of which in the middle is thinner than that at the
first side face and the second side face, the upper surface is horizontal while the

bottom surface is formed of a first slope and a second slope, the respective slopes
slanting from said first side face and said second side face, respectively, towards said

middle with the same slant angle,
a first light source provided close to said first side face,
a second light source provided close to said second side face,
a first reflector for reflecting the light of said first light source towards said
first side face,
a second reflector for reflecting the light of said second light source towards
said second side face,
a reflection sheet provided close to and along the bottom surface of said light
guide,
a light diffusion plate provided close to the upper surface of said light guide;
wherein
said first slope is provided with a plurality of first groove groups extending
in parallel to said first side face, the depth of a constituent groove of said plurality of

first groove groups gradually increasing from the first side face towards the middle
of said light guide, while said second slope is provided with a plurality of second

groove groups extending in parallel to said second side face, the depth of a
constituent groove of said plurality of second groove groups gradually increasing

from the second side face towards the middle of said light guide.
The illuminator of claim 4, wherein
   said plurality of first groove groups are disposed at substantially the same

pitch throughout a region from the first side face to the middle of said light guide,
while said plurality of second groove groups are disposed at substantially the same

pitch throughout a region from the second side face to the middle of said light guide.
The illuminator of claim 4, wherein
   the depth of said plurality of first groove groups is substantially the same in

a region from said first side face to the proximity area, while the depth of said
plurality of second groove groups is substantially the same in a region from said

second side face to the proximity area.
An illuminator comprising

a light source,
a light guide the horizontal upper surface and the bottom surface of which
are substantially parallel to each other, provided with said light source at one side

face,
a reflector for reflecting the light from said light source towards said side
face, and
a light diffusion plate provided on the upper surface of said light guide;
wherein
said light guide is provided in the bottom surface with a plurality of groove
groups extending in parallel to said side face, and the depth of a constituent groove

of said plurality of groove groups gradually increases along with an increasing
distance departing from said side face.
The illuminator of claim 7, wherein
   said plurality of groove groups are disposed at substantially the same pitch

throughout the region from said side face to the other side face of said light guide.
The illuminator recited in claim 1, claim 4 or claim 7, wherein
   each of the plurality of groove groups consists of at least two grooves, and

adjacent groove groups are bridged by a flat face provided in said light guide.
The illuminator recited in claim 2, claim 5 or claim 8, wherein
   the pitch includes at least the width of grooves of a groove group and the

width of a flat face formed in the light guide.
The illuminator of claim 10, wherein
   proportion of the flat face in the bottom surface of a light guide is greater

than that of the grooves of the groove groups.
The illuminator recited in claim 1, claim 4 or claim 7, wherein
   the light guide is provided in the upper surface with a plurality of ditches

extending substantially perpendicular to said side face, or first side face.
An LCD device comprising an illuminator recited in either one of claims 1
through 12 provided with an LCD element mounted on the light diffusion plate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
