<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1104639</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTROLLING QUALITY OF SERVICE IN A MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1228	H04L1256	H04L1228	H04L1266	H04L1266	H04L1256	H04W7604	H04W7600	H04W7200	H04W9200	H04W9224	H04W4002	H04W7210	H04W4002	H04W7212	H04W7206	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04W76	H04W76	H04W72	H04W92	H04W92	H04W40	H04W72	H04W40	H04W72	H04W72	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for transmitting data packets (DP) in multiple data flows to/from a mobile station (MS) in a mobile communications system (HPLMN, VPLMN). A data transmission path is formed for routing data packets (DP). Multiple profiles (Pr) are associated with the data transmission path, each profile (Pr) comprising at least one quality of service parameter, or QoS parameter. Each flow or data packet (DP) is provided with a profile tag (PrT) indicating one of the multiple profiles (Pr). Scheduling and policing the transmission of individual data packets (DP) is based on at least one QoS parameter of the profile (Pr) indicated by the profile tag (PrT) associated with the data flow in question.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to controlling Quality of Service (QoS) in
mobile communications systems having a packet data transmission capability.A mobile communications system refers generally to any
telecommunications system which enables a wireless communication when
users are moving within the service area of the system. A typical mobile
communications system is a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN). A mobile
communications network is usually an access network providing a user with a
wireless access to external networks, hosts, or services offered by specific
service providers.General packet radio service GPRS is a new service in the GSM
system (Global system for mobile communications), and is one of the objects
of the standardisation work of the GSM phase 2+ at the ETSI (European
Telecommunications Standards Institute). The GPRS operational environment
comprises one or more subnetwork service areas, which are interconnected by
a GPRS backbone network. A subnetwork comprises a number of packet data
service nodes, referred to as serving GPRS support nodes SGSN, each of
which is connected to the GSM mobile communications network (typically to
base station systems BSS) in such a way that it can provide a packet service
for mobile data terminals via several base stations, i.e. cells. The intermediate
mobile communications network provides packet-switched data transmission
between a support node and mobile data terminals. Different subnetworks are
in turn connected to an external data network, e.g. to a public switched data
network PSPDN, via GPRS gateway support nodes GGSN. The term GSN
refers commonly to both SGSN and GGSN. The GPRS service thus allows
providing packet data transmission between mobile data terminals and
external data networks when the GSM network functions as an access
network.In order to access the GPRS services, a mobile station (MS) shall
first make its presence known to the network by performing a GPRS attach.
This operation establishes a logical link between the MS and the SGSN, and
makes the MS available for Short Message Service (SMS) over GPRS, paging
via the SGSN, and notification of incoming GPRS data. More particularly,
when the MS attaches to the GPRS network, i.e. in a GPRS attach procedure, 
the SGSN creates a mobility management context (MM context). The
authentication of the user is also carried out by the SGSN in the GPRS attach
procedure. In order to send and receive GPRS data, the MS shall activate the
packet data address that it wants to use, by requesting a PDP (Packet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for transmitting data packets (DP) in multiple data flows
to/from a mobile station (MS) in a mobile communications system (HPLMN,

VPLMN) having a packet data transmission capability, the method comprising
the steps of:


setting up a data transmission path for the mobile station (MS) for
routing data packets (DP) through the mobile communications system

(HPLMN, VPLMN);
transmitting data packets (DP) through the mobile communications
system (HPLMN) between said mobile station (MS) and an external

communication system (11, 12, VPLMN, HPLMN);
associating at least one profile (Pr) with said data transmission
path, said at least one profile comprising at least one quality of service

parameter, or QoS parameter;
scheduling and policing the transmission of the data packets (DP)
within at least one QoS parameter indicated by said profile (Pr);

   
characterized by
 the further steps of:

associating multiple profiles (Pr) with the transmission path, each
profile (Pr) comprising at least one QoS parameter;
providing each of said multiple flows with a profile tag (PrT)
indicating one of the multiple profiles (Pr) associated with the transmission

path in question; and
scheduling and policing the transmission of individual data packets
(DP) on the basis of said at least one QoS parameter of the profile (Pr)

indicated by the profile tag (PrT) associated with the data flow in question.
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized by
 the steps
of

   executing at least two applications in said mobile station (MS), each
application belonging to a class/type and having at least one flow associated

thereto;

   transmitting, within a single transmission path, data packets (DP) of
said at least two applications; and

   providing each flow of each application class/type with a profile tag
(PrT) indicating the QoS parameter required by the respective application

class/type. 
A method according to claim 2, 
characterized by
 providing
each flow of each individual application with a profile tag (PrT).
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized by
 providing each individual data packet
(DP) with a profile tag (PrT).
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized by
 providing, as QoS parameters, each profile (Pr) with
priority information indicating one of at least two priority levels.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized by
 the steps of

   providing in the mobile communications system at least one
connection leg with at least two paths having different reliabilities;

   providing, as one QoS parameter, each profile (Pr) with reliability
information indicating one of at least two reliability classes; and

   multiplexing the data packets (DP) to said at least two paths
according to said reliability information.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized by
 the steps of

   forming in the mobile communications system at least one
connection leg with a connection-oriented path and a connectionless path, the

former being more reliable than the latter;

   deciding whether to send a data packet (DP) over the connection-oriented
path or the connectionless path on the basis of said reliability

information.
A method to according claim 7, 
characterized by

multiplexing data packets (DP) associated with two or more profiles (Pr) to
said connection-oriented and connectionless paths in said at least one

connection leg.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 at least one of the profiles (Pr) comprises at least 
one further QoS parameter indicating a further limit for said scheduling and

policing.
A method according to claim 9, 
characterized in that
 said
at least one further QoS parameter includes one or more of the following:

mean bit rate, peak bit rate, service precedence, delay class and reliability.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that

   said at least one further QoS parameter defines a mean bit rate;

   the actual mean bit rate used by the mobile station (MS) is
monitored; and

   data packets (DP) to/from the mobile station (MS) are discarded, or
at least their precedence is lowered if the actual mean bit rate exceeds the

mean bit rate defined by said at least one further QoS parameter.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized by
 mapping QoS parameters used in the mobile
communications system (HPLMN, VPLMN) to those used in a user application

in said mobile station (MS) or to those used in said external communication
system (11, 12, VPLMN), and vice versa.
A method according to any one of claims 2 to 12,

characterized by
:

establishing one default profile (Pr
0
) which is associated with said
transmission path, and a specific profile (Pr) for each application or application

class/type being executed in the mobile station; and
reading a QoS parameter from the default profile (Pr
0
) if the
corresponding QoS parameter is missing from the specific profile in question.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,

characterized by
 associating a packet data protocol context known per
se with the transmission path.
A method according to claim 13, 
characterized by

associating said multiple profiles (Pr) with said packet data protocol context. 
An apparatus (MS, GGSN) for transmitting data packets (DP) in
multiple data flows in a mobile communications system (HPLMN, VPLMN)

having a packet data transmission capability, the apparatus comprising :

means arranged to set up a data transmission path for the mobile station (MS) for
routing data packets (DP) through the mobile communications system

(HPLMN, VPLMN);
means arranged to transmit data packets (DP) through the mobile communications
system (HPLMN) between said mobile station (MS) and an external

communication system (11, 12, VPLMN, HPLMN);
means arranged to associate at least one profile (Pr) with said data transmission path,
said at least one profile comprising at least one quality of service parameter,

or QoS parameter;
means arranged to schedule and police the transmission of the data packets (DP)
within at least one QoS parameter indicated by said profile (Pr);

   
characterized in that
 :

the associating means are arranged to
associate multiple profiles (Pr) with the transmission path, each

profile (Pr) comprising at least one QoS parameter;
the apparatus further comprises means arranged to
provide each of said multiple flows with a profile tag (PrT) indicating

one of the multiple profiles (Pr) associated with the transmission path in
question; and
the scheduling and policing means are arranged to
schedule and police the transmission of individual data packets

(DP) on the basis of said at least one QoS parameter of the profile (Pr)
indicated by the profile tag (PrT) associated with the data flow in question.
An apparatus according to claim 16, 
characterized in
that
 the apparatus is or comprises a mobile radio station (MS).
An apparatus according to claim 16, 
characterized in
that
 the apparatus is a support node (SGSN, GGSN) of a packet radio network
(HPLMN, VPLMN).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
