<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1009699</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISTRIBUTING PARTICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D9000	B65D9054	B65G6900	B65G6904	B65G6910	B65G6916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D90	B65D90	B65G69	B65G69	B65G69	B65G69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
When a particulate material is admitted to a storage vessel (10), it is passed through an electrode system (12, 14), the electrodes have a sieve like construction to allow the material to pass therethrough. A voltage source and signal generator (16) applies a potential difference betwen electrodes (12 and 14) to create an electric field between the electrodes which stops the passage of the material between the electrodes. Consequently a mass of material is held back by the electrodes. The electric field is controlled by the voltage source and signal generator (16) to release the held back mass of material intermittently. This avoids the formation of a cone of material in the storage vessel and improves the distribution of the particles by preventing the segregation of particles caused by the coarser particles rolling down the sides ofa cone of material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES BORAX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
U.S. BORAX INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYATI IGAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR KENNETH WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYATI, IGAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, KENNETH, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISTRIBUTING PARTICLESThe present invention relates to the storage of a particulate material in a container so as to reduce segregation of the material.Many substances are in the form of particulate material, for example, being granular or in the form of a powder. Usually there is a distribution of particle sizes in the material. At present, storage devices, such as silos, receive such materials by conveyor or pneumatic piping which deliver the material to the top of the silo. The material then falls under gravity usually into the middle of the silo forming a conical pile. The angle between the sloping surface of the pile and the horizontal (the angle of repose) depends on the particular material forming the pile, but is typically between 25° and 35°. As filling continues, coarse particles run down the sides of the pile in avalanches and congregate towards the internal walls of the silo. This results in serious segregation between fine and coarse particles. Material is discharged from the silo usually from the centre of the base which results in much of the initially withdrawn material consisting of only fine particle sizes because it has been depleted of coarse particles which have accumulated towards the walls of the silo.It is desirable that the distribution of particle sizes in the discharged product be consistent and correspond to that received into the silo. The problem of segregation has been recognized for many years . Some attempts have been made to reduce segregation using mechanical means such as baffles to subdivide the interior of the storage device to prevent the formation of large conical piles or cones positioned beneath the inlet point of the storage device to spread the inflow and avoid conical pile formation. These have been shown to reduce segregation but are not ideal and often involve heavy 

installations .Although discussed above in terms of particle size, the problem of segregation can also occur between particles of different surface characteristics e.g. smooth or angular, or between particles of different densities. Consequently, the different components in a mixture can become segregated, as well as size segregation occurring in an otherwise homogenous batch of product . The present invention is generally applicable to nearly all potential particle segregation situations.It is an object of the present invention to alleviate, at least partially, the problem of segregation of particles .According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S
1. A method of spatially distributing particles of at least one particulate material, said method comprising the steps of: passing the particles between electrodes; and generating an electric field between the electrodes to disrupt the flow of material and cause the distribution of particles.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said electrodes are perforate to allow passage of said particles therethrough.
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the electrodes are in the form of a mesh.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the mesh size is substantially 4 mm.
5. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the electrodes are disposed substantially horizontally.
6. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the separation between the electrodes is at least 20 mm.
7. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of generating the electric field between the electrodes comprises applying a potential difference of 20 kV between the electrodes.
8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the electric field is pulsed. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the electric field is pulsed at a frequency of 10 Hz or lower. 10. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the particles are passed between the electrodes under gravity. 11. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of generating an electric field 


between the electrodes stops the passage of particles therethrough.
12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the electric field is controlled to stop the passage of particles, which accumulate, and is controlled to release the accumulated particles intermittently.
13. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the particles are passed between two electrodes. 1 . A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the electrodes are located above the base of a container and the particles are introduced into the container.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the area of each electrode is substantially equal to the cross- sectional area of the container at the location at which each respective electrode is positioned.
16. A method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the electrodes are positioned between 1/3 and 1/5 of the height of the container from the top of the container.
17. A method according to claim 14, 15 or 16, wherein the container is a silo.
18. A method according to claim 14, 15, or 16, wherein the container is a dome. 19. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, whereby particles of different sizes are distributed.
20. A method substantially as described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings. 21. An apparatus for spatially distributing particles of at least one particulate material, said apparatus comprising: a container; an inlet for admitting said particles into the container; at least two electrodes disposed above the base of 


said container in the path of said particles when being admitted into said container via said inlet; and a controller for controlling an electric field produced by said electrodes to disrupt the flow of said particles and cause the distribution of particles in said container.
22. An apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the area of each of said at least two electrodes is substantially equal to the cross-sectional area of the container at the position where the electrode is located.
23. An apparatus according to claim 21 or 22, wherein said at least two electrodes are positioned between 1/3 and 1/5 of the height of the container down from the top of the container. 24. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein said container is a silo.
25. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein said container is a dome.
26. An apparatus for spatially distributing particles of at least one particulate material, said apparatus comprising: at least two electrodes for being placed in the path of said particles; and a controller for controlling an electric field produced by said electrodes for disrupting the flow of said particles such that a mass of particles held back by said 
^
electric field is intermittently released so that segregation of particles of different physical properties in the material released by said electric field and subsequently deposited is counteracted.
27. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to 26, wherein said at least two electrodes are perforate to allow passage of said particles therethrough.
28. An apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said at least two electrodes each comprise a mesh.
29. An apparatus according to claim 28, wherein the 


size of said mesh is substantially 4 mm.
30. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to
29, wherein said at least two electrodes are disposed substantially horizontally. 31. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to
30, wherein said controller applies a potential difference of at least 20 kV between said electrodes.
32. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to
31, wherein said controller pulses said electric field. 33. An apparatus according to claim 32, wherein said electric field is pulsed at a frequency of 10 Hz or lower. 34. An apparatus according to any one of claims 21 to
33, wherein the separation of two of said at least two electrodes is at least 20 mm. 35. An apparatus according to any one of the claims
21 to 34, wherein particles of different size are distributed.
36. An apparatus substantially as described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
