<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1294428</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HUMIDIFICATION AND WARMING OF AIR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1900	A61B1900	A61M1300	A61M1300	A61M1610	A61M1610	A61M1616	A61M3700	A61M3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	A61M13	A61M13	A61M16	A61M16	A61M16	A61M37	A61M37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of humidifying a gas that includes supplying a gas to a surface of a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment and generating turbulence in the gas as it passes over the surface of the humidification material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHGATE TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHGATE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANTELL ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANZIE PETER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANTELL, ROBERT, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANZIE, PETER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HUMIDIFICATION AND WARMING OF AIRApplicants claim, under 35 U.S.C. ยง 119(e), the benefit of priority of the filing date of June 30, 2000 of United States Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 60/215,442, filed on the aforementioned date, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention The present invention relates to an apparatus and method used to humidify and/or warm a gas prior to its use in a surgical or other medical procedure.Discussion of Related Art Many medical and surgical procedures require the supply to a patient of warmed and/or humidified gas at constant high flow rates. Ideally, the flow rate should be approximately 20 liters per minute, the relative humidity should be approximately 80 to 100 percent, and the temperature approximately 90 to 105 degrees Fahrenheit. Most prior art devices cannot meet or exceed these ideal characteristics. The flow rate of many prior devices is well below 20 liters per minute. Commonly, the flow rate of prior devices has been generally 12 to 14 liters per minute. Most of these devices generally operate by forcing the gas through the humidification material, thereby requiring a high degree of pressure. This increased pressure reduces the flow rate of the gas even further.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONOne aspect of the present invention regards a gas humidification apparatus that includes an inlet, a humidification device in fluid communication with the inlet, the humidification device having a humidification 

material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment, wherein the humidification material has a configuration that generates turbulence in a gas as it passes over a surface of the humidification material and an outlet in fluid communication with the humidification device.A second aspect of the present invention regards a gas humidification apparatus that includes an inlet, a humidification device in fluid communication with the inlet, the humidification device having a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment, wherein the humidification material is placed within a shell that has a configuration that generates turbulence in a gas as it passes over a surface of the shell and an outlet in fluid communication with the humidification device.A third aspect of the present invention regards a gas humidification apparatus that includes an inlet, a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A gas humidification apparatus comprising: an inlet; a humidification device in fluid communication with said inlet, said humidification device comprising: a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment, wherein said humidification material has a configuration that generates turbulence in a gas as it passes over a surface of said humidification material; an outlet in fluid communication with said humidification device.
2. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , wherein said surface of said humidification material is patterned.
3. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 2, wherein said surface of said humidification material is serrated.
4. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 2, wherein said surface of said humidification material is star-shaped.
5. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 2, wherein said surface of said humidification material varies 15 degrees of a non-smooth surface.
6. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 2, wherein said surface of said humidification material is irregularly patterned.
7. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , wherein said surface of said humidification material is maximized in surface area in the shortest possible linear space. 

8. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , wherein said humidification device further comprises a second humidification material that is spaced from said humidification material and readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment, wherein said second humidification material has a configuration that generates turbulence for a gas that should pass over a surface of said second humidification surface.
9. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a spacer interposed between said humidification material and said second humidification material.
10. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 8, wherein said surface of said second humidification material is patterned.
11. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 10, wherein said surface of said second humidification material is out of phase with respect to said surface of said humidification material.
12. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , wherein said humidification material comprises a medication infused therein.
13. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , further comprising a heater.
14. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 13, wherein said heater is positioned separate from said humidification device.
15. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 14, wherein said heater is positioned upstream from said humidification device. 

16. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 13, wherein said humidification device envelops said heater.
17. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a core into which said heater is inserted.
18. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 17, wherein said core comprises a non-conductive material.
19. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , further comprising a humidity sensor for measuring humidity of a gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
20. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , further comprising a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature of a gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
21. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature of said gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
22. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 20, wherein said temperature sensor measures said temperature of said gas in an indirect manner.
23. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature of a gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
24. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 23, wherein said temperature sensor measures said temperature of said gas in an indirect manner by measuring a temperature of said heater. 

25. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a control device connected to said humidity sensor that controls humidity within said gas humidification apparatus based on a signal from said humidity sensor.
26. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 20, further comprising a control device connected to said temperature sensor that controls temperature within said gas humidification apparatus based on a signal from said temperature sensor.
27. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 21 , further comprising a control device connected to said humidity sensor and said temperature sensor that controls humidity and temperature within said gas humidification apparatus based on signals from said humidity sensor and said temperature sensor.
28. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 1 , further comprising: a port in fluid communication with said gas humidification apparatus; and a catheter inserted into said port.
29. A gas humidification apparatus comprising: an inlet; a humidification device in fluid communication with said inlet, said humidification device comprising: a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment, wherein said humidification material is placed within a shell that has a configuration that generates turbulence in a gas as it passes over a surface of said shell; 


 an outlet in fluid communication with said humidification device.
30. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 29, further comprising a coil positioned adjacent to said shell that forces a gas to travel through or within said coil.
31. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 29, wherein said shell comprises an interior surface with an irregular pattern.
32. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 29, wherein said shell comprises an interior surface with a spiral barrier.
33. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 29, wherein said humidification material is cylindrical in shape.
34. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 29, wherein said humidification material comprises a medication infused therein.
35. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 29, further comprising a heater.
36. A gas humidification apparatus comprising: an inlet; a humidification device in fluid communication with said inlet, said humidification device comprising: a heater housing comprising a heater and a plurality of openings; a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment; an outlet in fluid communication with said humidification device. 

37. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, wherein said plurality of openings have a configuration that generates turbulence in a gas as it passes through said plurality of openings.
38. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, wherein said surface of said humidification material is patterned.
39. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 38, wherein said surface of said humidification material is serrated.
40. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 38, wherein said surface of said humidification material is star-shaped.
41. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, wherein said humidification device further comprises a second humidification material that is spaced from said humidification material and readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment, wherein said second humidification material has a configuration that generates turbulence for a gas that should pass over a surface of said second humidification surface.
42. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 41 , further comprising a spacer interposed between said humidification material and said second humidification material.
43. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 41 , wherein said surface of said second humidification material is patterned.
44. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 43, wherein said surface of said second humidification material is out of phase with respect to said surface of said humidification material. 

45. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, wherein said humidification material comprises a medication infused therein.
46. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, further comprising a humidity sensor for measuring humidity of a gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
47. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, further comprising a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature of a gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
48. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 46, further comprising a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature of said gas that flows within said gas humidification apparatus.
49. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 47, wherein said temperature sensor measures said temperature of said gas in an indirect manner.
50. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 46, further comprising a control device connected to said humidity sensor that controls humidity within said gas humidification apparatus based on a signal from said humidity sensor.
51. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 47, further comprising a control device connected to said temperature sensor that controls temperature within said gas humidification apparatus based on a signal from said temperature sensor.
52. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 48, further comprising a control device connected to said humidity sensor and said temperature sensor that controls humidity and temperature within said gas humidification 


apparatus based on signals from said humidity sensor and said temperature sensor.
53. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 36, further comprising: a port in fluid communication with said gas humidification apparatus; and a catheter inserted into said port.
54. A gas humidification apparatus comprising: inlet means for supplying a gas; turbulence means for generating turbulence in said gas; and outlet means for expelling said turbulent gas from said gas humidification apparatus.
55. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 54, wherein said turbulence means comprises a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment.
56. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 54, further comprising means for heating said gas.
57. The gas humidification apparatus of claim 54, further comprising: a port in fluid communication with said gas humidification apparatus; and a catheter inserted into said port.
58. A method of humidifying a gas comprising: 


 supplying a gas to a surface of a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment; and generating turbulence in said gas as it passes over said surface of said humidification material.
59. The method of claim 58, further comprising supplying said turbulent gas to a patient.
60. The method of claim 58, further comprising measuring humidity of said gas.
61. The method of claim 58, further comprising measuring a temperature of said gas.
62. The method of claim 60, further comprising measuring a temperature of said gas.
63. The method of claim 61, wherein said measuring said temperature of said gas is done in an indirect manner.
64. The method of claim 60, further comprising controlling said humidity of said gas based on said measured humidity.
65. The method of claim 61 , further comprising controlling said temperature of said gas based on said measured temperature.
66. The method of claim 62, further comprising: controlling said humidity of said gas based on said measured humidity; and controlling said temperature of said gas based on said measured temperature. 

67. A method of humidifying a gas comprising: warming a gas; humidifying said gas; and placing a catheter in fluid communication with said gas during said humidifying.
68. The method of claim 67, further comprising generating turbulence in said gas during said humidifying.
69. The method of claim 67, further comprising supplying said gas to a patient.
70. A gas apparatus comprising: an inlet; a heater in fluid communication with said inlet, a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature of a gas that flows within said gas apparatus in an indirect manner.
71. The gas apparatus of claim 70, wherein said temperature sensor measures said temperature of said gas in an indirect manner by measuring a temperature of said heater.
72. The gas apparatus of claim 70, further comprising a humidification material that readily absorbs moisture and readily releases moisture when exposed to a dry environment.
73. The gas apparatus of claim 72, wherein said humidification material has a configuration that generates turbulence for a gas that should pass over a surface of said humidification material.
74. A method of humidifying a gas comprising: warming a gas; 


 humidifying said gas; and flowing said gas over a surface of a humidifier.
75. The method of claim 74, further comprising generating turbulence in said gas during said humidifying.
76. The method of claim 74, further comprising generating turbulence in said gas during said flowing.
77. The method of claim 74, further comprising supplying said gas to a patient. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
