<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1199039</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical instrument having a fastener delivery mechanism
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61B1704	A61F200	A61B17068	A61B1704	A61B17064	A61B17068	A61B17064	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61B17	A61F2	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A delivery device for delivering a plurality of individual surgical fasteners
is disclosed. The delivery device has a drive mechanism having a distal and a

proximal end, and a first and a second opposing member. The members are
moveable proximally and distally with respect to the delivery device, and

individually with respect to each other. The device further includes at least one
surgical fastener located between the first and the second members. Each of the at

least one surgical fasteners has a proximal end and a distal end. The surgical
fasteners are preferably made from a superelastic nickel titanium alloy.

Additionally an actuator having at least three sequential positions is included. The
first position of the actuator is for moving the drive mechanism distally. The

second position is for moving the first member proximally to partially deploy the
distal end of the fastener. The third position of the actuator is for moving the

second member proximally, to fully deploy the distal end of the fastener.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates, in general, to a surgical instrument and,
more particularly, to a surgical instrument having a feeding mechanism for feeding
at least one surgical fastener from a surgical instrument to attach a prosthetic in the
repair of a defect in tissue such as an inguinal hernia.An inguinal hernia is a condition where a small loop of bowel or intestine
protrudes through a weak place or defect within the lower abdominal muscle wall
or groin of a patient. This condition commonly occurs in humans, particularly
males. Hernias of this type can be a congenital defect wherein the patient is born
with this problem, or can be caused by straining or lifting heavy objects. Heavy
lifting is known to create a large amount of stress upon the abdominal wall and can
cause a rupture or tearing at a weak point of the abdominal muscle to create the
defect or opening. In any case, the patient can be left with an unsightly bulge of
intestinal tissue protruding through the defect, pain, reduced lifting abilities, and
in some cases, impaction of the bowel, or possibly other complications if the flow
of blood is cut off to the protruding tissue.A common solution to this problem is surgery. In the surgical procedure,
the defect is accessed and carefully examined, either through an open incision or 
endoscopically through an access port such as a trocar. In either case, the careful
examination can be well appreciated, as a network of vessels and nerves exist in
the area of a typical defect, which requires a surgeon to conduct a hernia repair
with great skill and caution. Within this area are found vascular structures such as
gastric vessels, the external iliac vessels, and the inferior epigastric vessels, and
reproductive vessels such as the vas deferens extending through the inguinal floor.Once the surgeon is familiar with the anatomy of a patient, the surgeon
carefully pushes the bowel back into the patient's abdomen through the defect.
Repairing the defect can involve closure of the defect with sutures or fasteners but
generally involves placing a surgical prosthetic such as a mesh patch over the open
defect, and attaching the mesh patch to the inguinal floor with conventional suture
or with surgical fasteners. The mesh patch acts as a barrier and prevents expulsion
of bowel through the defect. Suturing of the mesh patch to the inguinal floor is
well suited to open procedures but much more difficult and time consuming with
endoscopic procedures. With the adoption of endoscopic surgery, endoscopic
surgical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A delivery device (35) for delivering a plurality of individual surgical fasteners,
said delivery device comprising:


a. a drive mechanism having distal and proximal ends, said drive mechanism
comprising first and second opposing members (60, 70), said members (60, 70) being

moveable proximally and distally with respect to said delivery device, and individually
with respect to each other;
b. at least one surgical fastener (105) located between said first and said second
members (60, 70), each of said at least one surgical fasteners (105) having a proximal end

and a distal end; and
c. an actuator having at least three sequential positions, a first position ready for
moving said drive mechanism distally, a second position ready for moving said first

member proximally, thereby being ready to partially deploy said distal end of said fastener,
and a third position ready for moving said second member proximally, thereby being ready

to fully deploy said distal end of said fastener; wherein the first and second members have
inner surfaces having a plurality projections spaced thereon, said projections engaging said

fasteners.
The delivery device (35) of claim 1, the drive mechanism having a longitudinal axis
between the distal and proximal ends;

   the delivery device comprising a plurality of surgical fasteners (105) disposed
longitudinally within said drive mechanism between said first and said second members

(60, 70); and

   the actuator being for deploying one of said fasteners (105) and moving said
plurality of fasteners (105) distally with respect to said longitudinal axis.
The delivery device of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said projections are spaced apart
a distance between 20cm and 0.1 mm (8 inches and 0.005 inches).
The delivery device of claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 wherein said projections are
sawteeth (120). 
The delivery device of any one of claims I to 4 wherein said fasteners (105)
comprise a body having a distal end (106), a proximal end, and a longitudinal axis

therebetween, said fasteners (105) include at least one barb (108) extending axially away
from said distal end and one barb (107) extending axially away from said second end.
The delivery device or claim 5 wherein said barbs (107, 108) engage inner surfaces
of said first and second members (60, 70).
The delivery device of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said fasteners (105) are
formed from stainless steel.
The delivery device of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said fasteners (105) are
made from a superelastic alloy.
The delivery device of claim 8 wherein superelastic alloy is a nickel titanium alloy.
The delivery device of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein said fasteners (105) are not
engaging one another and are spaced apart from one another.
The delivery device of any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the distal ends of said
first and second members (60, 70) are sharp.
The delivery device of any one of claims 1 to 11 wherein the distal ends of said
first and second members (60, 70) have penetrating members (96, 97) attached thereto.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
