<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1374008</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PARENTAL INTERNET CONTROL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F100	G06F100	G06F2100	G06F2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F21	G06F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and system for carrying out Parental Control when browsing the Internet by means of a computer, which comprises: (a) Providing a Parental Control application; (b) Providing in said parental control application several setups, each setup including predefined restrictions for accessing Internet sites or Web pages; (c) Providing at least two mouse components, each mouse component having its unique ID; (d) Associating with each mouse component one or more of said setups; (e) When operating the computer for browsing the Internet, activating said Parental Control application; (f) Retrieving by said application the ID of the mouse component connected; and (g) Activating by said application the setup associated with the ID of said mouse component, thereby activating its corresponding Internet access restrictions. In one embodiment of the invention, the mouse component is the computer mouse. In another embodiment of the invention, the mouse component is a User ID Module.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KATZIR DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KATZIR, DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZIR DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZIR, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PARENTAL INTERNET CONTROLField of the InventionThe invention relates to a method and system for providing parentalcontrol over use of the Internet. More particularly, the invention relatesto a method and system for parental control in which the mouse of thecomputer assumes an important role in restricting access to selectedsites.Background of the InventionThe rapid expansion of the Internet has created a problem for parentswho wish to restrict access of their computer to certain types of Internetsites.The Internet has, on the one hand, increased the freedom of expressionby enabling Internet sites to offer material that essentially cannot becontrolled or censored, but on the other hand, it has created a problem inthat it is essentially impossible to control or limit access to specific typesof materials that are offered by Internet sites, particularly sites cateringto adults only. 

The term "Parental control" refers to the ability to control the Internetcontent accessible via a specific computer. For example, there existprograms for preventing sites that meet specific criteria from beingaccessed by a specific computer. These programs are useful for thosewho cannot supervise their computer all the time. Such programs couldbe used for censorship, but also as tools to be used at the user'sdiscretion.Some browsers, such as the Internet Explorer 5, provide a parentalcontrol software. It helps the user to control the types of content that hiscomputer can access on the Internet. The user can adjust the types ofcontent other people can view, with or without his permission. He alsocan override content settings on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, the usercan set up a list of Web sites that other people can never view,regardless of how the sites' contents are rated, and set up a list of Websites always accessible, again regardless of content rating.Cyber Patrol (www.cyberpatrol.com) is another Parental Controlprogram. Cyber Patrol controls access from any computer to theInternet. Using this program, the access to the Internet can be restrictedat the client level. It is an Internet access management utility that alsomanages application usage from a PC. It allows parents or teachers to 

manage computer use in their own household or classroom. Cyber Patrolloads during start-up and runs in the background to control access toapplications or Internet sites.In the above-mentioned examples, the Parental Control is subject to theuser's profile. Two or more levels are determined - the "parent"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for carrying out Parental Control when browsing the
Internet by means of a computer, comprising:
a) Providing a Parental Control application;
b) Providing in said parental control application several setups,
each setup including predefined restrictions for accessing
Internet sites or Web pages;
c) Providing at least two mouse components, each mouse
component having its unique ID;
d) Associating with each mouse component one or more of said
setups;
e) When operating the computer for browsing the Internet,
activating said Parental Control application;
f) Retrieving by said application the ID of the mouse component
connected; and
g) Activating by said application the setup associated with the ID
of said mouse component, thereby activating its corresponding
Internet access restrictions.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the Parental Control
application is a module of the Internet browser. 

3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the Parental Control
application is a module separate from the Internet browser.
4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the ID of the mouse
component is a unique ID stored in a memory storage within the mouse.
5. A method according to claim 1, wherein a first of said at least two
mouse component is given to a parent, and a second is given to a child.
6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the setup associated with the
ID of the parent mouse component includes less restrictions than those
in the setup of the child's mouse, or null restrictions.
7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the mouse component is a
mouse.
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the parent's mouse differs in
shape and/or color from the child's mouse.
9. A method according to claim -8, wherein the differences in shape
and/or color between the parent's mouse and the child mouse are so
significant as to be easily noticed even from a considerable distance. 

10. A method according to claim 1, wherein the ability to define the
restrictions in the setups is restricted.
11. A method according to claim 1, wherein defining the restrictions in
the setups is restricted by a password.
12. A method according to claim 1, wherein associating of setups to a
mouse ID is restricted.
13. A method according to claim 1, wherein associating setups to a
mouse ID is restricted by a password.
14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the mouse component of the
parent is kept in a safe place inaccessible to the child, when not in use.
15. A system for carrying out parental control which comprises a
parental control application, and at least two mouse components.
16. A system according to claim 15, wherein the parental control
application comprises several setups, each setup including predefined
restrictions for accessing Internet sites or Web pages. 

17. A system according to claim 16, wherein the mouse component
comprises an ID and the parental control application comprises software
means for retrieving said ID.
18. A system according to claim 15, wherein the mouse component is a
'
 mouse.
19. A system according to claim 16, wherein each mouse comprises a first
plug to which a second plug in the cable leading to the computer is
connected.
20. A system according to claim 17, wherein said first plug is located
within the case of the mouse.
21. A system according to claim 18, wherein said first plug is located
external to the mouse casing, several centimeters therefrom, a data
cable connecting between said first plug and the mouse.
22. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
a) Defining a "child" user according to the ID of the mouse
component he uses; 


 b) Determining when a chat session is activated by said "child"
user; and
c) Sending a message to the chat partner of said "child" user to
warn him that he is chatting with a child.
23. A system according to claim 17, further comprising:
a) Means in said parental application for defining a "child" user;
b) A warning message for warning a chat partner that he is
chatting with a child.
c) A module within said parental application for determining
when a chat session is activated by said "child" user, and for
sending said warning to said chat partner when such session is
found active.
24. A system according to claim 23, wherein the warning message is a
predefined message being an integral part of the parental control
application.
25. A system according to claim 23, wherein the warning message is a
message which is predefined by an adult user of the computer.
26. A method according to claim 1, wherein: 


 a) the mouse components are at least one UIDMs connectable to
the mouse system of the computer, each UIDM having its
unique ID;
b) Associating with each UIDM one or more of the setups;
c) When operating the computer for browsing the Internet,
activating said Parental Control application;
d) Retrieving by said application the ID of the UIDM connected
to the mouse of the computer; and
e) Activating by said application the setup associated with the ID
of said UIDM, thereby activating its ' Internet access
restrictions.
27. A method according to claim 26, wherein the Parental Control
application is a module of the Internet browser.
28. A method according to claim 26, wherein the Parental Control
application is a module separate from the Internet browser.
29. A method according to claim 26, wherein the ID of the UIDM is a
unique ID stored in a memory storage within the UIDM. 

30. A method according to claim 26, wherein a UIDM is given to a
parent, and the UIDM is connected to the mouse only when the parent is
working on the computer, and removed at other times.
31. A method according to claim 30, wherein the setup associated with
the ID of the parent UIDM includes less restrictions than those in the
setup of a child's UIDM, or null restriction.
32. . A method according to claim 30, wherein the most restricted setup is
activated when no UIDM is connected to the mouse.
33. A method according to claim 32, wherein the mouse system further
comprises a light indicator that lights when a UIDM is connected to the
mouse system or alternatively lights when a UIDM is not connected to
the mouse system.
34. A method according to claim 26, wherein the ability to define the
restrictions in the setups is restricted.
35. A method according to claim 26, wherein defining the restrictions in
the setups is restricted by a password. 

36. A method according to claim 26, wherein the associating of setups to
a UIDM ID is restricted.
37. A method according to claim 26, wherein associating setups to a
UIDM ID is restricted by a password.
38. A method according to claim 31 wherein the UIDM of the parent is
kept in a safe place inaccessible to the child, when not in use.
39. A method according to claim 26, wherein the UIDM is connected by
inserting it into a slot within the mouse system.
40. A method according to claim 26, wherein the mouse system
comprises a mouse connectable to the computer and a slot, wherein the
UIDM is connectable to a slot within the mouse.
41. A method according to claim 26, wherein the mouse system
comprises a mouse and an identification box connectable to said mouse
and computer, and wherein the UIDM is connectable to a slot within
said identification box.
42. A method according to claim 26, wherein the UIDM is connected by 


 re¬
inserting it into a slot within a mouse pad.
43. A system for carrying out parental control which comprises a
parental control application, and at least one UIDM connectable to the
mouse system of the computer.
44. A system according to claim 43, wherein the parental control
application comprises several setups, each setup including predefined
restrictions for accessing Internet sites or Web pages.
45. A system according to claim 43, wherein the UIDM comprises an ID
and the parental control application comprises software means for
retrieving said ID.
46. A method for carrying out Security Control when browsing the
Internet by means of a computer, comprising:
a) Providing a Security Control application;
b) Providing in said Security control application several setups,
each setup including predefined restrictions for accessing data
from a computer;
c) Providing at least one UIDM connectable to the mouse system
of the computer, each UIDM having its unique ID; 


 d) Associating with each UIDM one or more of said setups;
e) When operating the computer, activating said Security Control
application;
f) Retrieving by said application the ID of the UIDM connected
to the mouse system of the computer; and
g) Activating by said Security Application the setup associated
with the ID of said UIDM, thereby activating the security
restrictions associated with said UIDM.
47. A method according to claim 46, wherein the ID of the UIDM is a
unique ID stored in memory storage within the UIDM.
48. A method according to claim 46, wherein different UIDMs are given
to different users, and the UIDM is connected to the mouse system only
when the user is working on the computer, and removed at other times.
49. A method according to claim 46, wherein the mouse system further
comprises a light indicator that lights when a UIDM is connected to the
mouse system or alternatively lights when a UIDM is not connected to
the mouse system.
50. A method according to claim 47, wherein the ability to define the 


 restrictions in the setups is restricted.
51. A method according to claim 46, wherein defining the restrictions in
the setups is restricted by a password.
52. A method according to claim 46, wherein associating of setups to a
UIDM ID is restricted.
53. A method according to claim 46, wherein associating setups to a
UIDM ID is restricted by a password.
54. A method according to claim 46 wherein the UIDM of the computer
user is kept in a safe place inaccessible to other, when not in use.
55. A method according to claim 46, wherein the UIDM is connected by
inserting it into the slot within the mouse system.
56. A system for carrying out security control which comprises a security
control application, and at least one UIDM connectable to the mouse
system of the computer.
57. A system according to claim 56, wherein the security control 


 application comprises several setups, each setup including predefined
restrictions for accessing data from said computer.
58. A system according to claim 56, wherein the UIDM comprises an ID
and the security control application comprises software means for
retrieving said ID.
59. A system according to claim 56, wherein the mouse system comprises
a mouse connectable to the computer and a slot wherein the UIDM is
connectable to a slot within the mouse.
60. A system according to claim 56, wherein the mouse system comprises
a mouse connectable to the computer and a slot wherein the UIDM is
connectable to a slot within the mouse pad.
61. A system according to claim 56, wherein the mouse system comprises
a mouse and an identification box connectable to said mouse and
computer, and wherein the UIDM is connectable to a slot within the
mouse.
62. A method according to claim 1, wherein the age of the user is
recorded within the mouse component, which can be retrieved from the 


 ouse component by a remote application with which the user is
remotely connected. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
