<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190689</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Phototransistor-based welding helmet
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F904	A61F906	G01J102	G01J102	G01J146	G01J146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61F9	G01J1	G01J1	G01J1	G01J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensor circuit for detecting the occurrence of welding is disclosed. The
sensor circuit uses a phototransistor operative to receive a light input and produce an

output representative thereof. A resistor is coupled between the phototransistor's base
and emitter to control the phototransistor's response to low intensity and high intensity

light. The sensor circuit may also be
used in an auto-darkening eye protection device, such as a welding helmet or the like,

that delivers a drive signal to a shutter assembly upon the detection of welding, the
drive signal being operative to drive the shutter assembly to a darkened, protective

state.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACKSON PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACKSON PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMILTON THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMILTON, THOMAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of auto-darkening eye protection
devices, such as welding helmets having a shutter (or lens) assembly that
automatically darkens upon the detection of a welding are. A photosensitive device
such as a photodiode or a phototransistor may be used to sense the intensity of light
incident on the area of the shutter assembly so as to provide an indication to the
circuitry controlling the shutter assembly that the shutter assembly needs to be driven
to either a dark state or a clear state. If a welding are is present, the welding helmet
protects the eyes of the welder from any danger caused by the intensity of the welding
are by driving the shutter assembly to a dark state, thereby decreasing the amount of
energy passing through the lens to the welder's eyes. U.S. Patent Nos, 4,385,806,
4,436,376, 4,540,243, Re. 32,521, 5,248,880, 5,252,817, 5,347,383, 5,533,206,
5,751,258, 5,959,705, 6,067,129, and 6,070,264 each disclose various shutter
assemblies and liquid crystal driver electronics that can be used in conjunction with
the present invention. The disclosures of these above-mentioned patents are hereby
incorporated in their entireties by reference. Commonly-owned U.S. Patent No. 5,347,383 discloses a driving circuit for a
liquid crystal shutter. The sensor circuitry of this invention utilizes a photodiode to
detect the occurrence of welding. This sensor circuitry also utilizes a comparator to
compare the sensed light signal with a threshold value to determine whether the
shutter assembly should be driven to a dark or clear state. Additionally, the 1383
patent discloses the use of a 9 V supply.While the invention disclosed in this patent functioned for its intended
purpose, a need was felt for an improvement in the power consumption by the sensor
circuit, As incident light increases on a photodiode, the voltage across the photodiode
will begin to saturate, To prevent the photodiode from saturating, a steadily
increasing load must be put on the photodiode which leads to excessive power
consumption.To alleviate the excessive power consumption inherent in a photodiode-based
sensor circuit, a phototransistor has been utilized as a weld sensor. The use of a
phototransistor allows the use of feedback to bias the phototransistor so that less
current is needed to keep the phototransistor in its operational mode. Commonly-owned
U.S. Patent Nos. 5,252,817, 5,248,880, 5, 751,258, and 6,070,264 are
illustrative of sensor circuits using phototransistors as weld sensors. Each of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A welding helmet comprising:

a shutter assembly, the shutter assembly being adjustable to a plurality
of shade levels;
a light sensing circuit connected to the shutter assembly sensing
incident light and providing an output indicative of the shade level at

which the shutter assembly should be operated, the light sensing circuit
comprising:


a phototransistor operative to receive incident light and produce
an output representative thereof and a nonreactive element

coupled to the base of the phototransistor for controlling the
response of the phototransistor to incident light having a wide

range of intensity;
a control circuit configured to receive an input from the light sensing
circuit and provide a drive signal to the shutter assembly responsive to

said input, the drive signal being operative to drive the shutter
assembly to one of said plurality of shade levels; and
a power supply coupled to the light sensing circuit and control circuit
for powering same
The welding helmet of claim 1 wherein the nonreactive element is a
resistor.
The welding helmet of claim 1 further comprising an amplifier
connected between the light sensing circuit and the control circuit for

amplifying the phototransistor output.
The welding helmet of claim 3 wherein the amplifier comprises a
closed loop non-inverting amplifier.
The welding helmet of claim 3 wherein the amplifier provides a gain to
the output of the light sensing circuit sufficient to trigger the control circuit to

drive the shutter assembly to a dark shade level when the phototransistor
receives a light input having an intensity indicative of a welding arc being

present.
The welding helmet of claim 3 further comprising a capacitor in circuit
between the phototransistor and the amplifier for blocking DC.
The welding helmet of claim 1 wherein the phototransistor is a planar
phototransistor.
The welding helmet of claim 7 wherein the planar phototransistor is

configured for surface mount.
The welding helmet of claim 1 further comprising a feedback circuit
connected to the phototransistor for biasing it and thereby reducing its

responsiveness to ambient light.
The welding helmet of claim 1 wherein the power supply comprises a
primary power source and a secondary power source, the power supply being

configured such that the primary power source recharges the secondary power
source.
The welding helmet of claim 10 wherein the secondary power source
will supplement the power supplied by the primary power source when the

voltage supplied by the primary power source is less than the voltage supplied
by the secondary power source.
The welding helmet of claim 11 wherein the primary power source is a
solar cell and the secondary power source is a rechargeable battery.
The welding helmet of claim 12 wherein the rechargeable battery is a 3
V rechargeable battery.
The welding helmet of claim 1 wherein the control circuit comprises a
signal generator for generating a drive signal, and a transistor for activating

the signal generator, the transistor having an input connected to a solar cell
and an output connected to the signal generator, the control circuit being

configured to activate the signal generator when the solar cell powers the
transistor.
The welding helmet of claim 1 wherein the control circuit comprises a second
transistor for controlling transition of the shutter assembly to one of a plurality of

shade levels, and an RC circuit coupled to the second transistor for delaying the
transition of the shutter assembly from a dark shade level to a clear shade level.
An auto darkening eye protection device comprising:

a shutter assembly, the shutter assembly being adjustable to a plurality of
shade levels;
a light sensing circuit for sensing incident light and providing an output
indicative of the shade level at which the shutter assembly should be operated.

the light sensing circuit comprising:

a phototransistor operative to receive incident light and produce an
output representative thereof and a resistor coupled between the base

and emitter of the phototransistor for triggering the phototransistor;
a control circuit configured to receive an input from the light sensing circuit
and provide a drive signal to the shutter assembly responsive to said input, the

drive signal being operative to drive the shutter assembly to one of said
plurality of shade levels; and
a power supply coupled to the light sensing circuit and control circuit for
powering same.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 16 wherein the light
sensing circuit further comprises an amplifier coupled to the phototransistor

and the control circuit for amplifying the phototransistor output.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 17 wherein the
amplifier comprises a closed loop non-inverting amplifier,
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 17 wherein the light
sensing circuit further comprises a capacitor in circuit between the

phototransistor and the amplifier for blocking DC.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 17 wherein the
amplifier provides a gain to the output of the phototransistor sufficient to

trigger the control circuit to drive the shutter assembly to a dark shade level
when the phototransistor receives a light input having an intensity indicative

of a welding arc being present.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 16 wherein the
phototransistor is a planar phototransistor.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 21 wherein the
planar phototransistor is configured for surface mount.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 16 wherein the light
sensing circuit further comprises a feedback circuit connected to the

phototransistor for biasing it and thereby reducing its responsiveness to
ambient light.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 16 wherein the
control circuit comprises a signal generator for generating a drive signal, and a

transistor for activating the signal generator, the transistor having an input
connected to a solar cell and an output connected to the signal generator, the

control circuit being configured to activate the signal generator when the solar
cell powers the transistor.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 16 wherein the
control circuit further comprises:


a transistor for controlling the transition of the shutter assembly to one
of a plurality of shade levels; and
an RC circuit coupled to the second transistor for delaying a transition
in the shutter assembly from a dark shade level to a clear shade level.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 16 wherein the
power supply comprises a primary power source and a secondary power

source, the power supply being configured such that the primary power source
recharges the secondary power source.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 26 wherein the
secondary power source will supplement the power supplied by the primary

power source when the voltage supplied by the primary power source is less
than the voltage supplied by the secondary power source.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 27 wherein the
primary power source is a solar cell and the secondary power source is a

rechargeable battery.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 28 wherein the
rechargeable battery is a 3 V rechargeable battery.
A sensor circuit for detecting the occurrence of welding, comprising:

a phototransistor operative to receive a light input and produce an
output representative thereof; and
a non-reactive element coupled between the base and emitter of the
phototransistor for reducing the sensitivity of the phototransistor when

the light received by the phototransistor has a low intensity.
The sensor circuit of claim 30 wherein the non-reactive element is a
resistor.
The sensor circuit of claim 30 further comprising an amplifier coupled
to the output of the phototransistor.
The sensor circuit of claim 32 wherein the amplifier comprises a
closed loop noninverting amplifier.
The sensor circuit of claim 32 wherein a capacitor is coupled between
the output of the phototransistor and the amplifier.
The sensor circuit of claim 30 wherein the phototransistor is a planar
phototransistor.
The sensor circuit of claim 35 wherein the phototransistor is
configured for a surface mount.
The sensor circuit of claim 31 further comprising a feedback circuit

coupled to the phototransistor for biasing the phototransistor, the feedback
circuit comprising a resistor capacitor circuit coupled to the output of the

phototransistor, a feedback transistor coupled between the resistor capacitor
circuit and the base of the phototransistor, and a second resistor coupled

between the emitter of the feedback transistor and ground.
An auto darkening eye protection device comprising:

a shutter assembly, the shutter assembly being adjustable to a plurality
of shade levels;
a light sensing circuit for sensing incident light and producing an
output representative thereof;
a control circuit configured to receive an input from the light sensing
circuit and provide a drive signal to the shutter assembly responsive to

said input, the drive signal being operative to drive the shutter
assembly to one of said plurality of shade levels, the control circuit

comprising:

a signal generator for generating the drive signal; and
an activation circuit coupled to the signal generator for
activating the signal generator; and
a power supply coupled to the light sensing circuit and control circuit
for powering same, the power supply comprising a solar cell, the solar

cell being coupled to the activation circuit such that the activation
circuit will activate the signal generator when incident light powers the

solar cell.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 38 wherein the
activation circuit comprises a transistor, the transistor having an output

coupled to the signal generator and an input coupled to the solar cell.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 39 wherein the
activation circuit further comprises a resistor divider circuit, the resistor

divider circuit comprising a first resistor and a second resistor in series
coupled between the solar cell and ground, wherein the junction of the first

resistor and second resistor is coupled to the input of the transistor.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 38 wherein the
power supply further comprises a secondary power source, the power supply

being configured such that the solar cell recharges the secondary power
source.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 41 wherein the
secondary power source is a rechargeable battery.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 42 wherein the
rechargeable battery is a 3 V rechargeable battery.
An auto darkening eye protection device comprising:

a shutter assembly, the shutter assembly being adjustable to a plurality
of shade levels;
a light sensing circuit for sensing incident light and providing an
output indicative of the shade level at which the shutter assembly

should be operated, the light sensing circuit comprising:

a phototransistor operative to receive incident light and produce
an output representative thereof; and
an amplifier coupled to the phototransistor for amplifying the
phototransistor output;
a control circuit configured to receive the amplifier output and provide
a drive signal to the shutter assembly responsive to the amplifier

output, the drive signal being operative to drive the shutter assembly to
one of said plurality of shade levels; and
a power supply coupled to the light sensing circuit and control circuit
for powering same, the power supply comprising a solar cell, the solar

cell coupled to the amplifier such that the amplifier will receive power
when incident light powers the solar cell.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 44 wherein the solar
cell is coupled to the phototransistor such that the phototransistor will receive

power when incident light powers the solar cell.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 44 wherein the
amplifier comprises a closed loop non-inverting amplifier.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 44 wherein the
amplifier provides a gain to the output of the light sensing circuit sufficient to

trigger the control circuit to drive the shutter assembly to a dark shade level
when the phototransistor receives a light input having an intensity indicative

of a welding arc being present.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 44 further
comprising a capacitor in circuit between the phototransistor and the amplifier

for blocking DC.
An auto darkening eye protection device comprising:

a shutter assembly, the shutter assembly being adjustable to a plurality
of shade levels;
a light sensing circuit for sensing incident light and providing an
output indicative of the shade level at which the shutter assembly

should be operated, the light sensing circuit comprising:

a phototransistor operative to receive incident light and produce
an output representative thereof; and
an amplifier coupled to the phototransistor for amplifying the
phototransistor output;
a control circuit configured to receive the amplifier output and provide
a drive signal to the shutter assembly responsive to the amplifier

output, the drive signal being operative to drive the shutter assembly to
one of said plurality of shade levels; and
a power supply coupled to the light sensing circuit and control circuit
for powering same, the power supply comprising a solar cell, the solar

cell coupled to the phototransistor such that the amplifier will receive
power when incident light powers the solar cell.
The auto darkening eye protection device of claim 49 wherein the solar
cell is coupled to the amplifier such that the amplifier will receive power when

incident light powers the solar cell.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
