<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1992005829</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEMPORARY STENT AND METHODS FOR USE AND MANUFACTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F230	A61F230	A61F282	A61F284	A61F288	A61L3108	A61L3110	A61M2502	A61M2504	A61M2900	A61M2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61L	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61L31	A61L31	A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMALTZ DALE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLARD LLOYD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMALTZ, DALE, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLARD, LLOYD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TEMPORARY STENT AND METHODS FOR USE AND MANUFACTUREBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to devices known as stents which provide support to a vessel, such as a blood vessel, and in particular to stents that are both temporary and removable.Obstructive coronary artery disease is one of most serious health problems facing our society today. This disease is the result of the deposit of fatty substances on the interior surface of the walls of the arteries. The build up or lesion of such deposits results in a narrowing of the diameter of the artery which restricts the blood flow through the artery. This condition wherein the artery is narrowed is known as stenosis. The lesion may form in any part of the artery and in some instances the deposits may form at the intersection between two arteries, that is, where the section where the two arteries form a generally "Y" configuration (e.g. bifurcate, trifurcate, and so on) .There have been significant developments of the treatment of such obstructive coronary disease in the recent past. Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is often used to treat this disease. Bypass surgery, however, has the disadvantage that it is extremely invasive and traumatic to the patient. Some of the recent developments provide a less invasive and less traumatic alternative to bypass surgery. Two of these recent developments are known as angioplasty and atherectomy procedures. 

 Angioplasty is a procedure in which a balloon is positioned on the inside of the artery at the site of the lesion and expanded in order to compress the materials at the lesion and thus open the restricted area in the artery. In this procedure, an elastic balloon is attached to one end of a small diameter flexible catheter which includes means for inflating the balloon from the other end of the catheter. The catheter is maneuvered through the patient's vessels to the site of the lesion with the balloon in uninflated form. When the uninflated balloon is properly positioned at the lesion, the balloon is then inflated to dilatate the restricted area.Atherectomy is a procedure in which a small cutting tool is attached to the end of a small diameter flexible catheter and maneuvered through the patient's arterial system to the site of the lesion in the diseased artery. When the cutting tool is properly positioned, the tool is used to cut and remove the deposits from the surface of the diseased artery.Although these two procedures provide less traumatic alternatives to bypass surgery, they are not without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A removable stent for temporarily supporting a region of a vessel in a body comprising: a stent portion comprised of: an elongate perfusable vessel supporting portion adapted to be configurable between a reduced size for placement in the vessel and removal therefrom and an expanded size for structurally supporting the vessel in the region; and perfusable end portions connected to and forming ends of said vessel supporting portion and adapted to allow fluid flow therethrough; and an actuator portion having a proximal end extending out of the body and a distal end connected to said stent portion and operable by manipulation at said proximal end to configure said support portion into said reduced size and said expanded size.
2. The temporary stent of claim 1 in which said stent portion comprises: an elongate hollow tube having a proximal end and a distal end and further in which movement of said distal end toward said proximal end causes expansion of the diameter of said hollow tube and movement of said proximal end away from said distal end causes contraction of the diameter of the hollow tubular.
3. The temporary stent of claim 2 in which said actuator portion comprises: 


 a first elongate member comprising an elongate catheter tube connected to said proximal end of said stent portion, and a second elongate member slidably disposed in a lumen of said first elongate member and extending to and operable to move said distal end of said stent portion with respect to said proximal end of said stent portion.
4. The stent of Claim 3 in which said elongate catheter tube comprises: an outer tubular layer, and an inner tubular layer concentric with said outer tubular layer.
5. The stent of Claim 4 in which a distal end of said inner tubular layer terminates proximally from the distal end of said outer tubular layer and further in which said outer tubular layer has a reduced diameter distally from the distal end of said inner tubular layer. member
6. The stent of Claim 1 in which said stent portion is comprised a plurality of helically wound wires forming an elongate hollow tube.
7. The stent of Claim 1 in which said stent portion is comprised a plurality of helically wound flat wires forming an elongate hollow tube in which the cross sectional dimension of the flat wires in the radial direction is less than the cross sectional dimension of the flat wires in the tangential direction. 


 8. The stent of Claim 6 in which said plurality of helically wound wires when said stent portion is in said expanded size comprise: a proximal tapered region connected to said first elongate member: and a distal tapered region connected to said second elongate member and further in which said plurality of helically wound wires forming the stent portion in said proximal tapered region and said distal tapered region are spaced apart from wires adjacent thereto to provide relatively large openings through said proximal and said distal tapered regions to facilitate blood flow therethrough.
9. The stent of Claim 6 in which said plurality of wires are comprised of stainless steel wires.
10 . The stent of Claim 1 in which said stent portion comprises at least in part a fluoroscopic detectable material.
11. The stent of Claim 10 in which said fluoroscopic detectable material is selected from a group consisting of: gold, tantalum, platinum, tungsten and tungsten-iridium alloy.
12. The stent of Claim 1 in which said second elongate member comprises: an inner catheter member having a lumen therewithin extending from a proximal end of said inner catheter member to an opening at the distal end of said inner catheter member. 


 13. The stent of Claim 12 in which said second inner catheter member is dimensioned so that fluids may be introduced to the distal end of said first elongate member via the lumen of said first elongate member in which said second catheter member is located.
14. The stent of Claim 3 in which said second elongate member further comprises: a guidewire tip extending distally from the distal end of said stent portion.
15. The stent of Claim 14 in which said second elongate member is connected to the distal end of said stent portion.
16. The stent of Claim 14 in which said second elongate member is slidingly received in the distal end of said stent portion and further in which said second elongate member comprises: a first bearing portion operable to move said distal end of said stent portion distally; and a second bearing portion operable to move said distal end of said stent portion proximally.
17. The stent of Claim 1 in which said actuator portion comprises at least in part a fluoroscopic detectable material.
18. The stent of Claim 17 further comprising: at least one band composed of a fluoroscopically detectable material connected to said actuator portion. 


 19. The stent of Claim 1 in which said stent portion is comprised at least in part of a material having non-thrombogenic properties.
20. The stent of Claim 19 in which said stent portion includes a coating of a material comprising a slow release non-thrombogenic polymer.
21. The stent of Claim 18 in which said coating is selected from a group consisting of urokinase, heparin, albumen protein and anti¬ thrombin III.
22. The stent of Claim 19 further comprising a DC source having a lead connected to said stent portion and another lead connectable to a patient's body.
23. A method of temporarily implanting a stent into a region of the vascular system of a patient comprising the steps of: advancing an expandable stent portion of the stent to the region, operating an actuator portion to cause expansion of the stent portion, supporting the region of the vascular system with the stent portion and allowing perfusion through the stent portion while in the stent portion is in an expanded configuration, operating an actuator portion to cause contraction of the stent portion, and withdrawing the stent portion. 


 24. The method of Claim 23 in which said step of operating an actuator portion to cause expansion of the stent portion further comprises: moving a proximal end of the stent portion relatively to a distal end of the stent portion to effect expansion of a diameter of the stent.
25. The method of Claim 24 in which the actuator comprises a first elongate member comprising an outer catheter member connected to a proximal end of the stent portion and a second elongate member connected to a distal end of the stent portion and further in which said operating steps comprise: moving a proximal end of the first elongate member with respect to a proximal end of the second elongate member.
26. The method of Claim 25 in which the second elongate member comprises an inner catheter member having a lumen therein and further comprising the steps of: positioning a guidewire in the vascular system of the patient to the region to be supported by the stent, advancing the stent portion, the outer catheter member, and the inner catheter member into the region of the vascular system over the guidewire through the lumen in the inner catheter member.
27. The method of Claim 26 further comprising the step of: introducing fluids to the vascular system via the lumen of the inner catheter member. 


 28. The method of Claim 26 further comprising the step of: introducing fluids to the vascular system via a lumen of the outer catheter member.
29. The method of Claim 23 further comprising the steps of: positioning a delivery catheter into the patient to the region of the vascular system of the patient; and advancing the stent portion and the actuator portion to the region of the vascular system through a lumen in the delivery catheter.
30. The method of Claim 23 further comprising the steps of: connecting a lead of a voltage source to the stent portion, connecting another lead to the body of the patient, and applying a potential between the leads to minimize the tendency for clotting materials to form on the stent portion.
31. The method of Claim 23 further comprising the steps of: connecting a lead of an RF source to the stent portion, and applying an RF signal to the lead to minimize the tendency for clotting materials to form on the stent portion.
32. A method for constructing a temporary stent to be used to support a region of the vascular system of a patient comprising the steps of: 


 applying an ultralight tension on a braider carriage; braiding a plurality of wires into an elongate hollow tube; limiting the tent angle of the wires by means of a low friction guide;- fixing a proximal end of the braid between inner and outer concentric tubular layers; fixing a distal end of the braid to an inner catheter member, said inner catheter member located in and extending through a lumen formed by said inner and outer concentric tubular layers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
