<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1992006838</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A LUGGAGE CASE AND A PROCESS FOR MAKING A LUGGAGE CASE SHELL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A45C500	A45C502	A45C1300	A45C1336	B29C4324	B29C4324	B29C4708	B29C4712	B29C4732	B29C4734	B29C5100	B29C5102	B29C5108	B29C5108	B29C5114	B29C5114	B29L2200	B32B3714	B32B3715	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A45C	A45C	A45C	A45C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29L	B32B	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A45C5	A45C5	A45C13	A45C13	B29C43	B29C43	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C51	B29C51	B29C51	B29C51	B29C51	B29C51	B29L22	B32B37	B32B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A luggage case having a thermoformed shell is made from a thermoformable preform (11) by pressure laminating a layer of cloth fabric (44) to one face of a thermoplastic substrate (42), preferably as the substrate is extruded and while still hot from an extrusion process. The preform (11) should be of a non-stretch type. This non-stretch characteristic, together with its bonding to the thermoplastic substrate (42), prevents the substrate from thinning in the corner regions. The intimately bonded fabric (44) drags or pulls the substrate (42) from a number of directions as the corner regions are formed and the thermoplastic substrate (42) accumulates and thickens in the corner regions resulting in a shell (12) which is durable and aesthetically pleasing.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMSONITE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMSONITE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNESSIAN ELLIOT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNESSIAN, ELLIOT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A LUGGAGE CASE AND A PROCESS FOR MAKING A LUGGAGE CASE SHELLBackground of the DisclosureOver the past 20 years or so, standard hardsided luggage cases included two vacuum formed shells of thermoplastic sheet, usually an ABS (acrylonitrile butidiene styrene) polymer. These shells were usually fastened to a pair of aluminum or magnesium frames. Accessories such as wheels and handles were also attached to the frame or directly to the shells. A drawback of such ABS shell luggage was that the corner portions, that is the areas of the generally rectangular shells at the intersection of the generally planar major face and two of the other faces, tended to be relatively thin in comparison to the other portions of the thcrmoformed shell. This is because, inherent to the vacuum forming process, the material is stretched thin in these corner regions during the deflection of the heated, rubbery ABS sheet into the female vacuum form. Consequently, the preform sheet tended to be made of a heavier material in order to anticipate this thinning and to compensate for the thinning so that the corner regions were adequately constructed. Despite these precautions, the vacuum ormed shells are subject to failure in the corner regions since a luggage case tends to take considerable abuse concentrated at the corners.Also as a result of making luggage of a relatively thicker ABS material, the weight of the overall luggage case tended to be high, since the thickness of the ABS material in the central portion of the shells were thicker than really necessary to provide adequate strength.Also, considerable effort has been expended to provide a scuff resistant surface to the outside of the thcrmoformed shells. A printed capshect of an especially abrasion-resistant material is normally laminated onto the thermoplastic ABS substrate. 

 The superior durability and scuff resistance of a fabric covered shell has been well known. In an attempt to capitalize on this phenomenon, ABS shell luggage has been covered with fabric. One such product, marketed under the trademark SILHOUETTE SUPRA by SAMSONITE CORPORATION, the assignee of the subject invention, consisted of a conventional thermoformed shell, but without the decorative printed capshect. To this shell was adhesively fastened a tailored covering of fabric consisting of a fabric rail portion (sized to cover the periphery side walls of the shell), which is in turn sewn to a large panel of fabric for covering the major face of the shell. While the aesthetic desirability of the resulting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
I CLAIM:
1. A process of thermoforming a shape from a preform, said shape having a three dimensional contour, such as a corner region for a luggage case shell, comprising the steps of: extruding a thermoplastic substrate; supplying a first fabric covering material; bonding the fabric covering material to a first face of said substrate to form a fabric covered preform; feeding the preform into a press having matched male and female tools; forming the preform in the press while the substrate is in a semi- molten condition to form a three dimensional shape; permitting the shape to cool; trimming the shape.
2. A process of thermoforming a shape as in claim 1 further including the steps of supplying a second fabric covering material; and bonding said second fabric covering material to a second face of said substrate.
3. A process of thermoforming a shape as in claim 1 further including the step of cutting the fabric covered preform into a series of individual preforms before the step of feeding.
4. A process of thermoforming a shape as in claim 1 further including the steps of permitting the fabric covered preform to cool to ambient temperature, and 


 heating the fabric covered preform to place the thermoplastic substrate of the preform in a semi-molten condition before the step of feeding the press.
5. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein the step of bonding comprises feeding the thermoplastic substrate through the nip between a pair of rollers while still hot from the step of extruding, and feeding the fabric covering material through the nip of said pair of rollers together with the thermoplastic, and squeezing the fabric and the thermoplastic substrate together at the nip, whereby the fabric and the thermoplastic are intimately bonded together.
6. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein the first fabric covering material is capable of stretching no more than about 25 percent at the temperature at which the fabric covered preform is pressed into the shape.
7. A process of forming a thermoplastic shell for a luggage case as in claim 1 wherein the fabric covering material is capable of stretching no more than about 15 percent at the temperature at which the fabric covered preform is pressed into the shell shape. 8. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein said first fabric covering material is a woven material.
9. A process of forming a shape as in claim 8 wherein the fabric covering material is a tightly woven basket weave material with a bond enhancing coating thereon. 10. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein the male and female molds are so dimensioned so as to provide a space therebetween, when the 


press has closed onto the preform during the step of pressing, which is about the same dimension as the thickness of the preform.
11. A process of forming a shape as in claim 10 wherein the space defined by the male and female molds during the step of pressing includes corner regions, the thickness dimension of the space in the corner regions, when the press has closed onto the preform during the step of pressing, is between about 1.1 to 1.5 times the thickness dimension of the preform.
12. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein the said first fabric covering comprises a fabric capable of intimately bonding to said substrate such that, when said substrate is in a semi-molten condition, said fabric remains adhered to said substrate, and wherein said step of forming includes the step of permitting said fabric covering to carry said substrate into said mold whereby the thickness of said substrate remains substantially unreduced as a result of the step of molding. 13. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic substrate is polypropylene.
14. A process of forming a shape as in claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic substrate is ABS.
15. A luggage case including at least one thermoformed shell having a major face, a side face, and a top face, and at least one corner region at the intersection of said major face, said side face and said top face, the shell comprising a thermoplastic substrate to at least one major surf ce of which has been intimately bonded a fabric covering prior to thermoforming said corner region, said fabric covering being substantially continuous, formed of one integral piece, and coextensive at least over said corner region, said fabric covering made of a woven fabric capable of stretching not more than about 15% in the warp or woof direction at least during thermoforming, whereby said 



intimately bonded f bric prevents said thermoplastic substrate from becoming thin in said corner regions.
16. A luggage case as in claim 15 wherein said fabric covering is made of a f bric having a tight basket weave. 17. A luggage case as in claim 15 wherein said fabric is a polyester fabric which includes a coating of an acrylic copolymer emulsion.
18. A luggage case as in claim 1 wherein the pics per inch of the fabric covering in the corner region is between 5% and 30% greater than the pics per inch of the fabric in the central portion of the major face. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
