<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998002449</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NUCLEIC ACID AMPLIFICATION OLIGONUCLEOTIDES WITH MOLECULAR ENERGY TRANSFER LABELS AND METHODS BASED THEREON
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33566	G01N33566	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides labeled nucleic acid amplification oligonucleotides, which can be linear or hairpin primers or blocking oligonucleotides. The oligonucleotides of the invention are labeled with donor and/or acceptor moieties of molecular energy transfer pairs. The moieties can be fluorophores, such that fluorescent energy emitted by the donor is absorbed by the acceptor. The acceptor may be a fluorophore that fluoresces at a wavelength different from the donor moiety, or it may be a quencher. The oligonucleotides of the invention are configured so that a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety are incorporated into the amplification product. The invention also provides methods and kits for directly detecting amplification products employing the nucleic acid amplification primers. When labeled linear primers are used, treatment with exonuclease or by using specific temperature eliminates the need for separation of unincorporated primers. This "closed-tube" format greatly reduces the possibility of carryover contamination with amplification products, provides for high throughput of samples, and may be totally automated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCOR, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHATNAGAR SATISH K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOHMAN ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAZARENKO IRINA A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINN-DEEN EMILY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHATNAGAR, SATISH, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOHMAN, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAZARENKO, IRINA, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINN-DEEN, EMILY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NUCLEIC ACID AMPLIFICATIONOLIGONUCLEOTIDES WITH MOLECULAR ENERGYTRANSFER LABELS AND METHODS BASED THEREONThis application is a continuation-in-part of copending application Serial No. 08/837,034 filed April 11, 1997, which in turn is a continuation-in-part of copending application Serial No. 08/778,487 filed January 3, 1997, which in turn is a continuation-in-part of copending application Serial No. 08/683,667 filed July 16, 1996, each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.1. INTRODUCTIONThe present invention relates to oligonucleotides for amplification of nucleic acids that are detectably labeled with molecular energy transfer (MET) labels. It also relates to methods for detecting the products of nucleic acid amplification using these oligonucleotides. It further relates to a rapid, sensitive, and reliable method for detecting amplification products that greatly decreases the possibility of carryover contamination with amplification products and that is adaptable to many methods for amplification of nucleic acid sequences, including polymerase chain reaction (PCR) , tria plification, and other amplification systems.2. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION2.1. FLUORESCENCE RESONANCE ENERGY TRANSFER (FRET) Molecular energy transfer (MET) is a process by which energy is passed non-radiatively between a donor molecule and an acceptor molecule. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) is a form of MET. FRET arises from the properties of certain chemical compounds; when excited by exposure to particular wavelengths of light, they emit light (i.e., they fluoresce) at a different wavelength. Such compounds are termed fluorophores . In FRET, energy is passed non-radiatively over a long distance (10-lOOA) between a 

donor molecule, which is a fluorophore, and an acceptor molecule. The donor absorbs a photon and transfers this energy nonradiatively to the acceptor (Fδrster, 1949, Z. Naturforsch. A4 : 321-327; Clegg, 1992, Methods Enzy ol. 211: 353-388) .When two fluorophores whose excitation and emission spectra overlap are in close proximity, excitation of one fluorophore will cause it to emit light at wavelengths that are absorbed by and that stimulate the second fluorophore, causing it in turn to fluoresce. In other words, the excited-state energy of the first (donor) fluorophore is transferred by a resonance induced dipole - dipole interaction to the neighboring second (acceptor) fluorophore. As a result, the lifetime of the donor molecule is decreased and its fluorescence is quenched,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An oligonucleotide comprising the following contiguous sequences in 5 ' to 3 ' order: (a) a first nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide sequence is labeled with a first moiety selected from the group consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety; (b) a second, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 3-20 nucleotides;
(c) a third nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said third nucleotide sequence is labeled with a second moiety selected from the group consisting of said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and said second moiety is the member of said group not labeling said first nucleotide sequence, wherein said third nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary in reverse order to said first nucleotide sequence for a duplex to form between said first nucleotide sequence and said third nucleotide sequence such that said first moiety and second moiety are in sufficient proximity such that, when the donor moiety is excited and emits energy, the acceptor moiety absorbs energy emitted by the donor moiety; and
(d) at the 3' end of said oligonucleotide, a fourth, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 8-40 nucleotides that comprises at its 3 ' end a sequence sufficiently complementary to a preselected target sequence so as to be able to prime synthesis by a 


 nucleic acid polymerase of a nucleotide sequence complementary to a nucleic acid strand comprising said target sequence; wherein when said duplex is not formed, said first moiety and said second moiety are separated by a distance that prevents molecular energy transfer between said first and second moiety.
2. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said distance is in the range of 15-25 nucleotides.
3. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said distance is 20 nucleotides.
4. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said donor moiety is a fluorophore.
5. The oligonucleotide of claim 4 wherein said acceptor moiety is a quencher of light emitted by said fluorophore.
6. The oligonucleotide of claim 4 wherein said acceptor moiety emits fluorescent light of a wavelength different than that emitted by said donor moiety.
7. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said preselected target sequence is a genomic or mRNA sequence.
8. The oligonucleotide of claim 1, 2 or 5 wherein said preselected target sequence is a human genomic, cDNA, or mRNA sequence.
9. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said preselected target sequence is a genomic sequence of an infectious disease agent. 

10. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said preselected target sequence is a wild-type human genomic sequence, mutation of which is implicated in the presence of a human disease or disorder.
11. The oligonucleotide of claim 4 wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) , 2 ' 7 ' -dimethoxy-4 ' 5 ' -dichloro-6-carboxyfluorescein (JOE) , rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G) , N,N,N '-tetramethyl-6- carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA) , 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX) , 5- (2 '-aminoethyl)aminonapthalene-l-sulfonic acid (EDANS) , anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives, Malachite green, Reactive Red 4, DABCYL, tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
12. The oligonucleotide of claim 5 wherein said donor moiety is selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) , rhodamine,
5- (2 '-aminoethyl)aminonapthalene-l-sulfonic acid (EDANS), anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives, Malachite green, and Reactive Red 4, and said acceptor moiety is selected from the group consisting of DABCYL, rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
13. The oligonucleotide of claim 5 wherein said donor moiety is fluorescein or a derivative thereof, and said acceptor moiety is DABCYL.
14. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 which is a oligodeoxynucleotide.
15. The oligonucleotide of claim 4 or 5 which is a oligodeoxynucleotide. 

16. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said fourth nucleotide sequence further comprises a restriction endonuclease recognition site.
17. The oligonucleotide of claim 1, the sequence of which consists of nucleotide sequences (a) - (d) .
18. The oligonucleotide of claim 5 wherein said first moiety and said second moiety are situated on complementary nucleotides that are opposite each other in said duplex.
19. The oligonucleotide of claim 5 wherein said first moiety and said second moiety are situated on opposite strand nucleotides that are five nucleotides apart in said duplex.
20. An oligonucleotide, the nucleotide sequence of which consists of the following contiguous sequences in 5 ' to 3 ' order:
(a) a first single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 1 to 10 nucleotides;
(b) a second nucleotide sequence of 2-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide sequence or said second nucleotide sequence is labeled with a first moiety selected from the group consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety;
(c) a third, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 3-20 nucleotides; and (d) a fourth nucleotide sequence of 2-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said fourth nucleotide sequence is labeled with a second 


 moiety selected from the group consisting of said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and said second moiety is the member of said group not labeling said first or second nucleotide sequence, wherein said fourth nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary in reverse order to said second nucleotide sequence for a duplex to form between said second nucleotide sequence and said fourth nucleotide sequence such that said first moiety and second moiety are in sufficient proximity such that, when the donor moiety is excited and emits energy, the acceptor moiety absorbs energy emitted by the donor moiety.
21. The oligonucleotide of claim 20 wherein said first nucleotide sequence is in the range of 3-4 nucleotides, said second nucleotide sequence is in the range of 4-6 nucleotides, said third nucleotide sequence is in the range of 4-6 nucleotides, and said fourth nucleotide sequence is in the range of 4-6 nucleotides.
22. The oligonucleotide of claim 21 wherein said first nucleotide sequence is 5'-GGC-3'.
23. The oligonucleotide of claim 20 wherein said donor moiety is a fluorophore.
24. The oligonucleotide of claim 23 wherein said acceptor moiety is a quencher of light emitted by said fluorophore.
25. The oligonucleotide of claim 23 wherein said donor moiety is selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) , rhodamine, 5- (2 ' -a inoethyl) aminonapthalene-1-sulfonic acid (EDANS) , anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives, Malachite green, and Reactive Red 4, and said acceptor moiety 


is selected from the group consisting of DABCYL, rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
26. The oligonucleotide of claim 20 or 24 which is a oligodeoxynucleotide.
27. A method of making an oligonucleotide hairpin primer comprising: (a) hybridizing the first oligonucleotide of claim
20 to a second oligonucleotide, said second oligonucleotide comprising (i) a 5' sequence complementary to said first nucleotide sequence of said first oligonucleotide and hybridizable thereto, and (ii) a 3' sequence of 8-40 nucleotides sufficiently complementary to a preselected target sequence so as to be able to prime synthesis by a nucleic acid polymerase of a nucleotide sequence complementary to a nucleic acid strand comprising said target sequence; and
(b) ligating the 5' end of said 5' sequence to the 3 ' terminus of said fourth nucleotide sequence of said first oligonucleotide.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein said donor moiety is a fluorophore.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein said acceptor moiety is a quencher of light emitted by said fluorophore.
30. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 or 20 which is purified.
31. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 or 20 wherein said first moiety is the donor moiety, and said second moiety is the acceptor moiety. 

32. A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide of claim 1.
33. A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide of claim 5.
34. A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide of claim 14.
35. A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide of claim 20.
36. A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide of claim 24.
37. The kit of claim 32 or 36 wherein the oligonucleotide is in a distilled water or buffered solution.
38. The kit of claim 36 wherein the oligonucleotide is an oligodeoxynucleotide.
39. A kit comprising in one or more containers:
(a) a first oligonucleotide; and
(b) a second oligonucleotide, wherein said first and second oligonucleotides are primers for use in a nucleic acid amplification reaction to amplify a preselected target nucleic acid sequence; and at least one of said first and second oligonucleotides is the oligonucleotide of claim 1.
40. The kit of claim 39 wherein both of said first and second oligonucleotides are oligonucleotides of claim 1.
41. The kit of claim 39 which further comprises a blocking oligonucleotide comprising a sequence complementary and hybridizable to a sequence of said first or said second oligonucleotide . 

42. The kit of claim 39 which further comprises in one or more containers:
(c) a buffer for said amplification reaction;
(d) a control nucleic acid comprising the preselected target sequence; and
(e) a DNA polymerase.
43. The kit of claim 42 which further comprises:
(f) a set of directions for carrying out said amplification reaction.
44. The kit of claim 43 which further comprises means for stimulating and detecting fluorescent light emissions.
45. The kit of claim 39 which further comprises in said one containers or in different one or more containers: a third oligonucleotide; and a fourth oligonucleotide, wherein said third and fourth oligonucleotides are primers for use in said nucleic acid amplification reaction to amplify a second preselected target sequence; and at least one of said third and fourth oligonucleotides is an oligonucleotide of claim 1, and wherein said donor moiety of said first or second oligonucleotide emits fluorescent light of a different wavelength than said donor moiety of said third or fourth oligonucleotide.
46. A kit comprising in one or more containers: (a) a first oligonucleotide; (b) a second oligonucleotide; wherein said first and second oligonucleotides are linear primers for use in a triamplification reaction; (c) a third oligonucleotide that is a blocking oligonucleotide that comprises a sequence complementary and hybridizable to a sequence of said first oligonucleotide, said first and third oligonucleotides being labeled with a first and 


 second moiety, respectively, that are members of a molecular energy transfer pair consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety, such that when said first and third oligonucleotides are hybridized to each other and the donor moiety is excited and emits energy, the acceptor moiety absorbs energy emitted by the donor moiety; and (d) in a separate container, a nucleic acid ligase.
47. The kit of claim 46 wherein the donor moiety is a fluorophore.
48. The kit of claim 47 wherein the acceptor moiety quenches the fluorescent light emitted by the fluorophore.
49. A kit comprising in one or more containers: (a) a first oligonucleotide primer; (b) a second oligonucleotide primer, wherein the first and second oligonucleotide primers are forward and reverse primers for DNA synthesis in an amplification reaction to amplify a nucleic acid sequence, and wherein said second oligonucleotide primer comprises (i) a 5' sequence that is not complementary to a preselected target sequence in said nucleic acid sequence, and (ii) a 3' sequence that is complementary to said preselected target sequence; and (c) a third oligonucleotide primer that comprises the following contiguous sequences in 5 ' to 3 ' order (i) a first nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide sequence is labeled with a first moiety selected from the group consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits 


 energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety; (ii) a second, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 3-20 nucleotides; (iii) a third nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said third nucleotide sequence is labeled with a second moiety selected from the group consisting of said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and said second moiety is the member of said group not labeling said first nucleotide sequence, wherein said third nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary in reverse order to said first nucleotide sequence for a duplex to form between said first nucleotide sequence and said third nucleotide sequence such that said first moiety and second moiety are in sufficient proximity such that, when the donor moiety is excited and emits energy, the acceptor moiety absorbs energy emitted by the donor moiety;
(iv) at the 3' end of said third oligonucleotide primer, a fourth nucleotide sequence of 10-25 nucleotides that comprises at its 3 ' end a sequence identical to said 5' sequence of said second oligonucleotide primer.
50. The kit of claim 39 wherein said first oligonucleotide is the oligonucleotide of claim 1, and which kit further comprises a blocking oligonucleotide that comprises a sequence complementary and hybridizable to a sequence of said second oligonucleotide.
51. The kit of claim 39 wherein said amplification reaction is polymerase chain reaction.
52. The kit of claim 41 wherein said amplification reaction is triamplification. 

53. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -GGCTACGAACCAGGTAAGCCGTA-3 ' (SEQ ID NO:l), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' G and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 22.
54. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -ACCTTCTACCCTCAGAAGGTGACCAAGTTCAT-3 ' (SEQ ID NO: 13), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' A and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 20.
55. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -ACCTTCTGTTCACCCTCAGAAGGTGACCAAGTTCAT-3 ' (SEQ ID NO: 14), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' A and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 24.
56. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -ACCTTCGATTCACCCTCAGAAGGTGACCAAGTTCAT-3 ' (SEQ
ID NO: 15), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' A and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 24.
57. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -ACCTTCTGTACCCTCAGAAGGTGACCAAGTTCAT-3 
•
 (SEQ ID NO: 16), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' A and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 22.
58. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -ACCTTCTATACCCTCAGAAGGTGACCAAGTTCAT-3 ' (SEQ ID NO: 17), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' A and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 22. 

59. An oligodeoxynucleotide, the sequence of which consists of: 5 ' -CACCTTCACCCTCAGAAGGTGACCAAGTTCAT-3 ' (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein fluorescein or a derivative thereof is attached to the 5 ' C and DABCYL is attached to the T at nucleotide number 20.
60. The kit of claim 39 wherein said first and second oligonucleotides are oligodeoxynucleotides.
61. A method for detecting or measuring a product of a nucleic acid amplification reaction comprising
(a) contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids with at least two oligonucleotide primers, said oligonucleotide primers being adapted for use in said amplification reaction such that said primers are incorporated into an amplified product of said amplification reaction when a preselected target sequence is present in the sample; at least one of said oligonucleotide primers being the oligonucleotide of claim 1;
(b) conducting the amplification reaction;
(c) stimulating energy emission from said donor moiety; and
(d) detecting or measuring energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety.
62. The method of claim 61 wherein said donor moiety is a fluorophore.
63. The method of claim 62 wherein said acceptor moiety is a quencher of light emitted by said fluorophore.
64. The method of claim 63 wherein said acceptor moiety emits fluorescent light of a wavelength different from that emitted by said donor moiety. 


65. The method of claim 61 wherein the amount of light emitted by the donor moiety that is detected positively correlates with the amount of amplified product.
66. The method of claim 61 wherein said preselected target sequence is a genomic sequence.
67. The method of claim 61 wherein said preselected target sequence is a human genomic sequence.
68. The method of claim 61 wherein said preselected target sequence is a genomic sequence of an infectious disease agent.
69. The method of claim 61 or 63 wherein said preselected target sequence is a wild-type human genomic sequence, mutation of which is implicated in the presence of a human disease or disorder.
70. The method of claim 61 wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM), 2'7'- dimethoxy-4 '5' -dichloro-6-carboxyfluorescein (JOE) , rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G) , N,N,N' ,N-tetramethyl-6- carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA), 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX), 5-(2'- aminoethyl)aminonaphthalene-l-sulfonic acid (EDANS), anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives, Malachite green, Reactive Red 4, DABCYL, rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine, nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
71. The method of claim 63 wherein said donor moiety is selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) , rhodamine, 5- (2 ' -aminoethyl) aminonapthalene-1-sulfonic acid (EDANS), anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives, Malachite green, and Reactive Red 4; and said acceptor moiety 


is selected from the group consisting DABCYL, rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
72. The method of claim 63 wherein said donor moiety is fluorescein or a derivative thereof, and said acceptor moiety is DABCYL.
73. The method of claim 61 wherein the oligonucleotide is a oligodeoxynucleotide.
74. The method of claim 62 wherein the oligonucleotide is a oligodeoxynucleotide.
75. The method of claim 61 wherein said fourth nucleotide sequence further comprises a restriction endonuclease recognition site.
76. The method of claim 61 wherein the nucleotide sequence of said oligonucleotide of claim 1 consists of nucleotide sequences (a) - (d) .
77. The method of claim 63 wherein said first moiety and said second moiety are situated on complementary nucleotides that are opposite each other in said duplex.
78. The method of claim 63 wherein said first moiety and said second moiety are situated on opposite strand nucleotides that are five nucleotides apart in said duplex.
79. The method of claim 61, 62 or 63 wherein said plurality of oligonucleotide primers comprise a plurality of different oligonucleotides of claim 1, each oligonucleotide comprising at its 3 ' end a said sequence complementary to a different preselected target sequence whereby said different oligonucleotides are incorporated into different amplified products when each said target sequence is present in said 


sample, each said oligonucleotide being labeled with a donor moiety that emits light of a different wavelength than that emitted by the other donor moieties, and wherein step (d) of said method comprises detecting or measuring light emitted by each of the donor moieties.
80. The method of claim 61 or 63 wherein said amplification reaction is polymerase chain reaction.
81. The method of claim 63 wherein said amplification reaction is allele-specific polymerase chain reaction.
82. The method of claim 61 or 63 wherein said amplification reaction is triamplification.
83. The method of claim 61 wherein said amplification reaction is strand displacement.
84. The method of claim 61 wherein said amplification reaction is NASBA amplification.
85. The method of claim 61 in which said amplification reaction is triamplification, and said at least two oligonucleotide primers comprises a forward primer to prime DNA synthesis and a reverse primer to prime DNA synthesis; and said contacting step comprises contacting said sample also with a blocking oligonucleotide.
86. The method of claim 61, 63, 64, 83, 84, or 85 wherein the amplification reaction is conducted in situ .
87. The method of claim 61, 62 or 63 wherein said amplification product is not separated from said unincorporated oligonucleotide primers after conducting said amplification reaction and before said stimulating and detecting steps. 

88. A method for detecting or measuring a product of a nucleic acid amplification reaction comprising:
(a) contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids with at least two oligonucleotides, a first one of said oligonucleotides comprising a sequence complementary to a preselected target sequence that may be present in said sample, and said first one and a second of said oligonucleotides being a pair of primers adapted for use in said amplification reaction such that said primers are incorporated into an amplified product of said amplification reaction when said target sequence is present in the sample; at least one of said primers being labeled with a first moiety selected from the group consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy transfer pair; and wherein the same or a different oligonucleotide is labeled with a second moiety selected from the group consisting of said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, said second moiety being the member of said group that is not said first moiety, wherein said primer labeled with said first moiety and said oligonucleotide labeled with said second moiety are configured so as to be incorporated into said amplified product, wherein the donor moiety emits energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety; (b) conducting the amplification reaction;
(c) stimulating light emission from said donor moiety; and
(d) detecting or measuring energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety.
89. The method of claim 88 which further comprises before step (c) , cleaving said first moiety or said second 


moiety from oligonucleotides that are not incorporated into said amplified product.
90. The method of claim 89, wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
91. The method of claim 90, wherein the FRET pair comprises donor and acceptor fluorophores selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) , 2 '7' -dimethoxy-4 ' 5 '-dichloro-6-carboxyfluorescein (JOE), rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G) , N, N, N ' , N'-tetramethyl- 6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA) , 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX) , 5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonaphthalene-l-sulfonic acid (EDANS), coumarin, rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
92. The method of claim 90, wherein the donor fluorophore is FAM, and the acceptor fluorophore is selected from the group consisting of JOE, R6G, TAMRA, and ROX.
93. The method of claim 90, wherein when said primers are incorporated into said amplified product, said donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance such that the emissions of the donor moiety are absorbed by and stimulate fluorescent emissions from the acceptor moiety.
94. The method of claim 90, wherein when said primers are incorporated into said amplified product, said donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance such that the emissions of the donor moiety are quenched by the acceptor moiety.
95. The method of claim 93, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance of up to lOOA. 

96. The method of claim 93, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance of from lOA - 60A.
97. The method of claim 93, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance of from 20A - 40A.
98. The method of claim 93, wherein the amplification reaction is polymerase chain reaction.
99. The method of claim 89, wherein the amplification reaction is strand displacement.
100. The method of claim 89, wherein the amplification reaction is NASBA amplification.
101. The method of claim 89, wherein the amplification reaction is triamplification.
102. The method of claim 101, wherein said pair of primers consists of a forward oligonucleotide primer, and a reverse oligonucleotide primer, and wherein a blocking oligonucleotide is labeled with said second moiety, said blocking oligonucleotide comprising a sequence complementary and hybridizable to a sequence of said labeled primer.
103. The method of claim 102, wherein said blocking oligonucleotide is used in said amplification reaction at a higher concentration than the concentration of forward and reverse primers.
104. The method of claim 103, wherein the concentration of blocking oligonucleotide is 1.2 to 2-fold higher than the concentration of forward and reverse primers. 

105. The method of claim 102, wherein the primer complementary to the blocking oligonucleotide is modified so as to prevent strand displacement during amplification.
106. The method of claim 105, wherein the primer complementary to the blocking oligonucleotide contains 2'-0- methyl at a position complementary to the 5' end of the blocker, so as to prevent strand displacement during amplification.
107. The method of claim 102, wherein the blocking oligonucleotide is modified so as to protect it from exonuclease hydrolysis and from undesirable extension during amplification.
108. The method of claim 107, wherein the blocking oligonucleotide has biotin on its 3' end, so as to protect it from exonuclease hydrolysis and from undesirable extension during amplification.
109. The method of claim 89, wherein the exonuclease is a single-strand-specific 3 '-5' exonuclease.
110. The method of claim 89, wherein the exonuclease is a DNA polymerase with 3 '-5' exonuclease activity.
111. The method of claim 109, wherein the exonuclease is selected from the group consisting of T4 DNA polymerase, thermostable Pfu DNA polymerase, and Exonuclease I.
112. The method of claim 89, wherein the exonuclease does not prevent polymerization. 

113. The method of claim 112, wherein when amplification is finished the exonuclease hydrolyzes primers that are not incorporated into said amplified product.
114. The method of claim 89, wherein the exonuclease is mechanically separated from said sample during said amplification reaction; and after conducting said amplification reaction, the exonuclease is allowed to mix with the mixture resulting from amplification, resulting in hydrolysis of unincorporated labeled primer.
115. The method of claim 114, wherein the exonuclease is mechanically separated from said sample during said amplification reaction, said sample and said exonuclease being in separate chambers of a two-chamber reaction tube, and after amplification the reaction tube is inverted, allowing exonuclease to mix with the mixture resulting from amplification.
116. The method of claim 88 which further comprises before step (c) , heating the mixture resulting from amplification such that the oligonucleotides that are not incorporated into said amplified product do not hybridize to each other, while the amplification product remains double- stranded.
117. The method of claim 116, wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
118. The method of claim 117, wherein the FRET pair comprises donor and acceptor fluorophores selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) , 2 '7 '-dimethoxy-4 '5' -dichloro-6-carboxyfluorescein (JOE) , rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G) , N, N, N ' , N '- tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA) , 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX), 5- (2'-aminoethyl) aminonaphthalene-1-sulfonic acid 


(EDANS) , coumarin, rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
119. The method of claim 117, wherein the donor fluorophore is FAM, and the acceptor fluorophore is selected from the group consisting of JOE, R6G, TAMRA, and ROX.
120. The method of claim 117, wherein when said primers are incorporated into said amplified product, said donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance such that the emissions of the donor moiety are absorbed by and stimulate fluorescent emissions from the acceptor moiety.
121. The method of claim 117, wherein when said primers are incorporated into said amplified product, said donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance such that the emissions of the donor moiety are quenched by the acceptor moiety.
122. The method of claim 120, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance of up to lOOA.
123. The method of claim 120, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance of from 10A- 60A.
124. The method of claim 120, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by a distance of from 20A - 40A.
125. The method of claim 116, wherein the amplification reaction is triamplification.
126. The method of claim 125, wherein said pair of primers consists of a forward oligonucleotide primer, and a reverse oligonucleotide primer, and wherein a blocking 


oligonucleotide is labeled with said second moiety, said blocking oligonucleotide comprising a sequence complementary and hybridizable to a sequence of said labeled primer.
127. The method of claim 126, wherein said blocking oligonucleotide is used in said amplification reaction at a higher concentration than the concentration of forward and reverse primers.
128. The method of claim 127, wherein the concentration of blocking oligonucleotide is 1.2 to 2-fold higher than the concentration of forward and reverse primers.
129. The method of claim 126, wherein the primer complementary to the blocker is modified so as to prevent strand displacement during amplification.
130. The method of claim 129, wherein the primer complementary to the blocker contains 2 ' -O-methyl at a position complementary to the 5' end of the blocker, so as to prevent strand displacement during amplification.
131. The method of claim 126, wherein the blocking oligonucleotide is modified so as to protect it from exonuclease hydrolysis and from undesirable extension during amplification.
132. The method of claim 131, wherein the blocking oligonucleotide has biotin on its 3' end, so as to protect it from undesirable extension during amplification.
133. The method of claim 116, wherein the donor and acceptor moieties are located on complementary oligonucleotides .
134. The method of claim 88, 89 or 116 wherein said amplification product is not separated from said 


unincorporated primers after conducting said amplification reaction and before said stimulating and detecting steps.
135. The method of claim 88, 89 or 116, wherein at least one of said primers is the oligonucleotide of claim 1.
136. The method of claim 88, 89 or 116, wherein at least one of said primers is the oligonucleotide of claim 5.
137. The kit of claim 46 or 50 which further comprises in a separate container DNA ligase.
138. The method of claim 61 which further comprises prior to said conducting step, contacting said nucleic acids with an amount of bisulfite sufficient to convert unmethylated cytosines in the sample to uracil.
139. The method of claim 88 which further comprises prior to said conducting step, contacting said nucleic acids with an amount of bisulfite sufficient to convert unmethylated cytosines in the sample to uracil.
140. The method of claim 139 which comprises repeating steps (a) - (d) with a second at least two oligonucleotide primers wherein one or more G nucleotides is replaced by an A nucleotide, and wherein one or more C nucleotides is replaced by a T nucleotide, respectively, relative to said first at least two oligonucleotide primers.
141. A kit comprising in one or more containers:
(a) a first oligonucleotide;
(b) a second oligonucleotide, said first and second oligonucleotide being hybridizable to each other; said first oligonucleotide being labeled with a donor moiety and said second oligonucleotide being labeled with an acceptor moiety, said donor and acceptor moieties being a molecular energy 


 transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety; and
(c) in a separate container, a nucleic acid ligase.
142. The method of claim 88 wherein said first moiety or said second moiety is cleaved from said amplified product by exonuclease activity of a DNA polymerase used in said amplification reaction.
143. An oligonucleotide that comprises the following contiguous sequences in 5 ' to 3 ' order (i) a first nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide sequence is labeled with a first moiety selected from the group consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety; (ii) a second, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 3-20 nucleotides; (iii) a third nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said third nucleotide sequence is labeled with a second moiety selected from the group consisting of said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and said second moiety is the member of said group not labeling said first nucleotide sequence, wherein said third nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary in reverse order to said first nucleotide sequence for a duplex to form between said first nucleotide sequence and said third nucleotide sequence such that said first moiety and second moiety are in sufficient proximity such that, when the donor moiety is excited and emits enerqy, the acceptor moiety absorbs energy emitted by the donor moiety; (iv) at the 3' end of said third 


oligonucleotide primer, a fourth, predetermined, single- stranded nucleotide sequence of 10-25 nucleotides.
144. A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide of claim 143.
145. A kit comprising in one or more containers: (a) a first oligonucleotide being the oligonucleotide of claim 143; and (b) a second oligonucleotide; wherein said fourth, predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence of said first oligonucleotide is also present at the 5' end of said second oligonucleotide.
146. The kit of claim 144 further comprising in a separate container sodium bisulfite.
147. The kit of claim 146 which further comprises in one or more containers a buffer for a nucleic acid amplification reaction.
148. A method for detecting or measuring a product of a nucleic acid amplification reaction comprising:
(a) contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids with a first oligonucleotide, a second oligonucleotide, and a third oligonucleotide, said first oligonucleotide being the oligonucleotide of claim 143, said second and third oligonucleotides being primers adapted for use in a nucleic acid amplification reaction such that said primers are incorporated into an amplified product of said amplification reaction when a preselected target sequence is present in the sample; wherein said fourth, predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence of said first oligonucleotide is also present at the 5' end of said second oligonucleotide, and wherein said fourth, 


 predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence is not complementary to said preselected target sequence;
(b) conducting the amplification reaction; (c) stimulating energy emission from said donor moiety of said first oligonucleotide; and
(d) detecting or measuring energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety.
149. The oligonucleotide of claim 143 wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
150. The kit of claim 145 wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
151. The method of claim 148 wherein said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
152. The method of claim 61 wherein energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety is measured in step
(d) , and wherein the amount of said measured energy correlates with the amount of said preselected target sequence that was present in said sample, thereby allowing determination of the amount of said preselected target sequence that was present in said sample.
153. The method of claim 88 wherein energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety is measured in step (d) , and wherein the amount of said measured energy correlates with the amount of said preselected target sequence that was present in said sample, thereby allowing determination of the amount of said preselected target sequence that was present in said sample.
154. The method of claim 152 wherein the amount of
DNA containing said preselected target sequence in the sample is determined. 

155. The method of claim 152 wherein the amount of RNA containing said preselected target sequence in the sample is determined.
156. The method of claim 152 wherein the number of chromosomes containing said preselected target sequence in the sample is determined.
157. The method of claim 61 wherein the amplification reaction is conducted in situ .
158. A method of determining the methylation status of DNA comprising the following steps in the order stated:
(a) contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids with an amount of bisulfite sufficient to convert unmethylated cytosines in the sample to uracil;
(b) contacting said sample with a first oligonucleotide, a second oligonucleotide, and a third oligonucleotide, said first oligonucleotide being the oligonucleotide of claim 143, said second and third oligonucleotides being primers adapted for use in a nucleic acid amplification reaction such that said primers are incorporated into an amplified product of said amplification reaction when a preselected target sequence is present in the sample; wherein said fourth, predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence of said first oligonucleotide is also present at the 5 ' end of said second oligonucleotide, and wherein said fourth, predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence is not complementary to said preselected target sequence;
(c) conducting the amplification reaction;
(d) stimulating energy emission from said donor moiety of said first oligonucleotide; and
(e) detecting or measuring energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety; 


wherein the amount of energy detected or measured indicates the presence or amount of said amplified product, the presence or amount of said amplified product indicating the methylation status of said preselected target sequence in said sample.
159. The method of claim 138, 139 or 158 wherein said preselected target sequence is from nucleic acid selected from the group consisting of Fragile X gene, Prader- Willi syndrome region, Angelman syndrome region, pl5 gene, pl6 gene, E-cadherin gene, and von Hippel-Lindau syndrome gene.
160. The kit of claim 32, 35, 39 or 46 further comprising in a separate container sodium bisulfite.
161. The kit of claim 49 further comprising in a separate container sodium bisulfite.
162. The kit of claim 145 further comprising in a separate container sodium bisulfite.
163. The kit of claim 49, 144 or 145 which further comprises in separate containers: a mixture of sodium bisulfite and hydroquinone powder; mineral oil; DNA binding matrix; Nal solution; glycogen; amplification buffer; unmethylated control DNA; and methylated control DNA.
164. The kit of claim 161 wherein said preselected target sequence is from nucleic acid selected from the group consisting of Fragile X gene, Prader-Willi syndrome region, Angelman syndrome region, pl5 gene, pl6 gene, E-cadherin gene, and von Hippel-Lindau syndrome gene.
165. The method of claim 88 wherein the amplification reaction is conducted in situ . 

166. The method of claim 80 wherein the amplification reaction is conducted in situ .
167. The method of claim 82 or 148 wherein the amplification reaction is conducted in situ .
168. A method of detecting telomerase activity comprising
(a) contacting a sample suspected of having telomerase activity with at least two oligonucleotide primers comprising a first primer and a second primer, wherein said first primer comprises a sequence at its 3 ' end that is a substrate for a telomerase, and said second primer is the oligonucleotide of claim
1; wherein said preselected target sequence to which said fourth, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of said second primer is complementary, comprises telomeric repeats that result from the activity of said telomerase;
(b) subjecting the sample to conditions suitable for telomerase activity;
(c) conducting a nucleic acid amplification reaction under conditions suitable for said first and second primers to prime DNA synthesis;
(d) stimulating energy emission from said donor moiety; and (e) detecting or measuring energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety; the presence or amount of said energy indicating the presence or amount of telomerase activity in the same.
169. The method of claim 168 wherein the amplification reaction is conducted in situ . 

170. A method of detecting telomerase activity comprising
(a) contacting a sample suspected of having telomerase activity with at least two oligonucleotide primers comprising a first primer and a second primer, wherein said first primer comprises the following continuous sequences in 5' to 3' order: (i) a first nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide sequence is labeled with a first moiety selected from the group consisting of a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits energy of one or more particular wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs energy at one or more particular wavelengths emitted by the donor moiety; (ii) a second, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 3-20 nucleotides; (iii) a third nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides, wherein a nucleotide within said third nucleotide sequence is labeled with a second moiety selected from the group consisting of said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and said second moiety is the member of said group not labeling said first nucleotide sequence, wherein said third nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary in reverse order to said first nucleotide sequence for a duplex to form between said first nucleotide sequence and said third nucleotide sequence such that said first moiety and second moiety are in sufficient proximity such that, when the donor moiety is excited and emits energy, the 


 acceptor moiety absorbs energy emitted by the donor moiety; and
(iv) at the 3' end of said first primer, a fourth, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 8-40 nucleotides that comprises at its 3 ' end a sequence that is a substrate for a telomerase; wherein said second primer comprises at its 3 ' end a sequence sufficiently complementary so as to be able to hybridize to telomeric repeats that result from the activity of said telomerase;
(b) subjecting the sample to conditions suitable for telomerase activity;
(c) conducting a nucleic acid amplification reaction under conditions suitable for said first and second primers to prime DNA synthesis;
(d) stimulating energy emission from said donor moiety; and (e) detecting or measuring energy emitted by said donor moiety or acceptor moiety, the presence or amount of said energy indicating the presence or amount of telomerase activity in the sample.
171. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said second, single-stranded nucleotide sequence consists of 4-6 nucleotides.
172. The method of claim 61 wherein said amplification reaction is cascade rolling circle amplification. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
