<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998015028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI BAND NON-UNIFORM HELICAL ANTENNAS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q124	H01Q124	H01Q127	H01Q127	H01Q136	H01Q136	H01Q500	H01Q500	H01Q501	H01Q904	H01Q927	H01Q1100	H01Q1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q9	H01Q9	H01Q11	H01Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention, non-uniform helical antennas are described for use in two or more frequency hyperbands. For example, non-uniform helical antennas can be designed according to the present invention for usage in portable terminals capable of operating both at 800 MHz and at 1900 MHz. Tuning to both resonance frequencies can be accomplished by varying parameters of the helical antennas including, for example, the pitch angle, coil diameter, length and number and spacing of the coil turns.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YING ZHINONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YING, ZHINONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTI-BAND NON-UNIFORM HELICAL ANTENNASBACKGROUNDThe present invention relates generally to radio communications systems and, in particular, to antennas which can be incorporated into portable terminals and which allow the portable teπninals to communicate within different frequency bands.The cellular telephone industry has made phenomenal strides in commercial operations in the United States as well as the rest of the world. Growth in major metropolitan areas has far exceeded expectations and is rapidly outstripping system capacity. If this trend continues, the effects of this industry's growth will soon reach even the smallest markets. Innovative solutions are required to meet these increasing capacity needs as well as maintain high quality service and avoid rising prices.Throughout the world, one important step in the advancement of radio communication systems is the change from analog to digital transmission.Equally significant is the choice of an effective digital transmission scheme for implementing the next generation technology, e.g., time division multiple access (TDMA) or code division multiple access (CDMA). Furthermore, it is widely believed that the first generation of Personal Communication Networks (PCNs), employing low cost, pocket-sized, cordless telephones that can be carried comfortably and used to make or receive calls in the home, office, street, car, etc., will be provided by, for example, cellular carriers using the next generation digital cellular system infrastructure.To provide an acceptable level of equipment compatibility, standards have been created in various regions of the world. For example, analog standards such as AMPS (Advanced Mobile Phone System), NMT (Nordic Mobile Telephone) and ETACS and digital standards such as D-AMPS (e.g., as specified in EIA/TIA-IS-54-B and IS- 136) and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications adopted by ETSI) have been promulgated to standardize design 

criteria for radio communication systems. Once created, these standards tend to be reused in the same or sirnilar form, to specify additional systems. For example, in addition to the original GSM system, there also exists the DCS 1800 (specified by ETSI) and PCS 1900 (specified by JTC in J-STD-007), both of which are based on GSM.However, the most recent evolution in cellular communications services involves the adoption of additional frequency bands for use in handling mobile communications, e.g. , for Personal Communication Services (PCS) services. Taking the U.S. as an example, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A helical antenna tuned to a first and a second resonant frequency comprising: an elongated conductor formed as a spiral having a first section and a second section; said first section having a first pitch angle and said second section having a second pitch angle, said first pitch angle being different than said second pitch angle; wherein said first and second pitch angles are selected to tune said helical antenna to said second resonant frequency.
2. The helical antenna of claim 1, wherein said elongated conductor has a source end and another end.
3. The helical antenna of claim 2, wherein said first pitch angle is greater than said second pitch angle.
4. The helical antenna of claim 3, wherein said first section is proximate said source end such that a bandwidth associated with said first resonant frequency is greater than a bandwidth associated with said second resonant frequency.
5. The helical antenna of claim 3, wherein said second section is proximate said source end such that a bandwidth associated with said second resonant frequency is greater than a bandwidth associated with said first resonant frequency. 

6. The helical antenna of claim 1, wherein said elongated conductor has a length which is approximately one-quarter of a wavelength of said first resonant frequency.
7. A helical antenna tuned to a first resonant frequency and a second resonant frequency comprising: an elongated conductor formed as a spiral having a first section and a second section; said first section having a first coil diameter and said second section having a second coil diameter, said first coil diameter being different than said second coil diameter; wherein said first and second coil diameters are selected to tune said helical antenna to said second resonant frequency.
8. The helical antenna of claim 7, wherein said elongated conductor further comprises a third section, said third section having said first coil diameter.
9. The helical antenna of claim 7, wherein said elongated conductor has a source end and another end.
10. The helical antenna of claim 9, wherein said first coil diameter is greater than said second coil diameter.
11. The helical antenna of claim 10, wherein said first section is proximate said source end.
12. The helical antenna of claim 10, wherein said second section is proximate said second end. 

13. The helical antenna of claim 10, wherein said elongated conductor is shaped as two conical spirals.
14. The helical antenna of claim 7, wherein said elongated conductor has a length which is approximately one-quarter of a wavelength of said first resonant frequency.
15. A mobile station which can communicate with at least one first type of radio communication network that uses a first frequency hyperband and at least one second type of radio commumcation network that uses a second frequency hyperband, said mobile station comprising: a dual hyperband, non-uniform helical antenna; a transceiver for transmitting and receiving signals using said dual hyperband, non-uniform helical antenna; and a processor for controlling said transceiver and processing said signals.
16. The mobile station of claim 15, wherein said dual hyperband, non- uniform antenna is tuned to a first resonant frequency and a second resonant frequency based upon physical parameters of said non-uniform helical antenna.
17. The mobile station of claim 16, wherein said physical parameters include at least one of pitch angle and helix diameter.
18. A method for tuning a non-uniform helical antenna to both a first desired resonant frequency and a second desired resonant frequency comprising the steps of: determining a wire length of said non-uniform helical antenna associated with said first desired resonant frequency; selecting a helix height of said non-uniform helical antenna; 


 measuring a second resonant frequency associated with said non- uniform helical antenna; comparing said measured second resonant frequency with said desired second resonant frequency; adjusting, based upon a result of said comparing step, at least one of said physical parameters of said non-uniform helical antenna.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of adjusting further comprises the step of: adjusting one of a pitch angle and a diameter of a portion of said non-uniform helical antenna.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of determining a wire length further comprises the step of: calculating a quarter wavelength of said first desired resonant frequency. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
