<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999049928</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXPANDABLE MEDICAL DEVICE WITH DUCTILE HINGES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F282	A61F284	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An expandable tissue supporting device (20) of the present invention employs ductile hinges (32) at selected points in the expandable device. When expansion forces are applied to the device as a whole, the ductile hinges concentrate expansion stresses and strains in small well devined areas. The expandable medical device including ductile hinges provides the advantages of low expansion force requirements, relatively thick walls which are radio-opaque, improved crimping properties, high crush strength, reduced elastic recoil after implantation, and control of strain to a desired level. The expandable tissue supporting device includes a plurality of elongated beams arranged in a cylindrical device and connected together by a plurality of ductile hinges. Although many ductile hinge configurations are possible, the ductile hinges preferably have a substantially constant hinge cross-sectional area which is smaller than a beam cross-sectional area such that as the device is expanded from a first diameter to a second diameter, the ductile hinges experience plastic deformation while the beams are not plastically deformed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHANLEY JOHN F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHANLEY, JOHN, F.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHANLEY JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHANLEY, JOHN, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXPANDABLE MEDICAL DEVICE WITH DUCTILE HINGES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to tissue-supporting medical devices, and more particularly to expandable, non-removable devices that are implanted within a bodily lumen of a living animal or human to support the organ and maintain patency.2. Summary of the Related ArtIn the past, permanent or biodegradable devices have been developed for implantation within a body passageway to maintain patency of the passageway. These devices are typically introduced percutaneously, and transported transluminally until positioned at a desired location. These devices are then expanded either mechanically, such as by the expansion of a mandrel or balloon positioned inside the device, or expand themselves by releasing stored energy upon actuation within the body. Once expanded within the lumen, these devices, called stents, become encapsulated within the body tissue and remain a permanent implant.Known stent designs include monofilament wire coil stents (U.S. Pat. No. 4,969,458); welded metal cages (U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,733,665 and 4,776,337); and, most prominently, thin-walled metal cylinders with axial slots formed around the circumference (U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,733,665, 4,739,762, and 4,776,337). Known construction materials for use in stents include polymers, organic fabrics and biocompatible metals, such as, stainless steel, gold, silver, tantalum, titanium, and shape memory alloys such as Nitinol. 

 -2-U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,733,665, 4,739,762, and 4,776,337 disclose expandable and deformable interluminal vascular grafts in the form of thin-walled tubular members with axial slots allowing the members to be expanded radially outwardly into contact with a body passageway. After insertion, the tubular members are mechanically expanded beyond their elastic limit and thus permanently fixed within the body. The force required to expand these tubular stents is proportional to the thickness of the wall material in a radial direction. To keep expansion forces within acceptable levels for use within the body (e.g., 5 - 10 atm), these designs must use very thin-walled materials (e.g. , stainless steel tubing with 0.0025 inch thick walls). However, materials this thin are not visible on conventional fluoroscopic and x-ray equipment and it is therefore difficult to place the stents accurately or to find and retrieve stents that subsequently become dislodged and lost in the circulatory system.Further, many of these thin-walled tubular stent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
-26-
Claims:
1. An expandable medical device comprising: a plurality of elongated beams, the plurality of elongated beams joined together to form a substantially cylindrical device which is expandable from a cylinder having a first diameter to a cylinder having a second diameter, the plurality of elongated beams each having a beam width in a circumferential direction; and a plurality of ductile hinges connecting the plurality of beams together in the substantially cylindrical device, the ductile hinges having a substantially constant width in a circumferential dimension along a portion of a hinge length which is at least 1/3 a total hinge length, wherein the hinge width is smaller than the beam width such that as the device is expanded from the first diameter to the second diameter the ductile hinges experience plastic deformation while the beams are not plastically deformed.
2. The expandable medical device according to Claim 1, further comprising an abrupt transition between each of the elongated beams and each of the ductile hinges.
3. The expandable medical device according to Claim 1 , further comprising a plurality of axial slots between adjacent elongated beams and a plurality of circumferential slots, wherein the plurality of ductile hinges are each formed between an axial slot and a circumferential slot.
4. The expandable medical device according to Claim 3, wherein the ductile hinges are formed at opposite ends of the circumferential slots.
5. The expandable medical device according to Claim 1 , wherein the ductile hinges are each in the shape of a curved prismatic beam. 


 -27-
6. The expandable medical device according to Claim 5, wherein the curved prismatic beams are positioned such that during stent expansion, tensile strain is distributed along a convex surface of the curved prismatic beam.
7. The expandable medical device according to Claim 1, wherein the plurality of elongated beams are formed of wire and the plurality of ductile hinges are reduced diameter portions of the wire.
8. The expandable medical device according to Claim 1, wherein expansion of the substantially cylindrical device from the first diameter to the second diameter which is at least two times the first diameter results in substantially no axial contraction.
9. The expandable medical device according the Claim 1, further comprising a geometric deflection limiting feature for limiting an amount of bending of the ductile hinges.
10. The expandable medical device according to Claim 9, wherein the geometric deflection limiting feature is a V-shaped notch having side surfaces which contact each other when a maximum amount of bending is reached.
11. The expandable medical device according to Claim 1 , wherein the plurality of elongated beams extend substantially axially and a plurality of circumferential beams are each connected at first and second ends to one of the axial beams by a ductile hinge.
12. An expandable medical device comprising: a cylindrical tube; a plurality of axial slots formed in the cylindrical tube in a staggered 


 rearrangement to define a network of elongated struts, wherein each of the elongated struts are axially displaced from adjacent struts; and a plurality of ductile hinges formed between the elongated struts, the ductile hinges allowing the cylindrical tube to be expanded or compressed from a first diameter to a second diameter by deformation of the ductile hinges, the ductile hinges being asymmetrically configured to reach a predetermined strain level upon a first percentage expansion and to reach the predetermined strain level upon a second percentage of compression, wherein the first percentage is larger than the second percentage.
13. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, wherein the elongated struts have a substantially constant width in a circumferential direction, and the ductile hinges have a width in the circumferential direction which is less than 2/3 the width of the struts.
14. The expandable medical device according to Claim 13, wherein a transition between the cross sectional area of the struts and the cross sectional area of the ductile hinges is an abrupt transition which extends less than 10 percent of a length of a strut.
15. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, wherein the plurality of ductile hinges are curved prismatic beams having a convex side surface and a concave side surface.
16. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, wherein a ratio of a length of the ductile hinges to a length of the axial struts is 1:6 or less. 


 -29-
17. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, further comprising a geometric deflection limiting feature for limiting an amount of bending of the ductile hinges.
18. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, wherein the ductile hinges are designed to deform plastically upon radial expansion or compression of the expandable medical device while the elongated struts experience no plastic deformation upon radial expansion or compression.
19. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, wherein the expandable medical device is formed of Nitinol, and the ductile hinges are designed to deform upon radial expansion or compression of the expandable medical device and can be returned to an original configuration by heating.
20. The expandable medical device according to Claim 12, wherein the elongated struts include a beneficial agent for delivery to a patient.
21. An expandable medical device comprising: a plurality of elongated beams having a substantially constant beam cross sectional area along a beam length; a plurality of ductile hinges connecting the plurality of beams together in a substantially cylindrical device which is expandable or compressible from a first diameter to a second diameter by plastic deformation of the ductile hinges; and a plurality of deflection limiting members positioned at a plurality of the ductile hinges to limit the deflection at the ductile hinges. 


 -30-
22. The expandable medical device according to Claim 21 , wherein the deflection limiting members include angled side walls on opposite sides of a ductile hinge which engage one another to limit deflection at ductile hinge.
23. The expandable medical device according to Claim 22, wherein the deflection limiting members are V-shaped notches.
24. An expandable medical device which is visible in x-ray and fluoroscope images, the device comprising: a plurality of struts arranged to form an expandable cylindrical tube; and a plurality of ductile hinges connecting the plurality of struts, wherein the struts and ductile hinges have a thickness in a radial direction of the cylindrical tube of at least 0.003 inches (0.0762 mm).
25. The expandable medical device according to Claim 24, wherein the device is formed of stainless steel.
26. The expandable medical device according to Claim 24, wherein the thickness of the struts and ductile hinges is at least 0.005 inches (0.127 mm). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
