<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999018009</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SHOCK ABSORBING COMPONENT FOR PACKAGING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8105	B65D8105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D81	B65D81	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a shock absorbing component for packaging an article and for protecting the article during shipping. The component is foldable (preferably from a single sheet) for enclosing the article therein. The component comprises a first section (13) for receiving a first surface of the article (20) and a second section (14) for receiving a second surface of the article. The first section having multiple nonlinear cuts (15) such that upon placing the article between the first and second sections, the cuts allow the first section to deform and at least partially conform to the shape of the first surface of the article. The component may be disposed within and integrally formed with a shipping container (100, 200, 300, 500, 600) having exterior protective walls. The component may further comprise spacer panels (110, 111, 112, 205, 206, 304, 506-509, 609-611) to separate the component from the exterior walls of the shipping container. Although the disclosed shipping container may have open ends, it desirably has ends (700, 800, 900, 1000) completing the enclosure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMPSON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMPSON EUGENE D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMPSON, EUGENE, D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SIMPSON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMPSON EUGENE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMPSON, EUGENE, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SHOCK ABSORBING COMPONENT FOR PACKAGINGFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a shock absorbing component for packaging an article and for protecting the article during shipping. Specifically, the present invention relates to a packaging component, preferably foldable, having cuts or serrations at a location where the article is to be disposed within the component. The cuts or serrations allow the component to deform and at least partially conform to the shape of the portion of the article in contact with the cuts or serrations.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPackaging of small articles for shipping often relies on the use of a simple rectangular box filled with various types of filler materials such as well known Styrofoam "peanuts," popcorn, foam rubber, expanded starch packing material, etc. Each of these packing materials, however, is unhandy in that they create debris which preferably is recycled but often is not. Storage of the packing material prior to use consumes storage space. Most shipping costs are based on weight and, although the weight of most of the noted packing materials is quite small, there seems little reason to pay for it.There are a number of patents showing containers which maintain and protect the articles to be packaged away from the walls of the container during shipping. For instance,U.S. Patent No. 2,771,184 to Ryno et al. shows a cylindrical package in which the object to be protected is suspended between the two ends of a cylinder by a twisted plastic tube. The plastic tube is twisted tied above and below the article and held in tension in the center of the tube during shipping. U.S. Patent No. 3,752,301, to Bluemel, shows a shock-proof packing container having a rectagonal outer carton and a polygonal inner support member. The polygonal support member is configured in such a way that it fits snugly inside the outer carton and in turn supports a flexible sling. The articles to be shipped are wrapped in the sling and are suspended in the interior both of polygonal inner member and the rectangular outer box. 

 U.S. Patent No. 5,325,967, to Gonzales, shows a packaging device also formed of an outside container and having a removable inner platform which, via the use of folded and integrated spacers, causes the object to be protected to be spaced apart from the walls of the container. The object to be shipped is held against the inner platform by, for instance, a plastic bag which envelops the object and that bag passes through an orifice within the support
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM AS MY INVENTION:
1. A component for packaging an article, the article having a first portion with a first shape and a second portion with a second shape, the component comprising: a first section capable of receiving the article and being in contact with the first portion of the article; a plurality of nonlinear cuts through said first section, wherein an area of said first section containing said cuts is capable of deforming and at least partially conforming to the first shape of the first portion of the article; and a second section capable of receiving the article and being in contact with the second portion of the article, wherein when the article is placed between said first section and second section, the article is enclosed by said first and second sections.
2. The component for packaging of claim 1, further comprising a foldable seam disposed between said first section and said second section, said first section foldable toward said second section along said foldable seam.
3. The component for packaging of claim 1 , wherein at least some of said cuts are evenly spaced therebetween.
4. The component for packaging of claim 1 , wherein at least some of said cuts are unevenly spaced therebetween.
5. The component for packaging of claim 1 , wherein at least some of said cuts are of a zig zag configuration.
6. The component for packaging of claim 1 , wherein at least some of said cuts are of a zig-zag shape.
7. The component for packaging of claim 1, wherein at least some of said cuts are of a tortuous shape. 

8. The component for packaging of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of nonlinear cuts through said second section, wherein an area of said second section containing said cuts is capable of deforming and at least partially conforming to the second shape of the second portion of the article.
9. The component for packaging of claim 1 , wherein said cuts have non-uniform lengths.
10. The component for packaging of claim 1, further comprising at least one plastic sheet affixed to a surface of at least one of said sections, said plastic sheet is at least partially disposed over said cuts.
11. The component for packaging of claim 10, wherein said cuts extend through said plastic sheet.
12. A protective container for packaging an article, the article having a first portion with a first shape and a second portion with a second shape, the container comprising: a foldable sheet which upon folding forms a protective container comprising: i.) a plurality of container walls which upon said folding, form said protective container having an outer surface and an inner volume; ii.) a component comprising a first section capable of receiving the article and being in contact with the first portion of the article, said first section having a plurality of nonlinear cuts therethrough, wherein an area of said first section containing said cuts is capable of deforming and at least partially conforming to the first shape of the article, said component further comprising a second section capable of receiving the article and being in contact with the second portion of the article, wherein when the article is placed between said first section and second section, the article is enclosed by said first and second sections; and 


 iii.) at least one spacer panel foldably attached to at least one edge of at least one of said sections, wherein upon said folding said spacer panel positions two opposing edges of said component against said containing walls and spaces said first and second sections away from said containing walls.
13. The protective container of claim 12 wherein at least one of said sections has at least one edge foldably attached to a container wall.
14. The protective container of claim 12, wherein one edge of said first section is foldably attached to an edge of said second section.
15. The protective container of claim 12, wherein at least some of said cuts are evenly spaced therebetween.
16. The protective container of claim 12, wherein at least some of said cuts are unevenly spaced therebetween.
17. The protective container of claim 12, wherein said cuts have non-uniform lengths.
18. The protective container of claim 12, wherein at least some of said cuts are of a zig-zag shape.
19. The protective container of claim 12, wherein at least some of said cuts are of a tortuous shape.
20. The protective container of claim 12, said second section having a plurality of nonlinear cuts therethrough, wherein an area of said second section containing said cuts is capable of deforming and at least partially conforming to the second shape of the second portion of the article. 

21. The protective container of claim 12 comprising exactly three container walls.
22. The protective container of claim 12 comprising exactly four container walls.
23. The protective container of claim 12, further comprising at least one plastic sheet affixed to a surface of at least one of said sections, said plastic sheet is at least partially disposed over said cuts.
24. The protective container of claim 23, wherein said cuts extend through said plastic sheet. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
