<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009259</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRODYNAMIC FIELD GENERATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64C3900	B64C3900	H02K2100	H02K2128	H02N1100	H02N1100	H05H100	H05H124	H05H124	H05H154	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64C	B64C	H02K	H02K	H02N	H02N	H05H	H05H	H05H	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64C39	B64C39	H02K21	H02K21	H02N11	H02N11	H05H1	H05H1	H05H1	H05H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This device is a brushless high-voltage electrical generator for producing a high energy external electrodynamic field or continuous quasi-coherent DC corona or arcdischarge of uniformed current density which completely encloses the machine's conductive housing (1). This housing is divided into distinct electrical sections (3-5) and contains a flat conductive rotor (6) electrically links separate negative (3) and positive (5) housing sections and upon which a plurality of toroidal generating coils (35, 40, 56) are rotatably mounted. Circular arrays of stationary permanent magnets (34, 39, 55) are affixed within the housing which induce a constant DC voltage within said coils upon their rotation. The primary voltage generated is electrostatically impressed across the rotor such that great quantities of electronic charge may be transported between the opposite polarity sections (3-5) of the housing, in such a manner that a much higher secondary voltage is caused to appear across interposed neutral sections thereof, and the resulting external breakdown current once initiated is independent of the generating coils'ampacity. Ancillary mechanical, electrical, and/or electronic features may be attached upon or within the housing to aid in harnessing and controlling the useful effects associated with the external dynamic electric field produced by the device.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOMION MARK R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOMION, MARK, R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMION MARK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMION, MARK, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTRODY AMIC FIELD GENERATORFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is related in general to rotary direct current (DC electrical generators which incorporate permanent magnet fields, and in particular to similar electromechanical generating devices whose principal purpose is to produce a useful continuous high- voltage DC corona discharge. This invention also pertains to the field of aerospace vehicles which are capable of propulsion through the utilization of an ultra-high- voltage corona or arc discharge of a special type and form.DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART In order to provide background information so that the present invention may be completely understood and appreciated in its proper context, reference is made hereinbelow to a number of related art patents. These cited references contain certain similarities to the present invention, primarily related to the objective of producing electrically-developed thrust. However, key differences and limitations with regard to achieving this objective are in evidence.The related art disclosed in US Patent #2,949,550 proposes three attendant objects which are quite similar to certain of the objects of the present invention: (i) to provide an apparatus for the direct conversion of electrical potential to usable kinetic energy; (ii) to provide such an apparatus having a hollow body or housing which contains a source of high electrical potential; and (iii) to provide a self-propelling vehicular apparatus which includes a pair of electrically conductive body portions joined by an insulative portion, whereby said conductive portions constitute electrodes. A further similarity is that the vehicular embodiment proposed preferably be of a circular disc shape somewhat thicker in its center than at its edges. The device set forth in this Patent just cited is noticeably different from the present invention, however, in that a positive voltage is applied to the housing periphery and a negative voltage is applied at the central axis. The proposed arrangement is furthermore limited to operation within a gaseous dielectric medium, upon which it is reliant for the production of the claimed motive force, and is to be operated at a potential gradient less than that which would produce a visible corona. This device moreover makes no provisions for the production and/or extraction of vast quantities of useful thermal kinetic energy, as the present invention does. 

 The related art disclosed in US Patent #3,071,705 is based on three empirical principles of electrostatics
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An elecfrodynamic field generator comprising:
A) a disc-shaped hull having upper and lower surfaces separated by a distance at the axis of the disc and tapering to an edge at the perimeter of the disc, enclosing a volume therebetween, the upper and lower surfaces each being divided into a positive section surrounding the axis of the disc, a negative section around the periphery of the disc, and a neutral section therebetween; the positive and negative section surfaces being of conductive material and the neutral section surfaces being of insulative material;
B) a rotor having an outer circumference, an inner circumference sunounding an open central aperture, and an annular body therebetween, with the rotor body having flat upper and lower surfaces; the rotor being rotatably mounted within the volume of the hull and centered upon the axis thereof, the inner diameter and outer diameter of the rotor being chosen such that the rotor extends across at least all of the neufral portion of the hull volume and at least part of each positive hull section;
C) an evacuated induction compartment and peripheral space charge chamber comprising at least the portion of the hull volume within which the rotor is mounted;
D) a principal generating system and conesponding rotor electrical circuit comprising two assemblies, one associated with the upper surface of the rotor and one with the lower surface thereof, each assembly in turn comprising: i) an outer induction electrode anay comprising a flat cathode ring mounted upon and electrically coupled to the rotor, adjacent to the outer circumference thereof, and a flat anode 


 ring mounted plane-parallel to, but insulated from, the cathode ring; ii) an inner induction elecfrode array comprising a flat anode ring mounted upon and electrically coupled to the rotor, a flat cathode ring, and a grid ring element, the cathode and grid being mounted plane-parallel to, but insulated from, the anode and each other; the inner induction ring anay being mounted to the rotor closer to the inner circumference thereof than the outer induction ring array; iii) at least one generating coil mounted to the rotor and extending toroidally around the rotor concentric to either circumference thereof, located between the outer induction ring anay and the inner induction ring anay, and electrically coupled to the cathode of the inner induction array and to the anode of the outer induction anay; and iv) a plurality of stationary permanent magnets mounted to the hull, such that the magnetic field from each of the permanent magnets intercepts a generating coil; such that when the rotor is rotated, the magnetic fields from the stationary magnets induce an electrical voltage in each generating coil which results in a
DC rotor circuit output cunent;
a field induction system comprising two assemblies, one associated with the upper surface of the rotor and one with the lower surface thereof, each assembly in turn comprising: i) at least one plane-parallel electrode anay comprising: a) a primary anode ring mounted to the rotor adjacent to the inner circumference thereof, between the inner circumference and the inner induction ring array; b) at least one primary cathode mounted to, but electrically separated from, each positive section of the hull; and c) at least one stationary grid element located between each primary cathode and the corresponding primary anode ring; 


 ii) a primary cathode resistor electrically coupled between each primary cathode and the conesponding positive section of the hull, each cathode resistor being encapsulated by a dielectric buffer; and iii) a principal hull coolant and heat transfer system, thermally coupled to each primary cathode resistor;
F) at least one housing charge ballast capacitor, electrically coupled to the principal electrical generating system circuit and to the rotor;
G) a plurality of field emitters which are mounted around the outer circumference of the rotor and electrically coupled thereto; and
H) a motor drive mounted to the hull, having a mechanical output coupled to the rotor for rotation thereof.
2. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which: i) the principal electrical generating circuit induces a primary DC voltage between the outer circumference of the rotor and the inner circumference thereof when the rotor is rotated by the motor drive, resulting in a unidirectional rotor cunent which distributes elecfron charge from the outer rotor circumference to the negative housing sections; and ii) ii) the field induction system utilizes a portion of the primary DC rotor voltage to establish an external discharge cunent which expresses a very large expansion of that voltage, within the electric field between the negative and positive sections of the hull, the measure of the expanded field voltage being defined by an engineered instantaneous charge differential between the rotor field emitters and the primary cathodes which is supported by the electric force in one or more housing charge ballast capacitors. 3. The elecfrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which the rotor comprises a plurality of conductive radial segments and a like number 



 of nonconductive segment separators, with the individual segments and separators uniformly alternating in placement. 4. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 3, in which the conductive rotor segments are made of copper. 5. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 3, in which each generating coil is mounted to the segment separators.
6. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 3 in which the anode of each outer induction array of the principal generating system is mounted to the segment separators, as are the cathode and grid element of each inner induction array.
7. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which each inner induction anay constitutes a triode vacuum-tube construct, the control grid voltage of which biases that array nearly to cunent cutoff.
8. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which each of the two assemblies of the principal electrical generating system comprise a set of three generating coils, ananged across the annular body of the rotor, with each set of coils being sequentially coupled electrically.
9. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which each generating coil is compound wound, having primary and bias windings.
10. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 , in which each generating coil further comprises a stractural core which is nonmagnetic.
11. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 , in which each generating coil further comprises a structural core which contains powdered iron.
12. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which the magnets are C-shaped, having a circular body with a flux gap through which a magnetic field passes, and the generating coils are positioned such that they pass through the flux gaps of the magnets in a uniform manner during rotation of the rotor.
13. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 , in which the magnets are made of an alnico family alloy. 

14. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which a housing charge ballast capacitor is mounted upon the rotor between each outer induction array and the rotor's outer circumference, each ballast capacitor having an inner conductive ring electrically connected to the rotor, an outer conductive ring plane-parallel to the inner ring and electrically connected to the outer induction anay anode, and a dielectric layer between its inner and outer rings.
15. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which the field emitters are made of a sintered refractory composite material which is electrically conductive, and have a shape such that they taper from an inner end or surface having a thickness equal to a thickness of the rotor's outer circumference to a slightly blunted edge at an outer end forming an outermost circumference of the rotor and field emitters.
16. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 9 in which each assembly of the principal generating system and conesponding rotor electrical subcircuit comprises one or more AC subcircuits or stages, each stage being mounted to the rotor for rotation therewith and in turn comprising: an AC input, or grid resistor; one or more bias windings electrically coupled to the AC input; a triode anay electrically coupled to the AC input and to that input's conesponding bias winding or windings, comprising a cathode, an anode, and a control grid; and an output, or plate resistor, electrically coupled to the anode of that triode anay or to the anode of a successive electrode array.
17. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 16 in which a plurality of AC stages are electrically coupled in series, the input of an outermost stage closest to the outer circumference of the rotor being coupled to the outer induction anay anode and the output of an innermost stage closest to the inner rotor circumference being coupled to the control grid of the inner induction anay. 

18. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 17 in which each assembly of the principal generating system, and the conesponding rotor electrical subcircuit, comprises three AC stages.
19. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which the plane- parallel electrode arrays comprising the field induction system each in turn comprise a primary cathode, three grid elements, and an anode ring and therefore constitute pentode vacuum-tube constructs.
20. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which a voltage control system is electrically or thermally coupled to at least one stationary elecfrode of each plane-parallel array comprising the field induction system such that the total discharge cunent is limited to a value within the total ampacity of the rotor segments.
21. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 20, in which the operating electrode temperature is controlled by movable thermal adjusting rods that may be thermally coupled to one or more of the cathodes or grids and to a cryogenic heat sink.
22. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 20, in which the voltage control system is further utilized to apply inverse AC signal feedback to the discharge cunent such that rotor circuit AC voltage amplitude is limited to a desired or requisite value.
23. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which each positive section of the hull is divided into a plurality of radial sectors, each sector being separated from adjoining sectors by an insulating partition. 24. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 23 in which each assembly of the field induction system comprises a plurality of plane- parallel elecfrode anays, with each anay being electrically coupled to a radial sector of a positive hull section.
25. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 23 , in which each positive hull section is divided into 36 radial sectors.
26. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 23 further comprising a center sector of each positive hull section, located at the axis of the hull, these sectors each being electrically isolated from the radial sectors of the respective positive hull section. 

27. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 26, in which each center sector is made of an insulating material.
28. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 26, in which single radial sectors at four cardinal points of each positive hull section are electrically connected in parallel with a conductive center sector of that positive hull section.
29. The elecfrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which the principal hull coolant system comprises one or more primary thermal conduits conveying a high-temperature heat transfer fluid and incorporates a heater to pre-heat that heat transfer fluid and, in turn, the cathode resistors, dielectric buffers, and primary cathodes.
30. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 29, in which the high- temperature heat transfer fluid is liquid sodium.
31. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 in which the primary cathode material is selected from a group consisting of pure tungsten metal and tungsten, as well as alloys thereof, which is or have been impregnated with thorium.
32. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which the primary cathode resistors are made of a ceramic material which becomes electrically conductive at an elevated operating temperature.
33. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 32, in which the ceramic cathode resistor material is selected from a group consisting of the steatite and cordierite families of compounds.
34. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which the dielectric buffer encapsulating each primary cathode resistor is made of sodium bismuth titanate.
35. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, further comprising a secondary hull coolant or heat fransfer system which in turn comprises one or more secondary thermal conduits conveying a heat transfer fluid and which is thermally coupled to the neutral and negative sections of the hull.
36. The elecfrodynamic field generator of claim 35, in which the heat transfer fluid is a cryogenic coolant. 

37. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 36, in which the heat transfer fluid is a liquefied gas selected from the group consisting of liquid air, liquid nitrogen, and liquid helium.
38. The elecfrodynamic field generator of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of stationary electromagnetic armatures arranged in two circular groups or anays within the hull volume, one array above the upper surface of the rotor and one below the lower surface thereof, each armature comprising: a fenomagnetic body or core having a first end section adjacent to the rotor, a second end section adjacent to a neufral section of the hull, and a length therebetween which is of a reduced cross-sectional area with respect to either end section; and at least one electrical winding wound on either end section of the core, wherein an electric cunent in the winding induces a magnetic field in the core which is superimposed on the rotor or on the external electric field.
39. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 38 in which each of the annatures has two windings, comprising: a first winding on the first end section, wherein a cunent in the first winding causes a magnetic field to be superimposed on the rotor; and a second winding on the second end section, wherein a cunent in the second winding causes a magnetic field to be superimposed on the external field.
40. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 38, in which the armature core material is selected from a group consisting of pure annealed iron and low-carbon steels.
41. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 38, further comprising a DC power supply electrically coupled to at least one winding of each stationary armature. 42. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 38, further comprising an
AC power source electrically coupled to at least one winding of each stationary armature. 

43. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 , in which the mechanical output of one or more motor drives is coupled to the rotor through a gear on each motor drive's mechanical output meshing with one or more driven ring gears about the inner circumference of the rotor.
44. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1 further comprising a pair of rolling bearing assemblies or ballraces for supporting the rotor, one around the upper surface of the rotor and one around the lower surface thereof with both ballraces being mounted near the rotor's outer circumference; each ballrace comprising a first race half or raceway mounted on the rotor and a second raceway mounted to the hull opposite the first raceway, defining a bearing ball passage therebetween, and a plurality of bearing balls contained in the ball passage. 45. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, further comprising a central control cabin inside the hull within the aperture or inner circumference of the rotor.
46. The elecfrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which the cathode resistors each comprise a fixed positive reduced-voltage tap whereby an onboard or external electrical load may be connected between the fixed taps and the primary cathodes.
47. The electrodynamic field generator of claim 1, in which the heat fransfer system is thermally coupled to an external heat exchanger.
48. The elecfrodynamic field generator of claim 1, comprising one or more superconductive current storage rings utilized to deposit and retrieve an expendable store of ambient electron charge during extended operation in the vacuum of space. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
