<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2004021658</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENCODING AND DECODING ULTRA-WIDEBAND INFORMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1387	H04B110	H04B110	H04B169	H04B169	H04B1700	H04B1700	H04L108	H04L108	H04L116	H04L118	H04L120	H04L120	H04L2530	H04L2534	H04W2802	H04W2804	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B17	H04B17	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	H04L25	H04L25	H04W28	H04W28	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method (100) for encoding and decoding ultra-wideband information are provided. An ultra-wideband transmission is encoded by positioning bipolar pulse pairs. The bipolar pulse pairs assist in detecting errors in the ultra-wideband transmission, before the entire transmission has been received (104). The transmission is analyzed for errors and an error rate is calculated (108). The calculated error rate is compared to one or more predefined acceptable error rate levels to determine whether the calculated error rate of the transmission is within at least one of the predefined acceptable error rate levels (110).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PULSE LINK INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PULSE-LINK, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARRIETA RODOLFO T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTHOFF JOHN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARRIETA, RODOLFO, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTHOFF, JOHN, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ENCODING AND DECODING ULTRA-WIDEBAND INFORMATIONField Of The Invention The present invention generally relates to a system and a method of wireless communication and, more particularly, to a system and a system and method of ultra-wideband communication.Background Of The Invention Ultra-wideband transmission of information typically operates in highly populated frequency ranges. Typically, ultra-wideband communications (e.g., impulse radio communications) employ pulses of very short duration on the order of nanoseconds or picoseconds, for example. However, signals of such short duration often must contend with a variety of natural and synthetic noise signals resulting in signal cancellation, amplification or interference.Furthermore, the transmission errors can be compounded by conventional encoding and decoding techniques. Conventional encoding and decoding techniques generally receive an entire transmission and then process (e.g., data type, decode) the transmission. After that conventional error detection processes (e.g., a check sum error algorithm) proceed. If after this error detection process, a transmission is found to have too many errors, then a request for a retransmission of the entire transmission is required. This technique generally inefficient and time-intensive in detecting errors.Accordingly, there is a need for a system or method of encoding and decoding an ultra- wideband transmission as part of an ultra-wideband communications system in which the method of encoding and decoding allows for the detection of errors and, if appropriate, the requesting for re-transmission before the complete transmission is received.Summary Of The InventionThe present invention alleviates to a great extent the disadvantages of conventional apparatus and method of encoding and decoding transmitted information by providing a system and method for encoding and decoding ultra-wideband transmissions that detects errors in the transmission before the entire transmission is received.In a preferred embodiment, the information transmission includes a plurality of information segments, which will be referred to as frames in this application. A frame 

preferably includes a positive timing window, a negative timing window, a bipolar pulse pair, where the bipolar pulse pair including a positive pulse and a negative pulse.An ultra-wideband transmitting source is provided to transmit information over a plurality of frames, each frame having a known time duration. Each frame includes at least one bipolar pulse pair
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for detecting an error in a transmission in an ultra-wideband communications system, the transmission including a plurality of frames, comprising the steps of: transmitting a frame of the transmission, the frame including a positive timing window and a negative timing window, the frame including a bipolar pulse pair, the bipolar pulse pair including a positive pulse and a negative pulse; generating the negative pulse to have an amplitude and a pulse width equal to an amplitude and a pulse width of the positive pulse; positioning the positive pulse in the positive timing window and the negative pulse in the negative timing window, the position of the negative pulse in the negative timing window corresponding to the position of the positive pulse in the positive timing window; receiving the positive pulse and the negative pulse; and before receiving the complete transmission, correlating the received positive pulse and the received negative pulse in determining whether a correlation error has occurred in the transmission of the positive pulse.
2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: after receiving the pulse train, determining a data type of the ultra-wideband transmission and calculating an error rate for the ultra-wideband transmission; if the calculated error rate is less than a Typical Minimum Acceptable Bit Error Rate (TMABER), then sending the ultra-wideband transmission to a desired destination; if the calculated error rate is greater than the TMABER and less than a Maximum Bit
Error Rate For Correction (MBERFC), then error correcting the ultra-wideband transmission before sending the ultra-wideband transmission to the desired destination; and if the calculated error rate is greater than the MBERFC, then requesting the retransmission of the ultra- wideband transmission.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the transmission includes at least one of a data signal, a video signal and an audio signal. 

4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of transmitting includes the step of partitioning each of the positive timing window and the negative timing window into an equal number of timing slots, each timing slot having the same time duration, and wherein the step of positioning includes the steps of placing the positive pulse in a particular timing slot of the positive timing window and placing the negative pulse in an equivalently positioned timing slot of the negative timing window.
5. A method for encoding and decoding an ultra- wideband transmission, comprising the steps of: transmitting a pulse train including a plurality of bipolar pulse pairs, each bipolar pulse pair including a positive pulse and a negative pulse, each bipolar pulse pair being disposed in a frame, the frame including a positive timing window and a negative timing window; generating the negative pulse to have an amplitude and a pulse width equal to an amplitude and a pulse width of the positive pulse; and positioning the positive pulse in the positive timing window and the negative pulse in the negative timing window, the position of the positive pulse in the positive timing window encoding information within the frame, the position of the negative pulse in the negative timing window corresponding to the position of the positive pulse in the positive timing window.
6. A method according to claim 5, further comprising the steps of: receiving the positive pulse and the negative pulse; and before receiving completely the pulse train, correlating the received positive pulse and the received negative pulse in determining whether a correlation error has occurred in the transmission of the received bipolar pulse pair.
7. A method according to claim 6, further comprising the steps of: counting the number of correlation errors in a portion of the ultra-wideband transmission; and if the number of correlation errors exceeds a particular threshold, then requesting the retransmission of the ultra- wideband transmission. 

8. A method according to claim 7, further comprising the steps of: after receiving the pulse train, determining a data type of the ultra-wideband transmission and calculating an error rate for the ultra-wideband transmission; if the calculated error rate is less than a Typical Minimum Acceptable Bit Error Rate (TMABER), then sending the ultra-wideband transmission to a desired destination; if the calculated error rate is greater than the TMABER and less than a Maximum Bit Error Rate For Correction (MBERFC), then error correcting the ultra-wideband transmission before sending the ultra-wideband transmission to the desired destination; and if the calculated error rate is greater than the MBERFC, then requesting the re- transmission of the ultra-wideband transmission.
9. A system for detecting an error in a transmission in an ultra- wideband communications system, the transmission including a plurality of frames, comprising: means for transmitting a frame of the transmission, the frame including a positive timing window and a negative timing window, the frame including a bipolar pulse pair, the bipolar pulse pair including a positive pulse and a negative pulse; means for generating the negative pulse to have an amplitude and a pulse width equal to an amplitude and a pulse width of the positive pulse; means for positioning the positive pulse in the positive timing window and the negative pulse in the negative timing window, the position of the negative pulse in the negative timing window corresponding to the position of the positive pulse in the positive timing window; means for receiving the positive pulse and the negative pulse; and means for correlating the received positive pulse and the received negative pulse in determining whether a correlation error has occurred in the transmission of the positive pulse before receiving the complete transmission.
10. A system for encoding and decoding an ultra- wideband transmission, comprising: means for transmitting a pulse train including a plurality of bipolar pulse pairs, each bipolar pulse pair including a positive pulse and a negative pulse, each bipolar pulse pair being disposed in a frame, the frame including a positive timing window and a negative timing window; means for generating the negative pulse to have an amplitude and a pulse width equal to an amplitude and a pulse width of the positive pulse; and 


 means for positioning the positive pulse in the positive timing window and the negative pulse in the negative timing window, the position of the positive pulse in the positive timing window encoding information within the frame, the position of the negative pulse in the negative timing window corresponding to the position of the positive pulse in the positive timing window. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
