<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617714</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEEDED POROUS COPOLYMERS AND ION-EXCHANGE RESINS PREPARED THEREFROM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F26500	C08F25700	C08F218	B01J4100	C08F26504	C08F25702	C08F25700	B01J4114	C08F26500	C08J928	C08F212	C08J900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08F	B01J	C08F	C08F	C08F	B01J	C08F	C08J	C08F	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F265	C08F257	C08F2	B01J41	C08F265	C08F257	C08F257	B01J41	C08F265	C08J9	C08F2	C08J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS WILLIAM I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, WILLIAM, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns copolymer beads suitable as a support matrix for ion-exchange 
resins and polymeric adsorbents. In particular, the invention concerns porous 
copolymer beads prepared by a seeded polymerization process. Ion-exchange resins are used by industry to separate chemical species from 
solutions containing them. Such resins are prepared by substituting various functional groups 
onto a copolymer bead matrix. The functional groups are capable of associating with the 
impurities so as to remove them from solution. Ion-exchange resins may be cation-, anion- or 
chelate-exchange resins, depending on the choice of functional group substituted onto the 
copolymer bead matrix. The copolymer bead matrix may also be used in preparing polymeric 
adsorbents, such as those disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,950,332. The copolymer bead matrix is typically prepared by suspension polymerization of 
a finely divided organic phase comprising monovinylidene monomers like styrene, 
polyvinylidene monomers such as divinylbenzene, a free-radical initiator, and, optionally a 
phase-separating diluent. The copolymer beads produced may be microporous, that is, gellular 
in character, or macroporous, the result depending upon whether the phase-separating diluent 
is employed. The term "macroporous" as commonly used in the art means that the copolymer 
has both macropores and mesopores. The terms "microporous", "gel" and "macroporous" are 
well known in the art and generally describe the nature of the copolymer bead porosity. 
Microporous or gel copolymer beads have pore sizes on the order of less than 20 Angstroms (Å), 
while macroporous copolymer beads have both mesopores of from 20 Å to 500 Å and 
macropores of greater than 500 Å. Gel and macroporous copolymer beads, as well as their 
preparation, are further discussed in U.S. Patent 4,256,840. Recently, industry has focused on methods of preparing copolymer beads in 
multi-staged polymerizations, also known as seeded polymerization processes. Such copolymer 
beads are desirable due to good mechanical strength and osmotic shock resistance. Seeded 
polymerization processes can also prepare beads of relatively uniform size if the seed particles 
employed have similar size uniformity. U.S. Patents 4,419,245 and 4,564,644 disclose processes  
 
wherein seed particles are suspended in a continuous medium and, thereafter, the seed 
particles are imbibed and polymerized with additional monomer to form copolymer beads. 
British Patent 1,151,480 discloses a process wherein
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for making porous copolymer beads, 
comprising: 


a. providing a plurality of gel-type, copolymer seed 
particles prepared by polymerization of a first monomer 

mixture comprising at least one first monovinylidene 
monomer and at least one first cross-linking monomer, the 

seed particles optionally containing a free-radical source 
therein capable of initiating polymerization of 

ethylenically unsaturated monomers; 
b. imbibing the seed particles with a second monomer 
mixture comprising a phase-separating diluent, at least one 

second monovinylidene monomer, a second cross-linking 
monomer, and a free-radical initiator, the free-radical 

initiator being optional where the seed particles contain 
the free radical source, the phase-separating diluent and 

the said at least one second monovinylidene monomer having 
a solubility parameter and dipole moment which are 

compatible with the corresponding solubility parameter and 
dipole moment of the said at least one first monovinylidene 

monomer such that at least 70 percent by weight of the 
second monomer mixture is imbibed by the seed particles; 

and 
c. maintaining the imbibed seed particles under 
suspension polymerizing conditions for a time sufficient to 

polymerize the second monomer mixture to a desired degree 
of conversion and obtain porous copolymer beads. 
A process as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the seed 
particles are prepared by 
in situ
 suspension polymerization 
of a first monomer mixture comprising the said at least one 

first monovinylidene monomer and the said at least one 
first cross-linking monomer within a continuous suspending  

 
medium. 
A process as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein 
conversion of the said at least one first monovinylidene 

monomer and the said at least one first cross-linking 
monomer is from 50 to 90 percent based on total weight of 

the monomers in the first monomer mixture. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein step (a) further comprises suspending the 

seed particles within a continuous suspending medium. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the said at least one first monovinylidene 

monomer is t-butylstyrene, vinyltoluene, ethylvinylbenzene, 
laurylmethacrylate, or isobornylmethacrylate. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the said at least one first cross-linking 

monomer is divinylbenzene, trivinylbenzene, ethylene glycol 
dimethacrylate, or a mixture of two or more thereof. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the seed particles comprise from 95 to 

99.99 weight percent of the said at least one first 
monovinylidene monomer and from 0.01 to 5 weight percent of 

the said at least one first cross-linking monomer based on 
total weight of the monomers. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the said at least one second monovinylidene 

monomer is styrene, an alkyl-substituted styrene, or 
vinylbenzylchloride and the cross-linking monomer is 

divinylbenzene.  
 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the second monomer mixture has from 75 to 

97 weight percent of the said at least one second 
monovinylidene monomer and from 3 to 25 weight percent of 

the second cross-linking monomer, based on total weight of 
monomers in the second monomer mixture. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the phase-separating diluent is hexane, 

heptane, or iso-octane. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein the solubility parameters of the phase-separating 

diluent and the said at least one second 
monovinylidene monomer are within ± 10 percent of the 

solubility parameter of the said at least one first 
monovinylidene monomer. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the dipole moments of the phase-separating 

diluent and the said at least one second monovinylidene 
monomer are within ± 0.25 debyes of the dipole moment of 

the said at least one first monovinylidene monomer. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the phase-separating diluent is present in 

an amount from 20 to 50 weight percent based on total 
weight of the second monomer mixture. 
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising: (d) functionalizing the porous 

copolymer beads with ion-exchange functional groups to 
obtain an ion-exchange resin. 
A porous copolymer bead obtainable by a process as  
 

claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 13. 
An ion-exchange resin obtainable by a process as 
claimed in Claim 14. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
