<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650575</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FREEZER CONVEYOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G2118	B65G2100	F25D2500	F25D2504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G21	B65G21	F25D25	F25D25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conveyor freezer employing a self-supporting conveyor arranged in a helical stack for carrying discrete food items into the freezer, through the helical stack for a predetermined period of time, and out of the freezer is disclosed. A major portion of the weight of the helical belt stack is supported by a rotatable turntable (80). A portion of the lowermost tier (44) of the stack is elevated and supported by a ramp structure which preferably comprises a pair of runners (100, 102) engaging lower surfaces of outwardly extending flange portions of side links of the belt. The belt is preferably driven by a single drive unit (112) at a location outside of the freezer enclosure, remote from the stack, by a single pair of sprockets. A timing sprocket (118) is preferably employed to control belt pitch along the infeed section (40) of the belt.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENTY JOHN SHELTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENTY, JOHN, SHELTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to conveyors
and, more particularly, to a conveyor capable of
transporting food product through a freezer in a helical
path.The use of helical or spiral conveyors for
carrying food product through freezers enables acceptable
dwell time to be maintained in conjunction with
acceptable product throughput rates, with efficient use
of space. U.S. Patent No. 3,315,492 discloses a freezer
employing such a helical conveyor, wherein the tiers of
the conveyor are supported by horizontal arms which
extend into the stack. It has been recognized that
compactness of freezers of this type may be improved by
increasing the number of tiers without increasing the
vertical dimension of the freezer, by making the belt
self-supporting, which enables the horizontal arms to be
eliminated, thereby permitting closer spacing of adjacent
tiers while maintaining desired clearance for product.
U.S. Patent No. 3,938,651 discloses a conveyor
arrangement wherein the belt is arranged in a self-supporting
stack and the stack is supported on a second
conveyor which is driven to rotate the stack. However,
provision of a satisfactory conveyor for supporting the
stack has proven to be problematic, and it has been found
that a helical belt stack manufactured in accordance with
the teachings of this patent are susceptible to
collapsing under certain conditions.U.S. Patent No. 4,565,282 states as one of its
objects to eliminate the disadvantages of prior art
installations such as that of Patent No. 3,938,651, which
have not been able to carry the pile or stack through a
continuous complete revolution due to the ingoing or
outgoing lower part of the conveyor belt. The
installation of U.S. Patent No. 4,565,282 comprises two 
endless chains which are arranged under the belt pile so
as to carry the belt through a complete revolution.
However, the arrangement of Patent No. 4,565,282 is
complicated and expensive and is believed to be
susceptible to problems due to ice formation interfering
with proper functioning of rolling elements in the
apparatus. U.S. Patent No. 4,899,871 discloses an
arrangement which is intended to address the problem of
ice formation obstructing ball movement by employing a
chain comprising overlapping links which are intended to
exclude ice from the path of rolling elements. This
proposed arrangement further increases the number of
moving parts and adds to the expense and complexity of
the apparatus.In accordance with the invention, there is
provided a novel and improved conveyor system of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A freezer (10) comprising:

a structure defining an enclosed interior (14);
means (22) for maintaining said enclosed
interior below ambient temperature;
a continuous belt (20) following an endless path at
least partially disposed within said enclosed interior

for carrying food product (12);
said belt comprising a first portion defining a
generally helical stack (32) which includes (a) a lowermost

tier (44) having an upper end (54) and a lower end (52), (b) a series of
intermediate tiers (56), and (c) an uppermost tier (36);
each of said intermediate tiers and said
uppermost tier being supported at least partially by the

tier immediately therebeneath;
said belt further comprising a second portion (34)
following a predetermined path between the upper most tier and

the lower most tier externally of said helical stack;
a substantially rigid rotatable turntable (80) for
supporting a major portion of said lower most tier in a

substantially horizontal configuration;
means (116,130) for guiding said second portion of said

belt in said predetermined path externally of said
helical stack;
means (112,114) for driving said belt; and
ramp means (100,102,104,106) for lifting and supporting a minor
portion of said lowermost tier above said turntable in a

configuration such that, proceeding from the upper end of
the lowermost tier to the lower end thereof, the

lowermost tier first slopes slightly upward to facilitate
transition of belt between the lower end of the stack and

the second portion of the belt, then slopes downward to
the turntable.
A freezer in accordance with Claim 1
wherein said ramp means comprises a pair of runners (100,102)

disposed on opposite sides of said lower tier. 
A freezer in accordance with Claim 1
wherein said ramp means supports a portion of said

lowermost tier through an arc of between about 45° and
about 120°.
A freezer in accordance with Claim 1
wherein said second portion comprises an off-loading

section (46) extending outward from the lower most tier of said
helical stack to a delivery location, an infeed section (40)

extending from an onloading location (50) to the uppermost
tier of said stack, and a return portion (48) extending from

said off-loading section to said onloading section;

said means for driving said belt comprising a
pair of drive sprockets engaging opposite sides of the

belt;
said return portion having a section extending
beneath and substantially parallel to said infeed section

and adjoining said infeed section at said pair of
sprockets such that said belt reverses direction as it

engages said drive sprockets;
a pair of timing sprockets (118) spaced from said
drive sprockets and engaging, in timed relation, both

said infeed portion of said belt and said section of said
return portion of said belt extending beneath and

substantially parallel to said infeed section.
A conveyor comprising:

a continuous belt following an endless
path;
said belt comprising a first portion
defining a generally helical stack which includes a

lowermost tier, a series of intermediate tiers, and an
uppermost tier;
each of said intermediate and uppermost
tiers being supported at least partially by the tier

immediately therebeneath;
said belt further comprising a second
portion following a predetermined path between the uppermost

tier and the lowermost tier externally of said helical stack; 
said belt being composed of side links (58,60)
extending longitudinally along opposite sides thereof

defining opposite flexible side walls, and a plurality of
bottom members (62,64) defining a support surface for food

product on the belt, at least some of said side links
being of generally L-shaped cross-section, having an

upstanding portion (66,72) and a flange portion (68,74) extending
generally horizontally outward from a lower portion of

the upstanding portion;
first support means (80) for engaging a major
portion of said lowermost tier from beneath and bearing a

major portion of the weight of said generally helical
stack;
means for guiding said second portion of
said belt in said predetermined path externally of said

helical stack;
means for driving said belt; and
second support means (100,102) for supporting a
minor portion of said lowermost tier at a raised

elevation to facilitate transition of belt between the
first portion and the second portion thereof;
said second support means being positioned
to engage only the flange portions of the side links,

outwardly of the upstanding portions of the links.
A conveyor in accordance with Claim 5
further comprising at least one pair of timing sprockets

spaced from said means for driving said belt and engaging
said belt in timed relation.
A conveyor in accordance with Claim 5
wherein said minor portion of said lowermost tier extends

through an arc of between about 45° and about 120°.
A conveyor in accordance with Claim 7
wherein said minor portion of said lowermost tier extends

through an arc of about 80°.
A conveyor in accordance with Claim 5
wherein said means for driving said belt comprises a pair

of drive sprockets engaging said side links along 
opposite sides of said belt, and means for rotating said

drive sprockets.
A conveyor in accordance with Claim 5
wherein said belt is discharged from the stack at the

lowermost tier, and added to the stack at the uppermost
tier.
A conveyor in accordance with Claim 5
wherein said belt is continuously added to the stack at the

lowermost tier and discharged from the stack at the
uppermost tier.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
