<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0966184</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IC card housing and method of manufacture
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D2800	B21D2800	B29C4514	B29C4514	B29L3134	G06K1907	G06K1907	G06K19077	G06K19077	H05K502	H05K502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B29C	B29C	B29L	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D28	B21D28	B29C45	B29C45	B29L31	G06K19	G06K19	G06K19	G06K19	H05K5	H05K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for manufacturing a housing (10) for containing
an IC card (12). The method includes the steps of stamping a pair of

metal covers (16,20) with at least one of the covers having a continuous
uninterrupted edge (32) provided with a plurality of through holes (34)

spaced inwardly of and along the edge. The covers are placed into a mold
for an injection molding process. Plastic support members (18,22,24) are

injected into the mold into attachment with the covers. Plastic material
of the support member surrounds the edge and flows through the holes of

the cover. The covers and attached support members are removed from the
mold, and the support members are bonded together so that a housing (10)

is formed with the covers and within which the IC card can be contained.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEANE MIKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEANE, MIKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to the art of IC
cards and, particularly, to a housing for containing an IC
card and a method of manufacturing the housing.Generally, IC cards or packs, such as memory cards,
are data input devices which are electrically connected to an
electronic apparatus or storage device, such as a word
processor, personal computer or other electronic apparatus.
The IC cards include printed circuit boards and can expand
the capacity of a personal computer, for instance.
Generally, the IC card is in the form of a printed circuit
board contained within an outer housing and can be inserted
into or "plugged-in" and extracted from a connector device on
the electronic apparatus.A typical IC or memory card is shielded by a
conductive cover to protect the electrical circuitry and, in
particular, the electromagnetic signals from externally
generated radiated emissions. The card also is provided with
EMI or grounding systems to minimize the effects of
electromagnetic pulses created during the dissipation of
static charges through the signal contacts. With the use of
such IC or memory cards in a wide variety of computer
applications, the Personal Computer Memory Card International
Association (PCMCIA) has established certain standards for
the design of IC cards in their housings or containers. For instance, a printed circuit board must be
sealed within a rigid container for insertion into a
computer. With the IC card having to be shielded, a typical
container or housing is formed by a pair of generally planar
metal covers secured to a generally rectangular plastic
housing surrounding the printed circuit board or IC card,
with the card sandwiched between the metal covers. A
continuing problem with such constructions centers around
adequate bonding or attachment between the metal covers and
the plastic frame. The present invention is particularly
directed to solving these problems.Still further, chip cards are used in a variety of
applications and comprise a card of approximately the same
size as a standard credit card. The card, itself, contains
intelligence in the form of a memory circuit. A card reader
is used to detect certain information stored on the card.
One such chip card is identified as a "Subscriber's
Identification Module" or "SIM" which is a miniature chip
card which provides user identification. The SIM card reader
provides quick identification of the user.The use of SIM cards in conjunction with IC or
memory cards has become increasingly important. For
instance, it has become
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a housing for
containing an IC card, comprising the steps of:


stamping a pair of metal covers with at least one
of the covers having a continuous uninterrupted edge provided

with a plurality of through holes spaced inwardly of and
along the edge;
placing the covers into mold means for an injection
molding process;
injecting plastic support members into attachment
with the covers, with plastic material of the support members

surrounding said edges and flowing through said holes;
removing the covers and attached support members
from the mold; and
bonding the plastic support members together so
that a housing is formed with the covers and within which the

IC card can be contained.
The method of claim 1 wherein said bonding step
includes ultrasonically welding at least portions of the

support members together.
The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of
the covers is stamped with continuous uninterrupted edges

along opposite longitudinal sides thereof with a plurality of
said through holes spaced inwardly of and along each edge.
The method of claim 1, including the step of
positioning a printed circuit board between the covers before

bonding the plastic support members together.
The method of claim 4 wherein said printed
circuit board is positioned on one of the plastic support

members.
A method of manufacturing a housing for
containing an IC card, comprising the steps of:


stamping a rigid metal cover with a continuous
uninterrupted edge provided with a plurality of through holes

spaced inwardly of and along the edge;
placing the cover into a mold for an injection
molding process; and
injecting a plastic support member into the mold
into attachment with the cover, with plastic material of the

support member surrounding said edge and flowing through said
holes.
The method of claim 6 wherein said cover is
stamped with continuous uninterrupted edges along opposite

sides thereof with a plurality of said through holes spaced
inwardly of and along each edge.
The method of claim 6, including the step of
positioning a printed circuit board beneath the cover and in

attachment with the plastic support member.
A method of manufacturing a housing for
containing an IC card, comprising the steps of:


stamping a metal cover with a generally planar edge
having open areas there along;
placing the cover into a mold for an injection
molding process; and
injecting a plastic support member into the mold
into attachment with the cover, with plastic material of the

support member surrounding said planar edge and flowing into
said open areas.
The method of claim 9 wherein said cover is
stamped with planar edges along opposite sides there
of with a
plurality of said open areas along each edge.
The method of claim 9, including the step of
positioning a printed circuit board beneath the cover and in

attachment with the plastic support member.
A housing for containing an IC card,
comprising:


a pair of metal covers with at least one of the
covers having a continuous uninterrupted edge and a plurality

of through holes spaced inwardly of and along the edge; and
a pair of plastic support members respectively
attached to the metal covers and bonded together to form a

housing within which the IC card can be contained, one of the
plastic support members being overmolded about the continuous

uninterrupted edge of the one cover with plastic material
projecting through said holes.
The housing of claim 12 wherein said pair of
plastic support members are ultrasonically welded together.
The housing of claim 12 wherein at least one
of said covers has continuous uninterrupted edges along

opposite longitudinal sides thereof with a plurality of said
through holes spaced inwardly of and along each edge.
The housing of claim 12, including a printed
circuit board between the covers.
A housing for containing an IC card,
comprising:


a metal cover having a planar edge with a plurality
of open areas along the edge; and
a plastic support member overmolded about the
planar edge of the cover with plastic material projecting

into said open areas.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
