<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622335</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method for treating ammonia and urea condensates
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C27308	C07C27500	C01C104	C07C27316	C01C100	C01C112	C01B302	C07C27300	C01C110	C01B300	C07C27500	C01C102	C07C27310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C01C	C07C	C01C	C01C	C01B	C07C	C01C	C01B	C07C	C01C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C273	C07C275	C01C1	C07C273	C01C1	C01C1	C01B3	C07C273	C01C1	C01B3	C07C275	C01C1	C07C273	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is described which enables ammonia plant process condensate 
contaminated with ammonia, carbon dioxide and methanol and urea plant 

condensate contaminated with urea, ammonia, carbon dioxide and other 
combined forms of ammonia and carbon dioxide to be simultaneously converted, 

in a single treatment vessel, substantially and continuously to a vaporous stream 
rich in ammonia, carbon dioxide and methanol and an liquid stream poor in 

ammonia, carbon dioxide, methanol and urea. The vaporous stream thus 
produced is recycled and employed as a feedstock in the reforming section in the 

ammonia plant. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLOGG M W CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
M. W. KELLOGG COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CZUPPON THOMAS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CZUPPON, THOMAS A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for the simultaneous treatment of 
the individual by-product condensate streams produced in and recovered from a 
facility, wherein both ammonia and urea are manufactured. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to a method for simultaneously hydrolyzing and stripping 
such by-product process condensate streams in a single treatment vessel to 
produce a single vaporous product stream rich in ammonia, methanol and carbon 
dioxide values and a single liquid product stream poor in such values. It is known that in the manufacture of ammonia and urea, large quantities of 
by-product process condensates are produced. In the manufacture of urea, for 
example, one mole of by-product water is formed for each mole of urea produced. 
When this by-product water is considered together with other water used and/or 
produced in a urea process, the total amount of process condensate and such other 
water combined can range from 40 to 60 percent by weight of the total weight of 
the urea being produced. Similarly, in the manufacture of ammonia, the amount 
of process by-product condensate produced typically can range from 100 to 135  
 
percent by weight of the total weight of the ammonia being produced. Unfortunately, the by-product process condensates produced in and 
recovered from such ammonia and urea manufacturing facilities contain 
contaminants of such a nature that typically they cannot be readily recycled for 
reuse in the manufacturing processes or discarded to the environment. Generally, 
contaminants found in the process condensates produced in and recovered from 
the manufacture of urea can contain not only from 1.0 to 1.5 percent by weight of 
urea but also from 4 to 8 percent by weight of ammonia and from 2.0 to 5.5 
percent by weight of carbon dioxide. The process condensates produced in and 
recovered from the manufacture of ammonia typically can contain from 0.05 to 0.1 
percent by weight of ammonia, from 0.2 to 0.3 percent by weight of carbon dioxide 
and from 0.05 to 0.2 percent by weight of methanol and, in addition thereto traces 
of higher alcohols, amines and other hydrocarbon components. To render the above by-product process condensates useful for recycle in the 
manufacturing process or readily disposable to the environment, it has been 
common practice to subject these process condensates to some form of treatment 
to remove as much of the aforementioned contaminants as possible. Thus, for 
example, U.S. Patent No. 4,552,979 describes a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A continuous method for concurrently treating a first process 
condensate produced in an ammonia synthesis process and a second 

process condensate produced in a urea synthesis process in a 
single, vertically positioned vessel having an upper hydrolysis 

zone and a lower stripping zone comprising the steps of: 

(a) preheating the first process condensate produced 
in an ammonia synthesis process and comprising a 

dilute aqueous stream consisting essentially of 
water, ammonia, carbon dioxide, methanol and 

traces of higher alcohols, amines and other 
hydrocarbon components and introducing the 

preheated first process condensate into an upper 
end of the stripping zone; 
(b) blending the preheated first condensate within an upper end of 
the stripping zone with a first liquid stream produced in and 

recovered from the upper hydrolysis zone; 
(c) contacting the blended stream, within said stripping zone, in a 
countercurrent flow relationship with steam introduced into a 

lower end of said stripping zone, said contact being carried out at 
a temperature and pressure effective to remove a substantial 

portion of the ammonia, carbon dioxide and methanol from said 
blended stream and thereby produce an aqueous vaporous stream 

in said ammonia, carbon dioxide and methanol and a second 
liquid stream substantially free of said ammonia, carbon dioxide 

and methanol; 
(d) withdrawing the vaporous stream from the upper end of said 
stripping zone and introducing said vaporous stream into a lower 

end of said upper hydrolysis zone;  
 
(e) preheating the second process condensate comprising a 
dilute aqueous stream consisting essentially of 

water, urea, ammonia and carbon dioxide and introducing the 
preheated second process condensate into an upper end of 

the hydrolysis zone of the treatment vessel; 
(f) contacting the preheated second condensate, within said 
hydrolysis zone, in a countercurrent flow relationship with said 

vaporous stream produced in the lower stripping zone, said 
contact being carried out at a temperature and pressure effective 

to hydrolyze the urea contained in the preheated second 
condensate to ammonia and carbon dioxide and thereby produce 

the first liquid stream rich in said ammonia and carbon dioxide; 
(g) withdrawing said vaporous stream from said hydrolysis zone and 
the second stream from said stripping zone. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of recycling said vaporous 
stream enriched in said ammonia, carbon dioxide and methanol to a steam 

reforming stage for producing an ammonia synthesis gas for use in ammonia 
manufacture. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said first process condensate is provided 
under a pressure in the range of from about 3.8MPa to about 7.5MPa and wherein 

said first condensate is preheated to a temperature in the range from about 220째C 
to about 285째C. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the second process condensate is provided 
under a pressure in the range from about 3.8MPa to about 7.5MPa and is  

 
preheated to a temperature in the range from about 130째C to about 195째C. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said contact of said blended stream with said 

steam in said stripping zone is carried out at a weight ratio of steam to total 
process condensates being treated in said treatment vessel ranging from about 0.4 

to about 0.6. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said contact between the preheated second 
condensate and said vaporous stream in said hydrolysis zone is maintained for a 

period of time ranging from about one to about five minutes. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said contact further is carried out in the 
presence of added steam. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second process condensates are 
preheated by indirect heat exchange with said second liquid stream withdrawn 

from the lower end of said stripping zone. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the second stream withdrawn from the lower 
end of the stripping zone contains urea and ammonia concentrations of 5 ppm and 

less respectively and a methanol concentration of 25ppm and less. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
