<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616744</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL CLOCK DEJITTER CIRCUITS FOR REGENERATING CLOCK SIGNALS WITH MINIMAL JITTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J307	H04J307	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J3	H04J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital clock dejitter circuit includes a RAM (20) for receiving an incoming gapped signal (14a), a digital, fractional RAM fullness gauge (30) for tracking the average input and output rates to and from the RAM and for generating therefrom a control indication, and a controllable digital frequency generator (40) for receiving a fast clock signal and the control indication, and for providing therefrom a substantially jitter-free clock signal at the same nominal rate as the incoming gapped signal. The RAM fullness gauge (30) comprises write (54) and read (56) counters which track the movement of data into and out of the RAM, and a subtractor (58) for taking the difference of the counters to obtain the integer value of the RAM depth. The controllable digital frequency generator (40) comprises an adder (72), a register (74) and a fast clock divider (FCC) (76) which provides the fullness gauge with a fractional digital indication of the RAM depth.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSWITCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSWITCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UPP DANIEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLVAVER DAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UPP, DANIEL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLVAVER, DAN, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to digital circuits for
regenerating a jittered clock signal. More particularly, this
invention relates to a dejitter circuit which receives a
jittered telecommunications signal, and which uses a clock
source of higher frequency for regenerating the
telecommunications signal at the rate of the incoming
telecommunications signal.DS0, DS1, DS2, and DS3 telecommunications signals are
well defined according to CCITT specifications. Essentially,
a DS0 signal is a signal having a bit rate of 64 Kbits/sec. A
DS1 signal is composed of twenty-four DS0 segments plus
overhead for a total bit rate of 1.544 Mbits/sec (plus or
minus approximately 200 b/sec). In turn, four DS1 signals
plus some overhead (bit stuffing) constitute a 6.312 Mb/sec
DS2 signal, and four DS2 signals plus some additional overhead
constitutes a 44.736 Mb/sec DS3 signal. DS3 signals are commonly used between central offices for
high speed communication. When the DS3 signal is received, it
is often demultiplexed into its seven composite DS2 signals,
with the bit stuffing utilized for control and essentially
removed from the DS2 signals. In turn, the DS2 signals are
often demultiplexed into their four composite DS1 signals with
the DS2 bit stuffing utilized for control and essentially
removed from the resulting DS1 signals. Each resulting DS1
signal has a bit rate of approximately 1.544 Mb/sec plus or
minus 200 b/sec. However, because in generating the DS1
signal the overhead or stuffing bits are removed, the bit
stream of the DS1 signal is gapped or "jittered". Additional
jitter termed "transport" or "systematic" jitter is also found
in the DS1 signal due to the fact that all systems introduce
noise into the signals which they are carrying. Jitter is
undesirable as it can introduce error in the decoding of the
signal.With the advent of the optical network, additional
telecommunication signals have been defined according to CCITT
specifications. The basic SONET signal is an STS-1 signal
having a bit rate of 51.84 Mb/sec. An STS-3 signal (155.52
Mb/sec) has three times the bit rate of the STS-1 signal.
Often the STS-1 or STS-3 signals are used to carry the data
payloads of DS0, DS1, DS2 and DS3 signals. In fact, the STS
signals can also be required to carry the data payload of
standard European signals such as a 2.048 Mb/sec signal.Standard devices such as phase locked loops are known in
the art for tracking signal rates and for generating a clock
of the nominal received rate for eliminating jitter. Phase
locked
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for regenerating a jittered stream of data of
a first standard telecommunications signal (14a), said

apparatus having a FIFO means (20) for receiving said jittered
stream of data, and for providing said data for output from

said apparatus, a telecommunications clock signal (42) as an
input, said telecommunications clock signal being at a

substantially faster rate than the rate of said first standard
telecommunications signal, and a controllable digital frequency

generator means (40) which receives said telecommunications
clock signal and which generates a substantially jitter-free

output clock signal (18b) at the same nominal rate as said
first telecommunications signal, 
characterised in that
 said
apparatus further comprises a digital, fractional FIFO fullness

gauge means (30) coupled to said FIFO means (20) for tracking
the relative rate at which said FIFO means (20) receives and

outputs said data, and for generating therefrom a control
indication (35), said control indication being responsive to

both the integer and fractional fullness of said FIFO means
(20), and said controllable frequency generator means comprises

a controllable digital frequency generator means (40) for
receiving said telecommunications clock signal (42) and said

control indication (35), and generating therefrom said
substantially jitter-free output clock signal (18b).
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein:

   said FIFO means comprises a data RAM. 
Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein:

   said digital, fractional FIFO fullness gauge means (30)
comprises a write counter (54) which tracks the writing of

bytes of said first standard telecommunications signal (14a)
into said RAM and provides a first count, a read counter (56)

which tracks the reading of said bytes out of said RAM and
provides a second count, and a comparator means (58) for

comparing said first and second counts to provide a plurality
of bits representing said integer fullness of said FIFO means

(20).
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein:

   Said controllable digital frequency generator means
(40) comprises a fast clock counter means (66) for dividing

said clock signal (42) by first and second values in order to
provide said substantially jitter-free output clock signal

(18b), and for providing a digital count of said clock signal
(42), said digital count comprising a plurality of bits,

wherein at least two or said plurality of bits of said digital
count comprise said fractional fullness of said FIFO means

(20).
Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein:

   said digital fractional FIFO fullness gauge means (30)
further comprises a register means (62) for receiving a digital

representation of said integer fullness and said fractional
fullness.
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein:

   Said controllable, digital frequency generator means 
(30) further comprises an adder means (72), and second register

means (74), said adder means (72) having a sum output and a
carry output, said sum output being provided to said second

register means (74) and said carry output being provided to
said fast clock counter means (66) to control by which of said

first and second values said fast clock counter means (66)
divides, said second register means (74) having an output with

said output of said second register means (74) and said control
indication (35) being inputs to said adder means (72).
Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein:

   said first and second values of said fast clock counter
(66) are x and x+1, where x is an integer greater than one.
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein:

   said control indication (35) has a fractional value
substantially equal to a value equal to one of

the fractional remainder obtained when dividing said clock
signal (42) by said rate of said first standard

telecommunications signal, and

one minus the fractional remainder obtained when dividing
said clock signal (42) by said rate of sai
d first standard
telecommunications signal.
Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein:

   said control indication (35) has a fractional value
substantially equal to the fractional remainder obtained when

dividing said clock by signal (42) by said rate of said first
standard telecommunications signal and when said adder means

(72) provides a carry output indicating a carry, said fast 
clock counter means (66) counts to x+1, and when said adder

means (72) provides a carry output indicating no carry, said
fast clock counter means (66) counts to x.
Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein:

   said control indication (35) has a fractional value
substantially equal to one minus the fractional remainder

obtained when dividing said clock signal (42) by said rate of
said first standard telecommunications signal, and when said

adder means (72) provides a carry output indicating a carry,
said fast clock counter means (66) counts to x, and when said

adder means (72) provides a carry output indicating no carry,
said fast clock counter means (66) counts to x+1.
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein:

   Said digital fractional FIFO fullness gauge means (30)
further comprises a second comparator means (64) for comparing

contents of said register means (62) with a predetermined value
and for providing said control indication (35) as a result

thereof.
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein:

   said adder means (72) has a third input, said third
input comprising a fractional value substantially equal to a

value equal to one of

the fractional remainder obtained when dividing said clock
signal (42) by said rate of said first standard

telecommunications signal, and

one minus the fractional remainder obtained when dividing
said clock signal (42) by said rate of said first standard 

telecommunications signal.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein:

   said controllable digital frequency generator means
(40) comprises a fast clock counter means (66) for dividing

said clock signal (42) by first and second values in order to
provide said substantially jitter-free output clock signal

(18b).
Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein:

   Said fast clock counter means (66) further provides a
digital count of said clock signal (42),said digital count

comprising a plurality of bits, wherein at least two of said
plurality of bits of said digital count comprise said

fractional fullness of said FIFO means (20).
Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein:

   Said controllable, digital frequency generator means
(40) further comprises an adder means (72), and register means

(74), said adder means (72) having a sum output and a carry
output, said sum output being provided to said register means

(74) and said carry output being provided to said fast clock
counter means (66) to control by which of said first and second

values said fast clock counter means divides, said register
means (74) having an output with said output of said register

means (74) and said control indication (35) being inputs to
said adder means (72).
Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein:
 
   Said first and second values of said fast clock

counter (66) are x and x+1, where x is an integer greater than
one, and said control indication (35) has a fractional value

substantially equal to a value equal to one of

the fractional remainder obtained when dividing said clock
signal (42) by said rate of said first standard

telecommunications signal, and

one minus the fractional remainder obtained when dividing
said clock signal (42) by said rate of said first standard

telecommunications signal.
Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein:

said first standard telecommunications signal is a
2.048 ± Mb/sec signal,
said telecommunications clock signal (42) is a 58.32
Mks signal,
x equals 28, and
said fractional remainder equals .4765625.
Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein:

said plurality of bits representing said integer
fullness comprises six bits,
said at least two bits representing said fractional
fullness comprises four bits,
said first register means (62) is a register having
at least ten bits,
said adder is a seventeen bit adder (72), and said
second register is a seventeen bit register (74).
Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein:
 
   said digital fractional FIFO fullness gauge means

(20) further comprises a second comparator means (64) for
comparing contents of said register means (62) with a

predetermined value of 0111 1011 0000 0000 0 and for providing
said control indication (35) as a result thereof to said

seventeen bit adder (72).
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein:

said first standard telecommunications signal is a
2.048 ± Mb/sec signal,
said telecommunications clock signal (42) is a 58.32
Mks signal,
x equals 28, and
said fractional remainder equals .4765625.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
