<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Telephone call handling system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q300	H04Q300	H04Q347	H04Q347	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communications system providing a call routing 
service in which each subscriber registered with the system 

is allocated a unique, published subscriber identification 
number (SID). The system comprises: 


i) a central database (CD) containing one or more 
fixed records for each subscriber registered with the 

system, each record corresponding to a particular 
subscriber having an address which includes the SID of that 

subscriber; and 
ii) one or more local databases (LD), each containing 
a memory location permanently associated with a respective 

registered subscriber, and containing current call routing 
information for the subscriber. 
Each fixed record in the central database (CD) 
includes the location of the local database containing the 

respective subscriber's call routing information, and the 
or each local database (LD) is constructed to allow the 

current call routing information in the local database to 
be updated by the subscriber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABLE 
&
 WIRELESS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABLE 
&
 WIRELESS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANIUS PATSON NORBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOBBS STEPHEN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANIUS, PATSON NORBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOBBS, STEPHEN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a communication 
system, and methods of operating the system. In particular 
it relates to a system in which a subscriber can define and 
control the routing of calls dialled using a particular 
number. A desirable feature of an integrated communication 
system is the ability to provide number translation. Where 
the number dialled to reach a terminating address (such as 
a telephone, fax or computer) does not define that 
terminating address, the number must be "translated" into 
a number that does provide all of the information required 
to connect the call. In other words the system must 
provide call routing information, using the dialled number 
as a key to obtain that information. It is also desirable for that call routing information 
to be subscriber definable, i.e. subscribers can easily 
define/control the call routing information from a remote 
device and do not need to deal with this via the system 
provider. Subscriber definable call routing allows a number of 
different applications to be supported by the system. A 
typical example is Personal Numbering - whereby a 
registered subscriber has a personal number which can be 
dialled to reach the subscriber regardless of his location. 
A Personal Numbering system gives even greater flexibility 
than a mobile phone network (in which the subscriber must 
carry his handset with him at all times if he wishes to be 
contacted). The aim of a Personal Numbering system is to 
allow a subscriber to specify the terminating address to 
which all of his incoming calls (dialled using a unique 
personal number -PN) are routed. Therefore if the 
subscriber visits a hotel, he may specify the hotel 
telephone as his current telephone terminating address. 
Alternatively, the subscriber may specify his mobile 
telephone as his current telephone terminating address. A conventional call forwarding system for implementing 
personal numbering is disclosed in US-A-4313035. A single  
 
central database contains each subscriber's call forwarding 
number, which may be updated by the subscriber from any 
telephone. An incoming call using the subscriber's 
personal number is translated to the current call 
forwarding number, and is routed to the subscriber's 
current terminating address. One of the disadvantages of 
this system is that the single central database has to 
store all of the subscriber's information and handle both 
call routing and location updating procedures and can 
suffer significant disruption if changes to the system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A communications system providing a call routing 
service in which each subscriber registered with the system 

is allocated a unique, published subscriber identification 
number
 (SID), the system comprising; 

i) a central database containing one or more fixed 
records for each subscriber registered with the system, 

each record corresponding to a particular subscriber having 
an address which includes the SID of that subscriber; and 
ii) one or more local databases, each containing a 
memory location permanently associated with a respective 

registered subscriber, and containing current call routing 
information for the subscriber, 
 
   wherein each fixed record in the central database 

includes the location of the local database containing the 
respective subscriber's call routing information, and 

wherein the or each local database is constructed to allow 
the current call routing information in the local database 

to be updated by the subscriber. 
A system according to claim 1, wherein an incoming 
call to the subscriber is dialled using a personal number 

comprising the SID, a service identifier and a network 
identifier portion. 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the current 
call routing information defines the terminating address of 

the registered subscriber for incoming telephone calls, fax 
calls and/or computer data. 
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein at 
least one of the local databases is provided in a different 

country from the central database. 
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein at 
least one of the local databases contains current call 

routing information for a Closed User Group. 
A system according to any preceding claim, adapted for 
connection to a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). 
A system according to claim 6, further comprising a 
plurality of Transit Switching Points (TSPs) for connecting 

the system to local switches in the PSTN. 
A system according to any of the preceding claims, 
further comprising a Voice Mail System (VMS) adapted to 

receive the subscriber's current call routing information, 
and update the subscriber's local database. 
A system according to any of the preceding claims 
wherein each of the local databases holds current call 

routing information for a single service. 
A system according to claim 9 wherein the services 
comprise telephone, fax and computer services. 
A method of obtaining a subscriber's call routing 
information in a system according to any of the preceding 

claims, comprising the steps of; 

(i) receiving an incoming call dialled using an 
access number comprising the subscriber's SID; 
(ii) obtaining the location of the local database 
permanently associated with the access number by 

interrogating the corresponding fixed record in the central 
database; and 

   iii) obtaining the subscriber's current call routing 
information by interrogating the corresponding memory 

location in the local database. 
A method of routing a call using a system according to 
any of claims 1 to 10, comprising establishing a connection 

with the system via a telephone network by dialling an 
access number comprising a subscriber's SID, whereby the 

system causes the call to be routed in accordance with the 
subscriber's current call routing information. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein the connection 
is established via a PSTN switch. 
A method according to claim 12 , wherein the access 
number further comprises a service identifier portion. 
A method according to claim 14 when dependent on claim 
10, wherein the service identifier portion identifies the 

incoming call as telephone, fax or computer data. 
A method of operating a system according to any of 
claims 1 to 10, comprising detecting an incoming call 

containing an access number comprising a subscriber's SID, 
carrying out a method according to claim 11 to obtain the 

subscriber's current call routing information by accessing 
the fixed record in the central database corresponding to 

the access number; and routing the incoming call in 
accordance with the subscriber's current call routing 

information. 
A method according to claim 16 when dependent on claim 
6 wherein the routing step comprises dropping the call back 

to a local PSTN switch, whereby the incoming call is routed 
through the PSTN using the current call routing 

information. 
A method according to claim 17 when dependent on claim 
7, wherein a TSP receives an incoming call request from a 

local PSTN switch, the TSP requests the subscriber's call 
routing information from the central database, the central 

database interrogates the subscriber's local database and 
provides the TSP with the subscriber's current routing 

information, and the TSP returns the routing information to 
the local switch for re-routing. 
A method of operating a system according to any of 
claims 1 to 10, comprising updating a subscriber's current 

call routing information in response to an updating signal 
from the subscriber. 
A method according to claim 19, wherein the updating 
step comprises periodically changing the current call 

routing information in a predetermined manner. 
A method according to claim 20, wherein the current 
call routing information is changed in accordance with the 

time of day. 
A method of updating a subscriber's current call 
routing information in a system according to any of claims 

1 to 10, comprising making a telephone call to the system, 
and transmitting data defining the subscriber's new call 

 
routing information, whereby the subscriber's local 

database is updated with the new call routing information. 
A method according to claim 22 wherein the updating 
telephone call is made from a country outside the country 

or countries containing the central database or local 
databases. 
A method according to claim 23 when dependent on claim 
8, wherein the updating telephone call is made to the 

subscriber's VMS. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
