<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631054</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pressure washer bypass valve.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B100	B05B100	B08B302	B08B302	F04B4922	F04B4924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B08B	B08B	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B1	B05B1	B08B3	B08B3	F04B49	F04B49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved fluid bypass valve includes a valve 
housing having an inlet port (52), an outlet port and a bypass 

port (58), all of which are in fluid communication with a 
valve chamber within the valve housing. A shuttle (86) having 

a fluid passage therein is disposed within the valve 
chamber and moves between a first travel limit position, 

in which fluid communication between the fluid passage 
and the bypass port is blocked and a second travel limit 

position, in which such fluid communication is permitted. 
First and second fluid seals are disposed in contact with 

interior surfaces of the valve housing on opposite sides 
of the bypass port, and the shuttle is disposed in 

sealing and sliding engagement with both the first and 
second fluid seals when the shuttle is in the first and 

second travel limit positions. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHOP VAC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHOP VAC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERFIELD ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERFIELD, ROBERT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present application comprises a 
continuation-in-part of United States application Serial 
No. 08/075,414, filed June 14, 1993, which is in turn a 
continuation-in-part of United States application Serial 
No. 07/819,351 filed January 15, 1992 (now U.S. Patent 
No. 5,259,556), which is a continuation-in-part of United 
States application Serial No. 07/634,063, filed December 
26, 1990 (now U.S. Patent No. 5,086,975), which is a 
continuation of United States application Serial No. 
07/462,733, filed January 19, 1990, now abandoned, which 
is a continuation-in-part of United States application 
Serial No. 07/297,620, filed January 17, 1989, now 
abandoned. The present invention relates generally to pump 
structures, and more particularly to a bypass valve for 
a fluid pump such as is used, for example, in a pressure 
washer. Pressure washers have been designed wherein a 
pump pressurizes a fluid which is ejected as a stream or 
spray out of a nozzle. In a floor-standing pressure 
washer, the pump is disposed in a floor standing unit to  
 
which a spray gun is connected by a hose and flow is 
controlled by a flow control valve disposed in the spray 
gun. In a hand-held pressure washer, a pump and valve 
are incorporated in a spray gun, which is connected to a 
fluid source by a hose. The flow of pressurized fluid 
out of the nozzle is selectively controlled by turning 
the pump on or off by means of a switch carried by the 
gun. In the floor-standing embodiment, the pump 
operates continuously because no means for activating and 
deactivating the pump is integrated into the spray gun. In either version of the pressure washer, it is 
desirable to provide a bypass valve which recirculates 
fluid flowing out of the pump back to the intake of the 
pump when the fluid is prevented from flowing out of the 
pressure washer through the spray nozzle, for example, 
when a blockage occurs in the fluid flow path. In 
addition, in at least the floor-standing embodiment, a 
limited flow of fluid out of the nozzle may be permitted 
so that the pump may be cooled by fresh (i.e., non-recirculated) 
fluid. In this way, the pump can operate 
continuously without being subjected to undue stress and 
premature failure. The pressure washer disclosed in Paige, et al., 
parent application Serial No. 07/819,351, now U.S. Patent 
No. 5,259,556, includes a bypass valve (hereinafter the 
"prior valve") in which a shuttle is moveable in a bypass 
chamber between a first position, in which the shuttle  
 
blocks the flow of fluid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a fluid bypass valve including 
   a valve housing having 

      a valve chamber therein, 
      an inlet port disposed at an inlet end 

of the valve chamber, 
      an outlet port disposed at an outlet 

end of the valve chamber, and 
      a bypass port disposed between the 

inlet end and the outlet end, wherein 
the inlet port, outlet port, and bypass 

port are in fluid communication with 
the valve chamber, and 

   a shuttle having a fluid passage therein and 
disposed within the valve chamber and movable between a 

first travel limit position wherein fluid communication 
between the fluid passage and the bypass port is blocked 

and a second travel limit position wherein the fluid 
passage is in fluid communication with the bypass port, 

the improvement comprising: 
   first and second fluid seals carried by 

interior surfaces of the valve housing on opposite sides 
of the bypass port; and 

   surfaces on the shuttle disposed in sealing and 
sliding engagement with both the first and second fluid 

seals when the shuttle is in the first and second travel 
limit positions;

 
   wherein the inlet port and the outlet port are 

in fluid communication through the fluid passage when the 
shuttle is in the first and second travel limit 

positions. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the 
shuttle further includes a bypass orifice for permitting 

escape of fluid from the fluid passage to the bypass port 
when the shuttle is in the second travel limit position. 
The improvement of claim 2, wherein the 
bypass orifice travels past the first fluid seal as the 

shuttle moves between the first and second travel limit 
positions and wherein the bypass orifice has a cross-sectional 

size at an outer portion thereof which is 
longer than a cross-sectional size of the first fluid 

seal. 
The improvement of claim 3, wherein the 
bypass orifice includes a cylindrical portion at an inner 

portion thereof and a tapered portion at the outer 
portion thereof. 
The improvement of claim 2, wherein the 
bypass orifice is disposed between an end of the valve 

chamber and the first and second fluid seals when the 
shuttle is in the first travel limit position and wherein 

the orifice is disposed between the first and second 
fluid seals when the shuttle is in the second travel 

limit position. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the 
fluid passage includes a portion of reduced cross-sectional 

size which produces a pressure drop across the 
shuttle as fluid flows through the fluid passage. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the 
second fluid seal abuts a metal backing ring which 

prevents extrusion of the second fluid seal. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the 
shuttle includes a first shouldered portion which engages 

a second shouldered portion on the valve housing when the 
shuttle is in the second travel limit position such that 

an end of the shuttle is spaced from a rear wall of the 
valve chamber. 
The improvement of claim 1, further 
including a spring placed in compression between an end 

wall of the valve chamber and the shuttle. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the 
shuttle further includes a first sealing surface having 

a first cross-sectional area and a second sealing surface 
having a second, larger cross-sectional area. 
The improvement of claim 10, wherein the 
pressure at the inlet end of the valve chamber exceeds 

the pressure at the outlet end of the valve chamber and 
urges the shuttle into the first travel limit position 

when fluid is permitted to escape from the valve chamber 
through the outlet port and wherein the pressure at the 

inlet end substantially equals the pressure at the outlet 
end when escape of fluid from the valve chamber through 

the outlet port is substantially reduced so that a net 
force attributable to the pressures acting on the first 

and second cross-sectional areas being sealed by the 
first and second seals urges the shuttle into the second 

travel limit position. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the 

shuttle includes a cylindrical shuttle body portion 
having the fluid passage therein and a hollow cylindrical 

shuttle collar that circumferentially surrounds the 
shuttle body portion. 
The improvement of claim 12, wherein the 
shuttle collar includes a bypass orifice and the shuttle 

body portion includes a series of apertures therethrough 
forming a screen in fluid communication with the bypass 

orifice. 
The improvement of claim 12, wherein the 
pressure acting on the first and second cross-sectional 

areas cause the fluid seals to frictionally engage the 
shuttle and thereby substantially resist movement 

thereof. 
In a fluid bypass valve including 
   a valve housing having 

      a valve chamber therein, 
      an inlet port disposed at an inlet end 

of the valve chamber, 
      an outlet port disposed at an outlet 

end of the valve chamber, and 
      a bypass port disposed between the 

inlet end and the outlet end, wherein 
the inlet port, outlet port, and bypass 

port are in fluid communication with 
the valve chamber, and 

   a shuttle having a fluid passage therein and 
disposed within the valve chamber and movable between a 

first position wherein fluid communication between the 
fluid passage and the bypass port is blocked and a second 

 
position wherein the fluid passage is in fluid communication 

with the bypass port, the improvement comprising: 
   first and second fluid seals carried by 

interior surfaces of the valve housing on opposite sides 
of the bypass port; 

   wherein the shuttle further includes a first 
sealing surface having a first cross-sectional area, a 

second sealing surface having a second, larger cross-sectional 
area, the first and second sealing surfaces 

being disposed in sealing and sliding engagement with 
both the first and second fluid seals when the shuttle is 

in the first and second positions, a cylindrical shuttle 
body portion having the fluid passage therein and a 

hollow cylindrical shuttle collar that circumferentially 
surrounds the shuttle body portion; 

   wherein the pressure at the inlet end of the 
valve chamber exceeds the pressure at the outlet end of 

the valve chamber and urges the shuttle into the first 
position when fluid is permitted to escape from the valve 

chamber through the outlet port and wherein the pressure 
at the inlet end substantially equals the pressure at the 

outlet end when escape of fluid from the valve chamber 
through the outlet port is substantially reduced so that 

a net force attributable to the pressures acting on the 
first and second cross-sectional areas being sealed by 

the first and second fluid seals urges the shuttle into 
the second position; and

 
   wherein the shuttle collar includes a bypass 

orifice therein and the shuttle body portion further 
includes a series of apertures therethrough forming a 

screen in fluid communication with the bypass orifice 
that prevents debris in fluid flowing through the valve 

from clogging the bypass orifice, the bypass orifice 
cooperating with the screen to permit fluid to escape 

from the fluid passage to the bypass port when the 
shuttle is in the second position. 
The improvement of claim 15, wherein the 
pressures acting on the first and second cross-sectional 

areas cause said seals to frictionally engage the shuttle 
and thereby substantially resist movement thereof. 
The improvement of claim 16, wherein the 
bypass orifice travels past the first fluid seal as the 

shuttle moves between the first and second positions and 
wherein the bypass orifice has a cross-sectional size at 

an outer portion thereof which is larger than a width of 
the first fluid seal. 
The improvement of claim 17, wherein the 
bypass orifice includes a cylindrical portion at an inner 

portion thereof and a tapered portion at the outer 
portion thereof. 
The improvement of claim 18, wherein the 
bypass orifice is disposed between an end of the valve 

chamber and the first and second fluid seals when the 
shuttle is in the first position and wherein the orifice 

is disposed between the first and second fluid seals when 
the shuttle is in the second position. 
The improvement of claim 19, wherein the 
fluid passage includes a portion of reduced cross-sectional 

size which produces a pressure drop across the 
shuttle as fluid flows through the fluid passage. 
The improvement of claim 15, wherein the 
second fluid seal abuts a metal backing ring which 

prevents extrusion of the second fluid seal. 
The improvement of claim 15, wherein the 
shuttle includes a first shouldered portion which engages 

a second shouldered portion on the valve housing when the 
shuttle is in the second travel limit position such that 

an end of the shuttle is spaced from a rear wall of the 
valve chamber. 
The improvement of claim 15, further 
including a spring placed in compression between an end 

wall of the valve chamber and the shuttle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
