<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631625</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO DNA CLONING TECHNIQUES AND PRODUCTS FOR USE THEREWITH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1510	C12N1510	C12N1564	C12N1564	C12N1566	C12N1566	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of cloning foreign DNA into a DNA vector comprising ligating: (1) a DNA vector having a single stranded DNA overhang at each end, said overhangs being mutually incompatible so as to prevent self-religation, with (2) a linear piece of foreign DNA having a single stranded DNA overhang at each end, each foreign DNA overhang being complementary to but at least one base shorter than each of the vector overhangs and being capable of base pairing along the entire length of the overhang with one of the vector overhangs, and sealing the gap by either transforming the double stranded DNA having a gap therein into a suitable bacterium or transfecting it into a suitable bacterium after packaging it into a suitable bacteriophage.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV HULL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF HULL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR PHILIP NEIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, PHILIP, NEIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO DNA CLONING TECHNIQUES AND PRODUCTS FOR USE THEREWITHThe present invention relates to an improved method of cloning DNA into a vector, and to the products enabling the method to be conducted.Any DNA cloning procedure has four essential parts: a method for generating DNA fragments; reactions which join foreign DNA to the vector; a means of- introducing the artificial recombinant into a host in which it can replicate, and a method of selecting or screening for a clone of recipient cells that has acquired the recombinant.This invention is concerned in particular with reactions which join foreign DNA (DNA to be cloned) to the vector. Consequently the choice of restriction endonucleases, the use of specific linkers or adaptor molecules and the choice of specific vectors is crucial.The method, which can use novel linkers and vectors, can be applied to cloning cDNA, genomic DNA cloning, or the products of PCR reactions.There are currently two methods of joining DNA in vitro, thereby enabling cloning; these suffer a number of drawbacks. 

The first of these methods, and that used with genomic DNA and cDNA, Q-t-ilizes the ability of DNA ligase to covalently join the cohesive ends produced by the action of certain restriction enzymes on DNA. With cohesive ends one strand of the DNA is longer than the other and therefore protrudes and forms an overhang of DNA.The second, also used with genomic DNA and cDNA, utilizes the ability of DNA ligase to catalyse the formation of phophodiester bonds between DNA blunt ends.The reaction that DNA ligase carries out on blunt or cohesive ended DNA is substantially the same, the only difference being that in the case of cohesive ends the ends to be joined are held in place prior to ligation by their inherent cohesiveness whereas this is not the case when blunt ends are to be joined.DNA ligase is most commonly used to covalently bond a restriction endonuclease cut DNA fragment to a vector cut with the same restriction endonuclease. The problem with this method is that recircularization of both linearised vector and DNA fragments can occur.Since the ligation reaction is often performed in dilute solutions the circularization of linear fragments is 

 relatively favoured due to the reduced frequency of intermolecular annealing. This in turn affects the number of recombinants. The recircularization of the vector can be avoided by treating the linearised vector with alkaline phosphatase to remove the 5' terminal phosphate groups thus preventing self
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of cloning foreign DNA into a DNA vector comprising ligating
(1) a DNA vector having a single stranded DNA overhang at each end, said overhangs being mutually incompatible so as to prevent self-religation; with
(2) a linear piece of foreign DNA having a single stranded DNA overhang at each end, each foreign DNA overhang being complementary to but at least one base shorter than each of the vector overhangs and being capable of base pairing along the entire length of the overhang with one of the vector overhangs to produce a double stranded DNA having a gap therein, and sealing the gap by either transforming the double stranded DNA having the gap therein into a suitable bacterium or transfecting it into a suitable bacterium after packaging it into a suitable bacteriophage.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the overhangs on each end of the DNA vector and the foreign DNA are at the 5' ends.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the DNA vector having an overhang at each end is prepared by cleavage with a single restriction endonuclease at first and second restriction sites which are in opposite 


orientation to each other to produce single stranded DNA overhangs which are mutually incompatible.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which the foreign DNA having overhangs at each end is prepared by ligating a linker, as hereinbefore defined and having no terminal 5
*
 phosphate group, to each end of a piece of foreign DNA and cleaving the foreign DNA thus formed with a restriction endonuclease to generate an overhang at each end, the nucleotide sequence of the overhang being substantially complementary to the overhangs of said restriction endonuclease cleaved vector.
5. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the foreign DNA is methylated prior to ligating linkers to each end thereof.
6. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the linkers are methylated prior to ligation to the foreign DNA and said restriction endonuclease is capable of recognizing and cleaving a sequence of nucleotides which includes a methylated nucleotide.
7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the first and second restriction sites have a nucleotide sequence 5' GGTCACC 3' and 5' GGTGACC 3' and are cleaved with 


 restriction endonuclease Bst EII to generate an overhang with a nucleotide sequence 5* GTGAC 3
*
 at each end, which overhangs are complementary to the overhangs on a restriction endonuclease cut piece of foreign DNA on to which linkers containing the nucleotide sequence 5' G aTCAC 3* have been ligated and restricted with endonuclease Dpn I to generate overhangs with a nucleotide sequence 5' TCAC 3' the overhangs being one base pair shorter than the overhangs of the cleaved vector.
8. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the first and second restriction sites have a nucleotide sequence 5' CCTGG 3' and 5' CCAGG 3' and are cleaved with restriction endonuclease Eco RII to generate an overhang 5' CCAGG 3' at each end, which overhangs are complementary to the overhangs on a restriction endonuclease cut piece of foreign DNA on to which linkers containing the nucleotide sequence 5' CmcTGG 3' have been ligated and restricted with endonuclease Apyl to generate overhangs with a nucleotide sequence 5' TGG 3' the overhangs being two base pairs shorter than the overhangs of the cleaved vector.
9. A method as claimed in claim 3 or 4, wherein the first and second restriction sites have a nucleotide sequence 5' CCGAGG 3' and 5" CCTCGG 3' and are cleaved with restriction
'
 endonuclease Sec I to generate an overhang 


with a nucleotide sequence 5' CTCG 3" at each end, which overhangs are complementary to the overhangs on a restriction endonuclease cut piece of foreign DNA on to which linkers containing the nucleotide sequence 5* CTGCAGAG 3' have been ligated and restricted with endonuclease Pst I to generate overhangs with nucleotide sequence 5
*
 GAG 3' the overhangs being one base pair shorter than the overhangs of the cleaved vector.
10. A. method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the overhangs on each end of the DNA vector and the foreign DNA are at the 3 ' ends.
11. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the DNA vector having an overhang at each end is prepared by cleavage with a restriction endonuclease to produce 3' overhangs to each of which are ligated oligonucleotides that are longer than the overhangs and which are capable of base pairing at one end with the overhangs, the free ends of the oligonucleotides being mutually incompatible.
12. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the DNA vector prepared according to claim 11 is ligated with the foreign DNA prepared according to claim 4. 


 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the vector is cleaved with restriction endonuclease Kpnl to generate an overhang with a nucleotide sequence 3' CATG 5' at each end, to each of which overhangs is ligated an oligonucleotide having the sequence 3' CATGXTTAAGGGGG 5' to generate an overhang with a nucleotide sequence 5' XTTAAGGGGG 3' at each end, which overhangs are complementary to the overhangs on a restriction endonuclease cut piece of foreign DNA into which linkers containing the nucleotide sequence 5' GGGGGAATTCCCCC 3' and lacking a 5' phosphate group have been ligated and restricted with endonuclease Eco RI to generate overhangs with a nucleotide sequence 5" AATTCCCCC 3', the overhangs being one base pair shorter than the overhangs on the cleaved vector.
14. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which the foreign DNA having overhangs at each end is prepared by ligating a linker, having no terminal 5' phosphate group to each end of a piece of foreign DNA, stirring and/or warming the foreign DNA thus formed so that the DNA strand of the linker having no terminal 5' phosphate disengages from the other DNA strand of the linker.
15. A method of cloning DNA as claimed in claim 7, in which: 


 (i) the vector contains first and second Bst EII sites;
(ii) the linkers comprise a Dpn I restriction site;
(iii) the vector is cleaved with Bst EII; and
(iv) the ligated foreign DNA and linkers are restricted with Dpn I.
16. A method of cloning DNA as claimed in claim 8, in which:
(i) the vector contains first and second Eco RII sites;
(ii) the linkers comprise an Apyl restriction site;
(iii) the vector is cleaved with Eco RII; and
(iv) the ligated foreign DNA and linkers are restricted with Apyl.
17. A method of cloning DNA as claimed in claim 9 in which:
(i) the vector contains first and second Sec I sites; (ii) the linkers comprises a Pst I restriction site; (iii) the vector is cleaved with Sec I; and (iv) the ligated foreing DNA and linkers are restricted with Pst I.
18. A linker comprising a double stranded sequence of DNA having no 
"
terminal 5
*
 phosphate group and a restriction 


 site which on methylation is capable of being restricted by a restriction endonuclease which cleaves specifically at a site which contains a methylated nucleotide therein.
19. A linker as claimed in claim 18, comprising a Dpn I restriction site.
20. A linker as claimed in claim 19, comprising the sequence 5' GmaTCAC 3' .
21. A linker as claimed in claim 18, comprising an Apyl restriction site.
22. A linker as claimed in claim 21, comprising the ' sequence 5* CmcTGG 3' .
23. A DNA cloning kit comprising:
(i) a DNA vector having a single stranded DNA overhang at each end, said overhangs being mutually incompatible;
(ii) DNA linkers;
(iii) a restriction endonuclease
(iv) a DNA ligase; together with instructions for carrying out the cloning method. 


24. A kit as claimed in claim 23 wherein the linkers have no terminal 5* phosphate group and contain a methylated nucleotide in a methylated nucleotide containing endonuclease restriction site. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
