<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625004</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TREE TREATMENT CAPSULE WITH RADIALLY EXPANDING SHANK PORTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01G706	A01G706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01G	A01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01G7	A01G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tree treatment capsule is disclosed as including a plastic container (10) having a shank (11) with an internal cavity (14) for containing therein a chemical agent (2) and a head (12) integrally formed with the shank portion (11). According to a first embodiment, the shank has a plurality of scorings (20) which are formed in the exterior surface thereof and extend lengthwise of the shank. The scorings (20) allow the shank (11) to be broken so that when an impact force is applied to the head to move the shank towards the plastic plug (30), the plastic plug (30) expands and breaks the shank (11) along the scorings (20) into tongues to form slits between the tongues. According to a second embodiment, the plastic plug (30) is provided to sealingly close the cavity. The shank has a plurality of slots (20A) which are formed in the exterior surface thereof and extend lengthwise of the shank. The slots allow the shank to be broken so that when an impact force is applied to the head to move the heads towards the plastic plug, the plastic plug expands and breaks the shank along the slots into strips to form passages between the strips. The slits or passages allow the chemical agent to pass from the cavity of the capsule through the passages and mix with sap of the tree.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIEFENDORF RICHARD R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERVING HANS A K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIEFENDORF RICHARD R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERVING HANS A K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERVING HANS A K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERVING HANS A K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TREE TREATMENT CAPSULE WITH RADIALLY EXPANDING SHANK PORTIONThis application relates to the inventions forming the subject matter of U.S. Patent application Serial Nos. 07/559,938, filed July 30, 1990, and 07/555,734, filed July 23, 1990. U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/555,734 is a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/410,884, filed September 22, 1989, now U.S. Patent 5,010,684, which is a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/393,841, filed August 7, 1989, now U.S. Patent 4,905,410, which in turn is a Continuation of U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/184,072, filed April 20, 1988, now abandoned. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a tree treatment capsule for feeding a chemical agent into plants and, more particularly, to a capsule for delivering a chemical agent to the phloem layer of a tree. The chemical agent may be either a herbicide or any other tree destroying agent if the treatment is designed to kill the tree, or a fertilizer, fungicide or other medicant or nutrient if the treatment is designed to cure the tree from a disease or a nutrient deficiency. Heretofore, tree treatment capsules consisting of a generally cylindrical hollow container and a plug for insertion into a predrilled hole in a tree to be treated have been known. Such tree treatment capsules have typically been made of a frangible material, or of a hard, brittle, breakable and non-elastic material, such as fiberglass, wood or wood fiber. However, the hollow containers of these known capsules tend to be breakable before they are assembled or even after assembly upon inadvertent application of an external impact. 

 Tree treatment capsules made of a brittle, breakable plastic material are also known. However, although it is difficult to break such capsules before usage, it is also difficult to break them when they are in use. Consequently, a great deal of force must be applied to provide a large enough impact to cause the capsule to break. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a tree treatment capsule which is di ficult to accidentally break before usage, and yet which is easily breakable when an axial impact force is applied.It is also an object of the present invention to provide a capsule which releases a treating chemical more precisely into the phloem layer of a tree, and to provide an improved connection between capsule parts.According to the present invention, a tree treatment capsule is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A tree treatment capsule for insertion into a bore in a tree comprising: a plastic container having a shank with an internal cavity having an end opening containing therein a chemical agent and a head element integrally formed with said shank remote from said end opening; a plastic plug for sealingly closing said internal cavity, said plastic plug being tapered from an outer external diameter larger than the diameter of said end opening to an outer external diameter slightly smaller than the diameter of said end opening such that said plug is only partially insertable into said end opening in order to provide a tight fit between said plug and said end opening; said shank having a plurality of recessed scorings which are formed in the exterior surface thereof at circumferentially equal spacings, said scorings extending longitudinally along said shank from said end opening towards said head element and allowing said shank to be broken so that as an impact force applied to said head element moves said shank towards said plastic plug, said plastic plug expands said end opening and breaks said shank element along said recessed scorings into a plurality of tongues to form slits between said tongues, thereby allowing said chemical agent to pass from said internal cavity through said slits.
2. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 1, wherein said plastic container and said plastic plug are made of different plastic materials.
3. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 2, wherein, said plastic container is made of polystyrene.
4. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 2, 


wherein said plastic plug is made of polyethylene.
5. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 1, wherein said head element has an internal cavity formed with a plurality of ribs in order to provide a strong head element structure.
6. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 5, wherein said ribs are integrally formed with said head element and extend cross-wise of said head element in a radial direction. 7. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 6, wherein said head element is shaped cylindrically.
8. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 1, wherein said plug has an internal cavity formed with a plurality of ribs in order to provide a strong plug structure.
9. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 8, wherein said head element is shaped cylindrically.
10. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 1, wherein at least one of said plastic container and said plastic plug is made of polyvinylalcohol.
11. A tree treatment capsule for insertion into a bore in a tree comprising: a plastic container having a shank with an internal cavity having an end opening containing therein a chemical agent and a head element integrally formed with said shank remote from said end opening, said shank including a circumferential recess formed therein; a plastic plug for sealingly closing said internal cavity, said plastic plug having an outer external diameter slightly smaller than the diameter of said end opening; said plug having a circumferentially extending ridge formed thereon and receivable in said 


circumferential recess such that said plug is only partially insertable into said end opening and so as to provide a tight fit between said plug and said end opening; said shank having a plurality of recessed slots which are formed in the exterior surface thereof at circumferentially equal spacings, said scorings extending longitudinally along a central portion of said shank between said end opening and said head element and allowing said shank to be broken so that as an impact force applied to said head element moves said head element towards said plastic plug, said plastic plug expands said central portion of said shank and breaks said shank along said recessed slots into a plurality of strips to form passages between said strips, thereby allowing said chemical agent to pass from said internal cavity through said passages.
12. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim
11, wherein said plastic container and said plastic plug are made of different plastic materials.
13. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim
12, wherein said plastic container is made of polystyrene.
14. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 12, wherein said plastic plug is made of polyethylene.
15. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 11, wherein said head element has an internal cavity formed with a plurality of ribs in order to provide a strong head element structure. 16. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 15, wherein said ribs are integrally formed with said head element and extend cross-wise of said head element in a radial direction. 


 17. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 16, wherein said head element is shaped cylindrically.
18. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 11, wherein said plug has an internal cavity formed with a plurality of ribs in order to provide a strong plug structure.
19. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 18, wherein said head element is shaped cylindrically.
20. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 11, and further comprising a plurality of ribs, each having an inclined end surface and extending radially into said internal cavity from an inner surface of said shank and wherein said plug includes a tapered portion slidable along each inclined end surface to expand the central portion of said shank.
21. A tree treatment capsule as defined in claim 11, wherein at least one of said plastic container and said plastic plug is made of polyvinylalcohol. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
