<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611004</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J5017	A01J500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a construction for 
milking animals, such as cows, provided with a milking robot 

with a robot arm (1) capable of carrying one or several teat 
cups (2; 3; 4; 5). The milking robot also comprises coupling 

means (7) which are at least partly placed on the robot arm 
(1). The coupling means (7) serve to seize a teat cup and to 

move it subsequently in a mainly upward motion for making 
connection to a teat of an animal to be milked. The coupling 

means include at least one mechanical coupling member. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DEN BERG KAREL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DEN BERG, KAREL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a construction for
milking animals, such as cows, provided with a milking robot
with a robot arm with at least two teat cups and with
coupling means fitted between a teat cup and the
robot arm,
the coupling means are displaceable so that
at least two of the teat cups, one after another, can be
coupled with the coupling means in order to 
connect them to the teats of the animal. Such a construction is known from patent
application NL 8802332.In this prior-art construction, the coupling means
comprise an electromagnet which is capable of being swivelled
to close by the outer jacket of a teat cup and then, upon
being energized, it seizes the teat cup. The electromagnet is
placed on an outer jacket of a cylinder, which outer jacket
is movable in height with respect to the robot arm.
Connecting a teat cup to a teat takes place by consecutively
swivelling the electromagnet to close by the outer jacket of
the teat cup, energizing the electromagnet and moving it
together with the teat cup in upward direction towards the
teat to be connected. Another construction is known from document
EP-A-0 300 582. In this construction each teat cup is
provided with mechanical coupling means. This construction
has the disadvantage that it is expensive to provide each
teat cup with separate mechanical coupling means, while
furthermore the robot arm construction is relatively large
due to the mechanical coupling means for each teat cup. It is an object of the invention to provide a
construction as specified in the opening paragraph, in which
the above-mentioned disadvantages do not occur or are at
least minimized and which operate on a principle different
from the electro-mechanical coupling as described in patent
application NL 8802332.According to the invention, this is achieved in
that 
the coupling means are implemented as mechanical coupling means.
In this way a
relatively cheap and compact construction can be realized.
Furthermore, mechanical seizure of the 
teat cup has the advantage that a firm seizure of the teat
cup can be effected by means of a relatively compact
construction. This reduces the risk that the animal to be
milked kicks off a teat cup to be connected when it is moving
upwards. Moreover, a mechanical coupling has the advantage
that its reliability is higher; for seizing a teat cup
electromechanically is still susceptible to power failures.In a first embodiment of the invention, the
gripping member comprises a gripper, on the free extremities
of which there is provided a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for milking animals, such as cows,
provided with a milking robot with a robot arm (11) with at

least two teat cups (2 - 5) and with coupling
means (7) fitted between a teat cup (2; 3; 4; 5) and the

robot arm (11), the coupling
means (7) being displaceable so that at least two of the teat

cups (2; 3; 4; 5), one after another, can be coupled with the
coupling means (7) in order to connect them to the

teats of the animal characterized in that the coupling means are
implemented as mechanical coupling means.
A construction according to claim 1, characterized
in that the coupling means (7) comprise a gripper (9) or

gripping member (9).
A construction according to claim 2, characterized
in that the gripper (9) comprises free ends.
A construction according to claim 2 or 3,
characterized in that the gripper (9) is swivelable about a

horizontal axis and, during swivelling, the gripper arms (14)
are moved towards each other or away from each other.
A construction according to claim 4, characterized
in that the gripper arms (14) are made of spring steel and

that at least a portion of the arms of the gripper bear
against a stop (16).
A construction according to claim 5, characterized
in that, when viewed in the direction of gripper (9)

swivelling, the stop (16) is provided with a flat butting
portion (17) which merges into a bevelled butting portion

(18).
A construction according to any one of claims 2 - 6,
characterized in that the gripper (9) comprises a tumbler

(11) capable of being swivelled by an actuating cylinder (13)
at one end by means of the gripper (9).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a teat cup (2; 3; 4;

5) is provided with an annular stop (19), against which the
gripper (9) bears when the teat cup is seized. 
A construction according to claim 1, characterized
in that the coupling means (7) comprise a hook-on member (26)

and at least one receiving member (27) which meshes with the
hook-on member (26), with a receiving member (27) being

provided on a teat cup (2; 3; 4; 5) and a hook-on member (26)
being provided on the robot arm (11), or conversely.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that on the robo
t arm (1)
there are provided swivelling means (20), with the aid of

which the coupling means (7) can be swivelled about a shaft
extending in an upward direction.
A construction according to claim 10, characterized
in that the coupling means (7) are disposed in the centre of

a circle described by at least two teat cups.
A construction according to claim 11, characterized
in that the coupling means (7) are provided on a construction

which is near the end of the robot arm (11) and is movable in
the longitudinal direction of the end of the robot arm (11).
A construction according to any one of claims 10 - 12,
characterized in that, with the aid of swivelling means

(20), the coupling means (7) are capable of being swivelled
in between two angular positions through a swivel angle which

is symmetrical with respect to the longitudinal direction of
the end of the robot arm (1).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that each teat cup (2; 3;

4; 5) is connected with the robot arm (1) through a flexible
connecting device (25), one end of which is connected with

the bottom side of the teat cup holder (24) and the other end
with an actuating cylinder connected to a power source

comprising two hydraulic or pneumatic pressure units, which
come into action when the teat cup is being connected to a

teat and when the teat cup is being withdrawn to the robot
arm (1), respectively.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the receiving member

(27) comprises a narrow strip which is oriented obliquely
downwards, is disposed near the top side of the teat cup and

extends over approximately a quarter of the teat-cup 
circumference.
A construction according to any one of claims 9 - 14,
14, characterized in that the receiving member (27) comprises

a ring (36) which is disposed near the top side of the teat
cup and which has a plurality of tapered recesses (37)

located next to each other at the bottom side.
A construction according to claim 16, characterized
in that under the first ring (36), near the top side of the

teat cups, there is provided a second ring (36) at a certain
distance from the first ring (36).
A construction according to any one of claims 9 - 14,
characterized in that the receiving member (27) comprises

a strip (38) which is provided near the top side of the teat
cup and which extends over approximately a quarter of the

teat cup circumference, whilst on the bottom side of the
strip (38) there is provided one tapered recess (39)

extending over virtually the full length.
A construction according to any one of claims 9 - 18,
characterized in that the hook-on member (21) comprises a

pin (35) pointing upwards which is disposed at a distance
from the swivelling means (20).
A construction according to claim 19, characterized
in that there is provided a first pin (35) pointing upwards

which is disposed near the top side of the swivelling means
(20) and a second pin (35) pointing upwards which is disposed

near the bottom side of the swivelling means (20).
A construction according to claim 20, characterized
in that, in the quiescent condition, when the teat cups (2;

3; 4; 5) are on the robot arm (1), the distance from the
first pin (35) pointing upwards to the upper receiving member

(38) is shorter than the distance from the second pin (35)
pointing upwards to the lower receiving member (38).
A construction according to any one of claims 9 - 15,
15, characterized in that the hook-on member (26) comprises a

block (29) provided on the swivelling means, with the block
side facing the teat cup being provided with a seat (30)

corresponding with the outer jacket of a teat cup whilst, on
the top side of the block (29), near the side facing the teat

cup, there is provided an edge (31). 
A construction according to claim 22, characterized
in that the block (29) is provided with two seats (30)

arranged in the shape of a V.
A construction according to claim 22 or 23,
characterized in that the block (29) comprises an

electromagnet which is energized during and/or after
inserting the hook-on device (26) into the receiving member

(27), causing the jacket of the teat cup to make contact with
the seat of the block (29).
A construction according to any one of claims 22 - 24,
24, characterized in that the block (27) is provided with a

through hole (32) in the longitudinal direction.
A construction according to any one of claims 9 - 25,
25, characterized in that the receiving member (27) is

provided with perforations (28) in an upward direction.
A construction according to any one of claims 10 - 26,
26, characterized in that the swivelling means (20) comprise

a guide (42) which guides each of the milk and pulsator hoses
(6) of the foremost teat cups (3, 4) along one side of the

swivelling means (20).
A construction according to claim 27, characterized
in that the guide (42) comprises a U-shaped bent wire (43),

of which the leg ends (44) of the U-shape are bent over to
form a hook, while the base of the U-shaped wire comprises a

ring (45) slid over the swivelling means (20) and rotatably
supported by an other ring (46) fixed in position on the

swivelling means (20).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
