<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638735</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ball joint
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C1106	F16C1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C11	F16C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A ball joint compensates for manufacturing tolerances of the 
components and functions smoothly under large compressive loads. A rigid 

and resilient bearing seat (17) has an elastic restoring force that compensates 
for component tolerances under varying load conditions. A ball joint 

housing (2) and fitted bearing seat permit incremental increases in the load 
bearing area within the ball joint as an operating load increases. The 

increase in load bearing area permits the ball joint (1) withstand larger loads 
than in conventional ball joints without permanent deformation of the 

bearing seat (17). The ball joint (1) is more durable and operates more smoothly 
over a wider range of loads than conventional ball joints. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a ball joint to be used, for example
in a steering mechanism or in a suspension mechanism of a vehicle.A conventional ball joint typically includes a housing having an inner
chamber into which a hard plastic bearing seat is fitted. A ball head of a
ball stud is rotatably engaged in the bearing seat. A projecting stud section,
which is integrally connected to the ball head, extends through an opening
of the inner chamber. A plug, fitted into the opening, holds the bearing
seat and the ball head in the inner chamber of the housing.The above prior-art ball joint presents a problem in that it is difficult
to absorb dimensional tolerances of the parts that comprise the housing,
the bearing seat, the ball stud and the plug. As a result, it is difficult to
stabilize the characteristics of a ball joint when it is assembled with a tie-rod
or other mechanical part. The difficulty in controlling tolerances
carries with it the danger that the bearing seat may wear prematurely and
that rattling may occur with use due to permanent deformation of the
bearing seat caused by high loads.One approach to solving the above problems is disclosed in
Japanese Patent Publication No. 44620-1978. A ball joint according to the
above patent includes a ball head of a ball stud fitting into a bearing seat,
which has both resiliency and rigidity. The slide surfaces of the seat have
a radius of curvature larger than the diameter of the ball head. The ball
head is slidably supported in the bearing seat by two annular slide surfaces
along the inner surface of the bearing seat. The bearing seat is then 
slipped into an inner chamber of a ball joint's metallic housing. Both ends
of the inner chamber are open. A sealing member is then pressed against
an annular ridge at the opening through which the ball stud protrudes. A
dome-shaped section of the bearing seat and of the housing is formed to
substantially envelope the ball head. An elastic deformation occurs in the
bearing seat as the dome-shaped section of the ball joint is formed.The elastic restoring forces arising during the formation of the dome
shaped section enable the ball joint to compensate for dimensional
tolerances of the principal components, thereby ensuring a more uniform
working torque and, generally, smoother operation. The bending
deformation to form the dome-shaped section also relieves loads applied
to the ball stud, thus enabling the ball stud to withstand higher loads.A ball joint described in the above Japanese Patent Publication No
44
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A ball joint (1), comprising:

a housing (2);
a bearing seat (17) in said housing;
a ball stud (3);
a ball (12) on said ball stud secured in said bearing
seat;
a conical inner surface (9) on said housing;
a generally conical outer surface on said bearing
seat;
an annular concave section (27) in said generally conical
outer surface of said bearing seat;
portions (23,24) of said generally conical outer surface
outside said annular concave section (27) contacting said

conical inner surface (9), and supporting said annular concave
section out of contact with said conical inner surface;
a plurality of ribs (28) in said annular concave section;
said plurality of ribs (28) extending part way toward
said conical inner surface (9) to leave a space (t2)

therebetween in an unloaded condition of said ball joint; and
said space (t2) being reducible to absorb heavy loading
without permanent deformation of said bearing seat.
A device according to Claim 1, further comprising:

a generally conical inner surface on said bearing seat;
a first slide surface (31) protruding from said generally
conical inner surface; and
portions of said first slide surface (31) making spot
contact with said ball (12).
A device according to Claim 1, further comprising:

a generally conical inner surface on said bearing seat;
a first slide surface (31) protruding from said generally
conical inner surface; and
portions of said first slide surface (31) making linear
contact with said ball (12).
A device according to Claim 3, wherein said first
slide surface (31) has a radius of curvature (R2) greater than

a radius of curvature (D) of said ball (12).
A device according to Claim 3, wherein said portions
of said first slide surface (31) making linear contact with

said ball (12) are congruent to said plurality of ribs (28).
A device according to Claim 3, wherein said portions
of said first slide surface (31) making linear contact with

said ball (12) are intermediate adjacent ones of said
plurality of ribs (28).
A device according to Claim 3, further comprising:

a cylindrical inner surface on said housing (2);
a generally cylindrical outer surface on said bearing
seat (17);
a generally cylindrical inner surface on said bearing
seat (17);
a second slide surface (30) protruding from said
generally cylindrical inner surface of said bearing seat; and
portions of said second slide surface (30) making one of
linear and spot contact with said ball (12).
A device according to Claim 7, wherein said second
slide surface (30) has a radius of curvature (R1)

substantially identical to a radius of curvature (D) of said
ball.
A ball joint according to any one of Claims 1 - 8,
comprising:


a conical depression (8) centered on a bottom surface (6)
of said housing (1);
a buffer surface (25) on an end of said bearing seat (17)
adjacent to said conical depression (8) and extending over

said conical depression leaving a second space therebetween in
said unloaded condition of said ball joint; and 
said first-mentioned space (t2) and said second space
being reducible to absorb heavy loading of said ball joint

without permanent deformation of said bearing seat.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
