<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650535</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF SOLDERING A SPUTTERING TARGET TO A BACKING MEMBER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K100	B23K100	B23K108	B23K108	C23C1434	C23C1434	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K1	B23K1	B23K1	B23K1	C23C14	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of bonding a sputtering target (5) to a backing member or plate (7) for subsequent use in a sputtering operation. A target (5) and a backing plate (7) are first provided and one face of each of the target (5) and backing plate (7) are wetted with solder. The target (5) and backing plate (7) are then submerged in a solder bath (11), and the wetted faces of the target (5) and backing plate (7) are pressed into contact. The target (5) and backing plate (7) are then removed from the solder bath (11) and while maintaining them pressed together, the solder interface (15) therebetween is cooled directionally by causing cooling to occur from the center of the solder interface (15) radially outwardly toward the periphery. The lowermost of the target and backing plate is provided with a circumferential lip (6) adjacent the periphery of the solder interface (15). When the target (5) and backing plate (7) are removed from the solder bath (11) the lip (6) acts as a solder collector and provides a solder reservoir (20) for supplying the periphery of the solder interface (15) with solder as the solder interface (15) is cooled.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEEGOPAUL PURNESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SICA ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VASCAK MILAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEEGOPAUL, PURNESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SICA, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VASCAK, MILAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD OF SOLDERING A SPUTTERING TARGET TO A BACKING MEMBER Field of the InventionThis invention relates to soldering/bonding, and more particularly to a method of soldering/bonding a sputtering target to a backing member or plate for subsequent use in a sputtering operation. Background of the InventionIn the production of semiconductors, it is common to attach or secure a sputtering target to a backing member or plate in order to perform a subsequent sputtering operation. The backing plate to which the sputtering target is secured serves as simply a mount or fixture with which to hold the sputtering target during the sputtering operation. It is important to effect a secure bond between the sputtering target and the backing plate because of thermal and mechanical stresses generated during the sputtering operation which create a tendency for the target to delaminate or separate from the backing plate. This undesirable tendency is amplified or accentuated if there are voids or other structural defects or imperfections in 

the material which is used to bond the sputtering target to the backing plate.Typically, a target is secured to the backing plate by soldering/bonding. However, the solder bond between the target and backing plate has often provedto be unacceptable from a structural integrity standpoint. Specifically, air pockets or air bubbles, commonly known as "voids", can occur in the solder bond between the target an the backing plate. Since voids decrease the amount of solder available to transmit forces between the target and the backing plate, stresses in the solder increase, sometimes exceeding the ultimate strength of the solder, resulting in target delamination or separation from the backing plate during the sputtering operation. Another drawback of conventional soldering techniques, wherein a sputtering target is soldered to a backing plate, is the creation of a gap or recess in the solder bond at the peripheral edge of the interface between the target and the backing plate. This gap or recess occurs due to the fact that as the solder between the target and backing plate is cooled, it tends to shrink, causing the solder to recede or move toward the center of the target, leaving a gap or recess around the edge of the solder interface. This gap or recess further reduces the integrit of the bond between the target and backing plate. 

 A further drawback of conventional soldering methods is the entrapment of surface oxides in the solder layers that can lead to dela ination and failure between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A method of bonding a sputtering target to a backing plate for subsequent use in a sputtering operation comprising the steps of: providing a sputtering target having a face; providing a backing member having a face; wetting said face of said sputtering target with solder thereby creating a wetted face thereon; wetting said face of said backing plate with solder thereby creating a wetted face thereon; submerging said sputtering target and backing plate in a solder bath; pressing said wetted faces of said sputtering target and backing plate against each other to define a solder interface therebetween; removing said sputtering target and backing plate from said solder bath while maintaining said wetted faces of said sputtering target and backing plate pressed against each other; and directionally cooling said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate in a radially outward direction by causing cooling to first occur from a center thereof and thereafter progressively radially outwardly therefrom. 


2. The method of claim 1 wherein said sputtering target and backing plate are effectively removed from said solder bath by draining said solder bath.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said sputtering target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath by lifting said sputtering target and backing plate out of said solder bath.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein said directional cooling of said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate is accomplished by initially placing a container in heat transfer contact only with a central region of one of said sputtering target and backing plate and adding heat transfer fluid to said container to thereby remove heat from said central region of said solder interface via said one of said sputtering target and backing plate which is in heat transfer contact with said container.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein said container is initially placed in heat transfer contact with said backing plate. 


6. The method of claim 1 wherein said directional cooling is initiated before said sputtering target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath.
7. A method of bonding a sputtering target to a backing plate for subsequent use in a sputtering operation comprising the steps of: providing a sputtering target having a face; providing a backing member having a face; wetting said face of said sputtering target with solder thereby creating a wetted face thereon; wetting said face of said backing plate with solder thereby creating a wetted face thereon; submerging said sputtering target and backing plate in a solder bath; pressing said wetted faces of said sputtering target and backing plate against each other to define a solder interface therebetween; removing said sputtering target and backing plate from said solder bath while maintaining said wetted faces o said sputtering target and backing plate pressed against each other; directionally cooling said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate in a radially outward direction by causing cooling to first occu 



from a center thereof and thereafter progressively radially outwardly therefrom; and supplying solder to a periphery of said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate during at least a portion of said directional cooling step.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein said sputtering target and backing plate are effectively removed from said solder bath by draining said solder bath.
9. The method of claim 7 wherein said sputtering target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath by lifting said sputtering target and backing plate out of said solder bath.
10. The method of claim 7 wherein the lowermost one o said sputtering target and backing plate has a fixture thereon adjacent said periphery of said solder interface such that when said sputtering 5 target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath said fixture acts as a solder collector and provides a solder reservoir for supplying said solder interface periphery with solder as said solder interface is cooled. 


11. The method of claim 10 wherein said fixture is a circumferential lip which is on said sputtering target.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein said circumferential lip is fabricated of temperature resistant elastic material and is maintained in position adjacent sai solder interface by its elasticity.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein said circumferential lip is fabricated of a metal and is maintained in position adjacent said solder interface by mechanical means.
14. The method of claim 7 wherein said directional cooling of said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate is accomplished by initially placing a container in heat 5 transfer contact only with a central region of one of said sputtering target and backing plate and adding heat transfer fluid to said container to thereby remove heat from said central region of said solder interface via said one of said sputtering target and backing plate which is in heat transfer contact with said container. 


15. The method of claim 14 wherein said container is initially placed in heat transfer contact with said backing plate.
16. The method of claim 7 wherein said directional cooling is initiated before said sputtering target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath.
17. A method of bonding a sputtering target to a backing plate for subsequent use in a sputtering operation comprising the steps of: providing a sputtering target having a face; providing a backing member having a face; wetting said face of said sputtering target with solder thereby creating a wetted face thereon; wetting said face of said backing plate with solder thereby creating a wetted face thereon; submerging said sputtering target and backing plate in a solder bath; pressing said wetted faces of said sputtering target and backing plate against each other to define a solder interface therebetween; removing said sputtering target and backing plate from said solder bath while maintaining said wetted faces o said sputtering target and backing plate pressed against 


each other; cooling said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate; and supplying solder to a periphery of said solder interface between said sputtering target and backing plate during at least a portion of said cooling step.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein said sputtering target and backing plate are effectively removed from said solder bath by draining said solder bath.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein said sputtering target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath by lifting said sputtering target and backing plate out of said solder bath.
20. The method of claim 17 wherein the lowermost one of said sputtering target and backing plate has a fixture thereon adjacent said periphery of said solder interface such that when said sputtering 5 target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath said fixture acts as a solder collector and provides a solder reservoir for supplying said solder interface periphery with solder as said solder interface is cooled. 


21. The method of claim 20 wherein said fixture is a circumferential lip which is on said sputtering target.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein said circumferential lip is fabricated of temperature resistant elastic material and is maintained in position adjacent sai solder interface by its elasticity.
23. The method of claim 21 wherein said circumferential lip is fabricated of a metal and is maintained in position adjacent said solder interface by mechanical means.
24. The method of claim 17 wherein said cooling is initiated before said sputtering target and backing plate are removed from said solder bath. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
