<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649314</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISPENSING VOLATILE COMPONENTS OF AN AIR TREATING GEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L901	A61L901	A61L904	A61L904	A61L912	A61L912	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L9	A61L9	A61L9	A61L9	A61L9	A61L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser for dispensing volatile products present in a gel (3) in which the gel is anchored to the dispenser throughout the perimeter of an emanating surface (21) of the gel from which the volatile products are dispensed. The emanating surface is replenished from a reservoir (5) of gel within the dispenser while the emanating surface remains substantially stable and free of shrinkage as result of its anchorage to the container. The anchoring means may be a porous material (19) or appropriately shaped flanges (23) and openings (27) adjacent the emanating surface in the structure of the dispenser.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESSEL FRANGRANCES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESSEL FRANGRANCES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTINI THOMAS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTINI, THOMAS, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISPENSING VOLATILECOMPONENTS OF AN AIR TREATING GELThis invention relates to dispensing devices and more particularly to dispensing devices and methods for controlled release of air treating materials from a device that uses a gel reservoir. The invention has particular application for use with so-called continuous action air freshening units and will be described in connection with such application although other applications are contemplated.The controlled dispensing of fragrance and the capacity to create an odor impression in a substantially closed space is the primary concern of all the methodologies which have addressed the area of air freshening and fragrance diffusion. The importance of a controlled release not only manifests itself from the point of view of fragrance selection, but also proves to be important when concern over the functional life of the unit is considered. Economically viable devices must be efficient in their performance due to high costs often associated with fragrance. Premature release of the fragrance not only creates a potential for excess odor production in the early stages of the product's functional life, but also diminishes the reservoir of fragrance which can be drawn upon in the latter stages of the performance life of the device. Diffusion methodologies are frequently compared over a given time frame with identical loadings of fragrance so that critical, controlled evaluations may be made with regard to odor intensity and product longevity. Superior technologies will be those that are able to produce a greater odor impression over a longer period for a given fragrance loading than similarly intended methodologies. 

 Solid compositions in which a fragrance or perfume is dispersed within a matrix formed by a gelling agent offer a particularly desirable and relatively low cost commercial delivery method for continuous action fragrance release devices. Gels can commonly range from being very soft solids to what is termed "ringing gels", which have greater mechanical integrity.Typically the gel base comprises by weight of said substrate from about 0.5 to about 10% of a gel-forming agent, on an anhydrous basis; water in an amount effective to subsequently hydrate said gel-forming agent; and from about 0.2 to about 5% of said perfume constituent. Suitable gel-forming agents include carrageenan, algins, agars, and other carbohydrates such as amylose, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose.The compositions preferably include up to about 5% of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A dispenser for dispensing volatile products by evaporation from a fully exposed emanating surface of a gel, comprising an open topped container having a perimeter defining an unobstructed opening from which the volatile products may be dispensed, said container having an annular attachment means, defining a plurality of interstices, disposed within the container adjacent the opening around the entire said perimeter thereof, said attachment means interstitially anchoring the gel around and adjacent said unobstructed opening of the container to define and sustain the emanating surface of the gel adjacent to the opening throughout the useful life of the dispenser, whereby during use, shrinkage of the gel will occur within the container as the gel within the container acts as a reservoir supplying the emanating surface wherein the attachment means is a band of porous material into the interstices of which liquidfied gel, entering the dispenser, can penetrate to form the desired anchoring of the gel once it has set.
2. A dispenser according to claim 1 further comprising an impervious membrane sealingly engaging the container about the perimeter of the opening to hermetically seal the container prior to use to dispense the volatile products.
3. A dispenser according to claim 1 wherein the container includes a wall portion defining the opening and a base closure including a filling aperture through which the liquified gel may enter the dispenser, a closure plug, for sealingly closing the aperture, being provided to sealingly close that aperture once a desired quantity of the gel has been placed in the dispenser.
4. A dispenser according to claim 2 in which the membrane is shaped to define a domed emanating surface in the gel received in the dispenser while the dispenser is in an inverted orientation. 


 5. A dispenser according to claim 1 wherein the porous material is one of open celled foam, woven fabric, non-woven fabric, felted textile, porous plastic, a fabric with a plurality of loops extending from a surface thereof or, a porous portion of the material of the container.
6. A dispenser for dispensing volatile products by evaporation from a fully exposed emanating surface of a gel, comprising an open topped container having a perimeter defining an unobstructed opening from which the volatile products may be dispensed, said container having an annular attachment means, defining a plurality of interstices, disposed within the container adjacent the opening around the entire said perimeter thereof, said attachment means interstitially anchoring the gel around and adjacent said unobstructed opening of the container to define and sustain the emanating surface of the gel adjacent to the opening throughout the useful life of the dispenser, whereby during use, shrinkage of the gel will occur within the container as the gel within the container acts as a reservoir supplying the emanating surface wherein the attachment means is integrally formed with the container and comprises a plurality of flanges defining said interstices between the flanges and an adjacent wall portion of the dispenser adjacent the opening to captively engage the gel in the dispenser.
7. A dispenser according to claim 6 wherein the flanges extend longitudinally of the dispenser from the opening. 


 8. A dispenser according to claim 6 wherein the opening is circular and is defined by a cylindrical wall portion of the dispenser, the flanges being annular flanges in the wall portion adjacent the opening. 9. A process for providing a stable emanating surface of gel for the dispensation of volatile products therefrom comprising interstitially anchoring the gel to an annular structure surrounding the emanating surface, providing a reservoir of the gel to replenish and sustain the emanating surface, as said volatile products are dispensed throughout the useful life of the dispenser wherein the anchoring of the gel to a dispenser structure is achieved by allowing the gel in a liquified condition to penetrate the interstices of a porous band disposed about the emanating surface adjacent thereto and allowing the gel to solidify following said penetration.
10. A process according to claim 9 wherein said emanating surface initially is convex.
11. A dispenser according to claim 1 comprising a perforated decorative cover disposed in spaced relationship to and over said fully exposed emanating surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
