<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659284</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NON-LINEAR SEMICONDUCTOR OPTICAL DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F135	G02F135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A non-linear semiconductor optical device (3) comprises an active waveguide with a multiple quantum well construction in the active region. The device (3) is supplied with a drive current at the material transparency current with respect to an optical pump. An optical non-linearity appears with respect to input radiation having a wavelength below that of the bandgap equivalent wavelength of the active region ((lambda)
<
(lambda)g), the effect being achieved at relatively low optical input powers. The non-linearity is fast enough that a switching device incorporating the invention, in use as a demultiplexer, has potential to be used at bit rates approaching the Tbit/s range. In a demultiplexer embodiment, the non-linearity may be exploited in a directional coupler (40), an optical pump being used intermittently to control cross-over of an incoming TDM data signal so as to "pick off" a selected channel. Other applications include optical logic devices.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER MICHAEL ANDREJA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER, MICHAEL ANDREJA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a non-linear
semiconductor optical device. Such devices find application
in optical communications systems, for instance as switches.Embodiments of the present invention can show a
relatively large and fast optical non-linearity and thus lend
themselves to exploitation for instance in high speed or high
data rate optical communication systems.Communications links which can carry high data rates
are advantageous because they can transmit increased levels
of information and/or can provide links via a single physical
connection which services higher numbers of customers. For
instance, time division multiplexed signals on a
communications link can provide a higher number of time
slots, and potentially therefore service a higher number of
customers, where the link itself carries a higher data rate.
Alternatively, ultra high bit rate links may enable customers
to be offered large bandwidth services, and/or give
telecommunications companies greater flexibility in managing
their networks.In order to access the data on a communications link,
it is necessary to download the information on the link to a
receiver. To do this, switching devices may be used, the
speed of switching of the device being commensurate with the
capability of the link for carrying high speed traffic. In
optical communications, it is envisaged that data rates may
be achieved as high as 100Gbit/s or more, in the foreseeable
future. This might be carried for instance in ten time
slots, providing ten channels at 10Gbit/s.Data rates of 100Gbit/s or higher will require all-optical
switching elements since electronic components
operating at such speeds are not available. Embodiments of
the present invention can provide an important part of
achieving ultra high bit rate links, providing a switching
device potentially capable of demultiplexing for instance a
10Gbit/s bit stream from a 100Gbit/s optical time division 
multiplexed (OTDM) signal. An optical pump synchronised to
the data stream might be used to switch out every tenth bit.Applications of a large, fast optical non-linearity
such as that provided by embodiments of the present invention
go beyond just high data rate optical communication systems.
In particular, there will be applications in all-optical
processing and logic systems. A reference in this respect is
a review paper: "Third Order Non-Linear Integrated Optics"
by G I Stegeman et al., Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol
6 953-970 June 1988. This describes a range of devices and
applications, many
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A non-linear, active, optical semiconductor device for
use in data operations in optical communications systems,

the device comprising

i) an active region adapted to receive an optical
signal;
ii) optical pump input means for inputting an optical
pump radiation to said active region, said optical pump radiation

comprising a wavelength shorter than a bandgap
equivalent wavelength of said active region; and
iii) optical gain controlling means for setting said
active region at, or substantially at

transparency with respect to the optical pump radiation,
such that stimulated emission and stimulated

absorption are substantially balanced at the
wavelength of the optical pump radiation,

the arrangement being such that, in use, the optical pump
affects the refractive index of said active region in a

non-linear fashion such that transmission of the optical
signal in the device can be controlled.
A device according to claim 1, wherein said active
region comprises a quantum well active region.
A device according to claim 2, wherein said quantum
well active region comprises strained material.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the optical gain controlling means comprises a

drive current input to said active region. 
A device according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the transnissicn of said optical signal in the

device is controled with respect to the location of the
optical path taken by the optical signal through the

device.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises a waveguide arrangement, the active

region being incorporated in the said waveguide
arrangement.
A device according to claim 6, wherein said waveguide
arrangement comprises a directional coupler having at least

one input and more than one output such that a data-carrying
optical signal input to said coupler might follow

one of at least two optical paths so as to exit at a
selected one of said outputs, one of said paths comprising

said active region and the optical pump radiation being selectively
applied to the active region so as to determine at which of

said outputs the optical signal exits.
A device according to claim 7, wherein said data-carrying
optical signal comprises multiple, time division

multiplexed, data channels and
the device further comprises means for intermittently applying the optical pump radiation

so as to divert one or more of said multiple
data channels from the optical path of the optical signal

such that the diverted channel or channels exits at a
different output
 of the directional coupler with respect to
an uninverted channel or channels of the optical signal.
A device according to claim 8, wherein said applying means are arranged to modulate the optical
pump radiation at the clock rate of the data-carrying

optical signal, and is at a wavelength distinct from that 
of said signal, so than the data-carrying optical signal is

converted to the wavelength of the optical pump radiation, and the
converted data-carrying signal and optical pump radiation emerge from

distinct outputs of said directional coupler.
A device according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein the transmission of said optical signal in the

device is controlled with respect to the phase of the
optical signal in the device.
An optical switching arrangement comprising a device
according to claim 10, wherein said phase control is

exploited in an interferometer so as to convert controlled
changes in phase to changes in amplitude of an optical

output from the interferometer.
An optical switching arrangement as claimed in claim
11, wherein said interferometer comprises a loop mirror.
An optical logic arrangement comprising a device
according to any one of the preceding claims.
A device or arrangement according to any one of the
preceding claims comprising semiconductor materials

belonging to the InP based optoelectronics materials
system.
A method of operating an active optical semiconductor
device, the method comprising the steps of:-


i) inputting an optical signal to the active region
of the device; 
2) inputting an optical pump radiation, at a wavelength
shorter than the bandgap equivalent wavelength of

the active region, to the active region;
3) adjusting the optical gain of the active region
such that stimulated emission and stimulated

absorption, at the wavelength of the optical
pump radiation, are substantially equal; and
4) controlling the transmission of the optical
signal through the device by utilising the

optical pump radiation to affect the refractive index of
the active region of the device.
A method according to claim 15, wherein said optical
signal is at a wavelength distinct from the wavelength of

said optical pump radiation.
A method according to claim 16, wherein said optical
signal is at a wavelength longer than the wavelength of

said optical pump radiation.
A method according to any one of claims 15, 16 or 17,
wherein the transmission of optical radiation is controlled

with respect to the location of the optical path taken by
the optical radiation through the device.
A method according to claim 18, wherein the active
region lies in one of at least two alternative optical

paths for the optical radiation through the device, and the
relative refractive indexes of at least part of said

alternative optical paths are controlled by means of the
optical pump radiation. 
A method according to any one of claims 15, 16 or 17, wherein the
transmission of optical radiation is controlled with respect to its phase in the

device.
A method of extracting a clock signal from an optical data stream, the
method comprising: mode locking an optical fibre laser with the data stream to

produce a stream of laser pulses at the clock frequency, the optical fibre laser
including a resonant cavity within which is located a non-linear optical modulator;

characterised in that the non-linear optical modulator comprises a semi-conductor
optical amplifier which is biased at transparency

for the radiation of the optical data stream having a
wavelength shorter than a bandgap equivalent of the

amplifier's active region.
A clock extraction device for extracting a clock signal from an optical data
stream, the device comprising: an optical fibre laser having a resonant cavity

which incorporates a non-linear optical modulator; input means to permit in use the
optical data stream to be coupled into the optical cavity for passage through the

optical modulator, the arrangements being such that the laser can in use be mode-locked
by the data stream, and output means to permit pulses produced by the

mode-locked laser to be coupled out from the cavity; characterised in that the non-linear
optical modulator is a semi-conductor optical amplifier which is, in use,

biased at transparency
for the radiation of the optical data stream having a

wavelength shorter than a bandgap equivalent of the
amplifier's active region.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
