<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629985</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remote unit identification system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B2510	G08B2510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B25	G08B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a fire, smoke or intruder detection system 
including a master unit (2) and satellite units (1) with remote 

sensors, the satellite units (1) send alarm transmissions to 
the master unit over a radio frequency channel. In 

order to register satellite units with the master unit 
each satellite unit is provided with a unique 

identification code and, after suitable triggering, 
sends a signal including this code to the master unit 

over a line-of-sight communications channel. The master 
unit registers satellite unit identification codes 

received on the line-of-sight channel and disregards 
radio frequency transmissions if they include 

unregistered satellite unit identification codes. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCANTRONIC LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCANTRONIC LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANKINS TIMOTHY RICHARD FREDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALLEY IAN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANKINS, TIMOTHY RICHARD FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALLEY, IAN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
alarm systems and, more particularly, to methods and
apparatus by which remote units such as sensor units in
an alarm system identify themselves.In general, alarm systems consist of a control
unit, a number of distributed sensors units, and one or
more alarm output units. There may also be a hand-set
for an operator to remotely control the control unit.
In modern systems the alarm sensors are adapted to
communicate with the control unit using signals at radio
frequencies. Both simplex and duplex communication have
been used for this purpose.Typically a sensor will send a message to the
control unit when an alarm condition has been detected,
when the sensor is being subjected to tampering or when
the sensor battery is running low.Radio transmission from alarm sensors include
a sensor identification code within the transmitted
message. In this way the control unit can determine
which sensor has detected the alarm condition, has a low
battery, etc. In order to make the determination the
control unit must be pre-programmed so as to learn the
identification codes of the sensors in the system.
Initially this was achieved by having the system
installer set up codes in each sensor and corresponding
codes in the control unit. This involved setting up
matching dispositions of switches in the sensors and the
control unit.Increasingly there has been a trend away from
manual intervention in the sensor registration process.
As a first step, alarm systems were supplied in which
each sensor had its identification code preset at the
factory. However, the installer still needed to set up 
corresponding codes in the control unit. Next, it was
proposed that each sensor identification code should be
arranged to contain a portion common to the particular
system, i.e. a "house code". In this arrangement the
control unit would be set up to monitor sensor
transmissions and to learn identification codes of
sensors which had sent to the house code and which had
not transmitted previously. Here the "house code" must
be manually input in each sensor when it is installed.A near-automatic system is described in US
Patent 4855713. In that system each sensor has a
pseudo-random identification code set at the factory
when the sensor is manufactured. Instead of using a
house code to identify sensors as belonging to a
particular system the control unit is arranged to learn
the identities of all the sensors which transmit to it
while it is in a program mode. Thus as a preliminary
stage when the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of registering a satellite unit
as a member of an alarm system including at least one

satellite unit, the method comprising:

setting a master unit capable of receiving
signals on a radio frequency channel and a line-of-sight

channel to receive signals on the line-of-sight channel;
triggering a satellite unit capable of
transmitting signals on a radio frequency channel and on

a line-of-sight channel to send a satellite unit
identification signal over the line-of-sight channel;

and
arranging the satellite unit and master unit
such that the master unit recovers and registers the

satellite unit identification signal.
The method of claim 1, further comprising the
steps of receiving the signals transmitted over the

line-of-sight channel from the satellite unit on a
movable transceiver;


repositioning the movable transceiver in line-of-sight
communication with the master unit;
triggering the movable transceiver such that
signals indicative of those received from the satellite

unit are retransmitted such as to be received on the
line-of-sight channel of the master unit.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the line-of-sight
channels are optical channels.
The method of claim 3, wherein the satellite
unit further comprises a light emitting diode, means for

triggering illumination of the light emitting diode and
means for modulating the illumination of the diode by

the satellite unit identification signal; and wherein 
the master unit further comprises means for demodulating

identification signals from light pulses received on the
optical channel.
The method of any previous claim, wherein the
system is a duplex system, and further comprising the

step of transmitting a signal from the master unit for
triggering a transmission from the satellite unit on its

line-of-sight channel.
The method of any previous claim, wherein the
system is a duplex system, and the master unit has means

for storing a master unit identification signal;

the satellite unit further comprises means for
receiving transmissions from the master unit and for

recovering and registering the received master unit
identification signal; said method further comprising

the step of
triggering the master unit to transmit a
signal including the master unit identification signal,

whereby the satellite unit recovers and registers the
received master unit identification signal.
The method of claim 6, wherein the master unit
transmits the master unit identification signal on its

line-of-sight channel.
The method of any previous claim, wherein the
satellite unit is adapted to detect a predetermined

condition and on the detection of the condition to
transmit an alarm sign
al on the radio frequency
channel.
The method of any previous claim, wherein the
identification signal of the satellite unit is uniquely 

determined.
The method of any previous claim, wherein the
identification signal of the satellite unit is a pseudo-random

identification code.
An alarm system comprising a master unit and at least
one satellite unit, wherein:


the or each satellite unit comprises means for
transmitting signals including a satellite unit

identification signal over a radio frequency channel and
means for transmitting signals including the satellite

unit identification signal over a line-of-sight
communication channel; and
the master unit comprises means for receiving
signals on radio frequency and line-of-sight

communications channels; means for recovering satellite
unit identification signals from the received signals

and means for registering identification signals
received on the line-of-sight channel as identification

signals of satellite units belonging to the system.
The system of claim 11, further comprising a
movable transceiver having means for receiving

communications transmitted over the line-of-sight
communication channel by a satellite unit, and means for

retransmitting communications indicative of those
received over a further line-of-sight communication

channel such that they are received on the line-of-sight
communications channel of the master unit.
The system of claim 11 or 12, wherein the
line-of-sight communications channels are optical

channels.
The system of claim 11, 12 or 13, wherein the 
satellite unit line-of-sight channel transmission means

comprises a light emitting diode, means for triggering
illumination of the light emitting diode and means of

modulating light pulses from the diode by the satellite
unit identification signal.
The system of any of claims 11 to 14, wherein
the system is a duplex system and the master unit is

adapted to transmit, in use, a signal to trigger a
transmission from the or each satellite unit on its

line-of-sight communications channel.
The system of any of claims 11 to 15, wherein
the system is a duplex system and the master unit is

adapted, when triggered, to transmit a signal including
a master unit identification signal and the or each

satellite unit comprises means for receiving the
transmission from the master unit, and means for

recovering and registering the received master unit
identification signal.
The system of claim 16, wherein the master
unit is adapted to transmit the master unit

identification signal over its line-of-sight
communications channel.
The system of any of claims 11 to 17, wherein
the or each satellite unit is adapted to detect a

predetermined condition and on the occurrence of the
condition to transmit on alarm signal on the radio

frequency communications channel.
The system of any of claims 11 to 18, wherein
the identification signal of the or each satellite unit

is uniquely determined. 
The system of any of claims 11 to 19, wherein
the identification signal of the or each satellite unit

is a pseudo-random identification signal.
The system of any of claims 11 to 20, wherein
one or more of the satellite units comprises a passive

infrared sensor adapted to trigger an alarm transmission
on the radio frequency channel when a moving infrared

source is detected.
The system of any of claims 11 to 21, wherein
one or more of the satellite units comprises a fire or

smoke detecting element adapted to trigger an alarm
transmission on the radio frequency channel when fire or

smoke is detected.
A system according to any of claims 11 to 22,
further comprising means to switch the master unit

between a first mode in which identification signals
recovered from signals received on the line-of-sight

channel are registered as identification signals of
satellite units belonging to the system, and a second

mode in which signals received on the radio frequency
channel are monitored and compared with registered

identification signals, whereby to determine whether a
sensor within the system has detected a predetermined

alarm condition.
A master unit for an alarm system including the
master unit and at least one satellite unit, the master

unit comprising:

means for receiving communications on a radio
frequency channel;
means for receiving communications on a line-of-sight
communications channel;
means for recovering and registering satellite 
unit identification signals from communications received

on the line-of-sight communications channel; and
means for recovering satellite unit
identification signals from communications received on

the radio frequency channel and for comparing the
recovered identification signals with the registered

identification signals whereby to enable received
communications to be disregarded if transmitted by

unregistered satellite units.
The master unit of claim 24, wherein the line-of-sight
channels are optical channels.
The master unit of claim 24 or 25, further
comprising means for transmitting a signal to trigger a

satellite unit transmission on its line-of-sight
communications channel.
The master unit of claim 24, 25 or 26, further
comprising means for transmitting a signal including a

portion indicative of an identification signal assigned
to the master unit.
The master unit of any of claims 24 to 27,
further comprising means to switch the master unit

between a first mode, in which satellite unit
identification signals recovered from signals received

on the line-of-sight channel are registered as
identification signals of satellite units belonging to

the system; and a second mode, in which signals received
on the radio frequency channel are monitored and

compared with registered identification signals,
whereby to determine whether a sensor within the system

has detected a predetermined alarm condition.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
