<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657045</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SCRIPT-BASED SYSTEM FOR TESTING A MULTI-USER COMPUTER SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1134	G06F1136	G06F11273	G06F1122	G06F1136	G06F1134	G06F11273	G06F1122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A testing system and method for defining testing scenarios for a multi-user computer system having a plurality of workstations, and for driving and tracking the execution of the testing scenarios in a predefined order at the workstations is disclosed. The system and method revolve around the concept of a "script". Each script or script set is intended to reflect one business scenario. Each script contains instructions, data, and routing information used to execute the testing scenario on the workstations of the multi-user computer system. The testing system includes a maintenance and creation means for creating and modifying scripts; a tracking administration means for grouping selected scripts to form the test, for initiating a test run, for monitoring routing of the scripts from workstation to workstation, for selectively controlling routing of the scripts from workstation to workstation in an error situation, and for automatically generating statistical reports detailing the performance of the test; and a tracking means for routing the selected scripts to selected workstations according to the routing information.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTKUS SANDY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAROLICK KATHERINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESSLER ARMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REID NACINE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARR JAMES L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTKUS, SANDY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAROLICK, KATHERINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESSLER, ARMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REID, NACINE, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARR, JAMES, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the testing of a multi-user
computer system. More specifically, the invention is concerned with a
system and method for defining one or more testing scenarios and for
driving and tracking the execution of the testing scenarios.Multi-user computer systems are used throughout the business and
scientific communities to perform a myriad of functions. For example,
in the business community, computer systems are used to perform
manufacturing automation, inventory management, order processing and
tracking, financial accounting, records management, word processing,
etcetera. These functions may be performed company wide on a single
networked computer system which includes many workstations. The size
and complexity of such a networked computer system may range from a
global structure which includes workstations situated at remote sites
around the world to a local network which includes several workstations
located at a single corporate site.An example of one such computer system is SAP (System,
Applications and Products in Data Processing). SAP is a business
software package consisting of an R/2 Basis System and one or more
specialized applications modules (for example, financial accounting,
order entry). The R/2 Basis System is a platform on which the various
applications modules run. The SAP system is available from SAP GmBh,
Max Planck Strasse 8, D-6909 Walldorf, Germany.The SAP system operates in conjunction with a multi-user computer
system. The term "multi-user" is used herein to mean a computer system
which can simultaneously be used by a plurality of users. A "physical
workstation" is a "dummy" terminal, a personal computer or any other I/O
(input/output) device which allows a user to communicate with the
computer system. A "physical workstation" is also referred to as a
"terminal". As used herein, the term "logical workstation", or simply,
"workstation" shall mean a functional location which includes one or
more physical workstations or terminals. For example, an accounting
department which includes five terminals may be considered a single 
logical workstation. A logical workstation may also be termed a "test
station". The workstations are linked to a central computer (a multi-user
computer) containing the SAP system.In a global business arrangement, for example, a multi-user
computer system may be used to receive a product order at a workstation
in Paris. The order may result in a request for shipment appearing on a
workstation in a manufacturing plant in Chicago
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computerized method for testing a multi-user computer
system including a plurality of workstations, the method comprising the

steps of:

(1) creating a plurality of scripts, wherein each of said
plurality of scripts contains instructions, data and routing

information, said routing information being indicative of the
workstations to which a script should be routed and in what 
order;
(2) grouping selected ones of said scripts to form a test,
(3) initiating a test run,
(4) routing said selected ones of said plurality of
scripts to selected ones of the workstations according to said routing

information; and
(5) monitoring routing of said scripts from workstation
to workstation.
The method of claim 1, wherein the method further
comprises the step of

   (6) automatically documenting the test results.
The method of claims 1 or 2, further including after step (5)
of monitoring routing the step of

   (5.1) in an error situation, selectively controlling routing
of said scripts from workstation to workstation.
The method of one of claims 1-3, further including the
step of

   assigning a selected one of said plurality of scripts to a
first terminal of a first workstation in response to a first command

from said first terminal. 
The method of claim 4, further including the step of

   displaying said instructions contained in said selected one
of said plurality of scripts at said first terminal in response to a

second command from said first terminal.
The method of claim 4, further including the step of

   receiving and recording test results from said first
terminal.
The method of claim 6, further including the step of

   transferring said selected one of said plurality of scripts
from said first workstation to a second workstation in response to a

third comand from said first terminal and in accordance with said
routing information in said selected one of said plurality of scripts.
The method of one of claims 1-7, further including the
step of

   automatically generating the routing information for a
selected one of said plurality of scripts based upon said instructions

in said selected one of said plurality of scripts.
The method of one of claims 1-8, further including the
steps of

   setting a status code, a blocking indicator and a category
indicator for a selected group of said plurality of scripts and for

copying and deleting selected ones of said plurality of scripts.
The method of one of claims 1-9, further including the
step of

   generating statistical reports documenting execution
statistics for the test. 
A computerized method for testing a multi-user computer
system which includes a plurality of workstations, wherein a plurality

of scripts which are used to create a test have been created and each
script contains instructions, data and routing information, said routing

information being indicative of the workstations to which a script
should be routed and in what order, the method comprising the steps of


(1) initiating a run of the test in response to a command
entered via one of the plurality of workstations;
(2) routing a selected one of the plurality of scripts to
a selected one of the plurality of workstations as indicated in the

routing information of said selected one of the plurality of scripts;
(3) executing at said selected one of the plurality of
workstations a portion of the test in accordance with the instructions

contained in said selected one of the plurality of scripts in response
to a command of a user entered via said selected one of the plurality of

workstations;
(4) transferring said selected one of the plurality of
scripts to a next selected one of the plurality of workstations as

indicated in the routing information of said selected one of,the
plurality of scripts in response to a command from said selected one of

the plurality of workstations; and
(5) repeating steps(2) through (4) for each of the
plurality of scripts until each said selected one of the plurality of

scripts has been transferred in order to each workstation as indicated
in the routing information.
The method of claim 11, wherein step (3) of executing further
comprises

   recording test results input at said selected one of the
plurality of workstations. 
The method of claims 11 or 12, wherein step (3) of executing further
comprises

   recording error information input at said selected one of
the plurality of workstations when an error is detected during the

execution of said portion of the test.
The method of one of claims 11-13, further including
between step (3) of executing and step (4) of transferring the step of

   selectively controlling the transfer of said selected one of the
plurality of scripts in response to a command entered via one of the

plurality of workstations.
A computerized testing system including a database (110) configured to
store a plurality of scripts, wherein each of said plurality of scripts contains instructions

and data and is used to test a multi-user computer system including a plurality of
workstations coupled to a central computer,

   characterized in that

each of said plurality of scripts additionally contains routing information, said
routing information being indicative of the workstations to which a script should be routed

and in what order,
and in that the system comprises:

(1) maintenance and creation means (102) for creating and modifying said
plurality of scripts; and
(2) tracking means (106) for routing selected ones of said plurality of
scripts to selected ones of said plurality of workstations according to said routing

information.
The testing system of claim 15, further comprising

   tracking administration means (108) for grouping selected
ones of said scripts to form the test, initiating a test run, and

monitoring and, in an error situation, selectively controlling routing
of said scripts from workstation to workstation. 
The testing system of claim 16, wherein said tracking
administration means further comprises

   means for automatically generating statistical reports
documenting execution statistics for the test.
The testing system of one of claims 15-17, further
comprising

   script administration means for copying and deleting groups
of scripts, limiting access to scripts and updating groups of scripts.
Use of the system of one of claims 15-18 for the method
of one of claims 1-14.
A multi-user computer system including a plurality of workstations coupled
to a central computer and a database (110) configured to store a plurality of scripts,

wherein each of said plurality of scripts contains instructions and data and is used to test
a multi-user computer system including a plurality of workstations coupled to a central

computer,

   characterized in that

each of said plurality of scripts additionally contains routing information, said
routing information being indicative of the workstations to which a script should be routed

and in what order,
and in that the multi-user computer system comprises:
a testing system of one of claims 15 - 19.
A workstation for a multi-user computer system including a plurality of
workstations coupled to a central computer and a database configured to store a plurality

of scripts which are used to create a test, wherein each of said plurality of scripts contains
instructions and data and is used to test a multi-user computer system including a plurality

of workstations coupled to a central computer,

   characterized in that

each of said plurality of scripts additionally contains routing information, said
routing information being indicative of the workstations to which a script should be routed

and in what order,
and in that the workstation comprises: 

(1) means for executing at said workstation a portion of the test in
accordance with instructions contained in the script routed to said workstation in response

to a command of a user entered via said workstation and
(2) means for transferring said script to a next selected one of the plurality
of workstations as indicated in the routing information of said script in response to a

command from said workstation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
