<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632695</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW CALORIE, HIGH BASE CHEWING GUM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G400	A23G400	A23G402	A23G402	A23G404	A23G406	A23G406	A23G408	A23G410	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a low calorie, high base chewing gum and methods for making same. The low calorie, high base chewing gum will include at least 70 %, by weight, of a wax-free, or substantially wax-free, gum base. In an embodiment, a low calorie, high base chewing gum is provided comprising: at least 70 % of a wax-free base; less than 30 % bulking agent; and less than or equal to 7 % flavor. Pursuant to the present invention, reduced levels of flavoring agents, as compared to typical low calorie, high base chewing gums can be used.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGREW GORDON N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYNOSKY STEVEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGREW GORDON N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYNOSKY STEVEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 S P E C I F I C A T I O NTITLE LOW CALORIE, HIGH BASE CHEWING GUM This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/906,921 filed on June 30, 1992 entitled: "IMPROVED WAX-FREE CHEWING GUM BASE" that names Steven Synosky and Michael Reed as the inventors, which is a continuation-in-part of PCT Patent Application No. PCT/US92/01686 filed on March 3, 1992, in the U.S. Receiving Office under the Patent Cooperation Treaty entitled: "IMPROVED WAX-FREE CHEWING GUM BASE", and naming Steven Synosky as the inventor. FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to low calorie chewing gum and to methods of preparing low calorie chewing gum.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONRecently, in the United Kingdom, the use of wax, especially mineral hydrocarbon wax, in gum bases, has come under scrutiny. There is a perception in the United Kingdom that it may not be desirable to use wax in gum bases. This perception could result in possible regulatory issues, in the United Kingdom, concerning the use of wax in gum base.Unfortunately, one cannot merely remove wax from a gum base without possibly compromising certain desirable characteristics of the resulting chewing gum product. Wax provides a number of functions in the gum base. For example, wax can influence the release of flavor from the gum product. Furthermore, wax aids in the curing of the finished gum product that is made 

from the gum base. Additionally, wax contributes to the shelf-life of the finished gum and its texture. Although some gum bases are known that do not contain wax, they, the inventor believes, typically do not have the chew characteristics, in addition to other characteristics, of typical chewing gums that are created from wax containing gum bases. Heretofore, gum bases without wax were not created in response to any regulatory concerns, but rather, were merely created as part of bases to achieve other ends, for example, a non-tack gum. Therefore, in certain instances, compromises with respect to certain characteristics may have been made to achieve other results, e.g., non-tack, promote stability of certain ingredients, etc.U.S. Patent 3,984,574, issued to Comollo, discloses an abhesive chewing gum base in which the non-tack properties were achieved by eliminating conventional chewing gri base ingredients which were found to contribute to chewing gum tackiness, and by substituting non-tacky ingredients in place of the conventional ingredients. Specifically, it was discovered that three classes of materials account for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A low calorie, high base chewing gum comprising: at least 70% by weight of a wax-free gum base; less than 30% by weight of a bulking agent; and less than or equal to 7%, by weight of the gum base, of a flavor.
2. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 including an artificial sweetener chosen from the group consisting of: sucralose; aspartame; salts of acesulfame; alitame; saccharin; salts of saccharin; cyclamic acid; salts of cyclamic acid; glycyrrhizin; dihydrochalcones; thaumatin; monellin; and mixtures thereof.
3. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 including 0.02 to about 8% by weight artificial sweetener.
4. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the gum is sugarless.
5. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the flavor is incorporated in a spray dried form.
6. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 including an encapsulated artificial sweetener.
7. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the chewing gum includes no bulking agent. 8. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the bulking agent is a low calorie bulking agent. 


 9. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the bulking agent is chosen from the group consisting of: polydextrose; raftilose; raftilin; fructo- oligosaccharides; palatinose; oligosaccharide; guar gum hydrolysate; indigestible dextrin; and mixtures thereof.
10. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the flavor is chosen from the group of natural flavors derived from the group consisting of: citrus oils; fruit essences; peppermint oil; spearmint oil; mint oils; clove oil; oil of wintergreen; anise; and mixtures of thereof.
11. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the flavor includes artificial flavor.
12. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 including both natural and artificial flavors.
13. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 1 wherein the gum includes additional agents chosen from the group consisting of: softeners; emulsifiers; color agents; acidulants; fillers; and antioxidants.
14. The low calorie, high base chewing gui f Claim 1 including sorbitol. 15. A method for creating a low calorie, high base chewing gum having reduced flavoring agents and comprising the steps of: providing a gum base that is substantially free of wax; and creating a low calorie chewing gum comprising a majority of its composition as the gum base and having reduced flavoring agents as compared to a low calorie chewing gum having a similar proportion of gum base 


created from a wax containing base, while still providing the same flavor characteristics to the chewer.
16. The method of Claim 15 including the step of adding an artificial sweetener chosen from the group consisting of: sucralose; aspartame; salts of acesulfame; alitame; saccharin; salts of saccharin; cyclamic acid; salts of cyclamic acid; glycyrrhizin; dihydrochalcones; thaumatin; monellin; and mixtures thereof.
17. The method of Claim 15 wherein the flavor agent comprises, as compared to the base, less than or equal to 7 weight percent.
18. The method of Claim 15 comprising the step of incorporating the flavor in a spray dried form.
19. The method of Claim 15 including adding an encapsulated artificial sweetener.
20. The method of Claim 15 wherein the gum base comprises at least 70% by weight of the chewing gum. 21. The method of Claim 15 wherein the low calorie, high base chewing gum includes no bulking agent.
22. The method of Claim 15 including the addition of a low calorie bulking agent. 23. The method of Claim 22 wherein the bulking agent is chosen from the group consisting of: polydextrose; raftilose; raftilin; fructooligosaccharides; palatinose; oligosaccharide; guar.gum hydrolysate; indigestible dextrin; and mixtures thereof.
24. The method of Claim 15 wherein the flavor is chosen from the group of natural flavors derived from the group consisting of: citrus oils; fruit essences; 


peppermint oil; spearmint oil; mint oils; clove oil; oil of wintergreen; anise; and mixtures thereof.
25. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 15 wherein the flavoring agents include artificial flavor.
26. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 15 including both natural and artificial flavoring agents.
27. A low calorie, high base chewing gum comprising: at least a majority of the chewing gum comprising a wax-free base having an elastomer, polyvinyl acetate, an elastomer plasticizer, and a sufficient amount of oil having a capillary melting point between 40°C and 70°C to achieve flavor release characteristics that are at least as good as a similar gum base that includes wax; less than 7% by weight flavor; and less than 30% by weight bulking agent. 28. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of
Claim 27 wherein at least a majority of the oil in the base is hydrogenated.
29. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the base comprises at least 12% oil. 30. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the base comprises: about 20 to about 60 weight percent synthetic elastomer;
0 to about 30 weight percent natural elastomer; about 5 to about 55 weight percent elastomer plasticizer; about 4 to about 35 weight percent filler; about 12 to about 35 weight percent softener. 


 31. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 including 0.02 to about 8% by weight artificial sweetener.
32. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the chewing gum includes no bulking agent.
33. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the bulking agent is a low calorie bulking agent. 34. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of
Claim 27 wherein the bulking agent is chosen from the group consisting of: polydextrose; raftilose; raftilin; fructooligosaccharides; palatinose; oligosaccharide; guar gum hydrolysate; indigestible dextrin; and mixtures thereof.
35. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the flavor is chosen from the group of natural flavors derived from the group consisting of: citrus oils; fruit essences; peppermint oil; spearmint oil; mint oils; clove oil; oil of wintergreen; anise; and mixtures thereof.
36. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the gum base comprises at least 70% by weight of the chewing gum.
37. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 27 wherein the gum includes at least one agent chosen from the group consisting of: softeners; emulsifiers; color agents; acidulants; fillers; and antioxidants.
38. A low calorie, high base chewing gum having a reduced level of flavoring agent as compared to similar chewing gum including wax comprising: 


 an artificial sweetener; one or more flavoring agents; a water insoluble gum base comprising: an elastomer; an elastomer plasticizer; polyvinyl acetate; and a softener wherein the softening point of the gum base is at least 5°C less than a similar gum base having wax.
39. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 wherein the chewing gum includes no bulking agent.
40. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 wherein the bulking agent is a low calorie bulking agent.
41. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 wherein the bulking agent is chosen from the group consisting of: polydextrose; raftilose; raftilin; fructooligosaccharides; palatinose; oligosaccharide; guar gum hydrolysate; indigestible dextrin; and mixtures thereof.
42. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 wherein the flavor is a natural flavor derived from the group consisting of: citrus oils; fruit essences; peppermint oil; spearmint oil; mint oils; clove oil; oil of wintergreen; anise; and mixtures thereof.
43. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 including an artificial sweetener chosen from the group consisting of: sucralose; aspartame; salts of acesulfame; alitame; saccharin; salts of saccharin; cyclamic acid; salts of cyclamic acid; glycyrrhizin; 


dihydrochalcones; thaumatin; monellin; and mixtures thereof.
44. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 including an encapsulated artificial sweetener.
45. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 wherein the flavoring agents comprise less than 7% by weight of the chewing gum.
46. The low calorie, high base chewing gum of Claim 38 wherein the gum base comprises at least 70% by weight of the chewing gum.
47. A method for creating a low calorie, high base chewing gum comprising the steps of: creating a gum base from at least an elastomer, an elastomer plasticizer, polyvinyl acetate, and oil; choosing the percent and type of oil so as to create a gum base having a softening point that is lower than the softening point of the gum base had wax been present; and adding flavor to the gum base in an amount that is less than the amount of flavor that would be required in a chewing gum constructed from a wax containing base to produce the same flavor chew characteristics.
48. The method of Claim-47 including the step of adding artificial flavor to the gum base.
49. The method of Claim 47 including the step of adding a bulking agent to the gum base.
50. The method of Claim 47 wherein the bulking agent is a low calorie bulking agent. 51. A method for creating a low calorie, high base chewing gum base comprising the steps of: 


 creating a gum base from at least an elastomer, an elastomer plasticizer, polyvinyl acetate, and a softener; choosing the percent and type of at least the softener or the elastomer plasticizer to create a gum base having characteristics substantially similar to a similar gum base including wax; and adding to the gum base an amount of flavor that is less than an amount required to be added to a low calorie, high base chewing gum, including wax, to achieve similar chewing flavor characteristics.
52. A method for creating a more cost effective low calorie, high base chewing gum comprising the step of eliminating wax from a gum base used to construct the chewing gum and thereby reducing the level of flavoring agents required for a resultant low calorie, high base chewing gum.
53. A low calorie, high base chewing gum comprising: at least 90% by weight of a wax-free gum base; no bulking agent; and at least one flavor agent.
54. A low calorie, high base chewing gum comprising: 70 to 90% by weight of a wax-free gum base; less than 30% of a low calorie bulking agent; and not more than 6.5% by weight of flavoring agents. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
