<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635245</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Use of laser shields and method for protecting objects from laser radiation.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a shield for shielding an object from laser radiation, a 
metal layer (54), preferably a metal foil of aluminium, 

silver, copper or stainless steel, is used which has a 
surface with improved diffusivity, such as a dead-soft annealed, 

corrugated, sandblasted and/or chemically treated 
surface. It may be micro-corrugated, preferably with micro-corrugations 

produced by working between two opposed gears 
having micro-corrugations about 1 mm deep and peaks spaced 

about 1 mm apart. The shield further comprises a sheet of 
hydrophilic material (40) in close contact with said metal 

layer, and preferably an adhesive layer (44). A preferred 
use of the shield is in protecting an endotracheal tube. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEROCEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEROCEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENBLATT SOLOMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENBLATT, SOLOMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention primarily relates to the use of laser shields 
for protecting patients and physicians from misdirected or 
reflected laser beams during laser surgery. More particularly, 
it relates to particular types of laser shields for covering 
an endotracheal tube, for covering parts of the body 
of a patient, and for covering instruments and the like. Previously, surgical sponge-like materials and metallic 
shielding materials have each been used individually for 
protecting patients and physicians against misdirected and 
reflected laser beams during laser surgery. However, the 
known systems have had disadvantages. For example, for protecting the patient's body, it is known 
to use wet, sponge-type materials. U.S. Patent 4,520,814 of 
Weeks and U.S. Patent 4,616,641 of Teeple mention a practice 
of using wet towels or gauze as a laser shield. However, 
both patents indicate that the practice does not work well 
and may be unsafe for various reasons. U.S. Patent 4,604,998 of Bellina, and the Teeple patent 
mentioned above, both disclose combinations of metallic and 
non-metallic layers as a laser barrier. U.S. Patent 4,601,286 of Kaufman discloses various articles 
which are intended to be impervious to misdirected or reflected 
laser beams, comprising a hydrophylic gel and, 
optionally, additives such as salts, colorants or medications. 
The articles include dressings, drapes, tapes and  
 
tubes. An adhesive backing or a metallic sheet backing with 
a reflective mirror finish may also be provided. This 
system, too, has disadvantages, which will be discussed 
further hereinbelow. The hazards of endotracheal tube fire or perforation of the 
endotracheal tube cuff during laryngeal laser surgery are 
described in Fontenot et al., "Endotracheal Tube Safety 
During Laser Surgery," Laryngoscope 97: 919-921, August 
1987, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference 
herein. The authors measured perforation times of salin-soaked 
cottonoid pledgets, such as Surgical Patties manufactured 
by Codman & Shurtleff, Randolph, Mass., USA, and 
determined that saline-soaked pledgets are very efficient 
for protecting endotracheal tube cuffs. They also evaluated 
the safety and ignition properties of red rubber, silicone, 
polyvinyl chloride, and Xomed Laser-Shield® tubes by studying 
their perforation times and ignition properties under 
controlled oxygen supply conditions. They concluded that the 
Xomed Laser-Shield® tube had the highest ignition threshold 
of the four tubes tested. This tube
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of a metal layer, preferably a metal foil, having a 
surface with improved diffusivity, such as a dead-soft 

annealed, corrugated, sandblasted and/or chemically 
treated surface, in a shield for shielding an object from 

laser radiation. 
Use according to claim 1, wherein the metal layer is 
micro-corrugated, preferably with micro-corrugations 

about 1 mm deep and having peaks spaced about 1 mm apart. 
Laser shield for shielding an object from laser radiation 
comprising a laser-reflective metal layer and a sheet of 

hydrophilic material (22;40) in close contact with said 
metal layer, characterized in that said metal layer (24; 

54) has a surface with improved diffusivity, such as a 
dead-soft annealed, corrugated, sandblasted and/or 

chemically treated surface. 
Laser shield according to claim 3, characterized in that 
the metal layer is micro-corrugated, preferably with 

micro-corrugations about 1 mm deep and peaks spaced about 
1 mm apart. 
Laser shield according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in 
that an adhesive layer (28;44) - preferably being protected 

by a backing (30) - is attached to said sponge 
sheet (22;40) and/or to said metal foil (24;54), the 

resulting composite preferably being in the form of a 
multi-layer tape releasable from a tape dispenser. 
Laser shield according to any one of claims 3 to 5, 
characterized in that said metal foil (24;54) is made 

from a material selected from the group consisting of 
silver, aluminium and copper. 
Laser shield according to any one of claims 3 to 6, for 
protecting an endotracheal tube (10) comprising a relatively 

short first end (12), a relatively long second end 
(16) and a balloon cuff (14) intermediate said first and 

second ends, characterized in that said laser shield 
comprises: 


an elongated surgical sponge layer (22) sized and 
shaped to be wrapped upon and thereby substantially cover 

said second end (16) of said tube (10); 
an elongated metal foil layer (24) at least partially 
overlying said sponge layer (22) and sized and shaped to 

be wrapped upon and thereby substantially cover at least 
said second end (16), said metal foil layer (24) preferably 

being sandwiched between said sponge layer (22) and 
said second end (16) and preferably being bonded to said 

sponge layer (22); and 
means for securing said layers to said endotracheal 
tube (10). 
Laser shield according to claim 7, characterized in that 
said securing means comprises adhesive material (28;28a) 

overlying said metal foil layer (24) and overlying any 
portion of said sponge layer (22) which is not overlaid 

by said metal foil layer (24). 
Laser shield according to claim 8, characterized in that 
said metal foil layer (24) is sized and shaped not to 

overlie said balloon cuff (14) when said shield is 
wrapped upon said endotracheal tube (10), the balloon 

cuff (14) being substantially covered by a portion of the 
sponge layer (22) which is not overlaid by the metal foil 

layer (24). 
Laser shield according to claim 8, characterized in that 
said sponge layer (22) is sized and shaped also to 

overlie said cuff (14). 
Process for the manufacture of a corrugated metal foil 
according to claim 1, characterized in that the foil is 

worked between two opposed gears having micro-corrugations 

about 1 mm deep and peaks spaced about 1 mm apart. 
Method of protecting a surface from laser radiation - 
such as an endotracheal tube, or a part of the body (42) 

of a human or animal patient from laser injury during 
laser surgery - utilizing hydrophilic material soaked 

with a liquid and a metal foil, characterized in that 
said metal foil (24;54) has been treated to improve its 

diffusivity, such as by dead-soft annealing, corrugation 
- preferably micro-corrugation being effected by working 

the foil between opposed gears -, sandblasting and/or 
chemical reaction, and is applied to said surface, topped 

with a sheet of hydrophilic sponge material. 
Method according to claim 12, characterized in that said 
laser reflective metal is selected from the group 

consisting of silver, aluminium and copper. 
Method according to claim 12 or 13, characterized in 
that said sponge material (22;40) is substantially 

saturated with said liquid and remoistened during said 
radiation in order to maintain substantial saturation 

thereof. 
Method according to any one of claims 12 to 14, characterized 
in that an adhesive layer (28;44) - preferably 

being protected by a backing (30) - is applied to said 
sponge sheet (22;40) and/or to said metal foil (24; 54), 

the resulting composite optionally being stored in the 
form of a multi-layer tape and released from a tape 

dispenser. 
Method according to any one of claims 12 to 15, for protecting 
an endotracheal tube comprising a relatively 

short first end (12), a relatively long second end (16) 
and a balloon cuff (14) intermediate said first and second 

ends, characterized in that said metal foil (24) is 
wrapped around at least said second end (16) of said tube 

(10) and a layer of said sponge material (22) is wrapped 
around said metal foil (24), preferably in a single 

wrapping step. 
Method according to claim 16, wherein said metal foil 
(24) is bonded to an end portion of said sponge sheet 

(22) such that after said wrapping, the metal foil layer 
(24) is wrapped on the second end (16) of the 

endotracheal tube (10) but not on the balloon cuff (14). 
Method according to claim 16 or 17, characterized in 
that at least one second sponge layer is wrapped around 

said cuff (14). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
