<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655895</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTIBIOTIC ELUDING INTRAMEDULARY NAIL APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1768	A61B1772	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61L3114	A61L3116	A61M3700	A61M3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61L	A61L	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	A61L31	A61L31	A61M37	A61M37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An antibiotic eluding intramedullary nail apparatus for use in the intramedullary fixation of fractured long bones, such as femurs, tibias, fibulas, humeri, ulnas and radii, as well as other orthopedic and bone reconstructive procedures, and, in particular fractures associated with an open wound exposing the soft tissue and medually canal of the fractured bone to bacteria and other infectious micro-organisms. The apparatus comprises an intramedullary nail to which is secured an antibiotic impregnated carrier compound, the apparatus being surgically insertable within the medullary canal of a fractured bone using conventional intramedullary nailing techniques thus providing a sustained localized release of antibiotic agents in bactericidial concentrations, and/or chemotherapeutic agents for bone tumors, directly within the medullary canal of the fractured bone and thereby serving to permit the use of intramedullary nailing to repair injuries which may be otherwise contraindicated due to the risk of deep wound and/or bone infections and/or bone tumors.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRINKER MARK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRINKER, MARK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINKER MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINKER, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Antibiotic Eluding Intramedulary Nail ApparatusDescription1. Technical FieldThe present invention relates to bone fixa¬ tion devices, and, more particularly, to an antibi¬ otic eluding intramedullary nail apparatus and method of fabricating an antibiotic carrier compound and applying same to the intramedullary nail. The apparatus may be used for the intramedullary fixa¬ tion of fractured long bones, such as femurs, tib- ias, fibulas, humeri, ulnas and radii, as well as in other orthopedic and bone reconstructive procedures, such as tumors, and, in particular fractures associ¬ ated with an open wound exposing surrounding soft tissue and the medullary canal of the fractured bone to bacteria and other infectious micro-organisms.2. Background Of The InventionFractures of the femur, tibia, fibula, as well as humeri, ulnas and radii are common injuries the treatment of which is typically dependent upon the cause of the -injury, the exact nature of the fracture, the delay in receiving treatment and the presence of, or potential for, infection. In addi¬ tion, fractures in immunocompromised and bone tumor patients often require special treatment to repair and/or prevent fractures. The present invention offers an opportunity to not only treat the fracture but further may be utilized to provide supplemental treatment by dispensing antibiotic or chemotherapeu- tic agents. 

 A favored method of treatment of fractures of long bones is intramedullary fixation. Intramedul¬ lary fixation involves the use of an intramedullary nailing system wherein an intramedullary nail or rod is surgically inserted within the medullary canal of the fractured bone and held in place through the use of pins or screws inserted through the opposing ends of the intramedullary nail. Once properly inserted, the intramedullary nail will function as a mechani- cal strut, or splint, which facilitates the natural union of the fractured bone by minimizing forces that would otherwise disrupt the union of the frac¬ tured bone.An alternative method of treatment relies upon the use of external fixators. Typically, stabilizing rods are positioned external to the limb and in alignment with the fractured bone. The external stabilizing rods are held in position by fastening them to fixtures secured to the fractured limb above and below the location of the fracture. Unfortunately, external fixators have the potential disadvantage of being somewhat less stable than intramedullary rods due, in part, to external fixa¬ tors being weight bearing versus being
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. An antibiotic eluding intramedullary nail apparatus for use in association with the intrame¬ dullary fixation of fractured long bones, such as fractured femurs, tibias, fibulas, humeri, ulnas and radii having a medullary canal, wherein the fracture may be associated with an open wound, which in turn, may expose the medullary canal within the fractured bone, as well as the area surrounding the open wound, to bacteria and/or other infectious micro¬ organisms which could result in morbidity as well as mortality, said antibiotic eluding intramedullary nail apparatus comprising:
- means for stabilizing the fractured bone in an aligned position,
- said bone stabilizing means having a first end, a second end and an exterior surface, wherein said bone stabilizing means is positionable within the medullary canal of the fractured bone;
- antibiotic compound means, said antibiotic compound means including bactericidal means for inhibiting the growth of and destroying bacteria which may result in an infection in the medullary canal of the fractured bone as well as proximate the open wound associated with the fracture, and carrier means for sustainably releasing said bactericidal means; - said antibiotic compound means operably secured to at least a portion of the bone stabilizing means, so as to permit said bactericidal means to be eluded directly into the medullary canal upon insertion and alignment of said apparatus within said canal. 


 2. The invention according to Claim 1 wherein only a portion of said exterior surface of said bone stabilizing means is positionable adjacent at least a portion of the medullary canal of the fractured bone.
3. The invention according to Claim 1 in which the bone stabilizing means has a transverse cross- section having a star-shaped configuration comprised of a plurality of points and corresponding "v- shaped" depressions between adjacently positioned points and wherein said antibiotic compound is operably positioned below at least two adjacently positioned ones of the points so as to preclude direct contact of said antibiotic compound means with the medullary canal of the fractured bone after the bone stabilizing means has been operably orient¬ ed in an aligned position.
4. The invention according to Claim 1 in which the bone stabilizing means has one or more grooves integrally formed within the exterior surface and wherein said antibiotic compound is operably posi¬ tioned within at least a portion of the one or more grooves so as to preclude direct contact of the antibiotic compound means with the medullary canal of the fractured bone after the bone stabilizing means has been operably oriented in an aligned position.
5. The invention according to Claim 4 wherein said grooves are substantially "U" shaped.
6. The invention according to Claim 4 wherein said grooves are substantially "C" shaped. 


 7. The invention according to Claim 4 wherein said antibiotic compound is formed into a plurality of generally spherical shaped beads strung together using surgical grade wire.
8. The invention according to Claim 4 wherein said antibiotic compound is formed into a plurality of generally spherical shaped beads strung together using surgical grade suture.
9. The invention according to Claim 1 in which the bone stabilizing means comprises a hollow shaft having an internal region defined by an interior surface, - said hollow shaft having one or more apertures depending from said internal region and extending through said interior surface and said exterior surface;
- and wherein said antibiotic compound is operably positioned within the internal area of the hollow shaft so as to preclude direct contact of said antibiotic compound means with the medullary canal of the fractured bone and to preclude said antibiotic compound means from becoming dislodged during inser- tion of said apparatus into the medullary canal, and, to in turn, enable the release of the bacteri¬ cidal means through at least one of said apertures.
10. The invention according to Claim 9 wherein said bone stabilizing means further includes an opening depending from said internal region and extending through said interior surface and said exterior surface and extending longitudinally from said first end to said second end of said bone 


stabilizing means to permit said bone stabilizing means to flex thereby facilitating its insertion into said medullary canal.
11. The invention according to Claim 9 wherein said antibiotic compound means is formed of a seg¬ mented rod to permit flexing to preclude splitting or breaking of said antibiotic compound means during insertion into said medullary canal.
12. The invention according to Claim 9 in which said antibiotic compound means operably positioned within the internal area of the hollow shaft is cannulated to permit passage of a guide wire toward facilitating insertion of the apparatus into the medullary canal.
13. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said carrier means comprises bone cement.
14. The invention according to Claim 13 in which said bactericidal means is combined with the bone cement by uniformly saturating said bactericidal means within the bone cement.
15. The invention according to Claim 13 in which the bone cement is selected from the group consist¬ ing of cement compounds which facilitate exudation of antibiotics wherein said antibiotics can be combined with the bone cement prior to substantial curing of the bone cement.
16. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said bactericidal means is selected from the group of antibiotics consisting of gentamicin, tobramycin, 


erythromycin, vancomicyn, oxacillin, cloxacillin, methicillin, lincomycin, ampicillin, and colistin.
17. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said carrier means further includes an ingredient to render same radio opaque.
18. The invention according to Claim 17 wherein said ingredient is barium sulfate.
19. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said bone stabilizing means comprises an intramedul¬ lary nail.
20. The invention according to Claim 1 wherein said antibiotic compound means operably secured to at least a portion of the bone stabilizing means is formed so as to have an irregular external surface thereby increasing the surface area of said antibi- otic compound means to, in turn, increase the degree to which said bactericidal means is released from said antibiotic compound means.
21. The invention according to Claim 1 wherein said antibiotic compound means operably secured to at least a portion of the bone stabilizing means is formed into a plurality of spherical shaped elements thereby increasing the surface area of said antibi¬ otic compound means to, in turn, increase the degree to which said bactericidal means is released from said antibiotic compound means.
22. The invention according to Claim 1 wherein said antibiotic eluding intramedullary nail appara- tus further includes a retaining means affixed to 


said bone stabilizing means proximate to said anti¬ biotic compound means to retain any portion of said antibiotic compound means which becomes dislodged from said bone stabilizing means.
23. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said bone stabilizing means further includes depres¬ sions formed into the external surface of said bone stabilizing means into which are positioned said antibiotic compound means.
24. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said bone stabilizing means is cannulated to permit passage of a guide wire toward facilitating inser- tion of the apparatus into the medullary canal.
25. The invention according to Claim 1 in which said bone stabilizing means is malleable to permit flexing toward facilitating insertion of the appara- tus into the medullary canal.
26. The invention according to Claim 1 wherein said antibiotic compound means further includes a chemotherapeutic agent.
27. A method of fabricating an antibiotic eluding intramedullary nail apparatus for use in the in¬ tramedullary fixation of fractured long bones, such as femurs, tibias and fibulas, humeri, ulnas and radii, and, in particular fractures associated with an open wound exposing the soft tissue and medullary canal of the fractured bone to bacteria and other infectious micro-organisms wherein an antibiotic agent is sustainably released directly into the medullary canal of fractured bones toward preventing 


and combating bacterial infestation of the bone and/or surrounding area, which could result in morbidity and mortality, said method comprising the steps of: - utilizing a bone stabilizing element having an exterior surface and one or more depressed regions extending below the exterior surface of said bone stabilizing element;
- combining an antibiotic agent with a carrier agent so as to form an antibiotic compound, said carrier agent being of the type which allows for release of said antibiotic agent after said antibi¬ otic compound has substantially cured;
- applying the antibiotic compound to at least a portion of said one or more depressed regions ex¬ tending below the exterior surface of the shaft; and
- allowing the antibiotic compound to substantial¬ ly cure.
28. The method according to Claim 27 in which said bone stabilizing element includes an exterior surface having a plurality of points and correspond¬ ing "v-shaped" depressions extending below and between adjacently positioned ones of the points; and
- applying the antibiotic compound into at least one of said one or more plurality of "v-shaped" depressions, and, in turn, below corresponding ones of the points.
29. The method according to Claim 27 in which said bone stabilizing element includes an interior surface defining an internal region, and, one or more apertures depending from the internal region and extending through an adjacent portion of the 


interior and exterior surfaces; and
- applying said antibiotic compound within the internal region adjacent at least one of the one or more apertures.
30. A medication eluding intramedullary nail apparatus for use in association with the intrame¬ dullary fixation of fractured long bones, such as fractured femurs, tibias, fibulas, humeri, ulnas and radii having a medullary canal, said medication eluding intramedullary nail apparatus comprising:
- means for stabilizing the fractured bone in an aligned position,
- said bone stabilizing means having a first end, a second end and an exterior surface, wherein said bone stabilizing means is positionable within the medullary canal of the fractured bone;
- medication compound means, said medication compound means including medication means for treat- ing medical conditions and carrier means for sus- tainably releasing said medication means;
- said medication compound means operably secured to at least a portion of the bone stabilizing means, so as to permit said medication means to be eluded directly into the medullary canal upon insertion and alignment of said apparatus within said canal.
31. The invention according to Claim 30 wherein said medication means comprises an antibiotic agent for inhibiting the growth of and destroying bacte¬ ria which may result in an infection in the medul¬ lary canal of the fractured bone as well as proxi¬ mate an open wound associated with the fracture.
32. The invention according to Claim 30 wherein 


said medication compound means comprises a chemo¬ therapeutic agent for treating bone tumors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
