<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645485</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pneumatic weft tensioning safety device for air looms, with control of the broken wefts
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D03D5134	D03D5118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D03D	D03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D03D51	D03D51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pneumatic weft tensioning safety device for air looms, of the type 
in which a weft yarn (F) is launched by air jets into a launching channel 

(5) formed in the loom reed (3) and, at the outlet of the shed, the free 
end of said yarn is deviated towards the inlet mouth of a lateral weft 

tensioning channel (11) by an air jet (12) substantially transversal to 
the direction of said launching channel (5). The lateral weft tensioning 

channel (11) has an arc-shaped path and leads into a channel extension 
(6) of said launching channel (5). Means (13) to detect the presence of 

the weft are positioned in said channel extension (6), downstream of the 
outlet mouth of said lateral channel (11). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a pneumatic weft tensioning safety 
device for air looms, providing for an efficient and unfailing control of 
any broken wefts, independently from how the weft may appear at the outlet 
of the shed due to breakage. It is known that, in air looms, the weft yarn is fed and guided 
along the loom shed by a first air jet, blown by a main nozzle positioned 
at the inlet of the shed, and by a plurality of intermediate air jets, 
blown by secondary nozzles positioned at regular intervals along the 
shed. The weft yarn, driven by these compressed air jets, moves along a 
channel having a substantially C-shaped cross section, defined by the 
dents of the reed having, for the purpose, a fully special configuration. The improvements introduced in the technique of air looms have led 
to a progressive increase in the speed of weft insertion into the shed, 
to the point that it has become particularly difficult to provide for a 
proper control of the weft. It has been noticed in particular that, when 
the weft yarn is suddenly stopped by the feeding devices, at the end of 
insertion, it starts to undergo a plurality of longitudinal oscillations 
determined by the elongations and spring-backs to which it is subjected 
due to its sudden stopping. The weft yarn hence settles in a longitudinal 
sense only when these oscillations have come to an end. Nevertheless, the time taken for said oscillations to fully dampen 
is longer than the time elapsing between the insertion of a weft and that 
of the following weft, whereby - in these conditions - the fabric being 
formed may most likely include also loose wefts or, alternatively, over-stretched 
wefts, which in any case determine the presence of faults 
therein. To solve these problems, it has already been proposed to increase 
the blowing time of the last secondary nozzles. However, this solution - 
besides determining an increase in compressed air consumption and, thus,  
 
in the weaving energy costs - can also cause defects in the fabric, due 
to the high stresses to which the warp yarns may be subjected, during 
closing of the shed, on account of an exceedingly long blowing time of 
said last nozzles. According to another more convenient solution, it has been proposed 
to arrange, on the loom side opposite to that of weft insertion, suction 
or blowing devices which provide to grip the weft, keeping it tensioned 
up to the end of reed beating up. 
A device of this type is for example the one disclosed in FR-A-2497841. This type of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Pneumatic weft tensioning safety device for air looms - of the type in which a 
weft yarn (F) is launched by air jets into a launching channel (5) formed in the 
loom 
reed (3) and, at the outlet of the shed, the free end of said yarn is deviated towards the 

inlet mouth of a lateral channel (11) by an air jet (12) substantially transversal to the 
direction of said launching channel (5) - characterized in that it comprises a channel 

extension (6) aligned to said launching channel (5), into which leads the outlet mouth 
of said lateral channel (11), and means (13) to detect the presence of the weft, 

positioned in said channel extension (6) downstream of the outlet mouth of said 
lateral channel (11 ). 
Weft tensioning device as in claim 1), wherein the distance of said detection 
means (13) from the outlet of the shed is sufficient to make sure that the ends of the 

regular wefts do not interfere therewith. 
Weft tensioning device as in claim 2), wherein said detection means (13) send 
a warning signal when detecting in front of them the presence of a weft. 
Weft tensioning device as in any one of the previous claims, wherein said 
detection means (13) consist of a photoelectric cell. 
Weft tensioning device as in any one of the previous claims, comprising a 
support plate (1) having a cross section similar to that of the reed (3), so as to form 

said channel extension (6), and a cover (9) apt to be fixed to said plate (1) by screw 
means (10), into which are formed at least three walls of said lateral channel (11), the 

fourth wall consisting of said support plate (1). 
Weft tensioning device as in any one of the previous claims, wherein said 
lateral channel has a generally arc-shaped path. 
Weft tensioning device as in any one of the previous claims, wherein the 
initial length (11a) of said lateral channel (11) is substantially perpendicular to said 

channel extension (6), and the final length (11b) thereof is almost tangential to said 
channel extension (6). 
Weft tensioning device as in any one of the previous claims, comprising 
moreover a weft yarn cutting device (14), positioned on the loom side opposite to 

that of weft insertion, between the reed (3) and the inlet mouth of said lateral channel 
(11).  

 
Weft tensioning device as in claim 8), wherein said detection means (13) are 
stopped from operating as soon as said cutting device (14) cuts the weft yarn, and for 

the length of time required to allow the cut yarn to pass in front of said detection 
means (13). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
