<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622505</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An improved anchor and method and system for securing same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B5100	B23B5100	B25H100	B25H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	B25H	B25H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B51	B23B51	B25H1	B25H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for securing an anchor in a hard 
substance or rigid material (34) include a cutter bit (24) for 

drilling a hole in the hard substance, an anchor for 
fitting within the drilled hole, the process of drilling 

the hole using the cutter bit, the drilling machine (10) for 
using the cutter bit, and the resulting improved hard 

substance or rigid material that may be used as a curtain 
wall for fastening to a building or similar structure. 

The hard substance may be a sheet of granite, marble, 
glass, limestone, or other similar material. The 

invention includes an anchor that has a cylindrical 
shaft, a bevelled head portion, and an expanding collar 

for fitting within and securing the anchor in a drilled 
hole of the hard substance. The drilled hole includes a 

bevelled bottom portion that receives the bevelled head 
portion of the anchor and the expanding collar. A 

placement device transmits an impacting force to place 
the expanding collar around the bevelled head portion of 

the anchor. This secures the anchor in the drilled hole 
in a time-saving and highly reliable manner. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STONE ANCHORS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STONE ANCHORS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAYER JEFFREY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAYER JEFFREY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to the field 
of building construction and, more particularly, to a 
method and system for securing an anchor in a hard 
substance or rigid material such as granite, marble, 
glass, or other materials that may be used for a variety 
of purposes, including as a curtain wall on a building.  In preparing slabs and dimensional pieces of hard 
substances that form rigid building materials for 
transport, erection and attachment to structures, there 
are numerous approaches that are more or less effective. 
These hard substances may be, for example, slabs of 
slate, granite, limestone, marble, and other similar 
materials. The known approaches for preparing these 
materials generally require placement of a fastener or 
bolt of some sort within the rigid material. Because of 
the rigidity of these materials, however, there are 
substantial complications in penetrating the rigid 
material to form a hole in which to secure the fastener. One approach is to place a vertically-canted hole in 
the slab and slide a bent bolt into the hole. The bent 
bolt protrudes from the vertically-canted hole to be 
perpendicular to the slab's surface. An epoxy holds the 
bent bolt within the canted hole. Limitations with this 
approach include the fact that the epoxy must hold the 
bolt throughout the life of the rigid material's on use 
the associated structure. To date, however, the epoxies 
that can hold the bent bolt in place have not been used 
for a sufficiently long period of time to verify that 
they will maintain their chemical composition and 
adhesive properties throughout the rigid material's life 
on the structure. Another problem with this technique is 
in the fact that it uses an epoxy that has constituent 
parts that must be mixed in precise proportions. Unless 
the epoxy parts are mixed in correct proportions, 
generally the epoxy will not properly secure the bent 
bolt in the vertically-canted hole. It is also important to understand that the load 
bearing capacity of each one of these bent-bolt/epoxy  
 
assemblies is limited. For example, a multi-level 
building having a stone or granite curtain wall often 
uses as many as 200,000 of these bent-bolt/epoxy 
assemblies. Each one of these assemblies must be 
individual placed. With so many things that can go wrong 
with epoxy mixing, epoxy placement, and hole placement in 
a building requiring over 200,000 of these assemblies, a 
significant number of these assemblies could fail. 
Because these curtain walls are slabs of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cutter bit for drilling a hole in a hard 
substance, comprising: 

   a shaft portion having a cylindrical shape; and 
   a head portion attached to said shaft portion and 

having a bevelled shape that is smallest at a point 
integral with said shaft portion and greatest 

approximately at the point farthest from said point 
integral with said shaft portion, said head portion 

having an abrasive tip for grinding the hard substance 
and further shaped to form in said hard substance a 

drilled hole having a cylindrical sidewall portion and an 
enlarged bottom portion. 
The cutter bit of Claim 1, wherein said head 
portion further comprises a diamond-encrusted steel outer 

surface for grinding the hard substance to form the 
drilled hole. 
The cutter bit of Claim 1, wherein said head 
portion comprises a conical shape such that said point 

integral to said shaft portion and said point furtherest 
from said point integral with said shaft portion are 

circular, said point furtherest from said point integral 
with said shaft portion having a greater diameter than 

said point integral with said shaft portion. 
The cutter bit of Claim 1, wherein said shaft 
portion and said head portion include a coolant shaft for 

cooling said cutter bit. 
An anchor for placement within a drilled hole 
of a hard substance, the drilled hole having a 

cylindrical shaft and a bevelled bottom portion, the 
anchor comprising: 

   a head portion having a large diameter end and a 
small diameter end; 

   a shank portion having an essentially cylindrical 
shape and integral to said small diameter end, said shank 

portion having a diameter approximately equal to the 
diameter of said small diameter end, said shank portion 

further having an engaging surface for engaging said 
anchor with a pre-determined engagement device; 

   an expanding collar slidably engaged with said shank 
portion, said expanding collar having an outside diameter 

at most equal to approximately the outside diameter of 
said large diameter end, said expanding collar being 

expandable for placing securely around and in engagement 
with said head portion. 
The anchor of Claim 5, wherein said expanding 
collar further comprises a plurality of set teeth, said 

set teeth for expanding around said head portion and 
fitting between said head portion within said drilled 

hole. 
The anchor of Claim 5, wherein said shank 
portion further comprises a plurality of engaging threads 

for engaging said shank portion with a pre-determined 
structure. 
The anchor of Claim 5, wherein said head 
portion has a conical shape such that said larger 

diameter end is at the base of said conical shape and 
said small diameter end is proximate the smallest portion 

of said conical shape. 
A method for forming a drilled hole in a hard 
substance for securing an anchor in the hard substance, 

the method comprising the steps of: 

(1) forming a cylindrical hole in the hard 
substance using a cutter bit, said cutter bit having an 

essentially non-abrasive cylindrical shaft portion and an 
abrasive bevelled head portion, said cylindrical hole 

being formed to a pre-determined depth; 
(2) moving said cutter bit off the center axis of 
said cylindrical hole by a pre-determined amount such 

that said shaft portion non-abrasively contacts a 
sidewall of said cylindrical hole while said abrasive 

bevelled head portion continues to drill said cylindrical 
hole; and 
(3) laterally moving said cutter bit at said pre-determined 
depth to form a bottom portion of said 

cylindrical hole, said bottom portion having a bevelled 
edge that essentially follows the form of said bevelled 

head portion to form said drilled hole for receiving the 
anchor. 
The method of Claim 9, further comprising the 
step of forming said bottom portion into a partially 

conical shape, said partially conical shape essentially 
following the shape of said bevelled head portion. 
The method of Claim 9, further comprising the 
step of flowing coolant through said cutter bit for 

cooling said drilled hole as said cutter bit forms said 

drilled hole. 
The method of Claim 9, further comprising the 
step of flowing coolant through said cutter bit and said 

drill hole for removing pieces of the hard substance as 
said cutter bit forms the drilled hole. 
A drilling device for drilling a hole in a hard 
substance, said drilling device comprising: 

   a cutter bit having an essentially cylindrical shaft 
portion and a bevelled head portion, said bevelled head 

portion having a small diameter end integral to said 
shaft portion and a large diameter end, said large 

diameter end having a diameter greater than said small 
diameter end and said cylindrical shaft, said cutter bit 

for forming a drilled hole in the hard substance having 
an essentially cylindrical upper portion and a bevelled 

bottom portion having a diameter greater than the 
diameter of said cylindrical upper portion, said drilled 

hole for receiving and securing an anchor, said anchor 
having a shank portion, a bevelled head portion and an 

expanding collar, said bevelled bottom portion for 
receiving said bevelled head portion and said expanding 

collar and for securing said anchor in the hard 
substance; 

   fastening means for fastening said cutter bit in 
said drilling device; 

   a shaft for holding said cutter bit; 
   a motor engaging said shaft for rotating said shaft 

and causing said cutter bit to rotate for drilling said 
drilled hole; and 

   a base associated with said motor and cutter bit for 
engaging said drilling device with the hard substance. 
The drilling device of Claim 13, wherein said 
cutter bit further comprises a diamond-encrusted outer 

surface. 
The drilling device of Claim 13, wherein said 
bevelled head portion forms an essentially conical shape. 
The drilling device of Claim 13, wherein said 
cutter bit further comprises a coolant shaft for flowing 

coolant through said shaft portion and said bevelled head 
portion. 
The drilling device of Claim 16, further 
comprising an intermediate device for receiving a coolant 

and passing said coolant to said coolant shaft of said 
cutter bit for cooling said cutter bit. 
The drilling device of Claim 13, wherein said 
base further comprises the plurality of suction cups for 

firmly positioning said base on the hard substance. 
The drilling device of Claim 13, further 
comprising a stop mechanism for limiting movement of said 

cutter bit to, thereby limit the depth of said drilled 
hole to a pre-determined depth. 
The drilling device of Claim 13, wherein said 
motor comprises a pneumatic motor for rotating said 

cutter bit in response to receiving pneumatic power. 
A placement device for securing an anchor in a 
drilled hole of a hard substance, said placement device 

comprising: 
   a placement head for receiving an impact force; 

   a shaft integral with said placement head for 
transmitting said impact force, said shaft being formed 

to fit within the drilled hole and around an anchor 
positioned within the drilled hole, said shaft further 

formed to engage an expanding collar formed around a 
shank portion of said anchor, said shaft further for 

transmitting said impact force from said placement head 
to said expanding collar for moving said expanding collar 

in the drill hole; and 
   a stop plate positionable along said shaft and 

through which said shaft passes, said stop plate being 
positioned relative to said shaft and the hard substance 

in order to limit movement of said shaft and, thereby, 
limit movement of said expanding collar upon said 

expanding collar receiving said impact force. 
The placement device of Claim 21, further 
comprising a securing mechanism associated with said stop 

plate for maintaining said stop plate position at a pre-determined 
position. 
An improved curtain wall slab for securing to a 
pre-determined structure, comprising: 

   a slab of a hard substance for use as a curtain 
wall; 

   a plurality of drilled holes in said slab, each of 
said drilled holes having a cylindrical upper portion and 

a bevelled bottom portion, said bevelled bottom portion 
having a small diameter portion and a large diameter 

portion, said small diameter portion being proximate said 
cylindrical upper portion and having a diameter 

approximately equal to the diameter of said cylindrical 
upper portion, said large diameter portion having a 

larger diameter than said small diameter portion; 
   a plurality of anchors positioned in said plurality 

of drilled holes, each of said anchors comprising: 
   a bevelled head portion formed to fit within 

said bevelled bottom portion of said drilled hole; 
   a cylindrical shank formed to fit within said 

cylindrical upper portion; and 
   an expanding collar formed to fit within said 

drilled hole and to expand around said bevelled head 
portion of said anchor, said expanding collar and said 

bevelled head portion formed to associate within said 
bevelled bottom portion to maintain said anchor within 

said drilled hole for securing said slab to a pre-determined 
structure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
