<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0898044</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rotary drag-type drill bit with drilling fluid nozzles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B10567	E21B1055	E21B1046	E21B1060	E21B1043	E21B1000	E21B1056	E21B1042	E21B1054	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drag-type drill bit for drilling holes in subsurface formations comprises a bit
body (70) having an end face (71) and a shank (72) for connection to a drill string, a

number of blades (73, 74) upstanding from the end face of the bit body and extending
outwardly away from the axis of rotation of the bit, a number of cutters (76) mounted

on each blade, and a number of nozzles (81) in the bit body for delivering drilling fluid
for cooling and cleaning the cutters. The blades include primary blades (73) which, at

their outer ends, are spaced apart around a peripheral gauge portion (75) of the bit, and
secondary blades (74) which are spaced circumferentially between adjacent primary

blades, each secondary blade having an outer end which terminates at a location inwardly
of the gauge portion (75) of the bit. One of said nozzles (81) is located adjacent each

blade (73, 74). Each primary blade (73) and associated secondary blade (74) may be
equivalent, in terms of their combined contribution to the cutting profile, to a single

blade which extends continuously from the centre of the bit body to the gauge, but the
separation of the blades facilitates the flow of drilling fluid over and between the blades.

Also, the increased number of blades may enhance the stability of the drill bit and reduce
vibration.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMCO INT UK LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMCO INTERNATIONAL (UK) LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to rotary drag-type drill bits, for use in drilling or coring
holes in subsurface formations, and of the kind comprising a bit body having an end face
and a shank for connection to a drill string, a plurality of blades upstanding from the end
face of the bit body and extending outwardly away from the central axis of rotation of
the bit, a plurality of cutters mounted on each blade, and a plurality of nozzles in the bit
body for delivering fluid to the end face thereof for cooling and cleaning the cutters.
Each cutter may include a preform cutting element of the kind comprising a front facing
table of superhard material bonded to a less hard substrate. The cutting element may be
mounted on a carrier, also of a material which is less hard than the superhard material,
which is mounted on the body of the drill bit, for example, is secured within a socket on
the bit body. Alternatively, the cutting element may be mounted directly on the bit body,
for example the substrate may be of sufficient axial length that it may itself be secured
within a socket on the bit body.In drag-type drill bits of this kind the bit body may be machined from metal,
usually steel, and sockets to receive the carriers or the cutting elements themselves are
machined in the bit body. Alternatively, the bit body may be moulded from tungsten
carbide matrix material using a powder metallurgy process.In prior art drag-type drill bits where the cutters are mounted on blades
extending outwardly away from the axis of rotation of the bit, it is usual for each blade,
at its outer end, to join a respective kicker which, in use, engages the surrounding wall
of the borehole being drilled. The kickers are spaced apart around a peripheral gauge
portion of the bit so as to define between the kickers junk slots through which drilling 
fluid flows from the end face of the bit to the annulus between the drill string and the walls
of the borehole. Since it is desirable for the cutters on the blades to define a cutting profile
which extends over substantially the whole of the bottom surface of the borehole, it is
necessary for at least some of the blades to extend substantially all the way from the central
of the end face of the bit outwardly to the gauge of the bit. However, such arrangement
inhibits the flow of drilling fluid across the blades in the circumferential direction. Also, if
the total number of blades is reduced to improve cutting effectiveness, the stability of the
bit may be compromised. The present invention therefore
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A drag-type drill bit for drilling holes in subsurface formations comprising a bit body
(70) having an end face (71) and a shank (72) for connection to a drill string, a plurality of

blades (73, 74) upstanding from the end face of the bit body and extending outwardly away
from the central axis of rotation of the bit, and a plurality of nozzles (81) in the bit body for

delivering fluid to the end face thereof, said blades include a plurality of primary blades (73)

the outer ends of which are spaced apart around a peripheral gauge portion of the bit, and
a plurality of secondary blades (74) spaced circumferentially between adjacent primary

blades,
a plurality of cutters being mounted on each blade, one of the aforesaid nozzles (81) being

located adjacent each of said primary and secondary blades so as to deliver fluid to cool and
clean the cutters thereon,

and 
characterised in that
 the secondary blades each terminate
at the outer periphery of the end face (107) of the bit body as viewed axially of the drill bit.
A drill bit according to Claim 1, wherein the outer ends of the primary blades (73)
join respective kickers (75) which, in use, engage the surrounding wall of the borehole being

drilled.
A drill bit according to Claim 2, wherein there are defined between the kickers (75)
junk slots through which drilling fluid flows from the end face of the bit.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the number of 
secondary blades (74) equals the number of primary blades (73), secondary blades

alternating with primary blades around the axis of rotation of the bit body.
A drill bit according to Claim 4, wherein there are two primary blades (73) and two
secondary blades (74).
A drill bit according to Claim 4, wherein there are three primary blades (109) and
three secondary blades (110).
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein each primary blade
(109) has an inner end which is spaced outwardly from the axis of rotation of the bit.
A drill bit according to Claim 7, wherein the inner end of each primary blade (109)
is closer to the axis of rotation of the bit than the outer end of an associated secondary blade

(110).
A drill bit according to Claim 9, wherein the inner end of each primary blade (109)
is further from the axis of rotation of the bit than the inner end of said associated secondary

blade (110).
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of said
secondary blades (74) has an inner end which is located at or adjacent the axis of rotation

of the bit.
A drill bit according to Claim 10, wherein at least two of said secondary blades (74)
are joined at their inner ends.
A drill bit according to any of Claims 7 to 11, wherein said primary and secondary
blades (73, 74) constitute the only blades on the bit body. 
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the cutters (76) on the
blades are located at different distances from the axis of rotation of the bit body so as to

define a substantially continuous cutting profile which extends over substantially the whole
of the bottom surface of the borehole being drilled.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of said
cutting elements (76) is a preform cutting element comprising a front facing table of

superhard material bonded to a less hard substrate.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of said
cutting elements (111) is substantially cylindrical, the substrate being of sufficient axial

length to be received and secured within a cylindrical socket in the bit body.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of said
cutting elements (111) is of generally circular cross-section.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of said
cutting elements (76) has a substantially straight cutting edge (80) formed by a substantially

flat bevel (79) in the facing table and substrate which is inclined to the front surface of the
facing table as it extends rearwardly therefrom.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said cutters include
cutters of different size and/or shape.
A drill bit according to Claim 18, wherein the cutters on at least one blade are of a
different size and/or shape to the cutters on at least one other blade.
A drill bit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the cutters on at least 
one blade project from the bit body to a greater extent than the cutters on at least one other

blade.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
