<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635174</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWER DRIVER CIRCUIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1704	H03K170412	H03K17687	H03K17687	H03K17689	H03K17691	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power driver circuit for turning a semiconductor switching device on and off in response to receipt of a control signal includes a trigger circuit (Q2) that turns on a latching switch (SCR1) at a speed that is independent of the rate of change of the control signal. The trigger circuit (Q2) is responsive to the control signal to apply a current from the semiconductor switching device to the latching switch (SCR1). A high speed SCR may be used as the latching switch and may be triggered by a small trigger current from the gate of the semiconductor switching device fed to both the anode and cathode gates of the SCR. High speed diodes may also be used to increase the speed of the circuit. The power driver circuit improves the efficiency of the semiconductor switching device by decreasing the time the switching device spends in transition between its two steady states.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRENTICE JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRENTICE, JOHN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a power driver circuit 
for a semiconductor switching device according to the preamble 
of claim 1 and to a method for controlling the operation of 
said semiconductor switching device. Apparatus and method according to the preamble of claims 
1 and 12, 17, respectively, is known from the document JP-A-6 454 925. The present invention relates to power driver circuits for 
controlling the operation of a semiconductor switching device 
in response to control signal inputs from a control circuit. 
In one aspect, the present invention relates to a method and 
device for turning on a latching switch in the power driver 
circuit at a speed that is independent of the rate of change of 
the control signal input voltage. In another aspect, the 
present invention is responsive to the control signal to 
control the operation of the latching switch by the 
semiconductor switching device. It is to be understood that, 
for example, 
even though the term "MOSFET" is used in the following 
description to describe the semiconductor switching device, the 
present invention also relates to other semiconductor switching 
devices such as FETs, IGBTs, MOS controlled thyristors (MCTs), 
BJTs, triacs, SCRs, GTO thyristors, and SITs. The gate of the 
MOSFET has equivalent structures in these devices and reference 
to a gate herein includes the equivalent structure in these 
devices. Semiconductor switching devices typically are used to 
regulate power that is to be switched on and off at a frequency 
determined by a control circuit. A power driver circuit 
typically acts as a buffer between the control circuit and the 
switching device and translates control signals from the  
 
control circuit into signals that can turn the switching device 
on and off at the requisite frequency. For example, a 
switchmode power supply (a semiconductor switching device) may 
be operated by a pulse transformer (a control circuit) at 300 
kHz through a power driver circuit. As is known, semiconductor switching devices consume more 
power during the period of transition between its two on and 
off steady states than during either the on or off periods. 
Therefore, one way to improve the efficiency of a switching 
device operating at a particular frequency is to decrease the 
length of the periods in which the switching device is in 
transition. The background of the present invention may be further 
understood with reference to Figure 1') in which a power driver 
circuit of the prior art may be seen. A FET 10 may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power driver circuit for a semiconductor switching 
device (Q1; FET1), the power driver circuit having a control terminal (P2) for receiving a control signal for controlling said semiconductor switching device (Q1 ; FET1), 


an SCR (SCR1) in the discharge path of a gate of the 
semiconductor switching device and 
a trigger means (Q2, D6) for the SCR, wherein 
the SCR (SCR1) has an anode gate (AG) and a cathode gate 

(CG), and 
the trigger means (Q2, D6) provides a trigger current to 
both said anode and cathode gates, to thereby increase 

the speed at which the SCR turns on, 
said trigger means (Q2,D6) comprising means for drawing said 
trigger current from the gate of the semiconductor 

switching device (Q1; FET1), characterized in that the trigger means (Q2, D6) include a diode (D6) and 
a transistor (Q2) connected in series between the anode gate (AG) and the cathode gate (CG) of the SCR (SCR1), the base of 
said transistor (Q2) being connected to said control 

terminal (P2). 
The circuit of claim 1 characterized in that said 
transistor (Q2) provides 

the trigger current to said anode (AG) and cathode gates 
(CG) when the polarity of said control signal for 

controlling the switching device (Q1; FET1) becomes 
negative. 
The circuit of claim 2, wherein said transistor 
(Q2) is a PNP transistor. 
The circuit of one of claims 1-3 wherein said SCR (SCR1) 
is adapted to discharge a relatively large current at the 

gate of the semiconductor switching device (FET1) to turn 
the semiconductor switching device off when the SCR is 

turned on; and
 
wherein said trigger means (Q2, D6) is connected to a  

 
transformer (T1) and comprises means for drawing a 

relatively small trigger current from the gate of the 
semiconductor switching device when the transformer 

voltage becomes negative. 
The circuit of any one of claims 1-4 wherein said SCR 
comprises: 


a vertical PNP transistor connected in parallel to a 
lateral PNP transistor by their collectors, bases and 

emitters; 
a vertical NPN tansistor connected in parallel to a 
lateral NPN transistor by their collectors, bases and 

emitters; 
said vertical NPN transistor having its collector and 
base connected respectively to said base and said 

collector of said lateral NPN transistor; 
said lateral PNP transistor having its collector and base 
connected respectively to said base and said collector of 

said vertical NPN transistor; and 
said lateral PNP transistor's base being said anode gate 
and said lateral NPN transistor's base being said cathode 

gate. 
The circuit of claim 5, wherein said SCR further 
comprises first shunt means for limiting a charge stored 

in the bases of said lateral PNP transistor and said 
vertical PNP transistor, and second shunt means for 

limiting a charge stored in the bases of said lateral NPN 
transistor and said vertical NPN transistor. 
The circuit of claim 6, wherein said first shunt means 
comprises a second lateral NPN transistor, and said 

second shunt means comprises a second lateral PNP 
transistor.  

 
The circuit of any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said trigger means comprises a diode for preventing 

inadvertent turn on of said SCR. 
The circuit of claim 8, wherein said diode comprises a 
PNP transistor and an NPN transistor where the base of 

each said transistor is connected to the emitter of the 
other said transistor, and the emitter of each said 

transistor is connected to the collector of the other 
said transistor, and wherein resistance means is provided 

in each of the emitter-collector connections. 
The circuit of any one of the preceding claims where the 

semiconductor switching device is one of a MOSFET, IGBT, 
MCT, BJT, triac, SCR, GTO thyristor, and SIT. 
The circuit of one of the preceding claims, wherein said 
SCR has a blocking voltage of 25 volts, the capacity to 

carry 10 mA and can become fully conductive in 10 ns or 
less. 
A method of controlling the operation of a semiconductor 
switching device (Q1; FET1) in response to the conduction 

of a latching switch (SCR1) to remove the charge from the 
gate of the semiconductor switching device which controls 

its conduction, the latching switch having an anode and a cathode, wherein a portion of the charge on the 
gate of the semiconductor switching device is used to 

initiate conduction of the latching switch at an anode 
gate (AG) and a cathode gate (CG) of the latching switch, characterized in that, said 

portion of the charge is conducted by a trigger means 
including a diode (D6) and a transistor (Q2) connected in series between the anode gate 

(AG) and the cathode gate (CG) of the latching switch (SCR1).  
 
The method of claim 12, wherein the latching switch is an 
SCR (SCR1) with an anode gate (AG) and a cathode gate 

(CG) and wherein said conduction of said SCR is initiated 
by drawing a relatively small trigger current from the 

gate of the switching device (Q1, FET1) and providing the 
trigger current to said anode and cathode gates. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the trigger current is 
provided to said anode and cathode gates when the 

polarity of a control signal for controlling the 
switching device (Q1; FET1) becomes negative. 
The method of claim 14, wherein said transistor (Q2) is a PNP transistor and is turned on by the control signal when the control signal has a negative polarity, thereby 
operatively connecting 

said anode and cathode gates for enabling the trigger 
current to be provided to said anode and cathode gates. 
The method of one of claims 12-15 further comprising the 
steps of: 


detecting a control signal for said switching device (Q1; 
FET1); and 
initiating the conduction of the latching switch (SCR1) 
in response to the detection of the control signal. 
A method of driving a semiconductor switching device 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing an SCR (SCR1) with both an anode (AG) and 
cathode (CG) gate for discharging a gate of the 

semiconductor switching device (Q1; FET1) to be 
driven; and 
(b) providing a trigger current to both of the anode and 
cathode gates of the SCR by drawing a trigger 

current from the gate of the semiconductor switching 
device, 
 
thereby increasing the speed at which the SCR turns on, 

characterized in that the said trigger current is conducted 
by a trigger means (Q2, D6) including a diode (D6) 

and a transistor (Q2) connected in series between the anode 
gate (AG) and the cathode gate (CG) of the SCR (SCR1).  

 
The method of claim 17, where the semiconductor switching 
device has a gate operated by a power driver circuit in 

response to a transformer (T1), characterized in that 

in step (a) a relatively large current is discharged to 
turn the semiconductor switching device off when the SCR 

is turned on; and 
in step (b) a relatively small trigger current is drawn 
from the gate of the semiconductor switching device when 

the transformer (T1) voltage becomes negative. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
