<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610074</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A device and system for organizing and storing electrical light strings.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D550	B65D550	B65D8542	B65D8542	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	B65D85	B65D85	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system is provided for organizing and storing electrical wire cords 
such as electrical Christmas tree light strings having a plurality of electric bulbs 

joined by electric cords. The system includes a plurality of generally flat frames, 
each frame having at least two opposite edges provided with a plurality of notches so 

that a cord may be wrapped about the frame and within the notches. The flat frame 
is fabricated of corrugated paper board with elongated corrugations extending in a 

direction between the two opposite edges to provide rigidity and support for the 
frame in the direction of the wraps of the cord. A box-like container, fabricated of 

corrugated paper board material, defines a storage compartment of a configuration 
complementary to the configuration of the flat frames and sized for receiving a 

plurality of the frames in a stacked array with the cords wrapped thereabout. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KINETICS CONTAINER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KINETICS CONTAINER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHARTON PAUL B JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHARTON PAUL B JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to devices or systems for organizing, 
packaging and storing electrical light strings, such as Christmas tree lights strung on 
an electric cord. Entanglement continues to be a major problem in organizing, packaging 
and storing cords or other strings wherein a plurality of objects are spaced 
therealong in a predetermined succession. The most common problematic area 
involves the use, handling and storage of Christmas tree light strings. However, 
other types of lines or cords such as fishing lines, knotted depth lines, etc. also are 
subject to entanglement problems. In the area of Christmas tree light strings, light sets traditionally have 
been used to decorate Christmas trees, objects and houses, both indoor and outdoor, 
during the Christmas season. After the season is over, the lights are dismantled and 
stored for the next season. When first purchased, strings of Christmas tree lights generally come 
in flat packages or boxes which are designed primarily for display purposes or for 
stacking on retail store shelves. Unfortunately, the original packages or boxes are 
not particularly suitable for storing the sets of lights in an orderly fashion between 
seasonal usage. For instance, a very common type of original package utilizes a 
relatively thick polystyrene foam tray which has rows of cavities therein for individually 
receiving the lights. Channels may connect the cavities and wherein the electric 
cord is looped or, literally, "stuffed". Although it is relatively easy for a user to  
 
simply pull a set of lights out of such a packaging construction, it becomes quite 
tedious to reassemble the lights back into their original packaging. Because of the unsuitability of original packaging for such strings of 
lights, and because the sets are rather cumbersome to handle, often being eight feet 
or more in length, most individuals simply stuff the sets of lights in boxes or bags 
for storage. Unfortunately, when the next Christmas season arrives, the sets of lights 
are all tangled. Not only is it quite time consuming to untangle the sets of lights, but 
light bulbs often are broken in the process. Even the untangled sets of lights are still 
cumbersome to install on a tree, for example, because a long string of lights is 
difficult to maneuver around the tree and into and out of the branches thereof, during 
which still more bulbs become broken. A variety of proposals have been suggested for providing devices or 
systems for organizing and storing Christmas tree
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for organizing and storing an electrical wire cord such as 
an electrical light string having a plurality of electric bulbs joined by electric cord, 

comprising a generally flat frame having at least two opposite edges provided with 
a plurality of notches so that the cord may be wrapped about the frame and within 

the notches, the flat frame being fabricated of corrugated paper board with elongated 
corrugations thereof extending in a direction between said two opposite edges to 

provide rigidity and support for the frame in the direction of the wraps of the cord. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said frame is fabricated of a double-walled 
construction defined by opposite exterior face sheets and at least one interior 

intermediate sheet with elongated corrugations between the interior intermediate sheet 
and each exterior face sheet. 
The device of claim 2 wherein said elongated corrugations between 
the interior intermediate sheet and each exterior face sheet all extend in a direction 

between said two opposite edges of the frame. 
The device of claim 2 wherein said frame is generally rectangular 
as defined by said two opposite edges and a second pair of opposite edges also 

having a plurality of notches therein, the elongated corrugations between the interior 
intermediate sheet and one of the exterior face sheets extending in said direction 

between said two opposite edges, and the elongated corrugations between the interior 
intermediate sheet and the other of the exterior face sheets extending in a direction 

between said second pair of opposite edges. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said frame is generally rectangular 
as defined by said two opposite edges and a second pair of opposite edges, and 

including a slit in at least one of the second pair of opposite edges for receiving and 
locking a plug end of the cord. 
The device of claim 5, including a pair of said slits in each said 
second pair of opposite edges and located to provide one slit near each corner of the 

rectangular frame. 
In combination with the device of claim 1, a box-like container 
defining a storage compartment sized for receiving a plurality of the devices in a 

stacked array, and each device including at least one cutout in an edge thereof to 
facilitate lifting the devices out of the container. 
The combination of claim 7 wherein said frame is generally rectangular 
as defined by said two opposite edges and a second pair of opposite edges, the 

compartment of said container is complementarily rectangular in shape, and said 
cutouts are located in the second pair of opposite edges of the frames. 
The combination of claim 7 wherein said container is fabricated of 
thin corrugated paper board material. 
A system for organizing and storing electrical wire cords such as 
electrical light strings having a plurality of electric bulbs joined by electric cords, 

comprising: 
   a plurality of generally flat frames, each frame being of a polygonal 

configuration defined by peripheral edges about which a cord may be wrapped; and 
   a box-like container defining a storage compartment of a polygonal 

configuration complementary to the polygonal configuration of said frames and sized 
for receiving a plurality of the frames in a stacked array with said cords wrapped 

thereabout. 
The system of claim 10 wherein said frames have cutouts in the 
peripheral edges thereof to facilitate lifting the frames out of the container. 
The system of claim 10 wherein said frames have slits in the 

peripheral edges thereof for receiving and locking plug ends of the cords. 
The system of claim 10 wherein said frames are fabricated of thin 
corrugated paper board material. 
The system of claim 13 wherein said container is fabricated of 
thin corrugated paper board material. 
The system of claim 14 wherein said container comprises a blank 
which includes a plurality of side panels for forming the polygonal storage compartment, 

the side panels being joined by fold lines so that the container may be opened 
and closed between an unfolded condition defining the polygonal storage compartment 

and a folded generally flat condition with the side panels in a general accordion 
configuration. 
The system of claim 15 wherein said frames are generally rectangular 
and said container includes two opposing pairs of said side panels for forming 

a complementary rectangular storage compartment, the side panels being joined by 
fold lines, and one of the two opposing pairs of side panels having intermediate fold 

lines whereby the side panels of said one of the two opposing pairs thereof may be 
folded inwardly between the side panels of the other of the two opposing pairs thereof. 
The system of claim 16 wherein said container includes a lid 
joined to one of the side panels of the other of the two opposing pairs thereof by a 

reverse-bend fold line to permit the lid to be folded along the outside of the one side 
panel to which the lid is joined. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
