<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612214</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYNERGISTIC COMBINATIONS OF IODOPROPARGYL COMPOUNDS WITH 1,2-BENZISOTHIAZOLIN-3-ONE IN CONTROLLING FUNGAL AND BACTERIAL GROWTH IN AQUEOUS FLUIDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N4712	A01N4710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N47	A01N47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Synergistic combinations of iodopropargyl compounds and 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one for use in controlling the growth of at least one microorganism, such as fungi and bacteria in aqueous fluids, such as metalworking fluids.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUCKMAN LABOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUCKMAN LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPPONG DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPPONG, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to synergistic antimicrobial 
combinations of iodopropargyl compounds with 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one 
and use of such combinations in 
controlling fungal and/or bacterial growth in aqueous 
systems, particularly in metalworking fluids, such as 
soluble-oil, semi-synthetic and synthetic metalworking 
fluids. Iodopropargyl compounds, ie. compounds containing a 
propargyl group and an iodine on the acetylenic carbon, 
are known to be useful in controlling bacteria and fungi 
in various aqueous systems. US Patent No. 4,259,350; 
4,719,227; 4,616,004; 3,923,870; 4,592,773, incorporated 
herein by reference, set forth various examples of 
iodopropargyl compounds with microbicidal properties. One such iodopropargyl compound is iodopropargyl 
carbamate. The preparation and use of iodopropargyl 
carbamate as a microbicide and a preservative is described 
in US Patent No. 4,945,109, the disclosure of which is 
incorporated herein by reference. Another such iodopropargyl compound is 3-iodopropargyl-N-butylcarbamate 
(IPBC). This compound is 
manufactured and sold by Troy Chemical Company under 
various means such as Polyphase® product, Polyphase® AF-1 
product, and Polyphase® NP-1 product. Combination of this 
compound with 4,5-dichloro-2-octyl-isothiazolin-3-one is 
taught in EP-A-431752. Although good microbicides, iodopropargyl compounds 
are expensive. Systems requiring high concentrations of 
iodopropargyl compounds are generally uneconomical. The compound 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one has been used 
in the metalworking fluid industry for a long time. This 
compound is sold as Proxel® CRL product, or Proxel® GXL 
product.  
 As can be seen in Examples 1, 2 and 3, Table 1 (see 
samples 8-10), and Tables 2 and 3 (Samples 15-18), high 
concentrations of 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one are required to 
control both bacterial and fungal growth in metalworking 
fluids. Both of these types of products are used alone to 
control microorganisms in industrial fluids, since many 
industries, such as the machining industry, experience 
problems caused by microorganisms. Aqueous metalworking 
fluids or cutting fluids used in the machining industry are 
particularly susceptible to fouling caused by microorganisms. 
In machining operations, metalworking fluids are used 
primarily to reduce friction and heat, thereby reducing wear 
and prolonging the life of equipment. Unfortunately, metalworking fluids have properties 
which are ideal for the growth of bacteria and fungi. 
Although bacteria are important in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : 
AT, BE, CH, DE, DK, FR, GB, GR, IE, IT, LI, LU, MC, NL, SE
A composition comprising (a) an iodopropargyl 
compound and (b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one, wherein 

said composition contains an amount of (a) and (b) 
synergistically effective to reduce the growth of at 

least one microorganism. 
A composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
iodopropargyl compound has the structure: 


IC≡C-CH₂X
 
wherein X is (1) oxygen which is part of an organic 

functional group; (2) nitrogen which is a part of an 
organic functional group; (3) sulfur which is part of an 

organic functional group; or (4) carbon which is part of 
an organic functional group. 
A composition as claimed in claim 2, wherein the 
oxygen is part of an ether, ester or carbamate group; 

the nitrogen is part of an amine, amide or carbamate 
group; the sulfur is part of a thiol, thiane, sulfone or 

sulfoxide group; and the carbon is part of an ester, 
carbamate or alkyl group. 
A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
3, wherein the ratio of (a) and (b) is from 1:99 to 

99:1. 
A composition as claimed in 4, wherein said ratio 
is from 20:80 to 80:20. 
A composition as claimed in 5, wherein said ratio 
is from 40:60 to 60:40.  

 
A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, 

wherein said iodopropargyl compound is iodopropargyl 
carbamate. 
A composition as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 6, wherein said iodopropargyl compound is 

3-iodopropargyl-N-butyl carbamate. 
A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein the concentration of (a) ranges from 0.1 ppm to 

5000 ppm and the concentration of (b) ranges from 
0.1 ppm to 5000 ppm. 
A composition as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 8, wherein the concentration of (a) ranges from 0.1 

ppm to 1000 ppm and the concentration of (b) ranges from 
0.1 ppm to 500 ppm. 
A method of controlling the growth of at least one 
microorganism in an aqueous fluid comprising the step of 

adding to said fluid a composition as claimed in any one 
of claims 1 to 10. 
A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said 
microorganism is a bacterium or fungus. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said 
aqueous fluid is a metalworking fluid. 
A metalworking fluid comprising: 

(a) an iodopropargyl compound
 
and 
(b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; 
 
said fluid containing an amount of (a) and (b) 

synergistically effective to reduce the growth of at 
least one microorganism in said fluid.  

 
A fluid as claimed in claim 14, wherein the ratio 
of (a) and (b) is from 1:99 to 99:1. 
A concentrated metalworking fluid comprising: 

(a) an iodopropargyl compound and 
(b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; 
 
said fluid containing an amount of (a) and (b) 

synergistically effective to reduce the growth of at 
least one microorganism in said fluid when said fluid is 

diluted and used at a metalworking site. 
A composition as claimed in claim 16, wherein said 
iodopropargyl compound is 3-iodopropargyl-N-butyl 

carbamate. 
A method of controlling the growth of at least one 
microorganism in a diluted metalworking fluid comprising 

the step of separately adding to said diluted 
metalworking fluid: 


(a) an iodopropargyl compound and 
(b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; 
 
wherein the ratio of (a) and (b) after addition of both 

(a) and (b) to said fluid is from 1:99 to 99:1 and 
wherein the combined amount of separately added (a) and 

(b) is synergistically effective to control the growth 
of the microorganism in said fluid. 
A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said 
microorganism is a bacterium or fungus. 
Claims for the following Contracting State : ES
A method of controlling the growth of at least one 
microorganism in an aqueous fluid comprising the step of 

adding to said fluid a composition comprising (a) an 
iodopropargyl compound and (b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one, 

wherein said composition contains an amount of (a) and (b) 
synergistically effective to reduce the growth of at least 

one microorganism. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
iodopropargyl compound has the structure: 


IC≡C-CH₂X
 
wherein X is (1) oxygen which is part of an organic 

functional group; (2) nitrogen which is a part of an 
organic functional group; (3) sulfur which is part of an 

organic functional group; or (4) carbon which is part of 
an organic functional group. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the oxygen is 
part of an ether, ester or carbamate group; the nitrogen 

is part of an amine, amide or carbamate group; the sulfur 
is part of a thiol, thiane, sulfone or sulfoxide group; 

and the carbon is part of an ester, carbamate or alkyl 
group. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein the ratio of (a) and (b) is from 1:99 to 99:1. 
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said ratio is 
from 20:80 to 80:20. 
A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein said ratio is 
from 40:60 to 60:40. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
said iodopropargyl compound is iodopropargyl carbamate. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6,  
 

wherein said iodopropargyl compound is 3-iodopropargyl-N-butyl 
carbamate. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the concentration of (a) in said composition ranges from 

0.1 ppm to 5000 ppm and the concentration of (b) in said 
composition ranges from 0.1 ppm to 5000 ppm. 
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
concentration of (a) ranges from 0.1 ppm to 1000 ppm and 

the concentration of (b) ranges from 0.1 ppm to 500 ppm. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
said microorganism is a bacterium or fungus. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
said aqueous fluid is a metalworking fluid. 
A method for producing a concentrated metalworking 
fluid comprising adding to a metalworking fluid 

concentrate: 

(a) an iodopropargyl compound and 
(b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; 
 
said fluid containing an amount of (a) and (b) 

synergistically effective to reduce the growth of at least 
one microorganism in said fluid when said fluid is diluted 

and used at a metalworking site. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said 
iodopropargyl compound is 3-iodopropargyl-N-butyl 

carbamate. 
A method of controlling the growth of at least one 
microorganism in a diluted metalworking fluid comprising 

the step of separately adding to said diluted metalworking 
fluid: 


(a) an iodopropargyl compound and 
(b) 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; 
 
wherein the ratio of (a) and (b) after addition of both  

 
(a) and (b) to said fluid is from 1:99 to 99:1 and wherein 

the combined amount of separately added (a) and (b) is 
synergistically effective to control the growth of the 

microorganism in said fluid. 
A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said 
microorganism is a bacterium or fungus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
