<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642205</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Connection of a brush shunt in an electric motor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K522	H02K346	H02K514	H02K1502	H02K1502	H02K352	H02K514	H02K522	H02K1300	H02K1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K5	H02K3	H02K5	H02K15	H02K15	H02K3	H02K5	H02K5	H02K13	H02K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flexible brush shunt 36 connects each 
commutator brush 35 to electrical terminals 43 on a stator 

20. The shunt 36 is composed of stranded wire. Its end 
360 is stiffened, for example by welding or fusing the 

wires together, so that it can be inserted directly 
between conductive arms 44 of the connector 43. 

Lubrication with paraffin or beeswax facilitates such 
insertion. Alternatively the end 360 is covered with a 

polymeric sheath which serves both as stiffener and as 
lubricant. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAVENS PAUL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON DONALD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANCL DENNIS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAVENS, PAUL W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, DONALD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANCL, DENNIS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electric motors of 
the type having brushes for commutation. More 
particularly, this invention relates to a brush/shunt 
assembly having a stranded shunt and to a method of 
connecting the brush shunt to a termination point on an 
electric motor. It is well-known that electric motors 
typically include a stationary stator portion and a 
rotor or armature mounted for rotation within the 
stator. The stationary stator portion includes a 
stator core in which the rotor rotates and may include 
other stationary parts of the motor such as a frame 
that holds the ends of the rotor shaft. The stator 
core is either a permanent magnet, which might be a 
ceramic material, or a material, such as a metal, 
capable of being magnetized. If the stator core is 
metallic, it typically includes one or more coils 
("field coils" or "stator coils") wound around the 
stator core that transform the stator core into an 
electromagnet when connected to a source of electrical 
energy. The rotor also includes one or more coils 
("armature coils" or "rotor coils") that produce a 
magnet field in the rotor core when electrical energy 
is applied. The rotor rotates as the magnetic fields  
 
in the stator core and the rotor core repel one 
another. In order to conduct electrical energy to the 
rotor coils, a commutator is mounted around the rotor 
shaft. The commutator includes two or more commutator 
bars or rings extending circumferentially around the 
shaft. Brushes secured to the stator core, or to a 
support structure attached to the stator core, make 
sliding contact with the commutator as the rotor 
rotates. In many types of motors, it is necessary to 
use a conductor known as a shunt to connect each brush 
to a termination point on the stationary stator 
portion, which is also connected either to one of the 
stator coils or to a source of electrical energy, or 
both (depending on whether, e.g., the motor is a 
series-type motor or a shunt-type motor, or a permanent 
magnet motor as opposed to a motor having stator 
windings). Brushes are typically urged -- e.g., by 
springs -- toward the commutator so that contact is 
maintained as the brush wears down. In order for the 
shunt to be sufficiently flexible so as not to 
interfere with movement of the brush under the action 
of the spring, the shunt is frequently made from fine 
stranded wire, which may be braided or twisted. One type of termination that is commonly used 
to make connections on a stator assembly is a terminal 
having a slot between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A brush/shunt assembly for use in a dynamo-electric 
machine (1), said assembly comprising: 


a commutator brush (35); and 
a stranded wire shunt (36) connected at a first end 
thereof to said commutator brush (35) and having a second 

connection end (360,71) for connection to a terminal (42) on a 
stationary stator (20) portion of said dynamo-electric machine, 

characterised in that the connection end of the stranded wire 
shunt is a stiffened connection end for insertion into said 

terminal. 
A brush/shunt assembly according to claim 1 characterised 
in that the connection end (71,360) of the wire shunt is 

treated to reduce resistance to insertion into said terminal 
(42). 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said stiffened connection 
end (71,360) of said shunt is tr
eated by lubrication to reduce 
resistance to insertion into said terminal. 
The assembly of claim 3 wherein said stiffened end (360) 
of said shunt is lubricated with beeswax (361). 
The assembly of claim 3 wherein said stiffened end (360) 
of said shunt is lubricated with paraffin (361). 
The assembly of any of claims 1 to 5 wherein ends of 
strands in the stranded wire shunt (36) are stiffened by being 

joined together.  
 
The assembly of any of claims 1 to 6 wherein ends of 
strands in said stiffened end (71,360) of said shunt are welded 

together. 
The assembly of any of claims 1 to 6 wherein ends of 
strands in said stiffened end (71,360) of said shunt are fused 

together. 
The assembly of any of claims 1 to 6 wherein ends of 
strands in said stiffened end (71,306) of said shunt are 

soldered together. 
A dynamo-electric machine including at least one 
brush/shunt assembly according to any preceding claim and 

comprising: 

a stationary stator portion (20) including a stator core 
(30); 
an armature (21) mounted for rotation in said stator core 
(30); 
at least one armature coil wound on said armature; 
a commutator (29) mounted on said armature (21) to which 
said at least one armature coil is terminated; 
at least one terminal (42) mounted on said stator (20), 
said terminal having a pair of electrically conductive arms and 

a slot (48) between said pair of electrically conductive arms 
for receiving a lead, said arms exerting an inward force on 

said lead for retaining said lead and for making electrical 
contact therewith; wherein 
the stranded wire shunt or shunts (36) of each of said at 
least one brush/shunt assembly connects the brush (35) of each 

of said at least one assembly to said at least one terminal 
(42) and  

 
when said dynamo-electric machine is assembled, the 
stiffened end (71,360) of said stranded wire shunt (36) is 

inserted between said electrically conductive arms of said 
terminal (42). 
The dynamo-electric machine of claim 10 further 
comprising: 


a stator coil (31,32) wound on said stator core (30) and 
having two ends (47), one of said ends being electrically 

connected to said at least one terminal (42); and 
a second terminal (42) mounted on said stator core, the 
second of said ends of said stator coil being electrically 

connected to said second terminal. 
The dynamo-electric machine of claim 11 further 
comprising: 


a second brush (35) for contacting said commutator; 
a third terminal (42) mounted on said stator core; and 
a second of said at least one stranded wire shunt (36) for 
connecting said second brush to said third terminal. 
The dynamo-electric machine of claim 12 further 
comprising: 


a second stator coil (31,32) wound on said stator core 
(30) and having two ends (447), one of said ends of said second 

stator coil being connected to said third terminal; and 
a fourth terminal mounted on said stator core, a second of 
said ends of said second stator coil being connected to said 

forth terminal; wherein : 
said second and fourth terminals are for connection to a 
source of electrical power. 
A dynamo-electric machine according to any of claims 10 to 
13 wherein the machine is an electric motor (10) further 

comprising an electric light source having at least one lead 
(80) connected to one of said respective terminals (42). 
The electric motor of claim 14 further comprising a 
locking fastener in said slot (48) for securing said one of 

said brush shunts (36) and said one of said leads (80) in said 
slot (48). 
A method of making a brush/shunt assembly for use in a 
dynamo-electric machine, said assembly including (i) a 

commutator brush (35) and (ii) a stranded wire shunt (36) 
connected at a first end thereof to said commutator brush and 

having a second end (71,360) for connection to a terminal (42) 
on a stator (20) of a dynamo-electric machine, said second end 

(71,360) of said shunt being stiffened for insertion into said 
terminal (98), said method comprising the steps of: 


providing said commutator brush and said stranded wire 
shunt connected thereto; and 
stiffening said second end of said shunt. 
A method according to claim 16 further comprising the step 
or treating said second end of said shunt to reduce resistance 

to insertion in the terminal. 
The method of claim 17 wherein said treating step 
comprises applying a lubricant to said second end of said 

shunt. 
The method of claim 18 wherein said applying step 
comprises applying beeswax to said second end of said shunt.  

 
The method of claim 18 wherein said applying step 
comprises applying paraffin to said second end of said shunt. 
A method of assembling a dynamo-electric machine, said 
dynamo-electric machine having (i) a stationary stator portion 

(20) including a stator core, (ii) a rotatable armature (21) 
mounted for rotation within said stator core, (iii) at least 

one armature coil wound on said armature, a commutator (29) on 
said armature to which said at least one armature coil is 

terminated, (iv) at least one bush (35) for contacting said 
commutator, and (v) a respective stranded brush shunt (36) for 

electrically connecting each said at least one brush at a 
proximal end of said shunt to a respective termination point 

(42) on said stationary stator portion at a distal end of said 
shunt, the method comprising: 


making a brush/shunt assembly according to any of claims 
16 to 20; 
providing as said respective termination point a slotted 
terminal (42) having a slot (48) for receiving said distal end 

between a pair of electrically conductive arms, said arms 
exerting an inward force on said distal end for retaining said 

one of said stranded brush shunts and for making electrical 
contact therewith; and 
inserting said stiffened strands in said slot (48) between 
said conductive arms. 
The method of claim 21 wherein : 

said stiffening step comprises gripping said one of said 
stranded shunts (36) securely at a first gripping point (50) at 

said distal end, for holding said strands together; and 
said inserting step comprises:  
 
gripping said one of said stranded shunts at a second 
gripping point (51) removed from said distal end to form a 

gripped section between said first and second gripping points 
(50,51); 
positioning said gripped section adjacent said slot (48); 
and 
urging both said gripping points toward said stator 
portion (20) to press said gripped section into said slot (48). 
The method of claim 21 wherein : 


said stiffening step comprising joining ends of said 
strands to adhere to one another to form a joined end (71,360); 

and 
said inserting step comprises: 
positioning said joined end adjacent said slot (48), and 
urging said joined end toward said stator core to insert 
said joined end into said slot. 
The method of claim 23 wherein said joining step comprises 
welding said ends of said strands. 
The method of claim 23 wherein said joining step comprises 
fusing said ends of said strands. 
The method of claim 23 wherein said joining step comprises 
soldering said ends of said strands. 
The method of any of claims 21 to 26 wherein said 
inserting step further comprises lubricating said stiffened 

strands prior to insertion. 
The method of claim 27 wherein said lubricating step 
comprises lubricating said stiffened strands with beeswax.  

 
The method of claim 27 wherein said lubricating step 
comprises lubricating said stiffened strands with paraffin. 
A method for assembly an electric motor according to any 
of claims 21 to 29, said electric moter having an electric 

light source having at least one lead (80) connected to said 
respective termination point (42), said method further 

comprising:
 
   inserting said one of said light source leads (80) in said 

slot (48) between said conductive arms. 
The method of claim 30 further comprising securing said 
one of said brush shunts and said one of said leads (80) in 

said slot by applying a locking fastener to said slot (48) 
after inserting said one of said brush shunts and said one of 

said leads therein. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
