<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MICROSTRUCTURED MEMBRANES AND METHODS FOR MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6700	B01D6700	B01D6900	B01D6902	B23K2600	B23K2600	B23K2606	B23K2606	B23K2638	B29C4400	B29C4400	B29K10504	G03F700	G03F700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B29C	B29C	B29K	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D67	B01D67	B01D69	B01D69	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B29C44	B29C44	B29K105	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Microstructured membrane comprising a sheet having first and second faces with an array of pores extending into the sheet from the first face, and in some instances extending through the entirety of the sheet. Substantially each pore within the array is individually surrounded by a flat land area and the major portion of the walls of each pore are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pore. The pores have an average characteristic dimension of between about 0.1 and about 5000 microns and a pore size distribution of less than about 10 percent, the longitudinal axes of pores within the array being substantially parallel with each other. Also, articles incorporating such membranes and methods for making such membranes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE DONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSHREFZADEH ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POURNOOR KAVEH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE, DONALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSHREFZADEH, ROBERT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POURNOOR, KAVEH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ICROSTRUCTURED MEMBRANES AND METHODS FOR MAKING SAMEField of InventionThe present invention relates to microstructured membranes having arrays of defined pores therein, articles incorporating such membranes, and methods for making such membranes.BackgroundCertain types of microstructured membranes with a plurality of cavities and orifices therein are known. U.S. Patent No. 2,345,080 (Von Ardenne) discloses production of filters by perforating a foil with ion rays. U.S. Patent No. 3,303,085 (Price et al.) discloses formation of molecular sieves utilizing charged particle radiation. U.S. Patent No. 3,612,871 (Crawford et al.) discloses a method for treating plastic film by charged particle irradiation and then treatment with a selected solvent to leave substantially cylindrical holes in the film.U.S. Patent No. 4,044,222 (Kestenbaum) discloses a method of forming tapered apertures in thin films.U.S. Patent No. 4,092,515 (Joslin et al.) discloses a method of drilling a hole in a workpiece, the hole being substantially free of a recast layer, the method comprising laser irradiation of a workpiece in an oxidizing environment. U.S. Patent No. 4,262,186 (Provancher) discloses a process for forming holes in a substrate employing laser perforation of a chemical mask, chemical etching of the substrate through the perforated mask, and then removing the mask to yield the substrate with holes therein. U.S. Patent No. 4,855,049 (Toulemonde et al.) discloses formation of porous membranes by irradiation of a film from two sides with ionizing radiation and chemical etching. 

 U.S. Patent No. 4,652,412 (Chiulli) discloses a method for forming a icroporous filter by embossing holes in an embossable polymer on a porous support.Surface relief patterns and holes through films have been formed by methods utilizing laser irradiation. For instance, U.S. Patent No. 4,402,571 (Cowan et al.) discloses a method for producing a surface relief pattern utilizing laser interferometry. U.S. Patent No. 4,496,216 (Cowan) discloses formation of circular holes in photosensitive material utilizing exposure to at least three coherent beams of radiation.U.S. Patent No. 4,923,608 (Flottman et al.) discloses membranes having tapered or rounded funnel-shaped pores with fixed pore size and a pore size distribution of less than 10 percent. The dividers between the pores are saddle-like and are of two different heights. The average pore diameters are said to range from 0.05 to 10 microns. The membranes are manufactured through erosion of pores
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A microstructured membrane comprising a sheet having a first major face and a second major face with an array of pores extending into said sheet from said first face characterized in that substantially each pore within said array is individually surrounded by a flat land area, said pores having an average characteristic dimension of between about 0.1 and about 5000 microns and a pore size distribution of less than about 10 percent, the longitudinal axes of said pores being substantially parallel with each other.
2. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in at least one of the following: a) said sheet comprises one or more of the following: glass, ceramic, metal, or polymer; or b) said sheet is made of a material that is subject to directional ablation by exposure to ablative radiation or reactive ion etching; or c) said sheet comprises one or more of the following: polyvinyls, polyynes, polyenes, polydienes, polyesters, polyurethanes, polyamides, polyimides, polyethers, and polycarbonates.
3. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in at least one of the following: a) said sheet is less than about 50 microns thick; or b) said sheet has a thickness greater than about 50 microns; or c) said sheet has a thickness up to about 5000 microns.
4. - The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in at least one of the following: a) the longitudinal axis of said pores is substantially perpendicular to said first face; or 


 b) the longitudinal axes of substantially all of said pores are substantially parallel.
5. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in at least one of the following: a) each face has substantially flat land areas; or b) said first face has a surface porosity of at least about 5 percent; or c) said first face has a surface porosity of at least about 20 percent; or d) said first face has a surface porosity of at least about 40 percent.
6. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in at least one of the following: a) the major portion of the walls of each said pore are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of said pore; or b) at least 50 percent of the length of the walls of said pores are parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pores; or c) at least 75 percent of the length of the walls of said pores are parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pores; or d) the cross-sectional areas of said pores are substantially uniform throughout at least 50 percent of the length of the longitudinal axes of said pores; or e) the cross-sectional areas of said pores are substantially uniform throughout at least 75 percent of said longitudinal axes; or f) at least 50 percent of the length of the walls of said pores are straight; or g) at least 75 percent of the length of the walls of said pores are straight.
7. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in that said pores extend completely 


 through said sheet from said first face to said second face and the burst resistance of said membrane is isotropic.
8. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in at least one of the following: a) said pores have a pore size distribution of less 
•
 than about 10 percent. b) the area of opening and spatial arrangement of said pores is substantially uniform across said first face; or c) said pores extend completely through said sheet from said first face to said second face wherein and the cross-sectional areas of said pores are substantially uniform throughout at least 50 percent of the length of the longitudinal axes of said pores.
9. The membrane of claim 1 further characterized in that said membrane further comprises at least a second array of pores extending into said sheet from said first face wherein substantially each pore within said second array is individually surrounded by a flat land area and the major portion of the walls of each said pore are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of said pore, said pores having an average characteristic dimension of between about 0.1 and about 5000 microns and a pore size distribution of less than about 10 percent, the longitudinal axes of said pores within said array being substantially parallel with each other; wherein (1) at least one of said average characteristic dimension, said pore size distribution, depth, or shape of the pores of said second array is different from said average characteristic dimension, said pore size distribution, depth, .or shape of the pores of said first array; and/or (2) said longitudinal axes of the pores of said second array is at least 5° 


different from said longitudinal axes of the pores of said first array.
10. A membrane comprising a sheet having first and second faces with pores extending into at least said first face characterized in that the walls of each said pore form a frustum-like shape, said pores having, an average characteristic dimension at their largest end of between about 0.1 and about 5000 microns and a pore size distribution at their largest end of less than about 10 percent, the central axes of said pores being substantially parallel.
11. A method for making a membrane of claim 1, characterized in that said method comprises: a) providing a mask comprising a sheet with an array of apertures therein, said apertures being of the desired shape and characteristic dimension of said pores and being arranged in the pattern in which said pores are desired; b) positioning said mask in close proximity with the first face of a film having two faces; and c) forming an array of pores simultaneously in said film by application of directional means for boring through said mask; to yield said membrane.
12. The method of claim 11 further characterized in that said boring comprises application of a collimated stream of reactive ions or collimated energy beam through said mask.
13. The method of claim 11 further characterized in that said mask is generated while said sheet is in direct contact with said film.
14. The method of claim 13 further characterized in that said mask is generated by: 


 a) applying a layer of resist material to said first face of said film; b) imagewise exposing said layer of resist material with actinic radiation to differentially harden said resist material; c) removing the unhardened areas of said layer of resist material, exposing first areas of said first face of said film; d) applying a cap coating to said exposed areas of said first face of said film and the remaining portions of said layer of resist material; and e) removing the remaining portions of said resist material and the cap coating thereon, thereby exposing second areas of said first face.
15. The method of claim 11 further characterized in that said imagewise exposing is performed with laser interferometry. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
