<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656744</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GRAIN TRANSPORTATION APPARATUS FOR A COMBINE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01F1246	A01F1246	A01D4100	A01D4112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01F	A01F	A01D	A01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01F12	A01F12	A01D41	A01D41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A combine has a conveyor (60) for returning clean grain and grain returns to a grain bin (64) and threshing rotor (28), respectively, using a single conveyor housing which is divided by a partition (70) into separate clean grain (76) and grain returns (74) compartments. A plurality of paddles (80) are mounted whithin the compartments and are driven by a flexible linkage (86) which extends around the frame of the combine within the conveyor housing. The grain bin is pivotally mounted along a pivot axis (122) which allows the grain bin to be pivoted toward an opening of the grain from the grain bin to facilitate the flow of grain from the grain bin to an unloader (128) for discharging the grain from the combine.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGRI TECHNOLOGY LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGRI-TECHNOLOGY, L.P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNDERWOOD MARK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNDERWOOD, MARK, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to agricultural equipment 
and in particular to a combine for harvesting and 
threshing grain having a conveyor for transporting both 
clean grain and grain returns to a grain bin and 
threshing rotor, respectively. The grain bin is 
pivotally mounted adjacent to an unloader to facilitate 
the flow of clean grain from the grain bin so that it 
may be discharged from the combine. Combines and agricultural equipment employing a 
grain bin for temporary storage of grain have used grain 
bins which are immovably mounted to the combine. In 
order to remove grain from the grain bin, the floor of 
the grain bin is sloped toward an opening which is in 
communication with a grain auger for discharging the 
grain from the combine or agricultural equipment. The 
sloped floor of the grain bin causes grain to flow 
through the opening but reduces the volume of the grain 
bin thereby reducing the amount of grain that can be 
stored. When the grain bin is full, the grain is discharged 
by means of an auger which receives the grain as the 
grain flows through the opening. Because grain augers 
require very high forces and energy to elevate grain, 
the use of an auger is very inefficient. Augers tend to 
crack and damage the grain and are very hard to clean. In most combines, clean grain is separated from 
tailings and chaff by the use of sieves. A blower blows 
air across the sieves to discharge the lighter chaff as  
 
clean grain falls through the sieves and is conveyed up to 
the grain bin. Tailings, which are too heavy to be blown 
away from the combine but too large to fall through the 
sieves, will sometimes contain grain. To prevent the loss 
of this grain, the tailings or grain returns must be 
collected and rethreshed. U.S. Patent 4,489,733 describes an axial flow combine 
with elevating rings which extend circumferentially around 
the body of the combine. The elevating rings have separate 
compartments for both grain returns and clean grain. the 
elevating rings rotate causing grain returns and clean grain 
to be delivered to a threshing rotor and a grain bin, 
respectively. Because of the circular shape of the 
elevating rings, however, the elevating rings require a 
great deal of space. For the above reasons, there exists a need for a grain 
bin having a large capacity which allows grain to flow 
easily from the grain bin for discharge, and for a combine 
that has a means for returning grain to the grain bin and 
tailings to a threshing rotor for rethreshing in a simple 
but effective
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A combine having a frame mounted on wheels, a threshing 
rotor (28) removing grain from crop, a sieve section (36) where clean 

grain is separated from grain returns such as tailings, and a 
grain bin (64) for collecting the clean grain, the 

combine further comprising 

a single conveyor housing (62) having an interior (68) and which 
is mounted to the frame of the combine, the interior being 

divided into a returns compartment (74) and a grain compartment 
(76) by a partition (70) extending along the length of the 

conveyor housing, each of the compartments having a receiving end 
(98,100) located adjacent to the sieve section and a discharge 

end (102,104), the receiving ends of the compartments being 
separate, with the receiving end of the returns compartment being 

located below the sieve section at a point for receiving returns from the 
sieve section, and the receiving end of the grain compartment 

being located below the sieve section at a point for receiving clean grain 
from the sieve section, and the discharge ends of the 

compartments being separate, with the discharge end of the grain 
compartment being located above the grain bin, and the discharge 

end of the returns compartment being located above the threshing 
rotor; 
a plurality of paddles (80) which are spaced apart from each 
other at intervals within each of the compartments; and 
drive means for moving the paddles through each of the 
compartments past the receiving end to the discharge end, the paddles 

in the grain compartment forcing the grain from the receiving end  
 

to the discharge end where the clean grain is discharged to the grain 
bin, the paddles in the returns compartment forcing the returns 

from the receiving end to the discharge end where the returns are 
discharged to the threshing rotor for rethreshing. 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

one of the compartments being located on the forward side of the 
conveyor housing (62) and the other is located on the rearward side 

of the conveyor housing. 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

a returns chute (112) located adjacent to the discharge end of the 
returns compartment for carrying the returns to the threshing 

rotor. 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

the drive means including a flexible linkage (86) which is 
rotatably driven around a series of pulleys (92), the paddles 

being mounted to the flexible linkage so that the paddles are 
continually passed through the interior of the conveyor housing. 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

the drive means including a continuous drive chain (86), the 
chain being mounted to and rotatably driven around a series of 

sprockets (92) so that the chain is continually passed through 
the interior of the housing; and  

 
the paddles being joined to the drive chain (86) and spaced apart 
along the length of the chain (86). 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

the conveyor housing (62) having four corners (94) and extending 
completely around the combine along both sides of the combine, 

above the threshing rotor and grain bin, and below the sieve 
section; 
the drive means including a continuous drive chain (86), the chain 
being mounted to and rotatably driven around sprockets so that 

the chain is continually passed through the interior of the 
housing; and 
the paddles being joined to the drive chain (86) and spaced apart 
along the length of the chain (86). 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

the paddles being joined to the drive chain (86) so that the paddles 
move through each of the compartments (74, 76) past the receiving end to 

the discharge end, the paddles in the grain compartment (76) forcing the 
grain from the receiving end to the discharge end where the clean 

grain is discharged to the grain bin (64), the paddles in the returns 
compartment (74) forcing the returns from the receiving end to the 

discharge end where the returns are discharged to the threshing rotor 
for rethreshing. 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by:  
 


the edges of the paddles being in a near touching relationship 
with interior walls of each compartment (74, 76) of the conveyor housing 

as the paddles move through the compartments (74, 76). 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

the conveyor housing (62) having a removable cover (114) that can be 
removed to access the interior of the conveyor housing. 
The combine of claim 1, further characterized by: 

the conveyor housing (62) extending completely around the combine 
along both sides of the combine, above the threshing rotor and 

grain bin (64), and below the sieve section. 
The combine of claim 10, further characterized by: 

the conveyor housing (62) having four corners with sprockets located 
in each corner. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
