<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CYCLONIC VACUUM CLEANER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L900	A47L900	A47L916	A47L910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	A47L	A47L	A47L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L9	A47L9	A47L9	A47L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vacuum cleaner comprising a dirty air inlet (12, 14) communicating with a clean air outlet by means of an airflow path has a cyclone (18) arranged in the airflow path. In use, air flowing along the airflow path from the dirty air inlet (12, 14) to the clean air outlet passes through the cyclone (18). At least one bleed valve (20) is arranged in the wall of the airflow path upstream of the cyclone (18). Preferably, three bleed valves (20) are located in the wall of the airflow path and, more preferably, the bleed valves (20) are substantially identical to one another. Control means (94, 102) may be provided for controlling the amount of air bled through the bleed valve (76) when a single bleed valve is provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a vacuum cleaner, particularly
but not exclusively to a dual cyclonic vacuum
cleaner.A dual cyclonic vacuum cleaner comprises a dirty
air inlet communicating with a clean air outlet by means
of an airflow path, two cyclones being sequentially
arranged in the airflow path. In use, air flowing along the
airflow path from the dirty air inlet to the clean air outlet
passes through a first of the two cyclones and subsequently
through a second of the two cyclones. The first
cyclone is a "low efficiency" cyclone designed to remove
relatively large particles from the airflow, whilst the second,
"high efficiency" cyclone is designed to remove fine
dust particles from the airflow. A vacuum cleaner having
these features expels air which is dirt- and dust-free to a
higher degree than other known vacuum cleaners.
Examples of such vacuum cleaners are known from
published European application No. 0489565 and European
patents Nos. 0042723 and 0134654.Another advantage of the dual cyclonic vacuum
cleaner is that the dirt-collecting chambers are highly
unlikely to become blocked because of the size and
rigidity of the chambers. However, it is inevitable that the
dirty air inlet, either in the form of a cleaner head or a
tool attached to a hose or wand, can become blocked to
a greater or lesser extent Naturally, this reduces the airflow
along the airflow path. A single cyclonic vacuum
cleaner operates in the same manner but utilises only
one cyclone which can become inefficient if the airflow
rate though the cyclone is reduced.Vacuum cleaner airflow rates are measured at various
orifice sizes. The flow rates start at an effective orifice
size of 50mm diameter and are reduced to zero at
zero diameter. Any flow rate in any given machine therefore
has an equivalent "effective orifice" size. In practice,
a vacuum cleaner being used through a hose or wand
typically has an effective orifice size of 32mm diameter
if it is fully open. A vacuum cleaner operating on a carpet
through a cleaner head has an effective orifice of
about 19mm diameter. A crevice tool being used on the
end of a wand handle may have an effective orifice of
about 15mm diameter. Thus it can been seen that, in its
normal range of use, a vacuum cleaner has to deal with
airflows equivalent to those obtained through orifices of
from 15mm to 32mm diameter.At all of these flow rates achieved in normal use, the
second cyclone of a dual cyclonic vacuum cleaner
maintains a good level of fine dust separation. However,
it has been found that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vacuum cleaner comprising a dirty air inlet (12,14) communicating with a clean air
outlet by means of an airflow path, a cyclone (18) being arranged in the airflow path

such that, in use, dust-laden air flowing along the airflow path from the dirty air inlet
(12,14) to the clean air outlet passes through the cyclone (18), 
characterised in that
 at
least one bleed valve (20) is provided, downstream of the dirty air inlet (12,14) and

upstream of the cyclone (18), which is adapted to introduce bled air into the airflow
path to combine with the dust-laden air and to maintain the flow rate of the dust-laden

air within the cyclone (18), the or each bleed valve (20) being operable when,
in use, either the pressure of the air flowing along the airflow path falls to or below a

predetermined level or the amount of particulates in the air at or adjacent the clean
air outlet exceeds a predetermined level.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the at least one bleed valve (20) is
arranged in the wall of the airflow path upstream of the cyclone (18).
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 2, wherein two cyclones (16,18) are arranged
sequentially in the airflow path, the bleed valve or valves (20) being arranged

between the two cyclones (16,18).
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein a plurality of
bleed valves (20) are provided adjacent one another.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the bleed valves (20) are
substantially identical to one another.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 4 or 5, wherein three bleed valves (20) are
provided adjacent one another. 
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each
bleed valve (20) is spring loaded.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
effective area of the bleed valve (20), or the total effective area of the bleed valves

(20), is between 120mm
2
 and 150mm
2
.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the effective area of the bleed
valve (20), or the total effective area of the bleed valves (20), is substantially

132mm
2
.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or
each bleed valve (20) comprises a door (78) movable between a first position in

which, in use, the flow of bled air through the bleed valve (20) is restricted and a
second position in which, in use, the flow of bled air through the bleed valve (20) is

restricted to a lesser extent than when the door (78) is in the first position.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 10, wherein the position of the door (78) is
controlled by means responsive to the pressure of the air flow in the cyclone (18).
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 10, wherein the position of the door (78) is
controlled by means (94) responsive to the concentration of particulates in the air

exhausted from the cyclone (18).
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or
each bleed valve (20) is designed to open when the pressure in the airflow path is

that produced by an airflow equivalent to an effective orifice of between 10mm and
15mm diameter, or less. 
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 13, wherein the or each bleed valve (20) is
designed to open when the pressure in the airflow path is that produced by an airflow

equivalent to an effective orifice of 13mm diameter, or less.
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein the amount of
particulates in the air at or adjacent the clean air outlet is determined by means of a

sensor (94) provided downstream of the cyclone (18).
A vacuum cleaner as claimed in Claim 15, wherein the sensor (94) is provided with
a light source (96) and a detector (98).
A method of operating a cyclonic vacuum cleaner having first and second cyclones
(16,18) arranged in series, comprising the steps of:-


a) admitting dirty air into the first cyclone (16);
b) partially cleaning the dirty air in the first cyclone (16) to produce
partially filtered air;
c) conducting the partially filtered air from the first cyclone (16) to the
second cyclone (18);
d) further cleaning the partially filtered air in the second cyclone (18) to
produce further cleaned air; and
e) exhausting the further cleaned air from the second cyclone (18),
characterised in that
, bled air is introduced to and combined with the partially filtered
air before the entry thereof into the second cyclone (18) in order to maintain the rate

of the airflow within the second cyclone (18) and for reducing particulates
in the further cleaned air.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
