<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TWO AXIS MOUNT POINTING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1500	G01C1500	H01Q118	H01Q118	H01Q127	H01Q128	H01Q134	H01Q308	H01Q308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C15	G01C15	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q3	H01Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is directed toward a pointing apparatus for use in a target tracking system wherein a device (1) is continually pointed in the direction of a target in order to track the target. The pointing apparatus is mountable on a moving body in order to implement a tracking system on a moving body. The tracking system has at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the target. The pointing apparatus includes a base mounted on the moving body, a pointing arm (2) for carrying the device and a universal joint supported by the base. The pointing arm is rotatably mounted within the universal joint for rotation about first and second control axes, the universal joint being constructed and arranged so as to enable rotation of the pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each of the first and second control axes while suffering no singularities of control. The universal joint is further constructed and arranged so that the orientation of the first control axis varies as the pointing arm is rotated about the second control axis, and so that the orientation of the second control axis varies as the pointing arm is rotated about the first control axis. The pointing apparatus further includes a control means, responsive to the at least one sensor, for rotating the pointing arm about the first and second control axes when moving body changes its orientation relative to the target so that the device is continuously pointed in the direction of the target.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KVH IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KVH INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVANS JOHN M JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITS VAN HEYNINGEN MARTIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVANS, JOHN, M., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITS VAN HEYNINGEN, MARTIN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TWO AXIS MOUNT POINTING APPARATUSField of the Invention This invention relates to a pointing apparatus for pointing a device at a target. More particularly, this invention is directed toward a pointing apparatus utilizing a two axis mount. The pointing apparatus of the present invention is particularly well-suited for use in a target tracking system located on a moving body such as a ship, and can be used to implement a satellite tracking system wherein an antenna is continuously pointed in the direction of a satellite.Background of the Invention Satellite communication systems have been developed for transmitting information from a source to a destination. In these communication systems, an information signal is initially transmitted from the source to a geostationary satellite. The signal is received by the satellite, and then retransmitted to the destination. An antenna is utilized at the source to transmit the signal to the satellite, and at the destination to receive the retransmitted signal from the satellite. To ensure that the communication link is maintained, both the transmitting and receiving antennas must be pointed in the direction of the satellite. Geostationary satellites orbit the earth in such a manner that they maintain a constant orientation relative to any particular location on the earth's surface. Therefore, if the source and destination have fixed locations, the antenna pointing direction for each, once established, is essentially fixed. Consequently, for communication systems that have fixed transmitting and receiving locations, the satellite tracking system need not adjust the antenna pointing direction on a continuous basis in order tc track the satellite. 

 Systems have also been developed for establishing a satellite communication link with a mobile body, such as a motor vehicle or a ship. When a satellite tracking system is installed on a ship, an antenna is mounted on the ship for transmitting signals to and receiving signals from a geostationary satellite. The antenna pointing apparatus for a εhipborne tracking system is more complex than for stationary tracking systems because the pointing direction of the antenna, relative to the ship, continuously changes due to various factors associated with the orientation of the ship-. As the ship travels from one location to another, it may change its heading direction relative to the earth which causes a corresponding change (yaw) in the desired pointing direction of the antenna relative to the ship. Additionally, as a result of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system mountable to a moving body, the satellite tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base mountable to the moving body; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; a universal joint supported by said base, said antenna pointing arm being mounted to said universal joint and rotatable about first and second control axes, said universal joint being constructed and arranged to allow rotation of said antenna pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each of said first and second control axes; and control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for controlling said universal joint to rotate said antenna pointing arm about said first and second control axes when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the satellite so that said antenna is continuously pointed in the direction of the satellite.
2. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said control means is responsive to signals generated by the at least one sensor indicating at least one of a heading direction of the moving body relative to the earth, a pitch angle of the moving body and a roll angle of the moving body.
3. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said first control axis is orthogonal to said second control axis. 


 4. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim l wherein said first and second control axes each have an orientation relative to said base, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis .
5. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said- antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis.
6. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said antenna pointing arm can be rotated from first to second end positions along each control axis, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm is orthogonal to both said first and second control axes when it is positioned midway between said first and second end positions along each control axis.
7. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said base is fixedly mountable to the moving body.
8. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim l wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm can be moved through a 360 degree path wherein it traces the earth's horizon without encountering mechanical interference from said base; 


 9. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system mountable to a moving body, the satellite tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base mountable to the moving body; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; a universal joint supported by said base, said antenna pointing arm being mounted to said universal joint and rotatable about first and second control axes, said first and second control axes each having ah orientation relative to said base, said universal joint being constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis, and so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis; and control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for rotating said antenna pointing arm about said first and second control axes when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the satellite so that said antenna is continuously pointed in the direction of the satellite.
10. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said control means is responsive to signals generated by the at least one sensor indicating at least one of a heading direction of the moving body relative to the earth, a pitch angle of the moving body and a roll angle of the moving body. 


 11. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said first control axis is orthogonal to said second control axis.
12. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said antenna pointing arm can be rotated from first to second end positions along each control axis, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm is orthogonal to both said first and second control axes when it is positioned midway between said first and second end positions along each control axis.
13. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said base is fixedly mountable to the moving body.
14. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm can be moved through a 360 degree path wherein it traces the earth's horizon without encountering mechanical interference from said base.
15. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system mountable to a moving body, the satellite being positioned in a hemisphere above the moving body, the satellite tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base mountable to the moving body; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; 



 a universal joint supported by said base, said antenna pointing arm being movably mounted to said universal joint, said universal joint being constructed and arranged to point said antenna at any location in the hemisphere above the moving body without any singularities of control; and control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for moving said antenna pointing arm within said universal joint when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the satellite so that said antenna is continuously pointed in the direction of the satellite.
16. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said antenna pointing arm is mounted to said universal joint for rotation about first and second control axes, said first and second control axes each have an orientation relative to said base, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged to allow rotation of said antenna pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each of said first and second control axes.
17. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis, and so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis.
18. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 17 wherein said antenna pointing arm can be rotated from first to second end positions along each control axis, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm is orthogonal to both said 


first and second control axes when it is positioned midway between said first and second end positions along each control axis.
19. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said control means is responsive to signals generated by the at least one sensor indicating at least one of a heading direction of the moving body relative to the earth, a pitch angle of the moving body and a roll angle of the moving body.
20. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis, and so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis.
21. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said base is fixedly mountable to the moving body.
22. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said antenna pointing arm can be rotated from first to second end positions along each control axis, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm is orthogonal to both said first and second control axes when it is positioned midway between said first and second end positions along each control axis. 


 23. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm can be moved through a 360 degree path wherein it traces the earth's horizon without encountering mechanical interference from said base.
24. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system mountable to a moving body, the satellite tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base mountable to the moving body; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; a first gear assembly pivotably mounted to said base, said antenna pointing arm being mechanically coupled to said first gear assembly, said first gear assembly being constructed and arranged to rotate said antenna pointing arm about a first control axis; a second gear assembly pivotably mounted to said base, said antenna pointing arm being mechanically coupled to said second gear assembly, said second gear assembly being constructed and arranged to rotate said antenna pointing arm about a second control axis; said first gear assembly being mechanically coupled to said second gear assembly so that rotation of said antenna pointing arm about said first control axis causes said seconc gear assembly to be pivoted relative to said base, and so that rotation of said antenna pointing arm about said second control axis causes said first gear assembly to be pivoted relative to said base; and 


 control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for rotating said antenna pointing arm about said first and second control axes when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the satellite so that said antenna is continuously pointed in the direction of the satellite.
25. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 24 wherein said antenna generates torques about said first and second control axes, and wherein said antenna pointing apparatus includes a counterweight supported by said base, said counterweight being constructed and arranged to balance said torques generated by said antenna.
26. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system mountable to a moving body, the satellite tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base fixedly mountable to the moving body; a first shaft pivotably mounted to said base; a pair of first axis mating gears connected to said first shaft; a second shaft; a pair of first axis drive gears connected to said second shaft, said first axis drive gears being positioned adjacent said first axis mating gears for engagement therewith; a housing mechanically coupled to said first and second shafts; a guide member coupled at opposite ends to said housing, said guide member having a slot ormed -therein; a pair of second axis mating gears, each mounted to said housing; 


 a pair of second axis drive gears, each mounted to said guide member, said second axis drive gears being positioned adjacent said second axis mating gears for engagement therewith; a first motor coupled to said pair of first axis drive gears, said first motor driving said first axis drive gears for rotation about said first axis mating gears in response to a first control signal; a second motor coupled to said pair of second axis drive gears, said second motor driving said second axis drive gears for rotation about said second axis mating gears in response to a second control signal; an antenna pointing arm pivotably mounted to said second shaft so that rotation of said first axis drive gears causes rotation of said antenna pointing arm about a first control axis, said antenna pointing arm passing through said slot so that rotation of said second axis drive gears causes rotation of said antenna pointing arm about a second control axis; and an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for generating said first and second control signals to drive said first and second axis drive gears to adjust said position of said antenna pointing arm when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the satellite so that said antenna is continuously pointed in the direction of the satellite.
27. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 26 wherein said antenna generates torques about said first and second control axes, and wherein said antenna pointing apparatus includes a counterweight mounted to said housing, said counterweight being constructed and arranged to balance said torques generated by said antenna. 


 28. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a selected satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system for tracking a plurality of satellites, each satellite being positioned in a hemisphere above said antenna pointing apparatus, the satellite tracking system generating at least one location signal indicating the location of the selected satellite relative to said antenna pointing apparatus, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; a universal joint supported by said base, said antenna pointing arm being movably mounted to said universal joint, said universal joint being constructed and arranged to point said antenna at any location in the hemisphere above the moving body without any singularities of control; and control means, responsive to the location signal, for moving said antenna pointing arm within said universal joint so that said antenna is pointed in the direction of the selected satellite.
29. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 28 wherein said antenna pointing arm is rotatably mounted within said universal joint for rotation about first and second control axes, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so as to enable rotation of said antenna pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each of said first and second control axes.
30. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 28 wherein said first and second control axes each have an orientation relative to said base, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said antenna 


pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis, and so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis.
31. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 28 wherein said antenna pointing arm can be rotated from first to second end positions along each control axis, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said antenna pointing arm is orthogonal to both said first and second control axes when it is positioned midway between said first and second end positions along each control axis.
32. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said first and second control axes each have an orientation relative to said base, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis, and so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis.
33. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said antenna pointing arm is mounted to said universal joint for rotation about first and second control axes, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged to allow rotation of said antenna pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each of said first and second control axes.
34. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a selected satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use m a satellite tracking system for tracking a plurality of satellites, the satellite tracking system 


generating at least one location signal indicating the location of the selected satellite relative to said antenna pointing apparatus, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; a first gear assembly, said antenna pointing arm being mechanically coupled to said first gear assembly, said first gear assembly being constructed and arranged to rotate said antenna pointing arm about a first control axis; a second gear assembly, said antenna pointing arm being mechanically coupled to said second gear assembly, said second gear assembly being constructed and arranged to rotate said antenna pointing arm about a second control axis; said first gear assembly being mechanically coupled to said second gear assembly so that rotation of said antenna pointing arm about said first axis causes said second gear assembly to be pivoted relative to said base, and so that rotation of said antenna pointing arm about said second axis causes said first gear assembly to be pivoted relative to said base; and control means, responsive to the location signal, for rotating said antenna pointing arm about said first and second control axes so that said antenna is pointed in the direction of the selected satellite.
35. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 34 wherein said antenna generates torques about said first and second control axes, and wherein said antenna pointing apparatus includes a counterweight supported by said base, said counterweight being constructed and arranged to balance said torques generated by said antenna. 


 36. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a selected satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system for tracking a plurality of satellites, the satellite tracking system generating at least one location signal indicating the location of the selected satellite relative to said antenna pointing apparatus, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base; a first shaft pivotably mounted to said base; 
'
 a pair of first axis mating gears connected to said first shaft; a second shaft; a pair of first axis drive gears connected to said second shaft, said first axis drive gears being positioned adjacent said first axis mating gears for engagement therewith; a housing mechanically coupled to said first and second shafts; a guide member coupled at opposite ends to said housing, said guide member having a slot formed therein; a pair of second axis mating gears, each mounted to said housing; a pair of second axis drive gears, each mounted to said guide member, said second axis drive gears being positioned adjacent said second axis mating gears for engagement therewith; a first motor coupled to said pair of first axis drive gears, said first motor driving said first axis drive gears for rotation about said first axis mating gears in response to a first control signal; a second motor coupled to said pair of second axis drive gears, said second motor driving said second axis drive gears for rotation about said second axis mating gears in response to a second control signal; 


 an antenna pointing arm pivotably mounted to said second shaft so that rotation of said first axis drive gears causes rotation of said antenna pointing arm about a first control axis, said antenna pointing arm passing through said slot so that rotation of said second axis drive gears causes rotation of said antenna pointing arm about a second control axis; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointing arm; and control means, responsive to the location signal, for generating said first and second control signals to drive said first and second axis drive gears to adjust said position of said antenna pointing arm so that said antenna is pointed in the direction of the selected satellite.
37. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 36 wherein said antenna generates torques about said first and second control axes, and wherein said antenna pointing apparatus includes a counterweight mounted to said housing, said counterweight being constructed and arranged to balance said torques generated by said antenna.
38. An antenna pointing apparatus for pointing an antenna at a selected satellite, said antenna pointing apparatus for use in a satellite tracking system for tracking a plurality of satellites, each satellite being positioned in a hemisphere above said antenna pointing apparatus, the satellite tracking system generating at least one location signal indicating the location of the selected satellite relative to said antenna pointing apparatus, said antenna pointing apparatus comprising: a base; an antenna pointing arm; an antenna mounted to said antenna pointinc. arm; and 


 pointing means, supported by said base and responsive to the location and selection signals, for rotating said antenna pointing arm about first and second axes of control, said pointing means rotating said antenna pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each axis of control .
39. An antenna pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 38 wherein each axis of control has an orientation relative to said base, and wherein said pointing means includes means for varying said orientation of said first axis of control when said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said second axis, and for varying said orientation of said second axis of control when said antenna pointing arm is rotated about said first axis of control.
40. A pointing apparatus for pointing a device at a target, said pointing apparatus for use in a tracking system mountable to a moving body, the tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the target, said pointing apparatus comprising: a base mountable to the moving body; a pointing arm for carrying the device; a first gear assembly pivotably mounted to said base, said pointing arm being mechanically coupled to said first gear assembly, said first gear assembly being constructed and arranged to rotate said pointing arm about a first control axis; a second gear assembly pivotably mounted to said base, said pointing arm being mechanically coupled to said second gear assembly, said second gear assembly being constructed and arranged to rotate said pointing arm about a second control axis; 


 said first gear assembly being mechanically coupled to said second gear assembly so that rotation of said pointing arm about said first control axis causes said second gear assembly to be pivoted relative to said base, and so that rotation of said pointing arm about said second control axis causes said first gear assembly to be pivoted relative to said base; and control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for rotating said pointing arm about said first and second control axes when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the target so that the device is continuously pointed in the direction of the target.
41. A pointing apparatus for pointing a device at a target, said pointing apparatus for use in a target tracking system mountable to a moving body, the target tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the target, said pointing apparatus comprising: a base fixedly mountable to the moving body; a first shaft pivotably mounted to said base; a pair of first axis mating gears connected to said first shaft; a second shaft; a pair of first axis drive gears connected to said second shaft, said first axis drive gears being positioned adjacent said first axis mating gears for engagement therewith; a housing mechanically coupled to said first and second shafts; a guide member coupled at opposite ends to said housing, said guide member having a slot formed therein; a pair of second axis mating gears, each mounted to said housing; 


 a pair of second axis drive gears, each mounted to said guide member, said second axis drive gears being positioned adjacent said second axis mating gears for engagement therewith; a first motor coupled to said pair of first axis drive gears, said first motor driving said first axis drive gears for rotation about said first axis mating gears in response to a first control signal; a second motor coupled to said pair of second axis drive gears, said second motor driving said second axis drive gears for rotation about said second axis mating gears in response to a second control signal; a pointing arm for carrying the device, said pointing arm being pivotably mounted to said second shaft so that rotation of said first axis drive gears causes rotation of said pointing arm about a first control axis, said pointing arm passing through said slot so that rotation of said second axis drive gears causes rotation of said pointing arm about a second control axis; and control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for generating said first and second control signals to drive said first and second axis drive gears to adjust said position of said pointing arm when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the target so that the device is continuously pointed in the direction of the target.
42. A pointing apparatus for pointing a device at a target, said pointing apparatus for use in a target tracking system mountable to a moving body, the target tracking system having at least one sensor that generates a signal indicating the orientation of the moving body relative to the target, said pointing apparatus comprising: a base; an pointing arm for carrying the device; 


 a universal joint supported by said base, said pointing arm being movably mounted to said universal joint, said universal joint being constructed and arranged to point the device at any location in the hemisphere above the moving body without any singularities of control; and control means, responsive to the signal generated by the at least one sensor, for moving said pointing arm within said universal joint when the moving body changes its orientation relative to the target so that the device is continuously pointed in the direction of the target.
43. A pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 42 wherein said pointing arm is rotatably mounted within said universal joint for rotation about first and second control axes, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so as to enable rotation of said pointing arm through greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees about each of said first and second control axes.
44. A pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 42 wherein said first and second control axes each have an orientation relative to said base, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said orientation of said first control axis varies as said pointing arm is rotated about said second control axis, and so that said orientation of said second control axis varies as said pointing arm is rotated about said first control axis.
45. A pointing apparatus as claimed in claim 42 wherein said pointing arm can be rotated from first to second end positions along each control axis, and wherein said universal joint is constructed and arranged so that said pointing arm is orthogonal to both said first and second control axes when it is positioned midway between said first and second end positions along each control axis. 

I rH
•-.
O 

rt en
CΛ
H
ON 

O 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
