<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626674</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and apparatus for speech encoding, speech decoding and speech post processing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1906	G10L1914	G10L1100	G10L1300	G10L1900	G10L1100	G10L1900	G10L1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L19	G10L19	G10L11	G10L13	G10L19	G10L11	G10L19	G10L13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A speech analysis means and a window locating means are 
implemented in a speech coding apparatus. The speech 

coding apparatus encodes input speech per analysis frame 
defined having a fixed length and is offset at fixed 

interval. The speech analysis means extracts frequency 
spectrum characteristic parameters of the input speech 

taken within an analysis window. The location of the 
analysis window is specified by the window locating 

means. The window locating means selects the location of 
the analysis window which is used in extracting the 

frequency spectrum characteristic parameters at the 
speech analysis means. In this case, depending upon the 

characteristic parameter of the input speech within and 
near the frame concerned, the window locating means 

selects the location of the analysis window within the 
range which is not to be exceeding the range of the frame 

concerned. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI DENKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHII JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHII, JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus
for speech decoding and a speech post processing,
which are used when speech is transmitted digitally,
stored and synthesized.In a conventional speech coding apparatus, input
speech taken within analysis windows are analyzed by
taking their frequency spectrum. The analysis windows
are either aligned with the analysis frames or at a
fixed offset from the analysis frames. The analysis
frames are defined as having a fixed length and are
offset at fixed interval. In a conventional speech
decoding apparatus and a speech post processor, the
quantization noise of synthesized speech is perceptually
reduced by emphasizing peaks (formant) and suppressing
other part of the speech spectrum. The peak
is produced by the resonation of the vocal tract in
the speech spectrum.An article on the conventional speech coding/decoding
apparatus is "Sine-Wave Amplitude Coding at Low Data
Rates", (Advance in Speech Coding, Kluwer Academic
Publishers, P203-213) of the article 1 by R. Macaulay,
T. Parks, T. Quatieri, M. Sabin. This article is
hereinafter called "article 1". Fig. 9 shows a configuration 
of the speech coding/decoding apparatus stated
in the article 1. The conventional speech coding/decoding
apparatus comprises a speech coding
apparatus 1, a speech decoding apparatus 2 and a
transmission line 3. Input speech 4 is input into the
speech coding apparatus 1. Output speech 5 is output
from the speech decoding apparatus 2. A speech analysis
means 6, a pitch coding means 7, a harmonics coding
means 8 are implemented in the speech coding
apparatus 1. A pitch decoding means 9, a harmonics
decoding means 10, an amplitude emphasizing means 11
and a speech synthesis means 12 are implemented in
the speech decoding apparatus 2. The speech coding
apparatus 1 has lines 101, 102, 103. The speech decoding
apparatus 2 has lines 104, 105, 106, 107.Fig. 10 shows speech waveforms resulting from operation
of the conventional speech coding and decoding
apparatus.The operation of the conventional speech coding/decoding
apparatus is described with reference to Figs. 9
and 10. The input speech 4 is input into the speech
analysis means 6 through the line 101. The speech
analysis means 6 analyzes the input speech 4 per analysis
frame having a fixed length. The speech analysis
means 6 analyzes the input speech 4 within an
analysis window. The analysis window, that is, for
instance, a Hamming window, has its center at the
specific location in the analysis frame. The speech
analysis means 6
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A speech decoding apparatus, comprising:

(a) harmonics decoding means for receiving encoded
amplitude and phase values of a plurality

of harmonic components of an input
speech, and for decoding the plurality of

harmonic components from the encoded amplitude
and phase values;
(b) amplitude suppression means for receiving
the decoded harmonic components, for detecting

any harmonic component which is masked
by other harmonic component such that the

detected harmonic component will not be
perceived, for suppressing an amplitude of

the detected harmonic component and for
outputting an amplitude and phase value of

any harmonic components which have not been
suppressed; and
(c) speech synthesis means for synthesizing
speech from the amplitude and phase values

of the non-suppressed harmonic components.
The speech decoding apparatus of claim 1,

wherein the amplitude suppression means determines
a value of power of each of the decoded harmonic

components, calculates a threshold value
and masks each of the harmonic components with a

value of power which is less than the calculated
threshold value.
The speech decoding apparatus of claim 2,

wherein the calculated threshold value is a maximum
value calculated for each harmonic component

at a crossing point of an amplitude of the 
harmonic component and a constant sloped line

originated from the other harmonic components.
The speech decoding apparatus of claim 1,

wherein the amplitude suppression means suppresses
the amplitude of the detected harmonic component

substantially to zero.
A speech post processor comprising:

(a) decoding means for decoding an encoded
speech having an input for receiving the

encoded speech and an output for outputting
decoded speech;
(b) transform means for transforming the decoded
speech into a frequency spectrum having

a plurality of frequency components, the
transform means having an input for receiving

the decoded speech and an output for
outputting the plurality of frequency components;
(c) amplitude suppression means for determining
if a first frequency component is masked by

a second frequency component such that the
first component will not be perceived and

for suppressing an amplitude of the first
frequency component, the amplitude suppression

means having an input for receiving
the frequency components and an output for

outputting frequency components, which have
not been suppressed; and
(d) inverse transform means for transforming
the partially suppressed frequency components

into speech, the inverse transform
means having an input for receiving the

partially suppressed frequency component.
The speech decoding apparatus of claim 5,

wherein the amplitude suppression means determines
a value of power for each of the frequency

components, calculates a threshold value, and
masks each of the frequency components with a

value of power which is less than the calculated
threshold value.
The speech decoding apparatus of claim 5, wherein
the calculated threshold value is a maximum

value calculated for each frequency component at
a crossing point of an amplitude of the frequency

component and a constant sloped line originating
from the other frequency components.
The speech decoding apparatus of claim 5,
wherein the amplitude suppression means suppresses

the amplitude of the detected frequency component
substantially to zero.
The speech post processor of claim 5, wherein
the transform means performs a Fourier transform

and the inverse transform means performs an inverse
Fourier transform.
The speech post processor of claim 5, wherein
the transform means performs a discrete Fourier

transform and the inverse transform means performs
a discrete inverse Fourier transform.
A speech decoding method comprising the steps
of:


(a) decoding amplitudes of a plurality of encoded
harmonic components of speech; 
(b) determining whether each of the harmonic
components is perceivable as compared with

the plurality of harmonic components;
(c) suppressing the amplitude of the harmonic
components which are not perceivable; and
(d) synthesizing speech from the harmonic components
which have not been suppressed.
The speech decoding method of claim 11, wherein
the determining step comprises the steps of:


(a) selecting a harmonic component from the
plurality of harmonic components;
(b) calculating a plurality of threshold values
for the selected harmonic component from an

intersection of an amplitude the harmonic
component and constan
t slope lines originating
from the plurality of harmonic components

and determining a maximum threshold
value;
(c) comparing the amplitude of the selected
harmonic component with the maximum threshold

value; and
(d) repeating the above steps for each of the
plurality of harmonic components.
A speech post processing method comprising the steps
of:


(a) receiving a plurality of frequency components
of decoded speech;
(b) determining whether each of the frequency
components is perceivable as compared with

the plurality of frequency components;
(c) suppressing the amplitude of the frequency
components which are not perceivable; and 
(d) outputting the frequency components which
are not suppressed.
The speech post processing method of claim 13, wherein
the determining step comprises the steps of:


(a) selecting a frequency component from the
plurality of frequency components;
(b) calculating a plurality of threshold values
for the selected frequency component from

an intersection of an amplitude of the frequency
component and a constant slope line

originating from each of the plurality of
frequency components;
(c) comparing the amplitude of the selected
frequency component with a maximum threshold

value; and
(d) repeating the above steps for each of the
plurality of frequency components.
The speech post processing method of claim 13, further
comprising the steps of:


(a) transforming the decoded speech into the
plurality of frequency components; and
(b) transforming the partially suppressed frequency
components into speech.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
