<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623364</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cardioverting/defibrillator device with off-line ECG analysis.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N139	A61N139	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved implantable pacemaker/defibrillator 
device in which a first and relatively simplistic 

technique is employed to detect an abnormal heart rhythm 
and a second more precise algorithm is utilized for the 

more difficult problem of confirming the arrythmia. 
Since the complex, higher power consuming device is 

utilized only for confirmation, overall power 
consumption is minimized. Optionally, the precise 

algorithm may be utilized periodically to adjust the 
sensitivity of the detection circuitry. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOMERVILLE WILLIAM MCINNES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WICKHAM JOHN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOMERVILLE, WILLIAM MCINNES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WICKHAM, JOHN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to arrythmia reverting devices 
and, more particularly, to an improved method and apparatus 
for detecting an arrhythmia and providing electrical therapy 
to shock the heart back to normal sinus rhythm. Many advances have recently been made in implantable 
pacemaker/defibrillator devices which allow these devices to 
recognize an abnormally functioning heart and to provide 
therapy in the form of one or more electrical discharges 
into the heart in order to shock the heart back to normal 
sinus rhythm. One example of such a device is disclosed in 
U. S. patent No. 3,952,750 issued to Mirowski, et al. Despite such advances, there is still room for improvement 
in this field. In particular, the device must be 
capable of accurately identifying the presence of an abnormal 
heart rhythm; e.g., ventricular tachyrhythmia, ventricular 
fibrillation, etc. Moreover, not only is it imperative 
that the device recognize the presence of the arrhythmia 
accurately, but it is essential that the arrhythmia be 
confirmed prior to aggressive electrical therapy being 
delivered to the heart. Specifically, there is normally a 
period of time of up to 30 seconds from the time a ventricular 
tachyrhythmia or fibrillation is detected until the 
shock is delivered to the heart. The arrythmia could, for 
example, spontaneously revert during this time. The presence 
of the arrythmia must therefore be accurately confirmed 
at the end of this period of time, just prior to delivery of 
the electrical therapy. Although it is difficult to detect and confirm arrhythmias, 
the confirmation step is particularly troublesome when 
compared with initial detection. This is because large 
random variations in the magnitude of the ECG signal occur  
 
during the time period between detection and confirmation. 
If the amplitude of the ECG signal produced by the abnormal 
heartbeat decreases by too much, the device may determine 
that the arrythmia has reverted when it really hasn't. Conversely, 
if the ECG amplitude of the normal heartbeat increases 
even though the arrythmia reverts, the device will 
over-sense and confirm the presence of an arrythmia when, in 
fact, the arrythmia is no longer present. Additionally, even in the initial detection step, 
problems with changing body resistance, lead characteristics, 
etc., hinder accurate measurements of ECG signals. 
Any error in the detection or confirmation of an abnormal 
heart rhythm results in either unnecessary electrical shock 
being delivered to the heart, or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for administering electrotherapy to a 
patient's heart to restore a normal heart rhythm 

comprising: 
   an unsophisticated primary detector for detecting, 

with a first degree of precision, possible abnormalities 
in a patient's heart rhythm; 

   a sophisticated secondary detector for analyzing the 
heart rhythm and more precisely identifying 

abnormalities therein, said secondary detector being 
generally inactive in regard to detecting and analyzing 

abnormalities in the heart rhythm in the absence of a 
detection of a possible abnormality by said primary 

detector; 
   memory means within said secondary detector for 

storing a portion of an ECG signal; 
   means resp
onsive to the detection of a possible 
abnormality in the heart rhythm by said primary detector 

for activating said secondary detector and for causing 
at least a portion of said ECG signal to be stored in 

said memory means, said secondary detector being 
constructed and arranged to analyze said stored portion 

of said ECG signal with a second degree of precision 
significantly higher than the first degree of precision 

exercised by said primary detector in order to confirm 
said rhythm abnormality; and 

   means responsive to confirmation of said rhythm 
 

abnormality by said secondary detector for delivering 
appropriate electrocardiac therapy to the heart. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said 
secondary detector includes a microprocessor that 

employs digital processing techniques for analyzing said 
stored portion of said ECG signal. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, further including 
means for initiating analysis of said stored signal by 

said secondary detector after said portion of said 
signal has been stored in said memory means. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, further including 
means for comparing selected cardiac events detected by 

said primary detector during a predetermined time period 
to corresponding cardiac events detected by said 

secondary detector during said predetermined time 
period; and means responsive to said comparison for 

modifying at least one property of said primary detector 
in order to optimize its performance relative to said 

secondary detector. 
Apparatus according to Claim 4, further including 
means for activating said comparing means and said 

modification means at predetermined intervals to 
maintain said primary detector at an optimum performance 

level. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, further including 
amplifying means having an adjustable gain and being 

coupled to said primary detector for amplifying an ECG 
signal of the patient's heart rhythm and inputting said 

amplified signal to said primary detector; means for 
comparing selecting cardiac events detected by said 

primary detector during predetermined time period to 
corresponding cardiac events detected by said secondary 

detector during said predetermined time period; and, 
means responsive to said comparison for adjusting the 

gain of said amplifying means in order to optimize the 
performance of the primary detector relative to said 

secondary detector. 
Apparatus according to Claim 6, further including 
means for activating said comprising means and said gain 

adjusting means at predetermined intervals to maintain 
said primary detector at an optimum performance level. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said primary 
detector includes means for determining the length of 

the portion of the ECG signal that is to be stored in 
said memory means. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said memory 
means includes first and second memories, wherein said 

portion of said ECG signal is stored in each of said 
 

first and second memories, wherein said portion of said 
ECG signal stored in said first memory is analyzed by 

said secondary detector, and wherein said portion of 
said ECG stored in said second memory is preserved for 

later recall by, and display to, an operator of said 
apparatus. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said therapy 
delivery means requires a predetermined delay period 

following the initial detection of an abnormality in 
order to prepare for delivery of therapy to the heart, 

and wherein said secondary detector is constructed and 
arranged to conform that the abnormality is still 

present immediately prior to the delivery of electrical 
therapy to the heart. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said 
secondary detector is controlled by an algorithm that 

operates on the portion of said ECG signal that is 
stored in said memory means, and wherein the power 

consumed by said secondary detector during operation of 
said algorithm is significantly greater than the power 

consumed by said primary detector when the latter is 
detecting possible abnormalities in the patient's heart 

rhythm. 
Apparatus according to Claim 2, further including 
means for storing a digital representation of a 

 
sufficiently large enough portion of said ECG signal for 

said portion to contain at least 2 R-waves therein; and 
means for processing said stored digital representation 

in non-real time to confirm said rhythm abnormality. 
A method of administering electrotherapy to a 
patient's heart to restore a normal heart rhythm 

comprising: 
   providing an unsophisticated primary detector for 

detecting, with a first degree of precision, possible 
abnormalities in a patient's heart rhythm, and a 

sophisticated secondary detector for analyzing the heart 
rhythm and more precisely identifying abnormalities 

therein, said secondary detector being generally 
inactive in regard to detecting and analyzing 

abnormalities in the heart rhythm in the absence of a 
detection of a possible abnormality by said primary 

detector, said secondary detector including a memory for 
storing a portion of an ECG signal; 

   in response to the detection of a possible 
abnormality in the heart rhythm by said primary detector 

and storing at least a portion of said ECG signal in 
said memory; 

   analyzing said stored portion of said ECG signal in 
said secondary detector with a second degree of 

precision significantly higher than the first degree of 
precision exercised by said primary detector in order to 

confirm said rhythm abnormality; and
 

   in response to confirmation of said rhythm 
abnormality by said secondary detector, delivering 

appropriate electrocardiac therapy to the heart. 
A method according to Claim 13, wherein said 
analyzing step includes a sub-step of employing digital 

processing techniques for analyzing said stored portion 
of said ECG signal. 
A method according to Claim 13, further including 
the step of initiating analysis of said stored signal by 

said secondary detector after said portion of said 
signal has been stored in said memory means. 
A method according to Claim 13, further including 
the steps of comparing selected cardiac events detected 

by said primary detector during a predetermined time 
period to corresponding cardiac events detected by said 

secondary detector during said predetermined time 
period; and, in response to said comparison, modifying 

at least one property of said primary detector in order 
to optimize its performance relative to said secondary 

detector. 
A method according to Claim 16, further including 
the step of activating said comparing and said modifying 

steps at predetermined intervals to maintain said 
primary detector at an optimum performance level. 
A method according to Claim 13, including the 
further steps of providing an amplifier having an 

adjustable gain, said amplifier being coupled to said 
primary detector; amplifying an ECG signal for the 

patient's heart rhythm; inputting said amplified signal 
to said primary detector; comparing selected cardiac 

events detected by said primary detector during a 
predetermined time period to corresponding cardiac 

events detected by said secondary detector during said 
predetermined time period; and, in response to said 

comparison, adjusting the gain of said amplifier in 
order to optimize 
the performance of the primary 
detector relative to said secondary detector. 
A method according to Claim 18, including the 
further step of activating said comparing and said gain 

adjusting steps at predetermined intervals to maintain 
said primary detector at an optimum performance level. 
A method according to Claim 13, including the 
further step of having said primary detector determine 

the length of the portion of the ECG signal that is to 
be stored in said memory. 
A method according to Claim 13, including the 
further steps of providing first and second memories in 

said secondary detector; storing said portion of said 
ECG signal in each of said first and second memories; 

 
analyzing said portion of said ECG signal stored in said 

first memory by said secondary detector; and, preserving 
said portion of said ECG signals stored in said second 

memory for later recall by, and display to, an operator 
of said apparatus. 
A method according to Claim 13, including the 
further step of having said secondary detector confirm 

that the said abnormality is still present immediately 
prior to said step of delivering electrical therapy to 

the heart. 
A method according to Claim 14, including the 
further step of providing said secondary detector with 

an algorithm that operates on the portion of said ECG 
signal that is stored in said memory, and wherein the 

power consumed by said secondary detector during 
operation of said algorithm is significantly greater 

than the power consumed by said primary detector when 
the latter is detecting possible abnormalities in the 

patient's heart rhythm. 
A method according to Claim 14, wherein said step if 
storing said portion of said ECG signals in memory 

includes the sub-step of storing a digital 
representation of a sufficiently large enough portion of 

said ECG signal for said portion to contain at least 2 
R-waves therein; and further including the step of 

 
processing said stored digital representation in 

non-real time for confirm said rhythm abnormality. 
A method according to Claim 24, including the 
further step of delaying said storing and processing 

steps sufficiently such that said processing step is 
completed at approximately the same time that is 

appropriate to shock the patient's heart in order to 
revert the abnormality. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
