<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620535</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Line printer for high density printing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J245	B41J2485	G06K1512	B41J2455	B41J244	G06K1514	G06K1502	H04N1387	G06K1512	H04N1387	B41J2485	B41J244	B41J2455	B41J245	G06K1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	G06K	B41J	B41J	G06K	G06K	H04N	G06K	H04N	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	G06K15	B41J2	B41J2	G06K15	G06K15	H04N1	G06K15	H04N1	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	G06K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A recording apparatus has an array of recording 
elements arranged in a main scanning direction and 

having a predetermined dot pattern, and forms a dot 

image on a recording medium located opposite to the 
recording elements. Reception circuit (30) receives 

image data of a predetermined dot density. A plurality 
of line buffers (31 to 34) store one dot line of data 

of interest as a printing target among the image data 
and aligned in the main scanning direction, and plural 

dot lines of data preceding and following the one dot 
line with respect to a sub-scanning direction. A 

compensation data generating circuit (35 to 44) 
converts the one dot line of data of interest as the 

printing target into N lines of compensation data 
(DATA), divided by N with respect to the sub-scanning 

direction, based on the plural dot lines of data 
preceding and following the one dot line. A control 

circuit (46) controls the time for activating the 
recording elements based on the compensation data 

(DATA). Recording will therefore be accomplished with 
a dot recording density in the sub-scanning direction 

different from the dot density of the image data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO ELECTRONICS MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO ELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAJIMA TOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAJIMA, TOSHIAKI, C/O CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a recording
apparatus which prints out a dot image or dot pattern,
such as an LED (Light Emitting Diode) printer or LCS (Liquid Crystal Shutter) printer. More
particularly, this invention relates to a recording
apparatus which reproduces a high-density dot image
corresponding to a predetermined scanning direction to
thereby smoothly express step portions of an image
which are formed at oblique line portions.The LED printer and LCS
printer, for example, are
known as recording apparatuses which print an image on
a recording sheet based on print data that is output
from a host computer (host apparatus).Fig. 23A illustrates the basic structure of an LED
printer 1 connected to, for example, a host computer 2.
Referring to this diagram, the LED printer 1 comprises
a printer controller 1a, an engine controller 1b and a
PP (Page Printer) engine 1c. The printer controller la
includes a CPU (Central Processing Unit), a ROM (Read
Only Memory), a RAM (Random Access Memory), a character
generator and a frame memory. The printer controller
la receives print data sent via, for example, a
Centronics interface from the host computer 2.The printer controller 1a analyzes the print data
from the host computer 2. If the print data is a
character code, the printer controller la converts it
into pattern data using the character generator. If
the print data is one of various commands, the printer
controller la executes an associated process. As the
above processing is repeated, one page of video signals
(pattern data for one page printing) is stored in the
frame memory. The engine controller 1b outputs the 
video signals, stored in the frame memory, to a
printing head which constitutes a part of the PP engine
1c to print data on a recording sheet by means of a
printing mechanism. The PP engine 1c refers to the whole
image forming mechanism in the LED printer 1 including
the printing head.Fig. 23B presents a detailed illustration of the
internal structure of the LED printer 1, and is a
diagram for explaining the printing process. Figs. 24A
to 24H show time charts for the printing process.
Referring to Figs. 23B and 24A to 24H, when a
horizontal sync signal HSYN shown in Fig. 24A is output
to the printer controller la from the engine controller
1b, the printer controller la outputs a write valid
signal VALID shown in Fig. 24D to the engine controller
1b to output one line of data of the video signals
stored in the frame memory. Thereafter, the printer
controller la outputs the video signals VIDEO, shown
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image recording apparatus comprising:

receiver means (30) for receiving image data of a first dot density,
a plurality of line data storage means (31 to 34) for storing a first plurality
of dot lines of said image data, said first plurality of dot lines comprising a

current dot line and dot lines preceding and following said current dot line
with respect to a sub-scanning direction, respectively,
compensation data generating means (37 to 46) for converting said
current dot line into a second plurality of N dot lines of compensated image

data,
a plurality of recording elements (5a), arranged in a main scanning
direction, for recording said compensated image data on a recording

medium (4),
drive/control means (46, S, L, DR) for selectively activating said recording
elements (5a) for a predetermined time based on said compensated

image data,
characterized by

   recognition means (35, 36) for scanning
said first plurality of dot lines in a main scanning direction, that is, forward

and then backward, with a scanning window that is a predetermined number of dots wide in the main scanning direction and in the sub-scanning direction to recognize
boundaries between ink and non-ink dot data on each of said first plurality

of dot lines,

wherein:
 
   said compensation data generating means (37 to 46) comprises:


central line (M-line) data generating means (58) for outputting
the current line data intact as central line (M-line) data in the

whole scanning process,
lower line (L-line) data generating means (57) for inverting
the current dot line data only for a first one Nth of a distance of a forward scan

performed from a boundary between ink and non-ink dot data on the
current line to a boundary between ink and non-ink dot data on the following dot line

and for outputting the inverted and non-inverted current
data as lower line (L-line) data, and
upper line (U-line) data generating means (56) for inverting
the current dot line data only for a first one Nth of a distance of a backward

scan performed from a boundary between ink and non-ink dot data
on the current dot line to a boundary between ink and non-ink dot data the preceding dot on line and for outputting the inverted and non-inverted

current data as upper line (U-line) data.
The image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:

area designating means (46) for designating a predetermined area of said
image data, and
recording density designating means (60, 61) for designating whether or
not high-density recording is to be executed,

wherein:

image data of an area designated by said area designating means (46) is

recorded at said first dot density.
The image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein:

said recording elements (5a) comprise light emitting elements (D1 to Dn,
LS, LCS), and
said recording medium (4) comprises a photosensitive body.
The image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein: 

said recording elements (5a) comprise heat generating elements (TH),
and
said recording medium (4) comprises a heat-sensitive body.
The image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein:

said recording elements (5a) comprise heat generating elements (TH),
and
said recording medium (4) faces said heat generating elements (TH) with
a coloring member between said recording medium (4) and said heat

generating elements (TH), said coloring member being for coloring said
recording medium (4) by a thermal effect.
The image forming apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein:

said recording elements (5a) comprise styluses (ST) for applying charges
to said recording medium (4), and
said recording medium (4) comprises a charging body.
A method of recording image data, comprising the steps of:

1) obtaining a first plurality of dot lines of image data of a first dot density,
said first plurality of dot lines comprising a current dot line and dot lines

preceding and following said current dot line with respect to a sub-scanning
direction, respectively,
2) scanning said first plurality of dot lines in
a main scanning direction, that is, forward and then backward, with a scanning window that is a

predetermined number of dots wide in the main scanning direction and in the sub-scanning direction to recognize boundaries each between
ink and non-ink dot data on a respective one of said first plurality of dot

lines,
3) outputting the current dot line data intact as central line (M-line) data in
each of the forward and backward scans, 
4) inverting the current dot line data only for a first portion of a distance of
the forward scan performed from a boundary between ink and non-ink dot

data on the current dot line to a boundary between ink and non-ink dot data
on the following dot line and outputting the inverted and non-inverted current dot line

data as lower line (L-line) data,
5) inverting the current dot line data only for a first portion of a distance of
the backward scan performed from a boundary between ink and non-ink

dot data on the current line to a boundary between ink and non-ink dot
data on the preceding dot line and outputting the inverted and non-inverted

current dot line data as upper line (U-line) data, and
6) forming a second plurality of dot lines in place of the current dot line based on the
central, lower and upper line data.
The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein:

said second plurality is N, and
said first portion of a distance of the forward scan comprises a
first one Nth of the distance of a scan performed from the boundary between

ink and non-ink dot data on the current line to the boundary between ink
and non-ink dot data on a line adjacent to the current line.
The method as claimed in claim 7 or 8, wherein said conversion is suspended
for image data in a designated area.
The method as claimed in claims 7 to 9, further comprising the steps of:

7) setting a line following said current line as new current line, and
8) repeating the processing steps 1) to 6).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
