<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641084</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Analog-digital-analog converter circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M176	H03M174	H03M102	H03M138	H03M110	H03M146	H03M112	H03M136	H03M110	H03M102	H03M114	H03M112	H03M136	H03M114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A converter circuit provides analog to digital and 
digital to analog functions on a single silicon device. 

A flash analog to digital converter produces digital 
outputs using comparators which each receive an input 

signal and which each have different reference 
voltages. A decoder receiving digital inputs activates 

switches to connect selected ones of the same voltage 
references used by the flash analog to digital 

converter to a buffer which produces an analog output. 
The converter circuit can be a single or multi-stage 

flash analog to digital converter operating in a single 
channel or multi-channel e
nvironment. Timing and 
control logic prevents switching from occurring at 

times when perturbations on the voltage references 
could affect the analog and digital outputs. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOYAL MIKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEWART BRETT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOYAL, MIKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEWART, BRETT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a converter circuit, for
example a
method and apparatus for combining a flash analog to
digital converter with digital to analog functions.Systems which process signals using digital signal
processing techniques require that analog signals be
converted to digital form. Such conversions have been
accomplished using analog to digital converters.
Techniques employed in analog to digital converters
have included successive approximation and subranging
techniques. Time delays inherent in apparatus
implementing such techniques have given rise to the
development of the flash analog to digital converter.A diagram of a relatively simple 2-bit flash
analog to digital converter is shown in Figure 1. An
analog input signal, which is to be converted to
digital form, is applied at Vin and transmitted over
input channel 101 to a first'input of comparators 102-105.
A voltage reference Vref is applied across a
voltage'divider network 106, shown in Figure 1 as
having resistors 107-111. Voltages Vref1 - Vref4 are
developed at the junctions of the resistors and are
applied to second inputs of comparators 102-105. The
output of each comparator is a logical 1 or logical 0
depending on whether the voltage applied at the first
input exceeds the reference voltage applied to that 
comparator. The logical ones and zeros output by
comparators 102-105 are then applied to a digital
output encoder 112 to produce a 2-bit digital output on
signal lines 113 and 114.As illustrated in Figure 1, a 2-bit flash analog
to digital converter has five resistors in the voltage
divider network 106. A flash analog to digital
converter of necessity uses a large resistive voltage
divider to generate multiple reference voltages to
compare against the input during the conversion
process. As the number of output bits increases, the
number of resistors in the voltage divider also
increases. Typically, the resistive voltage divider is
the largest and hence, most expensive silicon structure
of the converter.Digital to analog converters have been implemented
with resistive divider networks and switches which
switch in various points on a ladder network in
response to digital codes. Thus resistive voltage
dividers find use in both analog to digital and digital
to analog converters.Systems requiring both analog to digital and
digital to analog conversion simultaneously, often use
separate devices for such conversions. Such separate
devices contribute to systems costs and may introduce
performance compromises as a result of variations
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A converter circuit comprising:

a plurality of comparators (102 - 105);
an analog input channel (101) for receiving an analog signal and connecting
said analog signal to first inputs of each of said comparators;
a voltage divider network (107 - 111) for providing different voltage references
(Vref1 - Vref4) to second inputs of said comparators, outputs of said comparators

thereby forming a digital representation of an amplitude of said analog signal;
a digital input (201, 202) connected to a switch controller (203);
a plurality of switches (204 - 207), each of said switches being connected
between the second input of a respective comparator and an analog output (208,209);
said switch controller (203) for controlling said switches so as to connect said
analog output to the second inputs of comparators selected in response to a logic

condition of said digital inputs,
whereby said analog output provides an analog representation of the logic
condition of said digital inputs,
whereby said converter operates as an analog-to-digital converter and as a
digital-to-analog converter,
characterised by
a timing control system (301) for controlling switching of said switches, and,
said timing control system comprising means for generating an inhibit signal on
an output line (304) connected to said switch controller to prevent said switches

changing state during time periods when disturbances to voltage references on said
second inputs of said comparators might have an effect on said analog and digital

outputs.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said switches
comprises a first terminal connected to said analog output, a second terminal

connected to the second input of a respective comparator, and a control input
controlling connection of said first and second terminals of said switch to each other. 
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further comprising a buffer
circuit (208) connected between said analog output and an output terminal (209).
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said voltage divider
comprises a resistor ladder having a first resistor (107) connected to a voltage

reference (Vref) and at least one further resistor connected in series with said first
resistor.
A converter circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, in which said switch
controller comprises a digital decoder (203) connected between said digital inputs and

said switches.
A converter circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, comprising an encoder
(112) connected between said outputs of said comparators and digital output terminals

(113, 114).
A converter circuit as claimed in any of claim 1 to 6, wherein said converter
circuit is a flash converter.
A converter circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said converter
circuit is a multi-stage flash converter.
A converter circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said timing
control system further comprises means for controlling said switches to change state

during time periods when said voltage references on said second inputs of said
comparators as a result of switching between stages have essentially no effect on said

analog and digital outputs.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 7, wherein said converter circuit is a
multiple input channel flash converter. 
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 10, wherein said plurality of switches
comprises:


a first plurality of switches, each of said first plurality of switches being
connected between said one of said second inputs of said comparators and a first

channel analog output; and
at least one additional plurality of switches, each of said additional plurality of
switches being connected between said one of said second inputs of said comparators

and an analog output for an additional channel.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 11, wherein said timing system
comprises a multiplexer for steering decoded said digital inputs to one of said first and

additional plurality of switches, such that a desired one of said multiple channels is
converted by said converter.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 12, comprising a channel selector for
selecting said desired channel.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 12, comprising a polling circuit for
selecting a sequence of said channels in a predetermined order.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 10, wherein said converter circuit is a
multi-stage flash converter.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 15, wherein said timing control system
further comprises means for controlling said first and additional plurality of switches to

change state during time periods when said voltage reference in said second inputs of
said comparators as a result of switching between stages have essentially no effect on

said analog and digital outputs.
A converter circuit as claimed in claim 8 or 15, wherein said multi-stage analog
to digital converter comprises a second plurality of comparators receiving said analog 

signal on first inputs of said second plurality of comparators and switches for routing
reference voltage levels intermediate of said different voltage references to second

inputs of said second plurality of comparators.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
