<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656135</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PART MACHINING PROGRAMMING USING A CAMERA INTERCHANGEABLE WITH MACHINING NOZZLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25J916	B25J916	G05B19408	G05B19408	G05B19425	G05B19425	G06T100	G06T100	H04N718	H04N718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25J	B25J	G05B	G05B	G05B	G05B	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25J9	B25J9	G05B19	G05B19	G05B19	G05B19	G06T1	G06T1	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for using a camera (80) and an associated display means for facilitating the loading of the distinguishing characteristics of a workpiece into the control system for a machining system to allow machining of workpieces in accordance with a stored program.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PART MACHINING PROGRAMMING USING A CAMERA INTERCHANGEABLE WITH MACHINING NOZZLEBackground of the Invention One of the primary methods presently known for generating programs for multi-axis machining systems is to "teach" the machine the program by moving a machining head such as a laser beam cutting nozzle around the desired path (usually a line scribed on a master part, referred to as a scribe line) . Points or positions along the scribe line are entered or "taught" by_ entering their coordinates into the controller and are then stored. These points form the basis for the part machining program that commands the machine to move around the workpiece and perform machining operations at locations along the taught, path. After the coordinates of interest are taught to the program, the program is then edited to enter additional information such as feed rates and laser parameters to complete the workpiece program.Such a method of generating a program for machining a workpiece (generally referred to as "teaching") requires that the machine be positioned very accurately over the scribe line as each point is entered. There are a number of methods used to achieve this accurate positioning. Currently, three methods are primarily used: (1) use of the laser beam at low power, (2) use of a collinear HeNe laser, or (3) use of a probe tip. 

 Each of these three current methods has shortcomings. Using the laser beam at low power exposes the operator to potentially hazardous laser radiation. The HeNe laser focusses at a different spot than the C02 laser beam used for machining and is difficult to align. Probe tips are inaccurate and are prone to damage. Field of the Invention The program teaching system of the present invention utilizes a camera, a display screen with a cross-hair target, and appropriate software to allow the operator to "jog" the processing head of the machine along axes oriented to the axes of the cross-hairs on the display regardless of the camera orientation. This provides an simplified way for the operator to accurately orient the machine and thereby to align the cross-hairs to the scribe line image.To "teach" the machining program to the processing machine with the system according to the present invention, the operator installs the camera assembly on the machine in place of the machining nozzle, jogs to the machine to a start point on the workpiece, and begins to enter the coordinates of taught points along the scribed path. The cross-hairs on the display indicate where the processing beam will
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. In a method for creating a part machining program for a three dimensional processing machine for a workpiece in which the machine positions a multi-axis processing head which carries an attached machining nozzle to various points along a path indicated by a scribe line applied to a master workpiece to teach a machine controller to follow a taught path through a plurality of points, the coordinates of which are entered into the machine controller and stored to form the basis for a part machining program for commanding the machining nozzle to move along the taught path and for performing machining operations at specified points in accordance with further instructions inserted into the part machining program, an improved method of teaching comprising the steps of:
(a) mounting a camera assembly on the processing head with the camera aligned for forming an image of the portion of the workpiece surface immediately beneath the nozzle;
(b) monitoring a display means connected for receiving the image formed by the camera and using a displayed crosshair reference point to define the point where a beam passing through the nozzle would strike the workpiece; and
(c) moving the processing head to align the crosshairs of the display means with multiple points along the scribed line and storing the coordinates of the translational and rotational axes corresponding to each of the points. 


2. The method of claim l wherein the machine controller is used during the teaching process for maintaining a constant distance offset between the workpiece surface and the nozzle as the machine program teaching process is carried out.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the two orthogonal rotational axes of the multi-axis laser processing head are adjusted by the machine controller for orienting the axis of the nozzle to align the axis normal to the surface of the workpiece at each teaching point prior to teaching the machining program the coordinates of the three translational and two rotational axes for points located along the scribed line on the master workpiece.
4. In a three dimensional processing machine for processing a workpiece wherein the machine is taught a part machining program for commanding a machining nozzle carrying a multi- axis processing head to move along a taught path to various points along a scribe line applied to a master workpiece to allow storage of machine coordinates for each such point thereby teaching the machine to follow a desired machine path through a plurality of such points, improved apparatus for facilitating the teaching comprising, in combination:
(a) a camera assembly including a camera nozzle and a camera coupled to the nozzle for producing an image therethrough, said assembly constructed and arranged for mounting on the processing head interchangeable with the machining nozzle for teaching the machine a part machining 



program for a particular workpiece, said camera assembly when mounted having the optical axis of the camera when viewing the workpiece through the camera nozzle oriented corresponding to coincidence with the beam axis of a beam passing through the machining nozzle for providing a camera image of the portion of the surface of the workpiece which would be axially adjacent to the machining nozzle during machining operations;
(b) coupling means operatively coupled to the camera for receiving camera image information therefrom and providing output image information; and
(c) display means constructed and arranged for receiving output image information from the coupling means, said display means also including means for providing an image of a pair of orthogonal crosshairs, said crosshairs being superimposed with the image of the surface of the workpiece positioned below the nozzle camera with the intersection of the crosshairs positioned at the point on the workpiece upon which the beam passing through the nozzle impinges
5. The invention of claim 4, wherein X and Y axis operator actuated controller means are provided for moving the processing head over the surface of the workpiece.
6. The invention of claim 4 wherein the camera assembly includes a lost motion mounting means allowing the camera to undergo limited movement relative to the processing head in the event that the camera or camera nozzle comes into contact with the workpiece during the teaching operation. 


7. The system of claim 4, wherein the processing machine includes automatic gap control means for moving a camera nozzle which is used during the teaching process for maintaining a constant distance offset between the part surface and the nozzle as the machine program teaching process is carried out.
8. The system of claim 4 wherein automatic gap control means senses the capacitance between the nozzle and the workpiece and the capacitance characteristics of the machining and camera nozzles are equivalent.
9. The system of claim 4, wherein two rotational axes of the multi-axis processing head are adjusted by automatic control means of the processing machine for orienting the axis of the nozzle so that it is normal to the workpiece surface prior to teaching the machining program the coordinates of the three translational and two rotational axes for each of the multiple points along the scribed machining path on the master workpiece. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
