<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655515</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetron sputtering apparatus and process
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1434	C23C1450	C23C1458	C23C1408	C23C1456	C23C1450	C23C1408	C23C802	C23C1410	C23C1458	C23C1435	C23C1456	C23C1435	C23C1434	C23C1400	C23C802	C23C1410	C23C1400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C8	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C8	C23C14	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sputter coating system (10) is disclosed 
comprising: a vacuum chamber; a movable substrate 

support mounted within said vacuum chamber (11) and 
adapted for mounting substrates (15) thereon for 

moving the substrates past at least first and second 
physically spaced work stations (30); a linear 

magnetron-enhanced sputter device positioned at said 
first work station (26) and including a target of 

selected material and means for generating an 
associated plasma within said device and adjacent 

said work station and substantially throughout an 
extended region of the chamber including the 

physically spaced second work station, for sputter 
depositing material on said substrates (15) 

traversing the first work station; and an ion source 
device positioned at said second work station (28) 

and adapted for using electrons from said plasma 
associated with said sputter device and applying 

reactive gas to form along a relatively narrow zone 
adjacent the substrate support a second plasma 

comprising ions of the reactive gas, the ion source 
device further comprising means for applying a 

directed potential between said ion source and said 
plasma associated with said sputter device for 

accelerating the reactive ions to the substrates for 
effecting a selected reaction with the 

sputter-deposited material. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL COATING LABORATORY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL COATING LABORATORY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN RUSSEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEFABVRE PAUL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANLEY BARRY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOBEY MICHAEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEEDON RICHARD IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEESER JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN, RUSSEL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEFABVRE, PAUL M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANLEY, BARRY W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOBEY, MICHAEL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEEDON, RICHARD IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEESER, JAMES W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to DC magnetron
sputtering processes and related apparatus. More
particularly, the present invention relates to
apparatus and processes for high rate, uniform
deposition and formation of thin films, such as
refractory metals and/or oxides, nitrides, hydrides,
carbon-containing compounds and other compounds and
alloys of such metals, and also to the deposition and
formation of composite films. Because the process
and apparatus of the present invention are designed
to satisfy the stringent requirements of optical
coatings, they are applicable as well to a number of
other coating applications having less rigorous
requirements.DC magnetron reactive sputtering has been developed
in recent years as a technique or producing layers of
dielectric materials, particularly metal oxides, and
oxide semiconductors particularly indium tin oxide.
The technique has advantages compared with the RF
magnetron techniques for sputtering dielectric 
materials directly in that deposition speed gains can
be realized, and production equipment is less costly,
safer, and easier to control.It is the conventional wisdom in the coating
technology that any process which seeks to take full
advantage of the D.C. magnetron sputtering technique
and to avoid its potential disadvantages must
preferably use partial pressure separation of the
substrate and sputtering cathodes. Several
approaches have been proposed for implementing
partial pressure separation. See, for example,
Hartsough U.S. Patent No. 4,420,385; Schiller et al
"Advances in High Rate Sputtering with
Magnetron-Plasmatron Processing and Instrumentation",
TSF 64 (1979) 455-67; Scherer et al "Reactive High
Rate DC Sputtering of Oxides", (1984); and Schiller
et al "Reactive DC Sputtering with the
Magnetron-Plasmatron for Titanium Pentoxide and
Titanium Dioxide Films", TSF 63 (1979) 369-373.The Scherer technique employs cathodes baffled in
such a away as to create an oxidation zone located
directly over the sputtering zone. In all other
regards, this technique is not directly relevant to
our invention as it is designed to deposit material
in a single pass and also in that the oxidation of
the metal vapor takes place as it is deposited. The
Schiller and Hartsough techniques alternate a
substrate between a sputtering cathode and a reactive
gas sorbtion zone, which is the more effective
technique for achieving pressure separation. The
most complete description of this partial pressure
technique is contained in the Hartsough patent. The
Hartsough patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sputter coating system comprising: a vacuum
chamber; a movable substrate support mounted within

said vacuum chamber and adapted for mounting
substrates thereon for moving the substrates past at

least first and second physically spaced work
stations; a linear magnetron-enhanced sputter device

positioned at said first work station and including a
target of selected material and means for generating

an associated plasma within said device and adjacent
said work station and substantially throughout an

extended region of the chamber including the
physically spaced second work station, for sputter

depositing material on said substrates traversing the
first work station; and an ion source device

positioned at said second work station and adapted
for using electrons from said plasma associated with

said sputter device and applying reactive gas to form
along a relatively narrow zone adjacent the substrate

support a second plasma comprising ions of the
reactive gas, the ion source device further

comprising means for applying a directed potential
between said ion source and said plasma associated

with said sputter device for accelerating the
reactive ions to the substrates for effecting a

selected reaction with the sputter-deposited
material.
The system of Claim 1, wherein said workpiece
carrier is cylindrical and rotatably moves the

substrates past the first and second work stations
and wherein said selected reaction occurs along a

circumferential zone of the carrier comprising
substantially less than one-half the circumference of

the carrier. 
The sputter coating system of Claim 2, wherein
the sputter device and the ion source device are

positioned outside the cylindrical carrier.
The sputter coating system of Claim 2, wherein
the sputter device and the ion source device are

positioned inside the cylindrical carrier.
The sputter coating system of Claim 2, further
comprising substrate support means rotatably mounted

at the circumference of said cylindrical carrier for
rotatably presenting selected substrates or surface

segments thereof to the work station.
The sputter coating system of Claim 5, wherein
the rotatable mounting means comprises a planetary

gear arrangement which is rotatable in conjunction
with rotation of the cylindrical carrier.
The sputter coating system of Claim 1, wherein
said workpiece carrier is substantially flat and said

movement is substantially linear.
The sputter coating system of Claim 1, wherein
the workpiece carrier is a flexible web, and further

comprising: a rotatable drum; unwind and wind roll
means adapted for at least one of continuously or

intermittently traversing the flexible web about the
circumference of said drum; and the linear magnetron

sputter device and the ion source device being
positioned about the periphery of said drum for

forming at least a first material on said web or
substrates mounted thereon. 
The sputter coating system of any of Claims 1-8,
wherein the ion source device is a linear magnetron

device.
The sputter coating system of any of Claims 1-8,
wherein the ion source device is an ion gun.
The sputter coating system of any of Claims 1-8,
wherein the ion source device is adapted for the

inlet of a reactive atmosphere selected to at least
partially convert said selected material to at least

one of an oxide, nitride, hydride or
carbon-containing alloy or compound.
The system of any of Claims 1-8, wherein the ion
source device is adapted for oxidizing said selected

materials.
The sputter coating system of any of Claims 1-8,
further comprising at least a plurality of sputter

devices for sequentially or simultaneously sputter
depositing at least one material.
The sputter coating system of any of Claims 1-8,
further comprising at least a plurality of ion

source device for reacting selected reactive gas with
the sputter deposited material.
A process for forming single layer films and
multi-laye
r composite films on substrates,
comprising: providing a vacuum chamber having a

movable workpiece carrier therein and at least one
magnetron-enhanced sputter cathode device positioned

adjacent the workpiece carrier for sputter depositing
a selected material onto the workpiece; providing at 

least one ion source cathode device positioned
adjacent the workpiece carrier for providing a

selected reaction with the selected material; pulling
vacuum in the chamber; moving the carrier past the

devices; selectively operating the sputter cathode
device to deposit a layer of the selected material on

the substrate; and selectively operating the ion
source cathode device in sequence with the sputter

cathode device for substantially completing the
selected reaction during a single pass of the

carrier.
The process of Claim 15, wherein the workpiece
carrier is a rotating cylindrical carrier supporting

the workpiece along the circumference thereof for
traversing the workpieces past the sputter cathode

device and the ion source cathode and wherein the
selected reaction occurs along a fractional

circumferential surface zone of the carrier
comprising a distance substantially less than one-half

the circumference of the carrier and the
selected reaction is substantially completed during

translation of said workpiece through said
fractional distance.
The process of Claim 16, further comprising
substrate support means rotatably mounted at the

circumference of said cylindrical carrier for
rotatably presenting selected substrates or surface

segments thereof to the work station.
The process of Claim 17, wherein the rotatable
mounting means comprises a planetary gear arrangement

which is rotatable in conjunction with rotation of
the cylindrical carrier. 
The process of Claim 15, wherein the workpiece
carrier is substantially flat and the movement is

substantially linear.
The process of Claim 15, further comprising
operating the sputter cathode device to sputter

deposit layers of selected materials on the
substrate and selectively and sequentially operating

the ion source cathode device to react at least
selected ones of the layers prior to sputter

deposition of the next successive layer.
The process of Claim 15, further comprising:

providing at least a plurality of ion source cathode
devices.
The process of Claim 15, further comprising:

providing at least a plurality of sputter devices.
The process of Claim 21, further comprising:

providing at least a plurality of ion source cathode
devices.
The process of any of Claims 15-23, further
comprising selectively and sequentially operating the

sputter cathode and the ion source cathode devices to
form a composite coating comprising at least a

plurality of layers, the composition of each said
layer being selected from at least one of a first

metal, a second metal, an oxide of the first metal,
an oxide of the second metal, mixtures of the first

and second metals and an oxide of mixtures of the
first and second metals. 
The process of any of Claims 15-23, further
comprising selectively operating selected ones of the

sputter cathode devices to sputter deposit layers of
selected materials on said substrate and selectively

operating selected ones of ion source cathode devices
in conjunction with supplying selected reactant gas

thereto for effecting the selected reaction with at
least selected ones of the layers prior to sputter

deposition of the next successive layer.
The deposition process of any of Claims 15-23,
wherein the selected reaction involves converting the

selected layers to at least one of oxide, nitride,
hydride, sulfide or carbon-containing compound or

mixture.
The deposition sputtering process of any of
Claims 15-23, wherein the selected reaction is

oxidation.
The process of Claim 16, adapted for forming on
concave substrates single layer films and multi-layer

composite films of selected variable thickness
profile in the direction from the center to the edge

of the substrate, wherein the linear magnetron-enhanced
sputter cathode device has an associated

sputtering zone of relatively elongated height and
relatively narrow width and wherein the linear

magnetron-enhanced ion source cathode device has an
associated reaction zone of relatively elongated

height and relatively narrow width for providing a
selected reaction with the deposited coating along a

fractional circumferential zone of the carrier
substantially less than one-half the circumference of

the carrier; and further comprising rotating the 
cylindrical workpiece carrier selectively operating

the sputtering cathode device to deposit at least a
layer of selected material on the rotating substrate

and selectively operating the ion source cathode
device to effect and complete the selected reaction

during a single traversal of the workpiece through
the fractional circumferential zone.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
