<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MACHINE AND METHOD FOR SEPARATING RECYCLABLE MATTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07B122	B07B900	B03B906	B03C112	B03C102	B07B404	B03B900	B07B400	B07B118	B07B900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07B	B07B	B03B	B03C	B03C	B07B	B03B	B07B	B07B	B07B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07B1	B07B9	B03B9	B03C1	B03C1	B07B4	B03B9	B07B4	B07B1	B07B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A machine (10) for sorting recyclable matter includes a trommel (14) for conducting and screening an input flow of recyclable matter and a magnetic mechanism (30) coupled to the trommel (14) for extracting magnetic material from the input flow while the trommel rotates. The input flow is dropped vertically from the trommel (14) into a positive-pressure air separator (44) which separates the flow into a first material stream (50) including lightweight articles and a second material stream (59) including relatively heavy articles. The heavy articles of the second material stream drop downwardly in the air separator (44). Padded baffles (49, 58) are provided in the air separator (44) for reducing the downward velocity of the second material stream (59), which substantially lowers breakage of glass articles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CP MFG INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CP MANUFACTURING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, ROBERT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns a machine for separating a heterogenous flow of 
recyclable matter into respective separate streams of recyclable material, with each 
stream including a respective homogenous class or classes of articles. Machines are known which receive a heterogenous flow of recyclable 
matter and separate the flow into respective streams which include one or more 
homogenous classes of material. Presently, most of these machines separate the 
input flow into at least three separate material steams. The first stream includes 
magneto-responsive articles such as tin cans and ferrous scrap. The second stream 
consists of relatively light materials such as aluminum cans, plastic containers, amd 
plastic containers, and paper objects. The third stream includes relatively heavy 
articles such as glass containers, which are not responsive to a magnetizing force. Machines which employ magnetic means to extract magneto-responsive 
materials are known. For example, German Patents DE4,214,238 and 
DE2,750,191 show trommels in combination with magnets to recover magnetic 
materials from a material stream. U.S. Patent 4,318,804 shows a combination of 
a trommel with magnets to separate magnetic materials from a stream of waste 
material. In U.S. Patent Nos. 5,091,077 and 4,387,019, a stream of recyclable 
matter is separated into multiple streams by applying a high-velocity air flow, 
either in the form of a vacuum or a high-pressure air stream, to blow the lighter 
articles away from the heavier articles. The resulting steams are directed by these 
prior art machines to respective conveyor mechanisms for transport to sorting 
stations where human operators further classify and sort the streams.  
 Separator machines which are known in the art exhibit several significant 
disadvantages. First, most provide a stream of input matter which has been 
densified by collection, transport, and storage. The input stream is typically input 
to a separator machine on a conveyor, without having been loosened. This makes 
it more difficult to process the stream for separation and tends to retain small 
waste particles in the constituent materials, even after separation. The relatively dense input flow leads to a second significant disadvantage 
of known separator machines. Such machines typically extract magneto-responsive 
articles relatively early in the separation process. Indeed, two such machines 
remove magneto-responsive articles at the top end of an inclined conveyor which 
carries the input stream. Early
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A machine (10) for separating recyclable matter, comprising a frame 
(12), a trommel means (14) mounted to rotate on the frame, the trommel means 

having an input opening (16) and an output opening (19) for conducting a flow of 
recyclable matter from the input to the output opening, a magnetic means (30) 

coupled to the trommel means for extracting magnetic material from the flow of 
recyclable matter in the trommel means in response to rotation of the trommel 

means, and a means (45) for generating a high-velocity stream of air, the machine 
characterized by: 


air separator means (44) coupled to the means (45) for generating a high-velocity 
stream of air and mounted on 

the frame adjacent the output opening of the trommel means for: 

receiving the flow of recyclable matter; and 
in response to the high-velocity stream of air, separating the 
flow of recyclable matter into a first material stream (50) including 

relatively lightweight articles and a second material stream 
including relatively heavier articles; 
the air separator means providing the second material stream in a 
substantially downward direction; 
a baffle means (49,58) in the air separator means for: 

directing the high-velocity stream of air into the air 
separator means; and 
reducing the downward velocity of the second material 
stream; 
a first collection area (66); 
a first conveyor means (65) mounted on the frame adjacent the air 
separator to receive the first material stream for conveying the relatively 

lightweight articles to the first collection area; 
a second collection area (68); and 
a second conveyor means (67) mounted on the frame adjacent the 
baffle means to receive the second material stream for conveying the 

relatively heavier articles to the second collection area. 
The machine of Claim 1, wherein the magnetic means includes; 


a belt roller (37) mounted on the frame and spaced from the 
trommel means; 
an endless belt (31) passing around the trommel means and the belt 
roller, the endless belt in driving engagement with the trommel means and 

the belt roller; and 
magnets (35) mounted on the endless belt for generating a magnetic 
field which extends substantially from the endless belt through the trommel 

means. 
The machine of Claim 2, further comprising a chute means (23) 
mounted on the frame and having a first end extending into the trommel means at 

the trommel means output opening for receiving magneto-responsive articles from 
the magnetic means. 
The machine of any one of claims 1-3, further including a chute (17) mounted on 
the frame adjacent the trommel means for receiving waste material screened by the 

trommel means from the flow of recyclable matter.  
 
The machine of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the air separator means includes: 

a cyclone (52) mounted on the frame adjacent the first conveyor 
means; and 
a duct mounted on the frame to couple the cyclone to the means for 
generating a high-velocity stream of air; 
the duct including a first, substantially vertically oriented lower 
section (46) coupled to the means for generating a high-velocity stream of 

air and having a first opening adjacent the trommel means output opening 
for receiving the flow of recyclable matter, a second opening beneath the 

first opening for receiving the high-velocity stream of air, and a third 
opening beneath the second opening and adjacent the second conveyor 

means for conducting the second material stream to the second conveyor 
means; and 
the duct including a second, substantially horizontally-oriented 
upper section (47) positioned above, and coupled to, the first vertically-oriented 

lower section and to the cyclone for conducting the first material 
stream to the cyclone. 
The machine of Claim 5, wherein the baffle means includes at least 
a first baffle (49) held in the first lower section of the duct beneath the first 

opening and adjacent the second opening, the first baffle extending in the first 
section to intercept the downward direction of the second material stream and to 

substantially horizontally deflect the second material stream. 
The machine of Claim 6, wherein the first baffle is a padded baffle. 
The machine of Claim 6, further including a second baffle (58) 
positioned in the first section beneath the first baffle to intercept the substantially 

downward direction of the second material stream and to substantially horizontally 
deflect the second material stream onto the second conveyor means. 
The machine of Claim 8, wherein the second baffle is a padded 
baffle.  

 
The machine of any one of claims 1-9, further including a third conveyor means 
(41) mounted on the frame adjacent the output opening of the trommel means and 

the air separator means for conducting the flow of recyclable matter from the 
output opening to the air separator means. 
A method for separating articles in a stream of recyclable matter, 
where a flow of recyclable matter is loosened by agitating the flow, substantially 

concurrently with the loosening step magneto-responsive articles are removed from 
the flow of recyclable matter, substantially simultaneously with the steps of 

loosening the flow of recyclable matter and removing magneto-responsive articles 
waste material of a relatively small size is screened from the flow of recyclable 

matter, and a high-velocity stream of air is applied to the flow of recyclable 
matter, the method being characterized by: 


in response to the high-velocity stream of air, providing from the 
flow of recyclable matter a first material stream of relatively light-weight 

articles; 
substantially simultaneously with the step of applying a high-velocity 
stream of air, providing from the flow of recyclable matter a 

second material stream of relatively heavier articles in a substantially 
vertically downward direction; 
reducing the downward velocity of the second material stream by 
deflecting the relatively heavy articles from the vertically downward 

direction to a substantially horizontal direction; 
collecting articles in the first material stream at a first collection 
area; and 
collecting articles from the second material stream at a second 
collection area. 
The machine according to claim 1 including: 

means for rotating the trommel on the frame; 
a belt roller (37) spaced from the trommel; 
an endless belt (31) passing around the trommel and the 
belt roller, the endless belt in driving engagement with 

the trommel and the belt roller; and 
magnetic means (35) mounted on the endless belt for 
generating a magnetic field which extends substantially 

from the endless belt through the trommel. 
The machine of Claim 12 wherein two endless belts (31) 
are provided : 


a first endless belt; and 
a second endless belt spaced apart from and 
substantially parallel to the first endless belt; 
 
and wherein the magnetic means includes a plurality of 

substantially elongate magnets (35), each magnet having two 
ends, a first end of each magnet coupled to the first 

endless belt and a second end of each magnet coupled to the 
second endless belt such that each elongate magnet is 

substantially transversely oriented with respect to the 
first and second endless belts. 
The machine of Claim 12 or claim 13 wherein the trommel includes: 

an input opening (16) 
an output opening (19) 
a first substantially cylindrical section adjacent the 
input opening; 
a plurality of apertures (18) in the first substantially 
cylindrical section; and 
a second substantially cylindrical section (21), without 
apertures, between the first cylindrical section and the 

output opening, the endless belt being in driving 
engagement with the second cylindrical section. 
The machine of Claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the first and second 
endless belts each include a plurality of coupled, metallic 

links, the belt roller including rotating teethed portions 
in engagement with the links. 
The machine of any one of claims 12-15 further including means (23) 
extending into the trommel and positioned to receive 

magnetic objects attracted to the trommel by the magnetic 
field. 
The machine of Claim 14 wherein the endless belt (31) 
engages an arcuate portion of the second cylindrical 

section and travels thereon from an engagement location to 
a disengagement location, magnetic materials being 

attracted by the magnetic field to an inner arcuate surface 
of the second cylindrical section which is within a 

projection of the arcuate portion and being disengaged 
therefrom substantially at the disengagement location,
 the 
apparatus further including: 


means (23) extending into the input opening to the second 
cylindrical section adjacent the disengagement location for 

conducting magnetic materials from the trommel to a 
collection point outside the trommel. 
The machine of Claim 17 wherein the means for 
conducting is a chute the receiving edge of which is 

located substantially underneath the 
disengagement location.  

 
The machine of any one of claims 1-10 or 12-18 further including: 

first trash conveyor means (70) mounted on the frame 
adjacent the first conveyor means for conveying trash from 

the first collection ear; and 
second trash conveyor means (71) mounted on the frame 
adjacent the second conveyor means for conveying trash from 

the second collection area. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
