<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631434</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Projector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F113	G02F11335	G02F113357	G03B3300	G03B3312	H04N574	H04N574	H04N931	H04N931	H04N1700	H04N1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G03B	G03B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G03B33	G03B33	H04N5	H04N5	H04N9	H04N9	H04N17	H04N17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A projector for use with a light source and including a 
shutter assembly having a multiplicity of pixel light valves, 

and a color separator disposed intermediate the light source and 
the shutter assembly and spaced therefrom and providing a 

plurality of spatially separated differently colored light beams, 
wherein the plurality of spatially separated differently colored 

light beams are in predetermined registration with the 
multiplicity of pixel light valves. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIC VIEW LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIC VIEW LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOLOV ADI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOLOV, ADI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to visual projection and 
more particularly to video and computer generated information 
projectors and panels useful therewith. Various types of video and computer generated 
information projectors are known. These include, for example, the 
SharpVision product line commercially available from Sharp 
Corporation of Japan. Conventional projectors of this type have 
achieved significant market penetration but suffer from various 
disadvantages and limitations. One of the significant limitations in liquid crystal 
panel projectors lies in the relatively limited amount of light 
that can be projected. It may be appreciated that the amount of 
light that can be transmitted through a conventional color liquid 
crystal panel assembly is limited by the amount of light that can 
be absorbed by the liquid crystal panel without degradation of 
its performance and permanent damage thereto inter alia due to 
overheating. Accordingly the brightness of projected images 
produced by such projectors is correspondingly limited. Conventional displays also suffer from limitations in 
contrast due to their inability to suppress reflection of ambient 
light. Various types of projection systems are known in the 
art for a wide range of applications using various types of light  
 
sources, both coherent and non-coherent. Projection systems which 
employ non-coherent light sources, such as incandescent or arc 
lamps, have been found by the applicants to display sometimes 
unacceptable variations in the intensity of light output produced 
thereby over a projection plane. Such variations may result, 
inter alia, from non-uniformities, asymmetries and imperfections 
in the glass envelope of the light source, as well as shadows 
produced by the light source filament or arc electrodes. Halogen lamps, such as Model FLT produced by Thorn 
Lighting Ltd. of Great Britain, are formed with conditioned and 
segmented reflectors so as to direct light from multiple 
locations on the light source onto each location in a projection 
plane. While such a structure does reduce the intensity 
variation, the reduction is insufficient for certain high quality 
projection applications wherein the projection plane is 
relatively close to the light source.  The present invention seeks to provide an improved 
projector and projection system, and an improved reflector 
suitable for use therein. There is thus provided in accordance with a preferred 
embodiment of the present invention a projector for use with a 
light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A projector for use with a light source and comprising: 
   a shutter assembly having a multiplicity of pixel 

light valves; and 
   a color separator disposed intermediate the light 

source and the shutter assembly and spaced therefrom and 
providing a plurality of spatially separated differently 

colored light beams; 
   wherein the plurality of spatially separated 

differently colored light beams are in predetermined registration 
with the multiplicity of pixel light valves. 
A projection system comprising: 
   a projector for use with a light source and 

comprising: 
      a shutter assembly having a multiplicity of pixel 

light valves; 
      a color separator disposed intermediate the light 

source and the shutter assembly and providing a plurality of 
spatially separated differently colored light beams; and 

   a screen arranged in light receiving relationship with 
the projector and including a plurality of light impingement 

regions having different color characteristics, and wherein 
   the plurality of spatially separated differently 

colored light beams are in predetermined registration with the 
multiplicity of pixel light valves, and

 
   the plurality of spatially separated differently 

colored light beams are arranged in predetermined registration 
with said plurality of light impingement regions having different 

color characteristics. 
A projector for use with a light source and comprising: 
   a shutter assembly having a multiplicity of pixel 

light valves; and 
   a color separator comprising an array of prism/lens 

combinations disposed intermediate the light source and the 
shutter assembly and providing a plurality of spatially separated 

differently colored light beams; 
   wherein the plurality of spatially separated 

differently colored light beams are in predetermined registration 
with the multiplicity of pixel light valves. 
A projector for use with a light source and comprising: 
   a shutter assembly having a multiplicity of pixel 

light valves; and 
   an upstream selective light absorber disposed 

intermediate the light source and the shutter assembly and 
spaced therefrom. 
A projection screen comprising a plurality of 
differently colored light impingement regions. 
A rear projection display device comprising:

 
   a projector; 

   a light transmissive screen; 
   diverging optics interposed between the projector and 

the screen for directing light from the projector onto the 
screen for producing a real image on the screen. 
A projector for use with a light source and comprising: 
   a shutter assembly panel having a multiplicity of pixel 

light valves overlying an array of interspersed shutter pixels 
each of which transmits only one of a plurality of colors; and 

   a color filter disposed intermediate the light source 
and the planar shutter and spaced therefrom and having an array 

of interspersed filter pixels, each of which only transmits only 
one of a plurality of colors, 

   wherein the array of interspersed filter pixels is in 
light and color registration with the array of interspersed 

shutter pixels, such that generally light of a given color 
impinges on a shutter area of the same color. 
A projector for use with a light source and comprising: 
   a polarizing shutter assembly panel having a 

multiplicity of pixel light valves; and 
   a light polarizer disposed intermediate the light 

source and the shutter assembly panel and spaced therefrom for 
further absorbing energy which would otherwise be absorbed by the 

shutter assembly panel. 
A radiation reflector for providing generally 
 

homogeneous illumination in a plane perpendicular to an axis, the 
reflector comprising a generally curved reflecting surface 

formed of a multiplicity of flat surface units, the multiplicity 
of flat surface units being configured and arranged such that the 

projection of each of said multiplicity of flat surface units 
onto a plane perpendicular to said axis is generally identical. 
A compact projection system comprising: 
   a non-homogeneous radiation source; 

   a radiation reflector for providing generally 
homogeneous non-imagewise illumination in a plane perpendicular 

to an axis, the reflector comprising a generally curved 
reflecting surface receiving radiation from said non-homogeneous 

radiation source, said reflecting surface being formed of a 
multiplicity of flat surface units, the multiplicity of flat 

surface units being configured and arranged such that the 
projection of each of said multiplicity of said flat surface 

units onto a plane perpendicular to said axis is generally 
identical, said radiation reflector being arranged to illuminate 

a light transmissive object in said plane; 
   lens apparatus for receiving radiation passing through 

said light transmissive object and imagewise focusing said 
radiation; and 

   a screen for receiving said focused radiation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
