<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632914</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ADAPTIVELY INTERPOLATING A DIGITAL IMAGE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1717	G06F1717	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Digital image processing apparatus for interpolating a digital input image into an interpolated output image, in one embodiment of the invention, comprises an input buffer (12) for accommodating pixel data of the input image and a coefficient buffer (14) for storing precalculated interpolation weighting coefficients prior to real time image interpolation. The coefficient buffer (14) comprises a first memory segment (22) for containing a set of precalculated sharp interpolating weighting coefficients obtained by using a sharp interpolating algorithm, a second memory segment (24) for containing a set of precalculated soft weighting coefficients obtained by using a soft interpolating algorithm and a third memory segment (26) for containing a set of precalculated weighting coefficients representative of a predetermined characteristic of the input image, such as contrast or density. The processing apparatus further comprises interpolation logic (16) for calculating a sharp interpolated output image pixel, a soft interpolated output image pixel, and a value for the image characteristic, using the input pixel data and the precalculated weighting coefficients, and an algorithm implementation controller (18) for calculating a resultant output pixel by combining the sharp and soft interpolated pixel values as a function of the image characteristic.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYMBOLIC SCIENCES INTERNATIONA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYMBOLIC SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HRYTZAK RANDAL K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REED ALASTAIR M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HRYTZAK, RANDAL, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REED, ALASTAIR, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of adaptively 
processing a digital input image into an interpolate 
digital output image, depending on image content, and an 
apparatus for carrying out the method. A major problem with any interpolation algorithm 
which produces a sharp result, i.e. cubic or higher 
polynomial, or a digital filter design, is that 
objectionable 'ringing', overshoot and undershoot will 
occur on high contrast edges in the image. Some degree of 
overshoot and undershoot is required on lower contrast 
edges to produce a visually pleasing result but this will 
produce objectionable 'ringing' on a high contrast edge. The 'ringing' can be reduced by various methods. 
For example, a digital filter design using linear 
programming can be used to obtain a compromise between a 
sharp cut-off filter, to obtain a sharp image, and a 
certain amount of 'ringing'. However, since it is a 
compromise, reducing ringing on a high contrast edge will 
lead to subjectively less pleasing results in lower 
contrast areas of an image, i.e. the image will be less 
sharp overall. Methods by which different interpolation 
algorithms can be used during an interpolation process 
have been suggested. For example, EP-A-0 070 677 
describes interpolation hardware including a manually 
operated switch for switching between different available 
interpolation algorithms depending on the kind of image to  
 
be interpolated. EP-A-0 431 133 describes a 
system which incorporates a control unit which monitors 
the content of the input data and switches between 
interpolation kernels in an attempt to provide optimum 
interpolation for different types of image content. With 
this method, certain corrective measures need to be taken 
in order to compensate for the use of either the one or 
the other algorithm. WO-A-91 03795 describes a method for segmenting 
an image into "edge" and "smooth" regions and then 
selectively blurring the smooth areas while leaving the 
edges untouched. EP-A-0 449 259 describes a method for 
adaptively sharpening an image depending on local image 
characteristics. However, neither provides for an 
interpolation method for resizing an image or a method of 
smoothly transforming between two algorithms by gradually 
selecting the "sharp" or "soft" result depending on local 
image characteristics. It is an object of the present invention to 
provide a continuum of interpolated output images ranging 
from relatively sharp at one end of the continuum to 
relatively soft at the other end so that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of processing a digital input image into an 
interpolated digital output image, comprising the 

steps of: 

(a) obtaining input pixel data of said input image; 
(b) selecting a local position within said input 
image for interpolation; 
(c) calculating a first interpolated output image 
pixel at a predetermined pixel position in said 

output image using a first interpolating 
algorithm; 
(d) calculating a second interpolated output image 
pixel at said predetermined pixel position in 

said output image using a second interpolating 
algorithm; 
(e) calculating an input image characteristic value 
using said input pixel data and a set of 

weighting coefficients representative of a 
predetermined characteristic of said input 

image; and 
(f) calculating a resultant output image pixel at 
said predetermined pixel position in said 

output image by combining said first and said 
second interpolated output image pixels as a 

function of said input image characteristic 
value. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein said input 
image characteristic value is derived from a portion 

of said input pixel data which is representative of 
said local position. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein said first 
interpolated output image pixel is obtained by the 

application of a first interpolation algorithm  
 

producing a relatively sharp result and said second 
interpolated output image pixel is obtained by the 

application or a second interpolation algorithm 
producing a relatively soft result. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein said sharp 
and said soft interpolated output image pixels are 

obtained by the application of precalculated 
weighting coefficients obtained from said first and 

second interpolation algorithms, respectively. 
The method according to claim 1, further comprising 
the steps of: 


obtaining a third interpolated output image pixel at 
said predetermined pixel position in said output 

image; 
deriving a further input image characteristic value 
from said input image pixel data; and 
calculating a further resultant output image pixel at 
said predetermined pixel position in said output 

image by combining said first resultant output image 
pixel and said third interpolated output image pixel 

as a function of said further input image 
characteristic value. 
The method according to claim 5, wherein said 
resultant output image pixel is calculated according 

to the algorithm: 

P = SX + (1 - S)Y 
 
where  

 

P represents said resultant output image pixel; 
X represents said first interpolated output image 
pixel; 
Y represents said second interpolated output image 
pixel; and 
S represents a scaling factor, with a value of from 0 

to 1, derived from said input image characteristic 
value, 
 
and wherein
 
said further resultant output image pixel is 

calculated by using the algorithm: 

P' = S'W + (1 - S')P 
 
where P' represents said further resultant output 

image pixel; W represents said third interpolated 
output image pixel and S' represents a further 

scaling factor with a value from 0 to 1, derived from 
said further input image characteristic value. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein said first 
and said second interpolated output image pixels are 

each obtained by selection from a set of 
precalculated first and second interpolated output 

image pixels, respectively. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein said 
resultant output image pixel is calculated according 

to the algorithm: 

P = SX + (1 - S)Y 
  
 

where 

P represents said resultant output image pixel; 
X represents said first or sharp interpolated output 
image pixel; 
Y represents said second or soft interpolated output 
image pixel; and 
S represents a scaling factor, with a value of from 0 
to 1, derived from said input image characteristic 

value. 
The method according to claim 8, wherein said input 
image is a colored image comprising a number of basic 

colors and further comprising the step of providing a 
mul=idimensional lookup table, the number of 

dimensions corresponding with said number of basic 
colors, said lookup table mapping input image 

characteristic values for each one of said basic 
colors to a corresponding value for said scaling 

factor. 
The method according to claim 9, wherein said number 
of basic colors is three. 
The method according to claim 9, wherein said number 
of basic colors is four. 
The method according to claim 8, wherein said scaling 
factor S is derived from two separate input image 

characteristic values.  
 
The method according to claim 12, wherein said two 
separate input image characteristic values comprise 

input image contrast and input image density at said 
local position in said input image. 
The method according to claim 13, wherein said input 
image contrast is generated from said input image 

data by convolving a set of contrast weighting 
coefficients with said input image data. 
The method according to claim 14, wherein said input 
image density is taken to be proportional to said 

relatively soft interpolated output image pixel. 
The method according to claim 14, wherein said input 
image density is derived from said input image data. 
The method according to claim 12, further comprising 
the step of providing lookup tables mapping said 

input image characteristic values to corresponding 
values for said scaling factor. 
The method according to claim 17, wherein said lookup 
tables comprise two one-dimensional lookup tables 

mapping input image contrast and density, 
respectively, to corresponding intermediate values 

for said scaling factor and the method further 
comprises the step of multiplying said intermediate 

values together to produce said scaling factor. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein said input 
image characteristic value comprises input image 

contrast.  
 
The method according to claim 1, wherein said input 
image characteristic value comprises input image 

density. 
The method according to claim 1, further comprising 
the step of deriving a second image characteristic 

value from said input pixel data and calculating 
said resultant output pixel by combining said first 

and second output image pixels as a function of said 
first and second image characteristic values. 
The method according to claim 21, wherein said first 
and second characteristic values comprise values 

representing image contrast and density, 
respectively. 
The method according to claim 1, further comprising 
the steps of locating a second local position within 

said input image; repeating the steps (c) to (f) to 
obtain a further resultant output image pixel; and 

repeating said steps for further local positions 
until a complete interpolated output image of a 

required size is produced. 
Digital image processing apparatus for interpolating 
a digital input image into an interpolated output 

image, comprising: 

an input buffer (12) for accommodating pixel data of 
said input image; 
a coefficient buffer (14) for storing pre-calculated 
interpolation weighting coefficients prior to real 

time image interpolation and comprising a first 
memory segment (22) for containing a first set of 

pre-calculated interpolating weighting coefficients  
 

obtained by using a first interpolating algorithm; a 
second memory segment (24) for containing a second 

set of pre-calculated weighting coefficients 
obtained by using a second interpolating algorithm; 

and a third memory segment (26) for containing a set 
of pre-calculated weighting coefficients 

representative of a predetermined characteristic of 
said input image; and 
image convolution and interpolation means (16, 18) 
for calculating a first interpolated output image 

pixel using said input pixel data and said first set 
of weighting coefficients and for calculating a 

second interpolated output image pixel using said 
input pixel data and said second set of weighting 

coefficients and for calculating a value for said 
image characteristic using said input pixel data and 

said image characteristic weighting coefficients and 
for calculating a resultant output pixel by 

combining said first and second output image pixels 
as a function of said characteristic value. 
The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said 
coefficient buffer further comprises a fourth memory 

segment (28) for containing precalculated 
interpolation coefficients for effecting constant 

interpolation coefficients for effecting constant 
image size interpolation. 
The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said 
first interpolated output image pixel is obtained by 

the application of said first interpolation 
algorithm producing a relatively sharp result and 

said second interpolated output image pixel is 
obtained by the application of said second  

 
interpolation algorithm producing a relatively soft 

result. 
The apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said 
resultant output image pixel is calculated according 

to the algorithm: 

P = SX + (1 - S)Y 
 
where 


P represents said resultant output image pixel; 
X represents said first or sharp interpolated output 
image pixel; 
Y represents said second or soft interpolated output 
image pixel; and 
S represents a scaling factor, with a value of from 
0 to 1, derived from said input image chara
cteristic 
value. 
The apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said 
means for deriving an input image characteristic is 

adapted to derive values for image contrast and 
image density. 
The apparatus according to claim 28, further 
comprising lookup tables (20) for obtaining said 

scaling factor S as a function of said image 
contrast and image density values. 
The apparatus according to claim 29, further 
comprising a coefficient buffer containing a set of  

 
contrast detector mask coefficients for deriving 

said image contrast value. 
The apparatus according to claim 24, further 
comprising means for obtaining a third interpolated 

output image pixel at said predetermined pixel 
position in said output image; 


means for deriving a further input image 
characteristic value from said input image pixel 

data; and 
means for calculating a further resultant output 
image pixel at said predetermined pixel position in 

said output image by combining said first resultant 
output image pixel and said third interpolated 

output image pixel as a function of said further 
input image characteristic value. 
The apparatus according to claim 31, wherein said 
resultant output image pixel is calculated according 

to the algorithm: 

P = SX + (1 - S)Y 
 
where 


P represents said resultant output image pixel; 
X represents said first interpolated output image 
pixel; 
Y represents said second interpolated output image 
pixel; and  

 
S represents a scaling factor, with a value of from 
0 to 1, derived from said input image characteristic 

value, 
 
and wherein
 
said further resultant output image pixel is 

calculated by using the algorithm: 

P' = S'W + (1 - S')P 
 
where P' represents said further resultant output 

image pixel; W represents said third interpolated 
output image pixel and S' represents a further 

scaling factor with a value from 0 to 1, derived 
from said further input image characteristic value. 
The apparatus according to claim 24, further 
comprising a buffer containing a set of said first 

interpolated output image pixels and a set of said 
second interpolated output image pixels for 

accessing by said means for obtaining first and 
second interpolated output image pixels to select 

one value from each one of said sets. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
