<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0825934</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOAD BEARING AUTOMOTIVE BENCH SEAT ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60N224	B60N224	B60N268	B60N268	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60N	B60N	B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automotive bench seat assembly which may be removable from a vehicle, has a seat (2), a seatback (4) adjacent to the seat, a pair of relatively spaced stanchions (6, 8) having an upper portion secured to the seat, and a lower floor engaging portion. The seat has a front rail (12), a rear rail (10), and a pair of side members (14, 16) connecting the front and rear rails. A pair of belt supporting towers (72, 74) are operatively associated with shoulder belts and serve to transmit impact loads to the floor through the stanchions (6, 8). The stanchions have upper portions supportingly secured to towers (72, 74) or the rear rail (10) intermediate the ends thereof and to the front rail (12) intermediate the ends thereof. The stanchions have the floor engaging portion positioned inwardly of the side members (14, 16). Lap belts also transmit impact loads through the stanchions to the floor. The stanchions may be generally V-shaped and have sidewalls composed of reinforced sheet members. Reinforced sheet members may be provided in the seatback (4) and seat (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALUMINIUM COMPANY OF AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANE SUSAN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVAK MILOSLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMME ISABEL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAGESER ANDREW B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANE, SUSAN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVAK, MILOSLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMME, ISABEL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAGESER, ANDREW, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOAD BEARING AUTOMOTIVE BENCH SEAT ASSEMBLYThe present invention relates to an improved automotive bench seal assemblywhich may be removable and provides improved impaα load characteristics, particularly, in respect of impact loads applied to either shoulder belts or lap belts, or both.One of the requirements in certain land vehicles, such as mini-vans and trucks, is the ability to remove a seat when added space is desired, thereby, converting a seating region to acargo region. In order to provide adequate protection for occupants of the vehicle using the seat, appropriaie seat bets are also required. One of the difficulties which has been encountered in past systems, has been the need to provide very bulky and heavy support systems in order to absorb impact loads from rear end or front end collisions. This makes the seat somewhat unwieldy and the extra weight, due to the strength requiremenL makes it more difficult to remove and replace the seatAs it is desirable to have the shoulder belts and lap belts, as well as the support systems therefor, self-contained, such as they are removed with the seat, rather than being anchored in part to the vehicle body, the loads imposed on the belts have typically been transferred to the structural members of the seaL For example, it has been conventional to provide a seat, a seatback. with a pair of seat supports at the sides of the seat member. With the shoulder belt and lap belt forces being transmmed to the rear rail, which cooperates with the front rail and side members to establish the frarning for the seat, severe deformation or fracture of the rear rail has occurred as a result of the large moments resulting from the forces applied between the supports for the rear rail. 

Such applied forces created by impact loads have also been known to weaken welded joints on the seal construction.Also, placing the seat supports underlying the sides of the seat, frequently makes itdifficult for users to pass around the seat as foot access is restricted.It has been known to employ metal tubes in providing the seat framework, but these had to be cushioned substantially in order to make them reasonably comfortable for the user. While it has also been known to employ sheet metal seatbacks to make the seat more comfortable, these, in general, have lacked adequate strength for the intended purpose.There remains, therefore, a very real and substantial need for an improved automotive bench seat which will provide desired strength and safety while providing a lighter weight,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S
1. An automotive bench seal assembly comprising
a seat portion, a seatback adjacent to said seat portion, a pair of relatively spaced stanchions having an upper portion secured to said seat portion and a lower floor engaging portion, said seat portion having a front rail and rear rail and a pair of side members connecting said front rail and said rear rail and said stanchions having upper portions supportingly secured to said rear rail intermediate the ends tiiereof and to said front rail intermediate the ends tiiereof.
2. The automotive bench seat of claim 1 including said seatback having a pair of belt supporting towers.
3. The automotive bench seal of claim 2 including said stanchions being generally V-shaped.
4. The automotive bench seat of claim 3 including said towers each having a lower portion generally aligned with a portion of one of said stanchions to facilitate transfer of load from said belt supporting towers to said stanchions.
5. The automotive bench seat of claim 4 including said floor engaging portions of aid stanchions being spaced inwardly from the upper portion of said seat side members. 


 6. The automotive bench seat of claim 5 including said automotive bench seat
being a removable seat
7. The automotive bench seat of claim 6 including said seatback being rσtatable.
8. The automotive bench seat of claim 2 including shoulder belt means operatively associated witi. said belt supporting towers, whereby impaα loads applied to said shoulder belt means will be 
•
transferred by said belt supporting towers through said stanchions to said vehicle floor.
9. The automotive bench seat of claim 1 including lap belt means operatively associated with said seat, whereby impaα loads applied to said lap belt means will be transferred through said stanchions to said vehicle floor.
10. The automotive bench seat of claim 1 including each said stanchion being generally V-shaped having a base and a pair of upwardly diverging sidewalk.
1 1. The automotive bench seat of claim 10 including at least one of said idewalk beinc made from reinforced metal sheet. 


 12. The automotive bench seat of claim 11 including said reinforced metal
sheet having a plurality of stiffening deformations.
13. The automotive bench seat of claim 12 including said deformations being
generally frustoconical.
14. The automotive bench seat of claim 13 including each said sidewall having a plurality of said frustoconical deformations aligned witii and contacting frustoconical deformations 
•
of-the otiier said sidewalL
15. The automotive bench seat of claim 1 including said seatback having a generally U-shaped frame member having both ends secured to said rear rail adjacent the ends thereof.
16. The automotive bench seat of claim 15 including said frame member being disposed generally forwardly of said belt supporting towers.
17. The automotive bench seat of claim 16 including said belt supporting towers having recesses through which said frame member extends.
1 . The automotive bench seat of claim 2 including said seatback having integrally reinforced sheet members disposed in front of said belt supporting towers. 


 19. The automotive bench seat of claim 18 including said reinforced sheet means having a pair of sheets with generally aligned contacting stiffening deformations.
20. The automotive bench seat of claim 3 including each said stanchion having a first leg secured to said intermediate front and rear rail portions and a second leg secured to and supporting a said side member.
21. The automotive bench seat of claim 1 including each said stanchion floor engaging portion being dkposed between the closer adjacent said side member and said upper
portion of said stanchion.
22. The automotive bench seat of claim 20 including said floor engaging portion being spaced about 10 to 20 percent of the width of said seat portion from the side member measuring along the vehicle floor.
23. The automotive bench seat of claim 22 including said towers being spaced center to center about 20 to 60 percent of the width of said seat portion from each other.
24. The automotive bench seat of claim 19 including flanges dkposed at opposite ends of said reinforced sheet members, and said flanges diverging generally downwardly.
25. The automotive bench seat of claim 2 including said bench seat being secured to said floor solely at said two floor engaging portions. 


 26. The automotive bench seal of claim 19 including said seatback having a
first sheet with integrally formed stiffening deformations and a generally planar sheet secured
thereto.
27. An automotive bench seat assembly comprising a seat portion, a seatback portion, a pair of generally V-shaped stanchion members having floor engaging portions spaced inwardly from the sides of said seat portions.
28. The automotive bench seat of claim 27 including said floor engaging portions being spaced inwardly from each of said sides of said seat portions by about 10 to 20 percent of the width of said seat pαrtion
29. The automotive bench seat of claim 27 including each said stanchion having a base and a pair of upwardly diverging sidewalk.
30. The automotive bench seat of claim 29 including at least one of said sidewalk beinc made from reinforced metal sheet 


 31. The automotive bench seat of claim 30 including said reinforced metal sheet having a plurality of stiffening deformations, and said deformations being generally
■
frustoconical
32. The automotive bench seat of claim 31 including each said sidewall having a plurality of said frustoconical deformations aligned with and contacting frustoconical deformations of the other said sidewalL
33. The automotive bench seat of claim 29 including said seat portion having a front rail and a rear rail with a pair of side members connecting said front rail and said rear raiL and one said sidewall of each said stanchion supportingly engaging said front rail intermediate the ends thereof and said rear rail intermediate the ends thereof.
34. The automotive bench seat of claim 33 including one said sidewall of each said stanchion supportingly engaging a side member of said seat portion. 

35. The automotive bench seat of claim 34 including said seatback having a
pair of belt supporting towers, and said towers each having a lower portion generally aligned with a
sidewall of one of said stanchions to facilitaie transfer of load from said belt supporting towers to
said stanchions.
36. The automotive bench seat of claim 35 including said seatback having integrally reinforced sheet members dkposed in front of said belt supporting towers.
37. The automotive bench seat of claim 36 including said xeinforced sheet means having a pair of sheets with generally aligned contacting stiffening deformations.
38. A vehicle equipped with at least one automotive bench seat comprising said bench seat having a seat portion, a seatback adjacent to said seal portion, a pair of relatively spaced stanchions having an upper portion secured to said seat portion and a lower floor engaging portion, said seat portion having a front rail and rear rail and a pair of side members connecting said front rail and said rear raiL and said stanchions having upper portions supportingly secured to said rear rail intermediate the ends thereof and to said front rail intermediate the ends thereof, and said floor engaging portions secured to the floor of said vehicle.
39. The vehicle of claim 38 including said seatback having a pair of belt supporting towers. 


 40. The vehicle of claim 39 including said stanchions being generally V-
shaped.
41. The vehicle of claim 40 including said towers each having a lower portion generally aligned with a portion of one of said stanchions to facilitate, transfer of load from said belt supporting towers to said stanchioas.
42. The vehicle of claim 39 including said floor engaging portions of said stanchions being spaced inwardly from the upper portion of said seat side members.
43. The vehicle of claim 42 including said floor engaging portion being spaced about 10 to 20 percent of the width of said seat portion from the side member measuring along the vehicle floor.
44. The vehicle of claim 39 including said seatback having integrally reinforced sheet members dkposed in front of said belt supporting towers.
45. The vehicle of claim 44 including said reinforced sheet means having a pair of sheets with generally aligned contacting stiffening deformations.
46. The vehicle of claim 38 including said seat having integrally reinforced sheet members. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
