<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655954</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VACUUM DEPOSITION AND CURING OF LIQUID MONOMERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05D700	B05D724	H01M618	H01M1040	B05D700	B05D506	H01M602	H01M1004	B05D310	H01M602	B05D304	B05D506	H01M1036	B05D304	B05D310	H01M1004	H01M618	B05D724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05D	B05D	H01M	H01M	B05D	B05D	H01M	H01M	B05D	H01M	B05D	B05D	H01M	B05D	B05D	H01M	H01M	B05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05D7	B05D7	H01M6	H01M10	B05D7	B05D5	H01M6	H01M10	B05D3	H01M6	B05D3	B05D5	H01M10	B05D3	B05D3	H01M10	H01M6	B05D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is the formation of solid polymer layers under vacuum. More specifically, the present invention is the use of "standard" polymer layer-making equipment that is generally used in an atmospheric environment in a vacuum, and degassing the monomer material prior to injection into the vacuum. Additional layers of polymer or metal or oxide may be vacuum deposited onto solid polymer layers. Formation of polymer layers under a vacuum improves material and surface characteristics, and subsequent quality of bonding to additional layers. Further advantages include use of less to no photoinitiator for curing, faster curing, fewer impurities in the polymer electrolyte, as well as improvement in material properties including no trapped gas resulting in greater density, and reduced monomer wetting angle that facilitates spreading of the monomer and provides a smoother finished surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFFINITO JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFFINITO, JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a method
of making multilayer laminate structures from polymers
and metals and/or oxides. More specifically, the present
invention relates to forming solid polymer laminate
layers under vacuum. Additional layers of polymer or
metal or oxide may be added under vacuum as well.Laminate structures are used in many applications
including but not limited to electronic devices, packaging
material, and solar reflectors. Laminate structures
in electronic devices are found in devices including but
not limited to circuit elements and electrochromic
devices wherein conductive polymer layers are combined
and may include a metal layer and/or an oxide layer.
Electrochromic devices include but are not limited to
switchable mirrors and switchable windows. Circuit
elements include active elements, for example fuel cells
and batteries, and passive elements, for example
capacitors.Presently, many laminate structures are made with
solid polymer laminate layers. In packaging material and
solar reflectors, a metal layer may be added to enhance
optical reflectance. In electronic devices, a metal
layer may be added to enhance electrical conductivity.
In packaging material and solar reflectors, it is not
necessary that the polymer layer or layers be conductive,
whereas in electronic devices, especially batteries, the 
polymer layers must be conductive to act as electrolytes,
anodes, and cathodes. Certain polymers when doped with
selected salts are known to make suitable solid polymer
ion conductive layers. Polymers known to be useful
include but are not limited to polyethyleneoxide,
polypropyleneoxide, polyorgansulfides, and polyanaline.
Suitable salts include but are not limited to lithium
salts, for example lithium perchlorate, and lithium
hexafluoroarsenate. Although the anode, cathode, and
electrolyte layers may all be of solid polymer material,
when making a lithium polymer battery, it is preferred to
have a layer of lithium metal as an anode.Laminate structures further include electrochromic
devices wherein an electrolyte is sandwiched between
electrochromic oxide layers. Conductive layers are
placed on the electrochromic oxide layers for connection
to an electrical power source. Additional structural or
protective layers may be added to enclose an electrochromic
assembly.Other polymers having added compounds, including
but not limited to conductive powders and dyes, may be
made by the present invention.Presently, mass production of polymer and metal
laminate structures used for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making a laminate comprising the steps of:

placing a moving substrate into a vacuum chamber;
placing a mechanical liquid-monomer spreading apparatus into the vacuum
chamber;
degassing a first liquid monomer;
depositing a first thin layer of the degassed liquid monomer from the liquid-monomer
spreading apparatus onto the moving substrate within the vacuum

chamber; and
curing the first thin layer.
The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of:

vacuum depositing metal or oxide onto the cured first thin layer.
The method as recited in claim 1, for making a lithium polymer battery,
wherein the first liquid monomer is a monomer cathode material which upon curing

forms a solid cathode polymer, and further comprising the step of:

depositing and curing a thin layer of monomer electrolyte material onto the
solid cathode polymer, forming a solid polymer electrolyte with subsequent deposition 

of lithium metal onto the electrolyte, forming an anode.
The method as recited in claim 3, further comprising the steps of:

depositing a first monomer insulating material layer onto the moving
substrate and curing the first monomer insulating material layer in advance of the

step of depositing a monomer cathode material; and
depositing a cathode current collector metal onto the cured insulating
material in advance of the step of depositing a monomer cathode material.
The method as recited in claim 4, further comprising the steps of:

depositing an anode current collector onto the anode; and
depositing a second monomer insulating layer onto the anode current
collector and curing the second monomer insulating layer.
The method as recited in claim 1, for making a lithium polymer battery,
wherein the first liquid monomer is a monomer electrolyte material which upon

curing forms a solid electrolyte polymer, and further comprising the steps of:

depositing a thin layer of lithium metal onto the moving substrate and
forming an anode, in advance of the step of depositing a monomer electrolyte

material;
depositing and curing a thin layer of monomer cathode material onto the
solid electrolyte polymer, forming a solid polymer cathode.
The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising the steps of:

depositing a first monomer insulating material layer onto said moving 
substrate and curing the first monomer insulating material layer in advance of the

step of depositing the lithium metal; and
depositing an anode current collector metal onto the cured insulating material
in advance of the step of depositing the lithium metal.
The method as recited in claim 7 further comprising the steps of:

depositing a cathode current collector onto the cathode; and
depositing a second monomer insulating layer onto the cathode current
collector and curing the second monomer insulating layer.
A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the first liquid monomer is a monomer
electrolyte material which upon curing forms a solid polymer electrolyte, and

further comprising the steps of:

depositing a first conductive oxide layer onto the moving substrate, and
depositing a first electrochromic oxide layer onto the first conductive oxide layer,

in advance of the step of depositing a monomer electrolyte material;
depositing a second electrochromic oxide layer onto the solid polymer
electrolyte; and
depositing a second conductive oxide layer onto the second electrochromic
oxide layer.
An apparatus for making a laminate, comprising:

(a) a moving substrate;
(b) means for creating a vacuum about said moving substrate;
(c) means for degassing a liquid monomer; and 
(d) means for depositing a first thin layer of degassed liquid monomer onto
said moving substrate followed by means for curing said liquid monomer and

forming a first solid polymer layer.
The apparatus as recited in claim 10, further comprising:

(e) additional means for vacuum depositing metal, means for depositing
oxide, or means for depositing further layers of degassed liquid monomer together

with means for curing the degassed liquid monomer.
The apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said means for depositing is
a mechanical liquid monomer spreading apparatus.
The apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said mechanical liquid monomer
spreading apparatus is selected from the group of roll coaters, wire wound

rods, doctor blade coaters, and slotted die coaters.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
