<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653945</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INACTIVATION OF HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L200	A61L200	A61M132	A61M132	A61M136	A61M136	C01B1311	C01B1311	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	C01B13	C01B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for the inactivation of infectious organisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi and protozoa, and especially for the inactivation of human immunodeficiency virus in proteinaceous material such as blood and blood products. This process is accomplished without adversely affecting the normal physiological activity of the material, by contacting it for a time interval of only about 16 seconds with an ozone-oxygen mixture having an ozone concentration of only about 27 (my)g/ml. The system (10) includes a mobile cart (11) supporting an oxygen tank (15) that is regulated by valve (16) and is connected to an ozone generator (18) by tubing (17). The ozone-oxygen mixture exiting the ozone generator (18) is supplied via conduit (19) to the lower end of gas-liquid contact apparatus (20). The ozone-oxygen mixture has a resonant frequency of 7.83 Hz. Blood is introduced through a first pump (26) into the upper end of gas-liquid contact apparatus (20) and cascades down to a pool (P). A second pump (27) pumps the blood through a filter (28) and back to its source. The apparatus and method of the invention provide precise control of the concentration of ozone and the contact time between the material to be treated and the ozone-oxygen mixture.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAINWRIGHT BASIL E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAINWRIGHT, BASIL, E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAINWRIGHT BASIL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAINWRIGHT, BASIL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INACTIVATION OF HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUSField of the Invention:This invention relates to an apparatus and method for the treatment of blood and blood products to inactivate infectious organisms, such as viruses and bacteria, and especially to inactivate the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in human blood and blood products.Background of the Invention:Infectious diseases which once decimated entire popu-lations are now largely controlled by modern drugs and sanitation methods. One virus, however, has remained elusive to medical science, and is infecting the human population in epidemic proportions. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the etiologic agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), once generally regarded as a malady of homosexuals and intravenous drug abusers, has become a threat to all strata of society. In most instances, this virus leads to AIDS, and eventually death. Prior to the present invention, there was no known cure, nor were there any effective treatments for controlling the virus without causing unwanted side effects. Some scientists believe that HIV may have been introduced into the human population through use of polio vaccines made from the tissue of infectious African green monkeys, many of which have been discovered to be infected with a retrovirus related to HIV. The rapid spread of this disease, however, is generally believed to be transmitted through infected blood and blood products, and through sexual contact. Drug abusers sharing used intravenous needles, persons receiving blood transfusions, and homosexuals and heterosexuals engaging in "unsafe" sexual contact are particularly vulnerable. Intense efforts are being made to reduce the infectious risk of human blood products, and to control the spread of the virus among the human population.Most efforts have been directed toward the development of drugs for controlling or killing the virus, but unlike most viruses, HIV becomes part of the genetic code of the cell. In order to kill the virus, it is necessary to destroy theSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

cell. Moreover, the virus changes from individual to individual, and even within one person it can mutate in a matter of hours. This makes it virtually impossible to develop a drug specific to the virus, although some drugs, such as AZT, have shown promising results in neutralizing the virus. Unfortunately, AZT also produces serious side effects in many people because of its toxicity, and its use is therefore limited.Because of these
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 C L A I M S
1 . An apparatus for the treatment of blood, blood products and other materials to inactivate infectious organisms such as viruses, bacteria and the like in the blood or other material, comprising: a source of gaseous ozone mixture; a gas-liquid contact apparatus connected with the source of gaseous ozone mixture and with a supply of the material to be treated, said gas-liquid contact apparatus comprising an elongate tube having first and second ends, with an inlet for the ozone gas mixture in the first end, an outlet for the gaseous ozone mixture in the second end, an inlet in the second end for the material to be treated, and an outlet in the first end for the material to be treated; means for introducing the gaseous ozone mixture and material to be treated to their respective inlets of the gas-liquid contact apparatus and for effecting gravity flow of the material to be treated from the second end to the first end of the tube, while the gaseous ozone mixture is flowing from the first end to the second end of the tube in counter-current relationship to the flow of material to be treated and in contact therewith; means for controlling the rate of flow of material to be treated; and means for controlling the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone mixture, whereby the material to be treated is contacted with a predetermined concentration of ozone for a predetermined time interval to inactivate infectious organisms but not to adversely affect the normal biologic activity of the material.
2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone mixture is no more than about 27 μg/ml.
3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: the means for introducing and controlling the rate of flow of the gaseous ozone mixture and material to be treated in the gas-liquid contact tube are operable to effect a time of contact between the gaseous ozone mixture and the material being treated of only about 1 6 seconds.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: the surface pressure of the gaseous ozone mixture in the gas-liquid contact tube is no more than about 2.2 psig.
5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: the source of gaseous ozone mixture is an ozone generator which produces ozone from medically pure oxygen by electric corona arc discharge; and means is operatively associated with said ozone generator to impose a resonant frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the ozone molecules.
6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: means is operatively associated with the gaseous oxone mixture supplied to the gas-liquid contact tube for imposing a resonant frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the gaseous ozone mixture.
7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein: the ozone generator comprises an elongate inner tube of non-conductive inert material, and an elongate outer tube of non-conductive inert material in concentric, radially outwardly spaced relationship to the inner tube, said tubes being connected and sealed at their adjacent ends to form an annular chamber; an inlet for medically pure oxygen at one end of the chamber, said inlet connected with a source of medically pure oxygen, and an outlet for ozone- oxygen mixture at the other end of the chamber; electrically conductive means disposed on the outside of the outer tube and on the inside of the inner tube, said electrically conductive means being connected with electrical circuit means to produce an electric corona arc discharge in the chamber to produce ozone from the oxygen supplied to the chamber; and flow control means connected with the source of oxygen to regulate the flow of oxygen supplied to the chamber to regulate the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone mixture produced in the chamber.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: means is operatively associated with the gaseous oxone mixture supplied to the gas-liquid contact tube for imposing a resonant frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the gaseous ozone mixture, said means comprising coil means disposed around the path of the gaseous ozone mixture prior to it entering the chamber, a steady state electric power source, and frequency generator means connected with the power source and with the coil means for inducing a frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the coil means and thus on the gaseous ozone mixture passing therethrough.
9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein: the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone mixture is no more than about 27 μg/ml.
10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein: the means for introducing and controlling the rate of flow of the gaseous ozone mixture and material to be treated in the gas-iiquid contact tube are operable to effect a time of contact between the gaseous ozone mixture and the material being treated of only about 1 6 seconds.
1 1 . An apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein: the surface pressure of the gaseous ozone mixture in the gas-liquid contact tube is no more than about 2.2 psig.
1 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 1 , wherein: the source of gaseous ozone mixture is an ozone generator which produces ozone from medically pure oxygen by electric corona arc discharge.
1 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 2, wherein: the ozone generator comprises an elongate inner tube of non-conductive inert material, and an elongate outer tube of non-conductive inert material in concentric, radially outwardly spaced relationship to the inner tube, said tubes being connected and sealed at their adjacent ends to form an annular chamber;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 an inlet for medically pure oxygen at one end of the chamber, said inlet connected with a source of medically pure oxygen, and an outlet for ozone- oxygen mixture at the other end of the chamber; electrically conductive means disposed on the outside of the outer tube and on the inside of the inner tube, said electrically conductive means being connected with electrical circuit means to produce an electric corona arc discharge in the chamber to produce ozone from the oxygen supplied to the chamber; and flow control means connected with the source of oxygen to regulate the flow of oxygen supplied to the chamber to regulate the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone mixture produced in the chamber.
14. An ozone generator for producing ozone gas from medically pure oxygen, comprising: an elongate inner tube of non-conductive inert material, and an elongate outer tube of non-conductive inert material in concentric, radially outwardly spaced relationship to the inner tube, said tubes being connected and sealed at their adjacent ends to form an annular chamber; an inlet for medically pure oxygen at one end of the chamber, said inlet connected with a source of medically pure oxygen, and an outlet for ozone- oxygen mixture at the other end of the chamber; electrically conductive means disposed on the outside of the outer tube and on the inside of the inner tube, said electrically conductive means being connected with electrical circuit means to produce an electric corona arc discharge in the chamber to produce ozone from the oxygen supplied to the chamber; and flow control means connected with the source of oxygen to regulate the flow of oxygen supplied to the chamber to regulate the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone mixture produced in the chamber.
1 5. An ozone generator as claimed in claim 14, wherein: means is operatively associated with the gaseous oxone mixture supplied from the ozone generator for imposing a resonant frequency of about 7.83 Hz
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


on the gaseous ozone mixture, said means comprising coil means disposed around the path of the gaseous ozone mixture as it leaves the ozone generator, a steady state electric power source, and frequency generator means connected with the power source and with the coil means for inducing a frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the coil means and thus on the gaseous ozone mixture passing therethrough.
1 6. A gas-liquid contact apparatus for contacting blood, blood products and other liquid materials with a gaseous ozone-oxygen mixture to inactivate infectious organisms in the blood or other material without adversely affecting normal metabolic functions of the material, comprising: an elongate tube of inert material such as glass or the like, said tube having first and second ends; an inlet in the first end and an outlet in the second end for the gaseous ozone-oxygen mixture; an inlet in the second end and an outlet in the first end for the blood or other material to be treated; means for introducing blood or other material at a predetermined flow rate into the inlet in the second end; means supporting said tube at an angle of inclination with respect to horizontal to effect a thin film, gravity flow through the tube of said blood or other material; and means for introducing an oxone-oxygen mixture into the inlet in the first end at a controlled, predetermined ozone concentration and causing it to flow through the tube in counter-current, contacting relationship with the blood or other material.
1 7. A gas-liquid contact apparatus as claimed in claim 1 6, wherein: the tube has a generally circular transverse cross-sectional shape and in use has a bottom side; said bottom side being formed with a plurality of indentations or undulations extending along the length of the tube to cause blood or other material to cascade or tumble as it flows through the tube, thereby exposing
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


essentially all of the material to the ozone-oxygen mixture flowing in counter- current relationship thereto.
1 8. A gas-liquid contact apparatus as claimed in claim 1 7, wherein: the means supporting said tube is adjustable to vary the angle of inclination of the tube for thereby varying the flow rate of the blood or other material flowing therethrough.
1 9. An apparatus for the treatment of blood, blood products and other materials to inactivate infectious organisms such as viruses, bacteria and the like in the blood or other material, comprising: an ozone generator for generating a gaseous ozone-oxygen mixture, said ozone generator having an elongate inner tube of non-conductive inert material, and an elongate outer tube of non-conductive inert material in concentric, radially outwardly spaced relationship to the inner tube, said tubes being connected and sealed at their adjacent ends to form an annular chamber; an inlet for medically pure oxygen at one end of the chamber, said inlet connected with a source of medically pure oxygen, and an outlet for ozone- oxygen mixture at the other end of the chamber; electrically conductive means disposed on a radially outer surface of the outer tube and on a radially inner surface of the inner tube, said electrically conductive means being connected with electrical circuit means to produce an electric corona arc discharge in the chamber to produce ozone from the oxygen supplied to the chamber; and flow control means connected with the source of oxygen to regulate the flow of oxygen supplied to the chamber to regulate the concentration of ozone in the gaseous ozone-oxygen mixture produced in the chamber; a gas-liquid contact apparatus connected with the ozone generator to receive the ozone-oxygen mixture produced therein, and connected with a supply of the material to be treated, said gas-liquid contact apparatus having an inlet and an outlet for the ozone-oxygen mixture, and an inlet and an outlet for the material to be treated, said inlets and outlets being arranged for counter-current,
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


contacting flow of the ozone-oxygen mixture and the material to be treated as they pass through the gas-liquid contact apparatus; and means for controlling the rate of flow of material to be treated as it passes through the gas-liquid contact apparatus, whereby the material to be treated is contacted with a predetermined concentration of ozone for a predetermined time interval to inactivate infectious organisms but not to adversely affect the normal biologic activity of the material.
20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 9, wherein: means is operatively associated with the ozone-oxygen mixture supplied from the ozone generator for imposing a resonant frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the ozone-oxygen mixture, said means comprising coil means disposed around the path of the ozone-oxygen mixture as it leaves the ozone generator, a steady state electric power source, and frequency generator means connected with the power source and with the coil means for inducing a frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the coil means and thus on the ozone-oxygen mixture passing therethrough.
21 . An apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein: the gas-liquid contact apparatus comprises an elongate tube of inert material such as glass or the like, said tube having first and second ends; an inlet in the first end and an outlet in the second end for the ozone- oxygen mixture; an inlet in the second end and an outlet in the first end for the blood or other material to be treated; means for introducing blood or other material at a predetermined flow rate into the inlet in the second end; means supporting said tube at an angle of inclination with respect to horizontal to effect a thin film, gravity flow through the tube of said blood or other material; and means for introducing an ozone-oxygen mixture into the inlet in the first end at a controlled, predetermined ozone concentration and causing it to flow through the tube in counter-current, contacting relationship with the blood or other material.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 21 , wherein: the tube has a generally circular transverse cross-sectional shape and in use has a bottom side; said bottom side being formed with a plurality of indentations or undulations extending along the length of the tube to cause blood or other material to cascade or tumble as it flows through the tube, thereby exposing essentially all of the material to the ozone-oxygen mixture flowing in counter- current relationship thereto.
23. A gas-liquid contact apparatus as claimed in claim 22, wherein: the means supporting said tube is adjustable to vary the angle of inclination of the tube for thereby varying the flow rate of the blood or other material flowing therethrough.
24. A method of inactivating the human immunodeficiency virus in proteinaceous material such as blood and blood products and the like without adversely affecting the normal physiological activity of the material, by contacting the material for a short time interval with an ozone-oxygen mixture having a low concentration of ozone, comprising the steps of: generating ozone from medically pure oxygen by electric corona arc discharge in an ozone generator to produce an ozone-oxygen mixture; controlling the concentration of ozone in the mixture to no more than about 27 μg/ml by regulating the flow of oxygen to the ozone generator; causing gravity flow in a thin film of the proteinaceous material through a gas-liquid contact apparatus; controlling the flow rate of the proteinaceous material so that it passes through the gas-liquid contact apparatus in about 1 6 seconds; and causing the ozone-oxygen mixture to flow through the gas-liquid contact apparatus in contacting, counter-current relationship to the proteinaceous material so that essentially all of the material is contacted with the ozone-oxygen mixture.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 25. A method as claimed in claim 24, including the step of: causing the proteinaceous material to tumble or cascade as it passes through the gas-liquid contact apparatus to insure exposure of essentially all of the material to the ozone-oxygen mixture as the material and mixture pass through the gas-liquid contact apparatus.
26. A method as claimed in claim 25, including the step of: imposing a resonant frequency of about 7.83 Hz on the ozone-oxygen mixture prior to passing it through the gas-liquid contact apparatus.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
