<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642315</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TWO STAGE COFFEE PLUNGER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3120	A47J3106	A47J3100	A47J3106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J31	A47J31	A47J31	A47J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a two stage coffee plunger comprising a conventional plunger assembly (2) incorporating filter element (6), and additionally comprising a baffle (20) adapted to be axially moved independently of the plunger assembly (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERSTEN IAN J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERSTEN, IAN JEFFREY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERSTEN IAN JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERSTEN, IAN JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for brewing 
coffee and more particularly to an improved plunger 
filter apparatus. A typical plunger filter apparatus of the kind 
under discussion comprises a vessel and a plunger 
assembly including a filter element. The vessel is 
usually of glass having a cylindrical side wall and a 
bottom wall. The plunger assembly comprises a perforated 
disc, a filter element, a spider plate and a plunger 
shaft. The perforated disc is adapted at its periphery 
to slidably and sealingly engage the cylindrical side 
wall of the vessel and acts as a support for the filter 
element. The filter element is for example a mesh which  
 
is clamped between the disc and the spider plate and is 
of a mesh size which permits passage of liquid but 
substantially prevents passage of coffee grounds. The 
spider plate has an inner ring, an outer ring and for 
example three legs extending between the rings and acts 
as an upper retaining member for the filter element so 
that in use the filter is not excessively distorted or 
weakened. The shaft extends axially from outside the 
vessel successively through apertures in the lid, spider 
plate, filter element and threadably engages a boss of 
the perforated supporting disc. As the shaft is screwed 
into the boss, a shoulder of the shaft exerts a clamping 
force on the filter element between the upper spider 
plate and lower perforated disk. In normal use, with the lid and plunger filter 
removed, ground coffee is first spooned into the vessel, 
boiling water is then added, and the plunger assembly is 
next inserted into the vessel with the filter element 
above the contents and the lid closing the vessel. 
Alternatively, the water is boiled in the glass vessel 
and then coffee added. The apparatus is then allowed to 
stand while the coffee brews. When the coffee is 
sufficiently brewed the plunger shaft is depressed 
pushing the filter mesh through the liquid whereby 
filtered liquid passes to the upper side of the filter 
and coffee grounds are pushed towards the bottom wall of 
the vessel. Filtered coffee can then be poured from the  
 
vessel via a lip, the coffee grounds remaining trapped 
between the filter element and the vessel bottom wall. Apparatus of that kind is available in various 
forms. The filter element may be a plastic or wire mesh 
or finely perforated metal plate or the like. The 
plunger parts are usually adapted for easy disassembly 
for cleaning and reassembly and may be made in a variety 
of materials and shapes. An
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A two stage coffee plunger comprising a plunger 
filter (2) of the kind including a filter element (6) and adapted 

to filter coffee by means of 
the filter element (6) in use, hand driven through a liquid 

contained in a vessel (1) towards a bottom wall (4) of the 
vessel (1), and a baffle (20) adapted for movement 

independently of the filter element (6) between the filter element 
(6) and the vessel bottom (4), 
characterized in 
that
 said baffle (20) is adapted to be moved in use between the 
filter element 

and the vessel bottom (4) and is provided with passage means 
(21) for coffee grounds and liquid, said passage means 

allowing for the coffee grounds to be dispersed throughout 
the liquid. 
Coffee plunger according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said passage means (21) consists of a plurality of 

perforated apertures, or a plurality of apertures in the 
form of radial walls, or radially extending vanes. 
Coffee plunger according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the plunger filter (2) is adapted to be driven 

through the liquid by a substantially vertical plunger 
filter shaft (16) and the baffle (20) is adapted to be moved 

between the filter element (6) and the vessel bottom (4) by 
a substantially vertical baffle shaft (22). 
Coffee plunger according to claim 3, characterized 
in that selectively releasable retaining means (24, 25, 26) 

are disposed intermediate the plunger filter shaft (16) and 
baffle shaft (22) to axially locate the baffle (20) with 

respect to the plunger filter (2).  
 
Coffee plunger according to any of the claims 1 to 
4, characterized in that it is provided with a removable 

lid (8) and wherein the baffle (20) is fixed with respect to 
the lid (8) via a vertical baffle shaft (22). 
Coffee plunger according to claim 3, characterized 
in that one (16) of said shafts is hollow and coaxially 

mounted about the other shaft (22). 
Coffee plunger according to claims 4 or 6, 
characterized in that said retaining means comprises a 

substantially vertical slot (25) provided in the wall of 
said hollow shaft (16), and a projection (24) provided on 

said other shaft (22), said projection (24) being adapted to 
traverse the length of the slot (25) in response to shafts 

(16, 22) being axially displaced with respect to each other, 
the wall of said hollow shaft being further provided with a 

branch slot (26) in communication with said vertical slot 
(25), said branch slot (26) being adapted to receive said 

projection (24) and thereby axially fix said shafts (16, 22) 
with respect to each other . 
Coffee plunger according to claims 4 or 6, wherein 
said retaining means comprises an inwardly protruding 

projection disposed on said hollow shaft (16), said 

protrusion providing a point of reduced internal cross 
section in said hollow shaft (16), said other shaft (22) 

being provided with a cross section such that at a first 
rotational position about its axis said other shaft (22) 

interferes with said protrusion thereby preventing axial 
displacement of said other shaft (22) with respect to said 

hollow shaft (16) and at a second rotational position about 
its axis said other shaft (22) is free to be axially 

displaced with respect to said hollow shaft (16).  
 
Coffee plunger according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said baffle (20) is 

a circular disk provided with apertures (21). 
Coffee plunger according to claim 9, characterized 
in that the apertures (21) are adapted to swirl the liquid. 
Coffee plunger according to claim 2, characterized 
in that said vanes are adapted to swirl the liquid. 
A coffee brewing vessel (1) in combination with a 
two stage coffee plunger (2) as defined in any one of the 

preceding claims. 
A vessel having a tubular side wall (3) and a 
bottom wall (4), a plunger filter (2) comprising a filter 

element (6) which permits passage of liquid while 
substantially preventing passage of coffee grounds, a shaft 

(16) extending out of the vessel (1) and adapted to drive 
the filter element (6) from an upper part of the vessel (1) 

towards the bottom wall (4), a baffle (20) adapted for 
movement independently of the filter element (6), and means 

(22) operable from outside the vessel for moving the baffle 
(20) independently from the filter element (6), 


characterized in that
 said baffle (20) is moveable between 
said filter element (6) and said bottom wall (4) and is 

provided with passage means (21) for coffee grounds and 
liquid, said passage means allowing for the coffee grounds 

to be dispersed throughout the liquid. 
Use of a two stage coffee plunger as set forth in 
any of the claims 1 to 12 for brewing coffee, wherein the 

baffle is movable through the liquid so as to disperse the 
coffee grounds throughout the coffee. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
