<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640154</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ALCOHOL-BASED SPIN LIQUIDS FOR FLASH-SPINNING POLYMERIC PLEXIFILAMENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01D500	D01F604	D01F604	D01D511	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01D	D01F	D01F	D01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01D5	D01F6	D01F6	D01D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIN HYUNKOOK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIN, HYUNKOOK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention generally relates to 
flash-spinning polymeric film-fibril strands. More 
particularly, the invention concerns an improvement in 
such a process which permits flash-spinning of the 
strands from C1-4 alcohol based spin liquids which, if 
released to the atmosphere, would not detrimentally 
affect the earth's ozone layer. U.S. Patent 3,081,519 (Blades et al.) describes 
a flash-spinning process for producing plexifilamentary 
film-fibril strands from fiber-forming polymers. A 
solution of the polymer in a liquid, which is a 
non-solvent for the polymer at or below its normal 
boiling point, is extruded at a temperature above the 
normal boiling point of the liquid and at autogenous or 
higher pressure into a medium of lower temperature and 
substantially lower pressure. This flash-spinning 
causes the liquid to vaporize and thereby cool the 
exudate which forms a plexifilamentary film-fibril 
strand of the polymer. Preferred polymers include 
crystalline polyhydrocarbons such as polyethylene and 
polypropylene. According to Blades et al., in both U.S. Patent 
3,081,519 and U.S. Patent 3,227,784, a suitable liquid 
for the flash spinning desirably (a) has a boiling 
point that is at least 25°C below the melting point of 
the polymer; (b) is substantially unreactive with the 
polymer at the extrusion temperature; (c) should be a 
solvent for the polymer under the pressure and 
temperature set forth in the patent (i.e., these  
 
extrusion temperatures and pressures are respectively 
in the ranges of 165 to 225°C and 545 to 1490 psia); 
(d) should dissolve less than 1% of the polymer at or 
below its normal boiling point; and should form a 
solution that will undergo rapid phase separation upon 
extrusion to form a polymer phase that contains 
insufficient solvent to plasticize the polymer. 
Depending on the particular polymer employed, the 
following liquids are useful in the flash-spinning 
process: aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, 
toluene, etc.; aliphatic hydrocarbons such as butane, 
pentane, hexane, heptane, octane, and their isomers and 
homologs; alicyclic hydrocarbons such as cyclohexane; 
unsaturated hydrocarbons; halogenated hydrocarbons such 
as trichlorofluoromethane, methylene chloride, carbon 
tetrachloride, chloroform, ethyl chloride, methyl 
chloride; alcohols; esters; ethers; ketones; nitriles; 
amides; fluorocarbons; sulfur dioxide; carbon 
disulfide; nitromethane; water; and mixtures of the 
above liquids. The patents illustrate certain 
principles helpful in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for flash-spinning 
plexifilamentary film-fibril strands wherein a 

polyolefin is dissolved in a spin liquid to form a spin 
mixture containing 1 to 35 percent of polyolefin by 

weight of the spin mixture at a temperature in the range 
of 130 to 300°C and a 
mixing pressure that is greater 
than the autogeneous pressure of the spin mixture, which 

spin mixture is flash-spun into a region of 
substantially lower temperature and pressure, the 

improvement comprising the spin liquid comprising an 
alcohol spin liquid containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 
The process of Claim 1 further including a co-solvent 
mixed with the alcohol spin liquid wherein the co-solvent is capable 

of lowering the cloud-point pressure of the resulting spin mixture 
by at least 1380 kPa (200 psig) at the polyolefin concentration 

and the spin temperature and for flash-spinning, the co-solvent being 
a strong solvent for the polyolefin and present in an amount up 

to 50 percent by weight of the total spin liquid present. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the 
co-solvent spin liquid comprises a hydrocarbon having 

from 4 to 7 carbon atoms.  
 
The process of claim 3 wherein the 
hydrocarbon is selected from the group consisting of 

butane, pentane, hexane, cyclobutane, cyclopentane, 
cyclohexane, their isomers, and mixtures thereof. 
The process of Claim 1 further including a co-solvent 
mixed with the alcohol spin liquid wherein the co-solvent is capable 

of raising the cloud-point pressure of the resulting spin mixture 
by at least 1380 kPa (200 psig) at the polyolefin concentration 

and the spin temperature and for flash-spinning, the co-solvent 
being non-solvent for the polyolefin and present in an amount up 

to 50 percent by weight of the total spin liquid present. 
The process of claim 5 wherein the 
co-solvent spin liquid is selected from the group 

consisting of inert gases, water, polar solvents, 
perfluorinated hydrocarbons, hydrofluorocarbons, 

hydrochlrofluorocarbons, and mixtures thereof. 
The process of claim 6 wherein the inert gas 
is selected from the group consisting of nitrogen and 

carbon dioxide. 
The process of claim 6 wherein the polar 
solvent is selected from the group consisting of ketones 

and ethers. 
The process of any of claims 1-8 wherein the 
alcohol spin liquid is selected from the group  

 
consisting of methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, 

tertiary butanol and mixtures thereof. 
The process of any of claims 1-9 wherein 
the polyolefin is selected from the group consisting of 

polyethylene, polypropylene and polymethylpentene. 
The process of any of claims 1-10 wherein 
the mixing pressure is greater than the cloud-point 

pressure of the spin mixture. 
A process for flash-spinning 
plexifilamentary film-fibril strands wherein 

polyethylene is dissolved in a spin liquid to form a 
spin mixture containing 1 to 35 percent polyethylene by 

weight of the spin mixture at a temperature in the range 
of 130 to 300°C and a mixing pressure that is greater 

than the autogeneous pressure of the spin mixture, which 
spin mixture is flash-spun into a region of 

substantially lower temperature and pressure, the 
improvement comprising the spin liquid selected from the 

group consisting of 1-propanol, 2-propanol and mixtures 
thereof. 
A process for flash-spinning 
plexifilamentary film-fibril strands wherein 

polypropylene is dissolved in a spin liquid to form a 
spin mixture containing 1 to 35 percent polypropylene by 

weight of the spin mixture at a temperature in the range 
of 130 to 300°C and a mixing pressure that is greater 

than the autogeneous pressure of the spin mixture, which 
spin mixture is flash-spun into a region of 

substantially lower temperature and pressure, the 
improvement comprising the spin liquid being selected 

from the group consisting of ethanol, 1-propanol, 
2-propanol and mixtures thereof. 
A spin mixture for forming flash-spun 
plexifilamentary film-fibril strands comprising 1 to 35 

weight percent of a fiber-forming polyolefin and 65 to 
99 weight percent of a spin liquid, the spin liquid  

 
comprising an alcohol spin liquid selected from the 

group consisting of methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, 
2-propanol, tertiary butanol and mixtures thereof. 
A spin mixture of Claim 14 comprising no more than 
50 weight percent of a co-solvent spin liquid comprising a hydrocarbon 

containing 4 to 7 carbon atoms. 
The spin mixture of claim 15 wherein the 
hydrocarbon is selected from the group consisting of 

butane, pentane, hexane, cyclobutane, cyclopentane, 
cyclohexane, their isomers, and mixtures thereof. 
A spin mixture of Claim 14 , the spin liquid comprising 
no less than 50 weight percent of the alcohol and no more than 

50 weight percent of a co-solvent spin liquid selected from the 
group consisting of inert gases, water, polar solvents, 

perfluorinated hydrocarbons, hydrofluorocarbons, 
hydrochlorofluorocarbons, and mixtures thereof. 
The spin mixture of claim 17 wherein the 
inert gas is selected from the group consisting of 

nitrogen and carbon dioxide. 
The spin mixture of claim 17 wherein the 
polar solvent is selected from the group consisting of 

ketones and ethers. 
The spin mixture of any of claims 14-19 
wherein the fiber-forming polyolefin is selected from 

the group consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene and 
polymethylpentene. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
