<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621744</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Power supply circuit for a gas discharge lamp.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M748	H02M75387	H05B4124	H05B4124	H05B4128	H05B41282	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M7	H02M7	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power supply circuit for a gas discharge lamp is disclosed. The 
power supply circuit includes a circuit for providing a d.c. bus voltage on a bus 

conductor, and a resonant lamp circuit. The resonant lamp circuit includes a 
gas discharge lamp, a first resonant impedance in series with the gas discharge 

lamp, and a second resonant impedance substantially in parallel with the gas 
discharge lamp. The resonant load circuit operates at a resonant frequency 

determined by the values of the first and second resonant impedances. Further 
included is a series half-bridge converter for impressing across the resonant 

load circuit a bidirectional voltage, and thereby inducing a bidirectional current 
in the resonant load circuit. The converter comprises first and second switches 

that are serially connected between the bus conductor and a ground conductor, 
that have a common node coupled to a first end of the resonant load circuit and 

through which the bidirectional load current flows, and that have respective 
control terminals for controlling the conduction states of the switches. A circuit 

is provided for generating a feedback signal representing current in the second 
resonant impedance. Feedback circuitry, responsive to the feedback signal, 

provides respective control signals on the control terminals of the first and 
second switches. The feedback means controls the switching of the switches 

in such manner as to reduce a phase angle between the bidirectional voltage and 
the bidirectional current when the feedback signal increases, and vice-versa. 

Lamp power and lamp current are less subject to variation as the line voltage 
varies. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NERONE LOUIS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NERONE LOUIS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a power supply circuit for a gas 
discharge lamp, which is contained within a resonant load circuit supplied with 
bidirectional current through the operation of a pair of switches. More 
particularly, the invention relates to such a power supply circuit wherein control 
signals for the mentioned pair of switches are produced by feedback circuitry 
that is responsive to a feedback signal representing a current in the resonant 
load circuit. A gas discharge lamp, such as a fluorescent lamp, typically utilizes a 
power supply circuit to convert an a.c. line voltage to a high frequency 
bidirectional voltage which is impressed across a resonant load circuit 
containing the gas discharge lamp. The resonant load circuit includes a 
resonant inductor and a resonant capacitor for determining the frequency of 
resonance of current in the resonant load circuit. The power supply circuit 
includes a series half-bridge converter having a pair of switches that alternately 
connect one end of the resonant load circuit to a d.c. bus voltage and then to 
a ground, thereby impressing the mentioned bidirectional voltage across the 
resonant load circuit. A previously proposed power supply circuit of the 
foregoing type is disclosed in EP-A-0 534 727 which is 
herein incorporated by reference. The disclosed power 
supply circuit utilizes feedback circuitry for 
controlling the mentioned pair of switches of the 
series half-bridge converter. The feedback circuitry 
operates in response to a feedback signal representing 
a current in the resonant load circuit.  By relying on feedback circuitry to control the switches, the power 
supply circuit of the foregoing patent application avoids the expense and bulk 
of extra circuitry for switch control. However, it would be desirable to reduce 
the level of variations in lamp power and lamp current that occur due to 
variations, for instance, in the line voltage. A gas discharge lamp such as a low pressure fluorescent lamp, and the 
power supply or ballast circuit arrangement as it is more commonly known, are 
presently being offered on a wide scale commercial basis in a configuration that 
lends itself to being a viable energy efficient long life replacement for a 
conventional incandescent lamp. Compact fluorescent lamps as they are 
commonly known utilize a compact, typically multiple axis discharge vessel 
containing a gas fill which includes a mixture of mercury and a rare gas such 
as krypton or argon. The ballast circuit is contained in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power supply circuit for a gas discharge lamp, comprising: 

(a) means for providing a d.c. bus voltage on a bus conductor; 
(b) a resonant load circuit including a gas discharge lamp, a first 
resonant impedance in series with said gas discharge lamp, and a second 

resonant impedance substantially in parallel with said gas discharge lamp; said 
resonant load circuit operating at a resonant frequency determined by the values 

of said first and second resonant impedances; 
(c) a series half-bridge converter for impressing across said resonant 
load circuit a bidirectional voltage, and thereby inducing a bidirectional current 

in said resonant load circuit; said converter comprising first and second 
switches serially connected between said bus conductor and a ground conductor, 

having a common node coupled to a first end of said resonant load circuit and 
through which said bidirectional load current flows, and having respective 

control terminals for controlling the conduction states of said switches; 
(d) means for generating a feedback signal as a function of at least 
a portion of the current in said resonant load circuit; and 
(e) feedback means, responsive to said feedback signal, for providing 
respective control signals on said control terminals of said first and second 

switches; said feedback means being effective for controlling the switching of 
said switches in such manner as to reduce a phase angle between said 

bidirectional voltage and said bidirectional current when said feedback signal 
increases, and vice-versa. 
The power supply circuit of claim 1, wherein said first and second 
resonant impedances respectively comprise a resonant inductance and a resonant 

capacitance. 
The power supply circuit of claim 1 wherein said generating means 

 
generates said feedback signal as a function of the current in said second 

resonant impedance. 
The power supply circuit of claim 1, wherein said series half-bridge 
converter further comprises means for maintaining a second end of said 

resonant load circuit at approximately half the d.c. bus voltage. 
The power supply circuit of claim 4, wherein said means for 
maintaining a second end of said resonant load circuit at approximately half the 

d.c. bus voltage comprises a pair of capacitors serially connected between said 
bus and ground conductors and having a common node coupled to said second 

end of said resonant load circuit. 
The power supply circuit of claim 3, wherein said means for 
generating said feedback current comprises a first inductor winding serially 

connected to said second resonant impedance, with said gas discharge lamp 
connected substantially in parallel with the series combination of said second 

resonant impedance and said first inductor winding. 
The power supply circuit of claim 6, wherein said means for 
generating said feedback signal further comprises a second inductor winding 

mutually coupled to said first inductor winding and being coupled to one of said 
switch control terminals. 
The power supply circuit of claim 7, wherein said feedback means 
further comprises a pair of back-to-back zener diodes shunted across said 

second inductor winding. 
The power supply circuit of claim 7, wherein said means for 
generating said feedback signal further comprises a third inductor winding 

 
mutually coupled to said first inductor winding, with opposite polarity from said 

second inductor winding, and being coupled to another of said switch control 
terminals. 
The power supply circuit of claim 1, wherein said gas discharge 
lamp comprises a fluorescent lamp. 
The power supply circuit of claim 1, further comprising means for 
generating a speed-up signal for increasing the speed of switching of said 

switches. 
The power supply circuit of claim 11, wherein said means for 
generating a speed-up signal comprises: 


(a) a speed-up circuit shunting said resonant load circuit and having 
current means to induce therein a current representing current in said second 

resonant impedance; 
(b) a capacitor serially connected to said current means and having 
an impedance selected to create a speed-up pulse; and 
(c) means for coupling said speed-up pulse to said feedback means. 
The power supply circuit of claim 1 wherein said first and second 
resonant impedances respectively comprise a resonant capacitance and a 

resonant inductance and wherein said generating means generates said feedback 
signal as a function of the current in said second resonant impedance. 
A gas discharge lamp and ballast circuit arrangement operable using 
line power and comprising: 

   means for conditioning said line power to a d.c. voltage made 
available over a d.c. bus conductor; 

   a resonant load circuit including a first resonant impedance and a 
 

second resonant impedance one of which is in series with a lamp load 
representing an impedance associated with the gas discharge lamp , said 

resonant load circuit operating at a resonant frequency determined by the values 
of said first and second resonant impedances; 

   a converter circuit electrically coupled to said resonant load circuit 
so as to impress a bi-directional voltage thereacross and thereby induce a 

bi-directional current in said resonant load circuit, said converter circuit 
including first and second switches serially connected between said bus 

conductor and ground and having a common node coupled to a first end of said 
resonant load circuit and through which said bi-directional load current flows; 

   means for generating a feedback signal representative of at least a 
portion of the current flowing in said resonant load circuit; 

   control means responsive to said feedback signal and effective for 
controlling said first and second switches so as to reduce a phase angle between 

said bi-directional voltage and said bi-directional current; and 
   means for generating a speed up signal for increasing the speed of 

switching of said switches. 
The gas discharge lamp and ballast circuit arrangement of claim 14 
wherein said gas discharge lamp is an electroded, low pressure fluorescent 

lamp. 
The gas discharge lamp and ballast circuit arrangement of claim 14 
wherein said gas discharge lamp is an electrodeless fluorescent lamp. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
