<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653845</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for synchronising the boadcast frequency of two base stations
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B726	H04B726	G04G700	H04Q736	H03L700	H03L700	H04Q736	G04G700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	G04G	H04Q	H03L	H03L	H04Q	G04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	G04G7	H04Q7	H03L7	H03L7	H04Q7	G04G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention involves a device for synchronizing the broadcast 
frequency of a base station (31) and a microcell (30) linked together by a metallic 

medium (5). The device comprises a base transmitter (4) which transmits a base 
time-of-day signal to a microcell comparer (11), and a microcell clock (14) which 

sends a microcell time-of-day signal to the microcell comparer (11). A microcell 
oscillator (12) provides the microcell clock (14) with a reference frequency. The 

microcell comparer (11) calculates a time difference which represents a time 
difference between the base time-of-day signal and the microcell time-of-day signal. 

The microcell comparer then outputs a correction signal to a digital controller (13). 
The digital controller adjusts the microcell oscillator (12) according to the correction 

signal. The present invention also involves a method for using the aforementioned 
device to synchronize the base oscillator (1) and the microcell oscillator (12). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VELLA-COLEIRO GEORGE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VELLA-COLEIRO, GEORGE P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to devices and methods for
synchronizing the broadcast frequency of a base station
and a microcell. Such synchronization facilitates
simulcasting of radio frequency channels.A method of synchronizing clocks is taught in the
prior art in J. Levine et al., "The NIST Automated
Computer Time Service," Journal of Research of the
National Institute of Standards and Technology Vol. 94,
Number 5, p. 311 (Sept.-Oct. 1989). In that article, the
authors explain the Automatic Computer Time Service
(ACTS) which is a telephone time service designed to
provide users with telephone access to time generated by
the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST).The article cites the principle limitation of time
dissemination as being the uncertainty in the velocity of
the propagation of the information through the medium
separating the transmitter and the receiver. The delay,
typically in the order of milliseconds, depends upon the
physical length of the path and on the group velocity of
the signal. Generally, neither of these parameters is
known. Consequently, to achieve the highest degree of
synchronization, real time measurements of the transit
time must be taken.The delay can be determined by measuring the time
duration between transmitting a pulse to the user and 
receiving an echoed pulse. Half of this round trip delay
is the time required for the signal to reach the user
assuming that the communication medium is reciprocal.
Although the article states that empirical evidence
indicates reciprocity in telephone paths, it also
maintains that the lack of perfect reciprocity may prove
to be the ultimate limitation in the system.To achieve this millisecond synchronization of
computers, the NIST has developed a simple telephone
system for the automated setting of clocks in digital
systems. NIST has developed software to facilitate
automatic dialing, selecting a time zone, selecting a
mode of operation, echoing the on-time marker (OTM),
setting of the computer clock, archiving of clock offset,
and transmitting a signal to the parallel port of a
computer, which can be used to produce an external time
pulse coincident with the OTM. Additionally, the article
provides diagrams of simple circuits to convert-the
signal sent to the printer port to a positive pulse. The
article also details a circuit that echoes all characters
from the user and provides an external pulse when the OTM
is received. This circuit requires a modem but does not
require a computer.The article basically focuses on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for synchronizing the broadcast frequency of a base station
(31) and a microcell (30) linked together by a metallic medium, comprising a base

transmitter (4) for transmitting a base time-of-day signal to a microcell comparer (11); a
microcell clock (14) for generating a microcell time-of-day signal, and sending the

microcell time-of-day signal to a microcell comparer (11); and a microcell oscillator
(12) for providing said microcell clock (14) with a microcell reference frequency, said

device being characterized in that:

(a) the microcell comparer (11) serves to calculate a time difference
between the base time-of-day signal and the microcell time-of-day signal and to provide

a correction signal based on the time difference to a digital controller (13);
(b) the digital controller (13) serves to adjust said microcell oscillator
(12) according to the correction signal; and there is provided
(c) an automatic compensating circuit (33) comprising:

(i) a microcell transponder (6) for receiving a pulse from said
base transmitter (4) and echoing said pulse back to a base receiver (7); wherein
(ii) the base receiver (7) serves to receive the echoed pulse from
said microcell transponder (6), and sends a return signal to a delay processor (8);
(iii) The delay processor (8) serves to calculate a time duration
between the pulse transmitted by said base transmitter (4) and the return signal, to

divide the time duration in half to arrive at a transmission delay, to generate a delay
signal proportional to the transmission delay, and to send the delay signal to a delay

adjuster (9); and
(iv) the delay adjuster (9) serves to advance the base time-of-day
signal to compensate for said transmission delay before said base transmitter (4)

transmits the base time-of-day signal to said microcell comparer (11), wherein the
automatic compensating circuit (33) compensates for said transmission delay by

establishing a first closed loop feedback path between the microcell (30) and the base
station (31) via the base transmitter (4), the microcell transpon
der (6), the base receiver
(7), the delay processor (8) and the delay adjuster (9), and a second closed loop 

feedback path via the base transmitter (4), the delay processor (8) and the delay adjuster
(9), the second closed loop feedback path being contained within the first closed loop

feedback path.
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the correction signal is
proportional to a change in the time difference, and said digital controller (13) serves to

adjust said microcell oscillator (12) to maintain a constant time difference.
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said digital controller (13)
comprises circuitry to periodically reset said microcell clock (14) to match the base

time-of-day signal by compensating for the time difference.
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the correction signal is
proportional to the time difference, and said digital controller (13) serves to adjust said

microcell oscillator (12) to reduce the time difference to zero.
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said digital controller (13)
comprises circuitry to reset said microcell clock (14) in the event of a power failure.
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said digital controller (13)
comprises circuitry to periodically reset said microcell clock (14) to match the base

time-of-day signal as modified by said delay adjuster (9).
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said microcell oscillator (12)
comprises a crystal type oscillator.
A device as claimed in claim 1 comprising:

a base oscillator (1) for providing a base reference frequency to both a
base clock (2) and a base RF carrier synthesizer (17); wherein
the base clock (2) serves to receive the base reference frequency from
said base oscillator (1) and to provide the base time-of-day signal to said base

transmitter (4); and
the base RF carrier synthesizer (17) serves to receive the base reference
frequency from said base oscillator (1) and to provide a base broadcasting signal to a

base broadcaster (3).
A device as claimed in claim 8 wherein said base oscillator (1)
comprises a high stability, rubidium type oscillator.
A method for synchronizing the broadcast frequency of a base
station (31) and a microcell (30) linked together by a metallic medium, comprising the

steps of transmitting a base time-of-day signal generated by a base oscillator (1) to a 
microcell comparer (11) by a base transmitter (4); sending a microcell time-of-day

signal generated by a microcell oscillator (12) to said microcell comparer (11); and
calculating a time difference of the base time-of-day signal with the microcell time-of-day

signal via said microcell comparer (11), said method being characterized by the
steps of:


(a) sending a correction signal from said microcell comparer (11) to a
digital controller (13), said correction signal corresponding to a change in the time

difference;
(b) adjusting said microcell oscillator (12) via a digital controller (13) to
maintain a constant time difference; and
(c) automatically compensating via an automatic compensating circuit
(33) comprising:


(i) a microcell transponder (6) for receiving a pulse from said
base transmitter (4) and echoing said pulse back to a base receiver (7); wherein
(ii) the base receiver (7) receives the echoed pulse from said
microcell transponder (6), and sends a return signal to a delay processor (8);
(iii) the delay processor (8) calculates a time duration between
the pulse and the return signal, divides the time duration in half to arrive at a

transmission delay, generates a delay signal proportional to the transmission delay, and
sends the delay signal to a delay adjuster (9); and,
(iv) the delay adjuster (9) advances the base time-of-day signal to
compensate for said transmission delay before said base transmitter (4) transmits the

base time-of-day signal to said microcell comparer (11), wherein the automatic
compensating circuit (33) compensates for said transmission delay by establishing a

first closed loop feedback path between the microcell (30) and the base station (31) via
the base transmitter (4), the microcell transponder (6), the base receiver (7), the delay

processor (8) and the delay adjuster (9), and a second closed loop feedback path via the
base transmitter (4), the delay processor (8) and the delay adjuster (9), the second closed

loop feedback path being contained within the first closed loop feedback path.
A method as claimed in claim 10 comprising:

(d) resetting said microcell clock (14) via said digital controller (13) to
match the microcell time-of-day signal to the base time-of-day signal while

compensating for the time difference.
A method as claimed in claim 10 comprising:

(d) resetting said microcell clock (14) via said digital controller (13) in
the event of a power outage.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
