<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635204</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K100	A01J5017	A01K112	A01J500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01J	A01K	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K1	A01J5	A01K1	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a construction for automatically 
milking animals such as cows. The construction 

comprises a space where the animals are allowed to move about 
freely and, in addition, a number of resting boxes (6) which 

also serve as milking parlours, while the construction is 
also provided with a movable milking robot (14), by means of 

which the animals can be milked automatically. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a construction for
automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a
space where the animals are allowed to move about freely and
a movable milking robot.Such construction is known from DE-A-37 02 465.In a construction of the above type, the animals
are allowed to move about freely. In the event that the
animals are allowed to move about freely, a difficulty is
that the animals have to be lured to a milk box for being
milked.Especially in the beginning when the animals are
not used to a milking robot, the animals have difficulties in
finding the milk box.The objective of the invention is to obviate this
drawback or to reduce it for the greater part.Therefore, the construction according to the
invention comprises a number of resting boxes which also
serve as milking parlour, and the movable milking robot is
disposed relocatably to the resting boxes and is capable of
automatically milking an animal at choice, while the
construction furthermore comprises a detection device
suitable for deciding whether an animal to be milked is
standing or lying. Consequently, the animals are allowed to
move freely in the construction, whereas they can be milked
on the spot by the movable milking robot.In order to prevent the animal from moving away
from the milking robot during automatic milking, the conaccording 
to the invention comprises a positioning
construction which is designed such that it enables the
animal-to-be-milked to be arranged in the midst of the
positioning construction and that it obstructs any sideward
as well as any rearward movement of the animal.According to another feature of the invention, the
construction comprises a computer and process control system,
through which the milking robot is automatically moved to an
animal to be milked. According to the invention, in the
computer memory a record of the times when the animals have
been milked by the milking robot is kept up to date, while,
on account of these data and by means of the process computer,
the milking robot is automatically moved to an animal
milked by the milking robot the longest time ago. Thus it is
achieved that an animal belonging to the herd is not milked
twice within a short space of time, which would be bad for
the animal's health. In addition, it offers the advantage
that the milking robot can be put into service where necessary,
enabling a larger group of animals to be milked efficiently
than would be the case when the milking robot always
milks a random animal belonging to the dairy
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for automatically milking animals,
such as cows, comprising a space where the animals are

allowed to move about freely and a movable milking robot
(14), characterized in that the construction comprises a

number of resting boxes (6) which also serve as milking
parlour, and in that the moveable milking robot (14) is disposed

relocatably to the resting boxes and is capable of
automatically milking an animal at choice, while the

construction furthermore comprises a detection device
suitable for deciding whether an animal to be milked is

standing or lying.
A construction according to claim 1, characterized
in that it comprises a device suitable for forcing

automatically an animal-to-be-milked to get up.
A construction according to claim 2, characterized
in that a positioning construction (40) is designed such

that it enables the animal-to-be-milked to be arranged in the
midst of the positioning construction (40) and that it

obstructs any sideward as well as any rearward movement of
the animal.
A construction according to claim 2 or 3,
characterized in that the positioning construction (40)

comprises a tripod (43, 44) swivelable in a vertical plane.
A construction according to claim 4, characterized
in that the tripod (43, 44) is disposed relocatably near a

resting box (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

computer and process control system, through which the
milking robot (14) is automatically moved to an animal to be

milked.
A construction according to claim 6, characterized
in that the computer comp
rises a memory in which is kept up 
to date a record of the times when the animals have been

milked by the milking robot (14), such that, on account of these
data, the milking robot (14) is automatically moved to an

animal belonging to a herd and being the animal milked by the
milking robot (14) the longest time ago.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

transmitter (46) and receiver suitable for detecting the
presence of a cow in a box.
A construction according to claim 8, characterized
in that the transmitter (46) is mounted on a collar attached

to an animal.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

concentrates dispensing system (18), through which the
animals can be individually given concentrates, while there

are also provided signalling means which serve to draw the
attention of an animal to the supply of concentrates.
A construction according to claim 10, characterized
in that the concentrates dispensing system (18) and the

signalling means are placed near the resting boxes (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking robot

(14) is movable along a robot line (13) provided in a shed
(1).
A construction according to claim 12, characterized
in that the robot line (13) comprises a beam (15) mounted

above and near the front of the resting boxes (6).
A construction according to claim 12 or 13,
characterized in that the robot arm (14) is attached to the

beam (15) in such a way that, with respect to the robot line
(13), it is movable both in a horizontal plane and in a

vertical plane.
A construction according to any one of claims 12 to
14, characterized in that the robot arm comprises a robot

head (31) equipped with teat cups (32) and also comprises a
sensor (33) which enables to determine the positions of the

teats of an animal to be milked.
A construction according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that in the longitudinal

direction of the shed (1) two rows of resting boxes (6) are
provided, with these rows being at a certain distance from

each other and having a feeding passage in between them.
A construction according to claim 16, characterized
in that the two rows of resting boxes (6) are approachable by

at least one milking robot (14).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a manure

channel (7) for manure removal provided near the rear side of
the resting boxes.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that on the floor of the

shed (1) there is provided a cross conveyor (11) which serves
to carry off the manure to a manure channel (7)

at the rear of the resting boxes
and also a

longitudinal conveyor (8) which serves to carry off manure
from the manure channel (7) in one direction.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
