<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625384</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for forming extruded metal tubes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21C2302	B21C2318	B21K2100	B21K2114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21C	B21C	B21K	B21K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21C23	B21C23	B21K21	B21K21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for forming an extruded cylindrical 
closed-ended metal tube (18) having a flat end wall (22) and an 

integrally formed projection (24) on the end wall (22) includes a die 
(32) having a recess formed therein, the die (32) having a 

configuration which corresponds to the terminal end portion 
of the desired tube (18) and including a cavity (46) which corresponds 

to the desired projection (24). The apparatus further includes 
a punch (14) which is receivable in the die (32,34), and includes an end 

wall (56) having a peripheral portion (58) which extends angularly 
outwardly at an angle of between approximately 10째 and 20째 

relative to a plane which is perpendicular to the 
longitudinal axis of the die (32,34). The apparatus is operative by 

placing an extrudable metal disc (16) in the recess in the die (32,34) 
and advancing the punch (14) into the recess with sufficient 

force to extrude metal from the disc (16) into the cavity and 
also between the punch (14) and the die (32,34) to form the desired 

tube (18). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIRO PAC INTERNATIONAL LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIRO PAC INTERNATIONAL LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABBOTT JOE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABBOTT, JOE L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The instant invention relates to the formation of 
extruded metal containers and more particularly to a method 
and apparatus for forming an extruded metal tube having a 
substantially flat, closed, end wall and a projection which 
extends integrally from the end wall. It is generally recognized that it is possible to 
effectively extrude certain metals, such as aluminum, to 
form relatively thin-walled tubular elements and canisters 
for use in packaging various types of goods. In this 
regard, extruded tubular metal containers have been 
effectively utilized for a number of years for packaging 
various materials, including epoxies and other adhesives, 
toothpaste, and certain food products. Extruded metal tubes 
having slightly greater wall thicknesses have also been 
effectively utilized for containing and packaging various 
pressurized materials, including propane, butane, and 
various tear gasses. The most widely accepted technique for forming 
thin walled tubular members of the above type is to assemble 
a predetermined quantity of a solid extrudable metal in a 
die and to then apply a punch to the metal in the die with 
a sufficient force to liquify the metal so that it is 
extruded through the areas between the punch and the die. 
In this regard, a die utilized in an operation of this type 
generally comprises a pair of die elements which cooperate 
to define a substantially closed-ended cylindrical recess. 
The first of these die elements is generally adapted to 
define the substantially closed terminal end portions of the 
recess, and it may include a vent opening for venting gases  
 
which are generated during an extrusion operation. The 
second of these die elements is generally formed in a ring-like 
configuration and adapted to be received on the first 
die element so that it provides a tubular extension of the 
portions of the recess formed in the first die element. The 
punch of a punch and die assembly of this type is generally 
formed in a configuration which is complimentary to that of 
the recess but in a slightly smaller dimension than the 
recess. Accordingly, by assembling a quantity of an 
extrudable metal in the recess and then advancing the punch 
into the recess with an extremely high force, it is possible 
to liquify the extrudable metal. Further, since a liquified 
metal under extremely high pressure always follows a path of 
least resistance, it is possible to extrude the metal 
outwardly from the recess along the sides of the punch to 
form a thin-walled metal tube. While
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a cylindrical extruded metal tube 
having predetermined inner and outer dimensions and 

configurations and including a tubular side wall having a 
thickness, a closed end wall which is substantially. 

perpendicular to said side wall and a projection extending 
integrally outwardly from said end wall, said method 

comprising: 

a. assembling an extrudable metal disc in a recess 
in a female die, said recess having a side wall 

having a diameter and including a main portion 
having a configuration which is complementary to 

a portion of said tube which includes said closed 
end wall thereof and an adjacent portion of said 

tubular side wall thereof, said recess also 
including an outwardly vented cavity portion 

having a configuration which is complementary to 
said projection and being correspondingly 

positioned thereto; and 
b. applying a substantially cylindrical punch to 
said disc in said recess, said punch having a 

longitudinal axis and comprising a 
longitudinally extending side wall and an end 

face including a peripheral portion which is 
substantially symetrical about said axis, 

said peripheral portion extending outwardly 
relative to said axis and backwardly in a 

direction along the longitudinal extent of said 
punch at an angle of between 10o and 20o relative 

to a plane which is perpendicular to said axis, 
said peripheral portion merging with an outer rim 

 
portion which defines a maximum diameter of said 

punch, said maximum diameter being less than the 
diameter of said side wall of said recess by an 

amount equal to said thickness, said outer rim 
portion merging with said longitudinally 

extending side wall of said punch, said 
longitudinally extending side wall of said punch 

having a diameter which is less that said 
maximum diameter, said punch being applied to 

said disc with a force sufficient to extrude 
metal from said disc between said rim portion 

and said side wall of said recess in a 
longitudinal direction relative to said punch 

and to force metal from said disc into said 
cavity. 
In the method of claim 1, said end face of said 
punch including a center portion which intersects said axis 

in substantially perpendicular relation, said center portion 
extending outwardly to said peripheral portion. 
In the method of claim 1, said projection having 
an outwardly tapering generally triangular peripheral 

configuration and including a pair of spaced side faces. 
In the method of claim 1, said metal disc 
comprising an aluminum alloy disc. 
An extruded metal tube made by the method of 
claim 1. 
An apparatus for forming an extruded cylindrical 
metal tube, said tube having predetermined inner and outer 

dimensions and configurations and including a tubular side 
wall having a thickness, a closed end wall and a projection 

extending integrally from said end wall, said apparatus 
comprising: 


a. a female die having a recess therein, said 
recess having a configuration which is 

complementary to an outwardly facing portion of 
said tube which includes said closed end wall 

thereof and an adjacent portion of said tubular 
side wall thereof, said recess also including an 

outwardly vented cavity portion having a 
configuration which is complementary to said 

projection and being correspondingly positioned 
thereto; and 
b. a substantially cylindrical punch, said punch 
having a longitudinal axis and including a 

longitudinally extending side wall and an end 
face including a peripheral portion which is 

substantially symetrical about said axis, said 
peripheral portion extending outwardly relative 

to said axis and backwardly in a direction along 
the longitudinal extent of said punch at an 

angle of between 10째 and 20째 relative to a plane 
which is perpendicular to said axis, said 

peripheral portion merging with an outer rim 
portion which defines a maximum diameter of said 

punch, said maximum diameter being less than the 
diameter of said side wall of said recess by an 

amount equal to said thickness, said outer rim 
 

portion merging with said longitudinally 
extending side wall of said punch, said 

longitudinally extending side wall of said punch 
having a diameter which is less than said 

maximum diameter. 
In the apparatus of claim 6, said end face 
further including a center portion which intersects said 

axis in substantially perpendicular relation, said center 
portion extending outwardly to said peripheral portion. 
In the apparatus of claim 6, said projection 
having an outwardly tapering generally triangular 

configuration and including a pair of spaced side faces. 
In the apparatus of claim 8, said cavity being of 
generally triangular configuration and including an apex, 

said die including a vent passage extending outwardly from 
substantially the apex of said cavity. 
Apparatus for forming a metal container by extrusion 
comprising; a female die including a recess defined by side 

walls and an end wall and into which the metal to be extruded 
is placed, and a punch adapted to be movable into the die to 

extrude the metal into the shape defined between the punch 
and the die; said punch including a long
itudinally extending 
side wall and an end wall and characterised in that there is 

provided on the side wall of the punch an outwardly 
protruding rim. 
Apparatus according to Claim 10 characterised in that the 
clearance between the outwardly protruding rim and the walls 

of the female die determines the thickness of the walls of 
the container extruded. 
Apparatus according to Claims 10 or 11 characterised in 
that intermediate the outwardly protruding rim and the end 

wall of the punch there is an angled wall portion, said wall 
portion angled relative to a plane perpendicular to the 

longitudinal axis of the punch. 
Apparatus according to Claim 12 characterised in that the 
angled wall portion are disposed at an angle of between 10o 

and 20o to the longitudinal axis. 
Apparatus according to Claim 10 characterised in that the 
female die includes at least one cavity positioned in either 

of the side and/or end walls of the die. 
Apparatus according to Claim 14 characterised in that 
there is provided a vent hole in the cavity. 
Apparatus according to Claims 14 or 15 characterised in 
that the cavity has a generally tapered triangular 

configuration. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
