<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620844</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CULTURE MEDIA DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M100	C12M116	C12M100	C12M126	C12M300	C12Q106	C12M126	C12M300	C12Q114	C12Q106	C12Q114	C12M116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12M	C12Q	C12M	C12M	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	C12M1	C12M1	C12M1	C12M3	C12Q1	C12M1	C12M3	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRANDALL MICHAEL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMOS MARY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRANDALL, MICHAEL, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON, ROBERT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMOS, MARY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to culture media devices for growing 
microorganisms. In particular, the present invention relates to culture media 
devices utilizing various agents, such as nutrient and selective agents, and a 
dry-powdered gelling agent. Application of an aqueous test sample to the dry-powdered 
gelling agent forms a reconstituted medium capable of containing 
and growing microorganisms for quantitative determination. For many years, agar-filled pour plates provided the best method of 
determining the number of microorganisms in a liquid sample, such as water 
or milk. However, the use of agar medium is particularly inconvenient and 
time-consuming. For example, agar medium must be sterilized, melted, and 
cooled prior to addition of the liquid sample. Furthermore, the sample and 
medium must be mixed, solidified, and incubated prior to counting of the 
number of microorganism colonies which grow on the plate. To date, the prior art has provided several devices useful for assaying 
liquid specimens for microorganisms which are easier and quicker to use than 
traditional agar pour-plate technology. For example, German patent 
application No. 2055741, published May 19, 1971, discloses a microbiological 
growth medium comprised of an inert card or strip coated or impregnated with 
a dry-gelled nutritive medium. In one embodiment, the inert card or strip 
may include optional side walls to prevent shifting of the medium after wetting 
with a liquid sample. In addition, the nutritive medium may include an 
adhesive component or be adhered to the card or strip by an intervening 
adhesive layer. Furthermore, an optional sponge material can be disposed 
between the card or strip and the nutritive medium, and the nutritive medium 
can be covered by a semi-permeable membrane. U.S. Patent No. 4,565,783 (assigned to the Assignee of the present 
invention) provides a culture media device comprised of a dry-powdered  
 
gelling agent and/or nutrient composition adhered to a waterproof substrate by 
a layer of water-insoluble adhesive which is non-inhibitory to the growth of 
microorganisms. Upon application of a liquid sample to the device, the 
gelling agent(s) hydrates to form a gelatinous medium useful for growing 
microorganisms contained in the liquid sample. In addition, the device can 
also include a transparent cover sheet and/or a hydrophobic spacer element 
with side walls to maintain a pre-determined amount of a liquid sample in 
contact with the dry-powdered gelling agent(s) and/or nutrient
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A culture media device comprising: 

(a) a body member comprising a self-supporting 
substrate with upper and lower surfaces; 
(b) a layer of a water-based adhesive composition 
coated on the upper surface of the substrate, wherein the 

water-based adhesive composition comprises a water-insoluble 
adhesive, a non-inhibitory emulsifying agent, and at least one 

hydrophilic agent selected from the group consisting of a 
nutrient for growing microorganisms, a selective agent, and 

combinations thereof; and 
(c) cold-water-soluble powder comprising at least 
one gelling agent adhered uniformly to the layer of the water-based 

adhesive composition. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, 
further comprising a cover sheet having inner and outer 

surfaces and covering at least a portion of the body member. 
The culture media device according to claim 2, 
wherein the cover sheet is releasably adhered to at least a 

portion of the body member. 
The culture media device according to claim 
2, wherein the cover sheet comprises a transparent polymer 

film selected from the group consisting of a polyester film, 
a polyolefin film, a polystyrene film, and combinations 

thereof.  
 
The culture media device according to claim 2, wherein the cover sheet 
further comprises a layer of noninhibitory adhesive coated on at least a portion of the 

inner surface of the cover sheet, and a layer of the cold-water-soluble powder uniformly 
adhered to the layer of noninhibitory adhesive. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is 
substantially water-proof. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the substrate 
comprises a polymer film selected from the group consisting of a polyester film, a 

polyolefin film, a polystyrene film, and combinations thereof. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the body member 
further comprises an air-permeable membrane having top and bottom surfaces, the 

bottom surface of the air-permeable membrane being affixed to the upper surface of the 
substrate, and wherein the layer of the water-based adhesive composition is coated on 

tile top surface of the air-permeable membrane. 
The culture media device according to claim 8, wherein the bottom 
surface of the air-permeable membrane is affixed to the upper surface of the substrate 

by an adhesive. 
The culture media devices according to claim 8, wherein the air-permeable 
membrane comprises a polymer selected from the group consisting of 

polypropylene, polyethylene, polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, 
nylon, polyvinylidine fluoride, and combinations thereof. 
The culture media device according to claim 8, wherein the air-permeable 
membrane exhibits a Gurley porosity measurement of from about 10 to about 

50 seconds.  
 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the cold-water-soluble 
powder comprises a mixture of a super absorbent material and a standard gelling 

agent. 
The culture media device according to claim 12, wherein the standard 
gelling agent is selected from the group consisting of xanthum gum, guar gum, locust 

bean bum, carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, algin, and combinations 
thereof. 
The culture media device according to claim 12, wherein the super 
absorbent material is selected from the group consisting of glycol modified 

polysaccharides, starch-graft-poly(sodium acrylate-co-acrylamide), and combinations 
thereof. 
The culture media device according to claim 12, wherein the cold-water-soluble 
powder comprises equal parts by weight of super absorbent material and standard 

gelling agent. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the cold-water-soluble 
powder comprises a sufficient amount of the gelling agent to provide a gel when 

hydrated with a predetermined amount of an aqueous test sample. 
The culture media device according to claim 16, wherein the cold-water-soluble 
powder forms from about a five percent to about a fifteen percent solution when 

the predetermined amount of the aqueous test sample is added thereto. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the cold-water-soluble 
powder further comprises nutrient for growing microorganisms. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the body member 
has a grid pattern printed thereon.  

 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the water-based 
adhesive composition is maintained at a pH of about 7. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the water-insoluble 

adhesive is a pressure-sensitive adhesive. 
The culture media device according to claim 21, wherein the pressure-sensitive 
adhesive is a copolymer of isooctyl acrylate and acrylamide, or a copolymer 

of isooctyl acrylate and N-vinylpyrrolidone. 
The culture media device according to claim 22, wherein the weight ratio 
of isooctyl acrylate to acrylamide, and isooctyl acrylate to N-vinylpyrrolidone, is about 

98:2. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the noninhibitory 
emulsifying agent comprises a nonionic emulsifying agent. 
The culture media device according to claim 24, wherein the nonionic 
emulsifying agent comprises octyl phenoxy poly(ethylene oxide) ethanol. 
The culture media device according to claim 1, wherein the selective agent 
is selected from the group consisting of an antibiotic, a dye, an inhibitory salt, and 

combinations thereof. 
The culture media device according to claim 26, wherein the selective 
agent is an antibiotic selected from the group consisting of colistin methane sulfonate, 

nalidixic acid, and combinations thereof. 
The culture media device according to claim 26, wherein the selective 
agent is a dye which is metabolizable by microorganisms, and which causes the 

microorganisms grown on the culture media device to be colored or fluoresce.  
 
The culture media device according to claim 28, wherein the dye is 
selected from the group consisting of triphenyltetrazolium chloride, p-tolyltetrazolium 

red, tetrazolium violet, veratryltetrazolium blue, neutral red, crystal violet, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl 
phosphate, and combinations thereof. 
A method of making a culture media device useful for growing 
microorganisms comprising: 


(a) providing a body member comprising a self-supporting substrate with 
upper and lower surfaces, and a water-based adhesive composition comprising a water-insoluble 

adhesive, a non-inhibitory emulsifyng agent, water, and at least one hydrophilic 
agent selected from the group consisting of a nutrient for growing microorganisms, a 

selective agent, and combinations thereof; 
(b) coating a layer of the water-based adhesive composition on the upper 
surface of the substrate; and, 
(c) uniformly affixing cold-water-soluble powder comprising at least one 
gelling agent to the layer of the water-based adhesive composition. 
A culture media device obtainable by the method according to claim 30, further 
comprising, prior to the affixing step, drying the layer of the water-based adhesive 

composition until substantially all of the water in the composition is removed. 
A culture media device obtainable by the method according to claim 30, further 
comprising, covering at least a portion of the substrate with a cover sheet having inner 

and outer surfaces. 
A culture media device obtainable by the method according to claim 30, further 
comprising, prior to the coating step, adhering an air-permeable membrane having top 

and bottom surfaces to the upper surface of the substrate, wherein the layer of the water-based 
adhesive composition is coated on the top surface of the air-permeable membrane.  

 
A method of using a culture media device to detect microorganisms in an 
aqueous test sample comprising: 


(a) providing a culture media device comprising a body member including a 
self-supporting substrate with upper and lower surfaces, and a layer of a water-based 

adhesive composition coated on the upper surface of the substrate, wherein the water-based 
adhesive composition comprises a water-insoluble adhesive, a non-inhibitory 

emulsifying agent, and at least one hydrophilic agent selected from the group consisting 
of a nutrient for growing microorganisms, a selective agent, and combinations thereof, 

and wherein a uniform layer of a cold-water-soluble powder comprising at least one 
gelling agent is adhered to the layer of the water-based adhesive composition; 
(b) inoculating the culture media device with a predetermined volume of an 
aqueous test sample to form a reconstituted medium; 
(c) incubating the culture media device for a predetermined period of time; 
and, 
(d) counting the number of microorganism colonies growing on the 
reconstituted medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
