<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650625</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERSONAL ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION MONITOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B2100	G08B2118	H01Q122	H01Q122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B21	G08B21	H01Q1	H01Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A personal electromagnetic radiation monitor includes an electromagnetic radiation sensor (40') having at least one coil (60) mounted on a rectangular form (46') of glossy material. A first shield plate (58) is situated adjacent one side of the form (46'), and a second shield plate (62) is situated on another side of the form (46'). The shield plates (52, 68) have an impedance which varies substantially inversely proportional with the frequency of electromagnetic radiation sensed by the coil (60), and compensate for variation in magnitude of the induced current in the coil (60) (which induced current otherwise would have varied in magnitude substantially directly proportional with the frequency of the electric field component of the electromagnetic radiation), so that the magnitude of an output signal generated by the sensor (40') is relatively independent of the frequency of the sensed electromagnetic radiation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NARDA MICROWAVE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE NARDA MICROWAVE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASLAN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASLAN, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PERSONAL ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION MONITORCROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 08/062,474, filed May 14, 1993.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to radiation monitors, and more specifically relates to an electromagnetic radiation monitor which may be worn by persons who may be exposed to potentially harmful levels of electromagnetic energy. Even more particularly, this invention relates to a personal electromagnetic radiation monitor for use in the VHF RF region and which operates substantially independently of polarization.Description of the Prior ArtAttempts have been made to make an electromagnetic radiation monitor which may be worn by a person working in areas where potentially harmful electromagnetic radiation may be present. Early studies, such as those reported by Beischer in his article Microwave Reflection, Diffraction and Transmission By Man. Department of Naval Aerospace Medical Research Lab, Pensacola, Florida, June, 1973, have shown that scattering from a body may produce errors greater than 2dB. This scattering becomes more significant where broadband frequency performance and independence of polarization are desired monitor characteristics.U.S. Patent No. 5,168,265, which issued to Edward E. Asian, also the inventor herein, discloses a radiation 

 monitor which is independent of polarization and preferably operable between about 2GHz and about 18GHz. The radiation monitor senses the electric field component of the electromagnetic radiation and employs thin film resistive thermocouples for this purpose. The radiation monitor disclosed in the Asian patent mentioned above does not measure electromagnetic radiation in the lower frequency region, that is, well below 2GHz.The 1982 American National Standards Institute (ANSI) C95 standard and the Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers (IEEE) C95.1 1991 standard require that both the magnetic and the electric fields be measured below 30 MHz, but for frequencies between 30 and 300 MHz, it may be possible through analysis to show that measurement of only one of the two fields, not both, is sufficient for determining compliance with the maximum permissible exposure level.This frequency range should be monitored, as it coincides with the human resonance region of 30MHz to 300MHz where energy absorption in the body is a maximum from both the electric and the magnetic fields. The equivalent power density protection guide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An electromagnetic radiation monitor, which comprises: an electromagnetic radiation sensor, the electromagnetic radiation sensor including at least one coil, the at least one coil generating a signal in response to at least the electric field component of electromagnetic radiation sensed by the at least one coil, the magnitude of the signal generated by the at least one coil being substantially directly proportional to the frequency of the electric field component of the sensed electromagnetic radiation; and means positioned adjacent to the at least one coil for compensating for the effect the electric field component has on the signal generated by the at least one coil, the compensating means having an impedance which varies substantially inversely proportional with the frequency of the sensed electromagnetic radiation, the at least one coil and the compensating means positioned adjacent thereto together defining a sensor assembly, the sensor assembly generating an output signal in response to at least the electric field component of the sensed electromagnetic radiation, the magnitude of the output signal of the sensor assembly being relatively independent of the frequency of the sensed electromagnetic radiation.
2. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the at least one coil includes a first side and a second side, and wherein the compensating means includes a first portion and a second portion, the first portion being positioned adjacent to the first side of the at least one coil, and the second portion being positioned adjacent to the second side of the at least one coil. 



 3. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 2, wherein each of the first portion and second portion of the compensating means includes a metal shield.
4. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 2, wherein at least one of the first and second portions of the compensating means includes a lossy material.
5. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 2, wherein the first portion of the compensating means includes a lossy material, and the second portion of the compensating means includes a metal shield.
6. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the sensor assembly further includes a form, the at least one coil being mounted on the form.
7. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 6, wherein the form includes a styrofoam material.
8. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 6, wherein the form includes a lossy material.
9. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 6, wherein the form includes a front side and an opposite back side, wherein portions of the at least one coil are disposed on the front side and back side of the form, and wherein the compensating means includes a first metal shield situated at the front side of the form and a second metal shield situated at the back side of the form. 


 10. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the form includes a front side and an opposite back side, wherein portions of the at least one coil are disposed on the front side and back side of the form, and wherein the compensating means includes a layer of lossy material situated at the front side of the form and a metal shield situated at the back side of the form.
11. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the at least one coil includes a flat ribbon conductor.
12. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation sensor includes a first coil and a second coil, the first coil and second coil being disposed perpendicularly to each other.
13. A method for compensating for the variation in magnitude of a current induced in a sensor coil of a radiation monitor when the coil is exposed to electromagnetic radiation, the magnitude of the induced current being substantially directly proportional to the frequency of the electric field component of the electromagnetic radiation, the method comprising the steps of: selecting compensating means having an impedance which varies substantially inversely proportional with the frequency of the electromagnetic radiation; and positioning the compensating means adjacent to the sensor coil.
14. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the at least one coil includes a first side and a second side, and wherein the compensating means includes a dipole formed as a strip of 


 conductive material and positioned in alignment with the at least one coil in proximity to at least one of the first side and the second side of the coil.
15. An electromagnetic radiation monitor as defined by Claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation sensor includes a first coil and a second coil, the first coil and second coil being disposed perpendicularly to each other; and wherein the compensating means includes a first dipole and second dipole, each of the first and second dipoles being formed as a strip of conductive material, the strips being arranged mutually orthogonally, each of the first and second dipoles being positioned in proximity to and in alignment with a corresponding one of the first and second coils. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
