<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641574</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GOLF SWING TRAINING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B2400	A63B2400	A63B6936	A63B6936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B24	A63B24	A63B69	A63B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Switchover from backswing to downswing, which 
switchback is most important in golf swing, when an ideal 

body turning is made in which the lower half of a human body 
leads, causes checkpoints in the greater part of a swing after top 

to naturally form a good action. In this regard, the invention 
aims at mastering the ideal body turning, eliminating a so-called 

"hitting mainly with hands from top" to increase a head speed 
without strain to extend a flying distance, improving a shot 

control, and establishing a swing form of high level. To realize 
this, a golf swing training device (10) comprises detection 

means (12) for detecting a shoulder contacting or most closely 
approaching a chin upon backswing, and informing means (20) 

for transmitting a detection signal to a player (18) through a 
controller (16). Also, there are provided transmission means 

(22, 24) and second detection means (14), as desired. In order 
for a player to master a technique whereby switchover from 

backswing to downswing, which switchover is most important 
in golf swing, causes an ideal action in which the lower half of a 

human body leads, the invention aims at having a player master 
an ideal backswing which is gradually accelerated toward top 

to reach the highest speed in the vicinity of top. Thus, a 
golf swing training device (40) comprises detection means (46) 

mounted to at least one or more of hands, arms and a golf 
club for detecting movements of a portion or portions, to which 

the detection means (46) is mounted, at least during an action 
from addressing to backswing and from backswing to top, and 

informing means (20) for informing a player (18) of changes 
of movements detected by the detection means (46) through a 

controller (48). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMURA YOSHIKAZU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMURA YOSHIKAZU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to golf swing training devices 
and, more particularly, to a golf swing training device, 
with which a golf swing technique is to be acquired by 
people aiming at single figure level handicap or persons who 
want to be professional golfers. There is a slight difference in golf swing techniques 
between instructors. It is said that there are 100 or 
more (or 500 or more) swing check points. However, when 
these check points are arranged and classified, they are 
reduced to several basic check points. Examples of such 
basic check points are to correctly grip the club and take 
a correct stance, not to make a head-up, not to move the 
head, not to open the armpits, not to impact the ball by 
using the hands or arms from the top, i.e., make a swing by 
twisting the body about the backbone by using muscles of 
the body, that is, taking a right hand golfer as an 
example, shift the weight from the right foot to the left 
foot, etc. While there are a large number of golf swing check 
points as noted above, it is impossible to make a swing  
 
while checking all these points in a short swing time of a 
couple of seconds. However, by mastering check points 
which are thought to be most important, ideal movements are 
acquired to obtain naturally good movements which satisfy 
most of the other check points as well. These check points have to be mastered as a basic 
technique. However, it is impossible to visually confirm 
the swing form. Therefore, the swing form is liable to be 
deviated to result in score-down. Further, even when the 
training person has become able to swing the golf club 
after mastering the above check points, he or she may not 
be able to provide a sufficient distance in a long hole or 
may produce a misshot so that he or she can not improve 
the score. Particularly, woman golfers and like persons 
who are not so tall or persons who do not have much muscles 
can not produce long distance. Inevitably, they try to 
increase the distance and therefore forget making the 
proper golf swing. For instance, they often swing the golf 
club with the arms or hands from the top, thus resulting in 
misshots or swing form deviation and making the golf play 
more difficult. In order that even a person who is not so tall and 
does not have much physical power be able to hit the ball 
for a long distance by increasing the head speed, make a 
high level golf swing to cause the ball to fly along a  
 
steady orbit and maintain handicap between zero and single 
figure, the inventor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A golf swing training device comprising detecting 
means for detecting that one of shoulders of a golfer is in 

contact with or closest to the chin when the golfer has 
gotten into the back swing from the address position, and 

notifying means for notifying the contact or closest 
approach detected by said detecting means to the golfer via 

a controller. 
The golf swing training device according to claim 
1, which further comprises transmitting means for 

transmitting the contact or closest approach detected by 
said detecting means to the golfer's knee and/or waist on 

the side of the pivoting foot after weight shift. 
A golf swing training device comprising momentum 
detecting means mounted on a golfer's arm or the golf club 

or at least either one of the contact portions of the 
golfer's hand or fingers and the golf club for detecting a 

change in the momentum slightly before the golfer reaches 
the top at the time of the back swing, and notifying means 

for notifying a change in the momentum detected by said 
momentum detecting means to the golfer via a controller. 
A golf swing training device according to claim 3, 
which further comprises transmitting means for transmitting 

a change in the momentum detected by said detecting means 
 

to the golfer's knee or waist on the side of the pivoting 
foot after weight shift. 
A golf swing training device comprising second 
detecting means for detecting that the golfer's other 

shoulder is in contact with or closest to the chin when the 
golfer has gotten into the follow-through after the down 

swing, and notifying means for notifying the contact or 
closest approach detected by said second detecting means to 

the golfer via a controller. 
A golf swing training device comprising detecting 
means for detecting that one of golfer's shoulders is in 

contact with or closest to the chin when the golfer has 
gotten into the back swing from the address position, and 

transmitting means for transmitting the contact or closest 
approach detected by said detecting means to the golfer's 

knee and/or waist on the side of the pivoting foot after 
weight shift via a controller. 
A golf swing training device comprising momentum 
detecting means mounted on a golfer's arm or the golf club 

or at least either one of the contact portions of the 
golfer's hand or fingers and the golf club for detecting a 

change in the momentum before the golfer reaches the top at 
the time of the back swing, and transmitting means for 

transmitting a change in the momentum detected by said 
momentum detecting means to the golfer's knee and/or 

 
waist on the side of the pivoting foot after weight shift. 
A golf swing training device comprising second 
momentum detecting means mounted on a golfer's arm or the 

golf club for detecting the momentum at the time of the 
back swing or the momentum from the down swing to the 

follow-through, behavior detecting means mounted on the 
golfer's knee and/or waist on the side of the pivoting foot 

after weight shift for detecting a movement of the knee 
and/or waist, and judging means for judging a timing 

according to the detection signals of said second momentum 
detecting means and behavior detecting means. 
A golf swing training device comprising detecting 
means mounted on at least either one of the golfer's hand 

and upper body and the golf club for detecting the movement 
of the mounting spot while a swing is made at least from 

the address position through the back swing to the top, and 
notifying means for notifying a change in the movement 

detected by the detecting means to the golfer. 
A golf swing training device comprising detecting 
means mounted on at least either one of the golfer's hand 

and upper body and the golf club for detecting the movement 
of the mounting spot, storage means for continuously or 

intermittently storing the movement detected by said 
detecting means, and display means for reproducing and 

displaying the movement stored in said storage means. 
The golf swing training means according to one of 
claims 9 and 10, wherein the movement of the hand, arm or 

golf club detected by said detecting means is at least 
either one of the speed, acceleration, momentum and 

centrifugal force. 
A golf swing training device comprising pressure 
detecting means provided on at least either one of contact 

portions of the golfer's thumb and the golf club grip in 
contact with the thumb for detecting the pressure between 

the thumb and the contact portion, and notifying means for 
notifying the pressure detected by said pressure detecting 

means to the golfer. 
The golf swing training means according to claim 
12, which further comprises transmitting means for 

transmitting the pressure, when detected by said pressure 
detecting means, to the golfer's knee and/or waist on the 

side of the pivoting foot after weight shift. 
A golf swing training device comprising pressure 
detecting means provided on at least either one of contact 

portions of the golfer's thumb and the golf club grip in 
contact with the thumb for detecting the pressure between 

the thumb and the contact portion, and transmitting means 
for transmitting the pressure, when detected by said 

pressure detecting means, to the golfer's knee and/or waste 
on the side of the pivoting foot after weight shift. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
