<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Display with enhanced highlights.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M300	B41M300	B41M306	B44F100	B44F104	B44F700	B44F700	G09F1316	G09F1316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B41M	B44F	B44F	B44F	B44F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M3	B41M3	B41M3	B44F1	B44F1	B44F7	B44F7	G09F13	G09F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display (10) has a transparent plastic substrate (12) and a 
colored image (18) formed on the substrate. The colored image 

is formed on the substrate by process printing a large 
number of small dots, colored red, yellow, and blue, in a 

predetermined pattern onto the substrate. The red, yellow, 
and blue ink dots are translucent to visible light. A 

pattern of opaque white ink dots is process printed over 
selected portions of the image to highlight the selected 

portions and to thereby give the selected portions an 
appearance of relative depth. A reflective layer can be 

deposited against the ink patterns to reflect light which 
passes through the ink patterns and thereby give the image 

formed by the ink patterns a shiny, metallic appearance. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIGNS 
&
 GLASSWORKS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIGNS 
&
 GLASSWORKS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONGOBARDI LAWRENCE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVISON DOUGLAS I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONGOBARDI, LAWRENCE J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVISON, DOUGLAS I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains generally to signs and 
other types of displays. More particularly, the present 
invention pertains to displays which can be used on trading 
cards, decals, packaging material, and the like. The 
present invention particularly, though not exclusively, 
pertains to process printed image displays that have 
portions of the displayed image enhanced to create the 
appearance of depth of view, to increase the effectiveness 
of the display. In the area of marketing, displays and designs have 
been widely used on many products to increase the appeal of 
the products and thereby make the products more attractive 
to potential purchasers. For example, fanciful displays 
and designs have been used on trading cards, greeting 
cards, packaging materials, labels, decals, and the like to 
enhance the appeal of these products. Just one of the many types of displays which are 
commonly used are displays which have a transparent plastic 
substrate on which a design is formed. As can be readily 
appreciated, a large number of techniques exist for forming 
the desired design on a plastic substrate. Of particular 
importance to the present invention is the technique known 
as process printing, of which lithographic process printing 
and silk screen printing are well-known species. In its most basic sense, process printing involves 
forming an image on a substrate by depositing a large 
number of very small, closely spaced colored dots onto the 
substrate. Each of the dots has one of the four primary 
colors, red, blue, yellow, or black. The desired image is 
formed on the substrate by particularly depositing the 
variously colored dots onto the substrate in a 
predetermined pattern, in a predetermined color 
combination. The pattern or combination in which the dots  
 
are deposited forms the desired image and also establishes 
the colors of the image. Typically, when an image is to be formed on a plastic 
substrate for use as a card, label, packaging, and the 
like, the dots are translucent ink and are process printed 
onto the substrate. The image thus formed has a 
two-dimensional, flat appearance. It has been recognized 
that the effect of process printed displays can be enhanced 
by making portions of the display appear to be metallic and 
shiny, thereby giving the display a three-dimensional 
appearance. Displays of this type are disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 5,106,126, issued to the present applicants. It 
has also been recognized that the effect of process printed 
displays can be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display, comprising: 
   a transparent substrate; 

   a translucent first pattern of colored ink deposited on a surface of 
said substrate, to form an image; and 

   a second pattern of opaque ink dots deposited in a selected area of 
said image; 

   wherein said opaque ink dots are deposited at a selected density to 
create the appearance of a desired depth in said selected area of said 

image. 
A display, comprising: 
   a transparent substrate; 

   a first pattern of colored ink dots deposited on a surface of said 
substrate, to form an image; and 

   a second pattern of opaque ink dots deposited in a plurality of areas 
of said image; 

   wherein said opaque ink dots in a first of said areas of said image 
are deposited at a first, relatively higher density, to create the appearance 

of a first relatively lesser depth in said first area; and 
   wherein said opaque ink dots in a second of said areas of said 

image are deposited at a second, relatively lower density, to create the 
appearance of a second relatively greater depth in said second area. 
A display according to claim 1, wherein said first pattern of colored 
ink comprises a matrix of dots. 
A display according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said opaque ink 
dots are white. 
A display according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at 
least a portion of said second pattern of opaque ink dots is deposited over 

at least a portion of said first pattern of colored ink. 
A display according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least 
a portion of said second pattern of opaque ink dots is deposited over at 

least a portion of said image not occupied by said first pattern of colored 
ink. 
A display according to claim 1, wherein said selected density is 
relatively low, thereby creating the impression of a relatively greater depth 

in said selected area of said image. 
A display according to claim 1, wherein said selected density is 
relatively high, thereby creating the impression of a relatively lesser depth 

in said selected area of said image. 
A display according to claim 1, further comprising a reflective 
layer deposited against said first and second patterns of ink to reflect light 

through said first and second patterns, thereby giving a shiny appearance 
to said image, wherein said appearance is relatively less shiny in any area 

covered by said second pattern, and relatively more shiny in any area not 
covered by said second pattern. 
A display according to claim 2, further comprising a reflective 
layer deposited against said first and second patterns of ink dots to reflect 

light through said first and second patterns, thereby giving a shiny 
appearance to said image, wherein said appearance is relatively less shiny 

in any area where said opaque ink dots are relatively more densely 
deposited, and relatively more shiny in any area where said opaque ink 

 
dots are relatively less densely deposited. 
A display according to claim 2, wherein: 
   said first density in said first area results in approximately fifty 

percent coverage of said first area by said opaque ink; and 
   said second density in said second area results in approximately 

fifteen percent coverage of said second area by said opaque ink. 
A method of making a display of an image which gives the 
impression of a first relatively lesser depth in a first selected area of said 

image and a second relatively greater depth in a second selected area of 
said image, comprising the steps of: 

   providing a transparent substrate; 
   placing a first pattern of colored ink dots on said substrate to form 

an image; and 
   placing a second pattern of opaque ink dots over at least one 

selected area of said image, with said dots deposited at a selected density 
to create the appearance of a desired depth in said selected area of said 

image. 
A method of making a display of an image, according to claim 12, 
wherein: 

   said second pattern of opaque ink dots includes a first selected area 
where said dots are deposited at a relatively high first density, to create 

the appearance of a first relatively lesser depth in said first area; and 
   said second pattern of opaque ink dots includes a second selected 

area where said dots are deposited at a relatively low second density, to 
create the appearance of a second relatively greater depth in said second 

area. 
A method of making a display of an image, according to claim 12 
or 13, wherein at least a portion of said second pattern of opaque ink dots 

is deposited over at least a portion of said first pattern of colored ink dots. 
A method of making a display of an image, according to claim 12 
or 13, wherein at least a portion of said second pattern of opaque ink dots 

is deposited over at least a portion of said image not occupied by said first 
pattern of colored ink dots. 
A method of making a display of an image, according to any one 
of claims 12 to 15, further comprising the step of depositing a reflective 

layer against said first and second patterns of ink dots to reflect light 
through said first and second patterns, thereby giving a shiny appearance 

to said image, wherein said appearance is relatively less shiny in any area 
covered by said second pattern, and relatively more shiny in any area not 

covered by said second pattern. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
