<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611305</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STABILIZATION OF HUMAN INTERFERON.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3821	A61K3821	A61K4716	A61K4718	A61K4748	A61K4748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DALLAS BIOTHERAPEUTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DALLAS BIOTHERAPEUTICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEWART WILLIAM E II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEWART, WILLIAM, E., II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STABILIZATION OF HUMAN INTERFERON TECHNICAL FTF.T.D OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to the stabilization of human interferon, and more particularly, to alpha interferon and omega interferon or mixtures thereof. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONInterferons are proteins having a variety of biological actions including antiviral, immunomodulating and antiproliferative effects. Cellular production of interferons may be stimulated by numerous agents, including viruses. Interferons protect animal tissues and cells against viral attack and are an important host defense mechanism. Interferon may be produced endogenously by numerous cell types such as leukocytes, fibroblasts and lymphocytes, and may also be produced in cell culture or recombinantly. In most cases, interferons provide better protection to tissues and cells of the kind from which they have been produced than to other types of tissues and cells, indicating that human-derived interferon should be more efficacious in treating human diseases than interferons from other species. There are several distinct types of interferons, generally classified as alpha, beta, gamma and omega interferons, and a large number of variants thereof.The alpha and omega interferons are derived primarily from leukocytes. Cell-derived interferon such as leukocyte interferon is difficult to purify to homogeneity and, as a consequence, is most often used as a crude or partially purified preparation. Leukocyte interferon preparations contain two molecular populations (alpha and omega interferons) that are distinguishable physically, chemically and biologically. Alpha interferon comprises approximately 80% of leukocyte interferon activity, and omega interferon comprises about 20% of leukocyte interferon activity. The leukocyte interferon forms can be separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) into slow- and fast-migrating components as described by Stewart π, W. E. and Desmyter, J. Virology 67:68-73 (1975). 

 The larger leukocyte interferon forms have apparent molecular weights of about 21,000-25,000 Daltons, while the smaller leukocyte interferon forms have apparent molecular weights of about 15,000-18,000 Daltons. The larger (omega) interferon are glycosylated, whereas the smaller (alpha) interferon are not. General discussions of these and other interferons can be found in various texts and monographs including: The Interferon System by W.E. Stewart, II, Springer-Nerlag, New York (1979); and Interferon Therapy. World Health
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT TS LATMFD TS-
1. A stabilized interferon composition, consisting essentially of: an interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon, mixtures of human alpha interferon and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon; and a stabilizing agent, the stabilizing agent and the interferon dialyzed such that substantially all of the stabilizing agent in the composition is bound to the interferon and substantially none of the stabilizing agent exists in unbound form in the composition.
2. The composition of Claim 1, wherein the ratio by weight of the stabilizing agent to the interferon in the composition is about 1.44 to 1.
3. The composition of Claim 1, wherein said stabilizing agent is selected from the group consisting of anionic and cationic stabilizing agents. 4. The composition of Claim 1 , wherein said interferon is present in the composition in a concentration of 10 to 10
6
 IU/gram of composition.
5. A stabilized interferon composition, consisting essentially of: a cationic stabilizing agent in an effective amount to stabilize interferon and having a formula: RNH
2
, where R is an al yl group having between about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms inclusive; and an interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon mixtures of human alpha and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon.
6. The stabilized interferon composition of Claim 5, wherein the stabilizing agent is octyl amine, decyl amine, dodecyl amine, tetradecyl amine or mixtures thereof. 



 7. The stabilized interferon composition of Claim 6, wherein the amine stabilizing agent is dodecyl amine.
8. The stabilized interferon composition of Claim 5, wherein the stabilizing agent comprises from 0.1 to 10 weight percent of the composition. 9. The stabilized interferon composition of Claim 5, wherein the interferon is present at 10
4
 to 10
6
 IU/gram of the composition.
10. A stabilized interferon composition comprising: a lithium anionic stabilizing agent in an amount effective to stabilize interferon, having the formula: LLRX, where R is an alkyl group having between about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms inclusive, X is an anion and n is chosen to electrochemically balance the anion; and an interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon, mixtures of human alpha interferon and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon.
11. The composition of Claim 10, wherein said anion consists of sulfate.
12. The lithium stabilized interferon composition of Claim 11 , wherein the lithium anionic stabilizing agent is lithium octyl sulfate, lithium decyl sulfate, lithium dodecyl sulfate, lithium tetradecyl sulfate, or mixtures thereof.
13. The composition of Claim 12, wherein the stabilizing agent is lithium dodecyl sulfate.
14. The stabilized interferon composition of Claim 10, wherein the stabilizing agent comprises from 0.1 to 10.0 weight percent of the composition.
15. The stabilized interferon composition of Claim 10, wherein the interferon is present at 10
4
 to 10° IU/gram of the composition.
16. A stabilized interferon antiviral preparation, consisting essentially of: 


 a stabilized interferon composition consisting of an interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon, mixtures of human alpha interferon and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon and a cationic stabilizing agent bound to the interferon to stabilize the interferon; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; with the interferon and the stabilizing agent dialyzed and lyophilized into a stabilized interferon powder and then added to the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such that substantially all of the stabilizing agent is bound to the interferon and substantially no free stabilizing agent is present in the preparation.
17. The stabilized interferon antiviral preparation as in Claim 16 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises petrolatum and lanolin. 18. The preparation of Claim 16, wherein the weight ratio of stabilizing agent to interferon present in the preparation is about 1.44 to 1.
19. The preparation of Claim 16, wherein the interferon is present in the range of 10* to 10
6
' IU/gram of the preparation.
20. A stabilized interferon antiviral preparation, consisting essentially of: a stabilized interferon composition consisting of an interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon, mixtures of human alpha interferon and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon, and a lithium anionic stabilizing agent bound to the interferon to stabilize the interferon; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; with the interferon and the stabilizing agent dialyzed and lyophilized into a stabilized interferon powder and then added to the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such that substantially all of the stabilizing agent is 


 bound to the interferon and substantially no free stabilizing agent is present in the preparation.
21. The preparation of Claim 20 wherein the weight ratio of stabilizing agent to interferon present in the preparation is about 1.44 to 1. 22. The preparation of Claim 20, wherein the interferon is present in the range of 10
4
 to 10
6
 IU/gram of the preparation.
23. The interferon antiviral preparation in Claim 20 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises petrolatum and lanolin.
24. An interferon ointment, consisting essentially of: an interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon, mixtures of human alpha interferon and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon, said interferon stabilized with a first cationic or anionic stabilizing agent and then dialyzed and lyophilized into a stabilized interferon powder; a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, with which the stabilized interferon powder is mixed; and a second stabilizing agent added to the mixture of stabilized interferon powder and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, said second stabilizing agent being a catiomc or amomc stabilizing agent having from eight to fourteen carbon atoms.
25. The interferon ointment of Claim 24, wherein the first stabilizing agent is an anionic or cationic stabilizing agent having from eight to fourteen carbon atoms.
26. The interferon ointment of Claim 24, wherein the ratio by weight of said first stabilizing agent to interferon is about 1.44 to 1.
27. The interferon ointment of Claim 24, wherein said second stabilizing agent is present in the preparation in the range of 0.1 to 10.0 weight percent.
28. A method for stabilizing interferons, comprising the steps of: 


 providing a quantity of interferon selected from the group consisting of human alpha interferon, human omega interferon, mixtures of human alpha interferon and human omega interferon, and recombinant interferon; treating the quantity of interferon with an effective amount of an anionic or cationic stabilizing agent to stabilize the interferon by binding the stabilizing agent to the interferon; and dialyzing the solution such that substantially only the portion of stabilizing agent bound to the interferon remains. 29. The method of Claim 28, and further comprising the steps of: lyophilizing the dialyzed solution to obtain a stabilized interferon powder; and mixing the resultant stabilized interferon powder with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such that the interferon is present at 1 x 10* to 10
6
 IU/gram of the final preparation.
30. The method of Claim 29, and further comprising the step of: adding an additional amount of anionic or cationic stabilizing agent to the carrier such that the stabilizing agent comprises from 0.1 to 10.0 weight percent of the preparation. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 22 March 1993 (22.03.93) ; original claims 1-30 replaced by amended claims 1-34 (5 pages ) ]
1. A composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an interferon which is an alpha interferon, an omega interferon, or a recombinantly produced interferon, and a stabilizing agent which is a primary alkyl amine.
2. The composition of claim 1 which is a powder.
3. The composition of claim 1 wherein the powder is mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
4. The composition of claim 1 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is petrolatum or lanolin.
5. The composition of claim 1 with an interferon activity of between about 10* to about 10
6
 international units per milliliter.
6. The composition of claim 1 wherein the stabilizing agent comprises between about 0.1% to about 10% by weight of the composition.
7. The composition of claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of the stabilizmg agent to the interferon is between about 1.00 to about 1.44.
8. The composition of claim 1 wherein the primary alkyl amine is an octyl amine, a decyl amine, a dodecyl amine, or a tetradecyl amine. 


 9. A composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an interferon which is an alpha interferon, an omega interferon, or a recombinantly produced interferon, and a stabilizing agent which has the formula I- RX, wherein Li is lithium, R is an aliphatic, X is an anion, and n is a number chosen to electrochemically balance lithium with the anion.
10. The composition of claim 9 which is a powder.
11. The composition of claim 9 wherein the powder is mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
12. The composition of claim 9 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is petrolatum or lanolin.
13. The composition of claim 9 with an interferon activity of between about 10* to about 10
6
 international units per milliliter.
14. The composition of claim 9 wherein the stabilizing agent comprises between about 0.1% to about 10% by weight of the composition.
15. The composition of claim 9 wherein the weight ratio of the stabilizing agent to the interferon is between about 1.00 to about 1.44.
16. The composition of claim 9 wherein the stabilizing agent is a lithium octyl sulfate, a lithium decyl sulfate, a lithium dodecyl sulfate, or a lithium tetradecyl sulfate. 


 17. A method for making a composition comprising the steps of: a. providing an amount of interferon which is an alpha interferon, an omega interferon, or a recombinantly produced interferon, b. mixing the provided interferon with an effective amount of a stabilizing agent which a primary alkyl amine to form the composition; and c. dialyzing the composition.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the step of lyophilizing the dialyzed composition to a powder.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the powder is mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is petrolatum or lanolin.
21. The method of claim 17 wherein the composition has an interferon activity of between about 10* to about 10
6
 international units per milliliter.
22. The method of claim 17 wherein the stabilizing agent comprises between about 0.1% to about 10% by weight of the composition.
23. The method of claim 17 wherein the weight ratio of the stabilizing agent to the interferon is between about 1.00 to about 1.44.
24. The method of claim 17 wherein the primary alkyl amine is an octyl amine, a decyl amine, a dodecyl amine, or a tetradecyl amine. 


 25. A composition made by the method of claim 17.
26. A method for making a composition comprising the steps of: a. providing an amount of interferon which is an alpha interferon, an omega interferon, or a recombinantly produced interferon, b. mixing the provided interferon with an effective amount of a stabilizing agent which the formula LiJ X, wherein Li is lithium, R is an aliphatic, X is an anion, and n is a number chosen to electrochemically balance lithium with the anion to form the composition, and c. dialyzing the composition.
27. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of lyophilizing the dialyzed composition to a powder.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the powder is mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is petrolatum or lanolin.
30. The method of claim 26 wherein the composition has an mterferon activity of between about 10* to about 10
6
 international units per milliliter.
31. The method of claim 26 wherein the stabilizing agent comprises between about 0.1% to about 10% by weight of the composition.
32. The method of claim 26 wherein the weight ratio of the stabilizing agent to the interferon is between about 1.00 to about 1.44. 


 33. The method of claim 26 wherein the stabilizing agent is a lithium octyl sulfate, a lithium decyl sulfate, a lithium dodecyl sulfate, or a lithium tetradecyl sulfate.
34. A composition made by the method of claim 26. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
