<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651974</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bipolar electrosurgical instrument and method for making the instrument
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1820	A61F9007	A61M100	A61B1814	A61B1812	A61B1820	A61B1814	A61B1812	A61F9007	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61F	A61M	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B18	A61F9	A61M1	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61F9	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrosurgical instrument having a first 
electrode that includes an elongated, electrically 

conductive member and a second electrode that includes a 
layer of electrically conductive material adhered over at 

least a portion of a distal region of the elongated 
member and separated therefrom by an insulator. The 

electrodes receive electrical power in a proximal region 
of the instrument and apply the power to an object in the 

body by inducing current flow between the electrodes at 
the distal region. In a related aspect, the second 

electrode is configured so that the outer diameter of the 
distal region is substantially the same as the outer 

diameter of the distal end of the first electrode. In 
another aspect, one of the electrodes has a reduced 

circumferential extent relative to the other electrode to 
limit an area of current flow between the electrodes and 

thus restrict the size of the region in which 
cauterization occurs. Still another aspect of the 

invention features a process for fabricating the 
electrode assembly. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XOMED INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XOMED, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORRISON RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REIMELS HARRY G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORRISON, RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REIMELS, HARRY G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to bipolar electrosurgical
instruments.Some surgical procedures (such as severe retinal
detachment repair and diabetic retinopathy) require the
surgeon to insert surgical instruments into the posterior
chamber of the eye. Because the eye should be maintained
at a relatively constant pressure during the procedure,
tubing to which fluid is applied from an elevated (such
as by 2-3 feet) irrigation fluid bottle is inserted
through the sclera, and the internal eye pressure is
controlled by adjusting the height of the bottle.The need for tightly controlling eye pressure
dictates that the surgical instruments be as small as
possible in cross-sectional diameter (to minimize leakage
around the instruments and limit fluid loss during
exchange of the instruments). Accordingly, an informal
"standard" has evolved that surgical instruments used in
the posterior eye chamber either be made from 20 gauge
hypodermic tubing (which is 0.0355 inches in diameter) or
be capable of passing through and sealing an opening
equivalent to that created by a 20 gauge needle.Frequent exchanges of the instruments tend to
enlarge the puncture and increase fluid leakage, and are
also frustrating for the surgeon and time consuming. It
thus is desirable to design instruments which can perform
multiple tasks. As the complexity of surgical procedures
performed in the posterior chamber of the eye increases,
the need for additional, intricate instruments increases
as well. Basing the size of such instruments on the 20
gauge "standard" severely limits design options. (The
need for limiting the size of the bore created by a
surgical instrument and minimizing the number of 
instrument exchanges is not limited to ocular surgery --these
goals also exist in other procedures, such as
endoscopy and microsurgery on other areas of the body,
such as the brain.)Most extensive posterior surgery requires
controlling hemorrhaging, which typically is done using
bipolar radio frequency (RF) coagulation. In one
coagulation method, two conductive instruments that are
otherwise in use in the eye (e.g., an aspiration tube and
a metal jacket of a fibre optic light source) are brought
close together near the bleeding vessel while applying RF
energy to the instruments. Current conducts in the
region of closest spacing between the instruments and
coagulates the vessel.As an alternative, coaxial bipolar electrosurgical
instruments (such as that described in U.S. Patent No.
4,548,207, entitled "Disposable Coagulator," assigned to
the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrosurgical instrument comprising a first electrode and a
second electrode for receiving electrical power at a proximal end of said

instrument,

said first electrode including an electrically conductive tube (12)
having a proximal region for receiving the electrical power and a passage

(36) extending through said tube to an opening at a distal region (20), characterized in that
a deposition coating of insulating material (15) is disposed on a
portion of a surface (16) of said tube between said proximal region and

said distal region,
said second electrode includes a deposition layer of electrically
conductive material (14) disposed over said coating of insulating material

(15), said layer (14) having a proximal region for receiving the electrical
power and a distal region positioned adjacent to said distal region of said

tube (12) and spaced therefrom by said coating of insulating material (15),
thereby to support electrical current flow between said electrodes at said

distal regions in response to the received electrical power.
 
 
The instrument of claim 1 further comprising:

a housing (62) to which said proximal region of said tube is
attached, said housing having an electrical connector with a pair of

electrical contacts (76,78),
 
a first one of said contacts (76)being connected to said proximal
region of said tube (12), and a second one of said contacts (78) being

connected to said layer (14), said contacts being configured to receive
energy from a source (120) to cause said tube (12) and said layer of (14)

electrically conductive material (14) to carry electrical current and induce
current flow between said distal regions.
 
The instrument of claim 1 or 2 wherein said deposition layer of
insulating material (15) and said deposition layer of conductive material

(14) are disposed less than completely around a circumference of a surface
(16) of said tube in the distal region of said tube.
The instrument of claim 3 wherein said deposition layer of
conductive material (14) is disposed over between 1/3 and 1/2 of said

circumference of said tube (12).
The instrument of claim 1 or 2 wherein said deposition coating of
insulating material (15) and said deposition layer of conductive material

(14) are disposed completely around a circumference of a surface (16) of
said tube in the distal region of said tube (12).
The instrument of claim 1 or 2 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) is configured as an elongated strip of

said electrically conductive material and extends between said proximal
region and said distal region of said tube (12).
The instrument of claim 6 wherein said strip is disposed over
between 1/3 and 1/2 of a circumference of said tube (12) at least at said

distal region.
The instrument of claim 1 wherein said tube (12) has a distal tip
(22) at said distal region, said deposition layer of conductive material (14)

having a distal end (24) disposed proximally of said distal tip (22).
The instrument of claim 1 wherein said tube (12) has a distal tip
(22) in said distal region, said distal tip having a limited circumferential 

extent with respect to other portions of said distal region, said distal
region of said deposition layer of electrically conductive material (14)

being circumferentially aligned with said tip (22).
The instrument of claim 9 wherein said region of said deposition
layer of electrically conductive material (14) has a circumferential extent

that equals the circumferential extent of said tip (22).
The instrument of claim 9 wherein said distal region of said tube
(12) is bevelled to provide said tip (22).
The instrument of claim 9 wherein said tip (22) includes a surface
(23) disposed transversely to a longitudinal axis of said instrument.
The instrument of claim 1 wherein said passage (36) is configured
to receive a device (40) during use of said instrument.
The instrument of claim 13 wherein said device includes an
aspiration tube (80), said passage (36) and said aspiration tube being sized

to allow said aspiration tube (80) to be advanced to at least said opening at
said distal region of said tube to remove fluid from a surgical site and

thereafter retracted from said distal region.
The instrument of claim 14 wherein said tube (12) comprises a 20
gauge needle.
The instrument of claim 14 wherein said device (40) includes a
fibre optic cable. 
The instrument of claim 1 wherein said deposition coating of
insulating material (15) includes a polymer.
The instrument of claim 3 further comprising an outer layer (58)
disposed over at least said deposition layer of electrically conductive

material (15).
The instrument of claim 3 wherein said distal region of said
deposition layer of conductive material (14) is disposed over less than one

half of a circumference of said tube (12).
The instrument of claim 1 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) is adhered to said deposition coating

of insulating material (15).
An electrosurgical instrument comprising a first electrode including
an electrically conductive needle (12) having a diameter sized for insertion

into an eye and configured to carry electrical current between a proximal
region and a distal region, and characterized in that said inst
rument further
comprises:


a deposition coating of insulating material (15) disposed on a
surface (16) of said needle (12)between said proximal region and said

distal region of said needle, said coating having a first thickness
substantially less than said diameter, and
a second electrode including a deposition layer of electrically
conductive material (14) disposed over said deposition coating of

insulating material (15) so that a distal region of said layer is positioned
adjacent to said distal region of said needle (12) and is spaced therefrom 

by said deposition coating of insulating material (15), said layer (14)
having a second thickness substantially less than said diameter.
The instrument of claim 21 wherein said diameter is of the order of
20 gauge and said deposition layer of electrically conductive material (14)

has a thickness of 5 microns or less.
The instrument of claim 21 wherein said needle (12) is hollow.
A process for fabricating an electrosurgical instrument comprising a
first electrode and a second electrode, characterised by the steps of:


providing said first electrode as an electrically conductive tube (12)
configured to carry electrical current between a proximal region of said

tube and a distal region of said tube and to have a passage (36) extending
therethrough to an opening at said distal region,
depositing a coating of an insulating material (15) onto a portion of
a surface (16) of said tube (12) between said proximal region of said tube

and said distal region of said tube,
depositing a layer of electrically conductive material (14) over said
coating of insulating material (15) so that a distal region of said layer of

electrically conductive material (14) is disposed adjacent to said distal
region of said tube (12) and is spaced therefrom by said coating (15), and

configuring said layer of electrically conductive material to carry electrical
current between a proximal region of said layer of electrically conductive

material (14) and said distal region of said layer of electrically conductive
material, thereby to provide said second electrode, and
connecting said proximal region of said tube (12) and said proximal
region of said layer of electrically conductive material (14) to a pair of

contacts (76,78) configured to receive energy from a source to cause said 
tube (12) and said layer of electrically conductive material (14) to carry

electrical current and induce current flow between said distal regions.
The process of claim 24 further comprising depositing said coating
of insulating material (15) and depositing said layer of electrically

conductive material (14) less than completely around a circumference of
said surface (16) of said tube (12) in said distal region thereof.
The process of claim 25 further comprising depositing said layer of
electrically conductive material (14) over between 1/3 and 1 /2 of said

circumference of said tube (12).
The process of claim 24 further comprising depositing said coating
of insulating material (15) and depositing said layer of electrically

conductive material (14) completely around a circumference of said
surface (16) of said tube (12) in said distal region thereof.
A process for fabricating a multiple electrode, electrosurgical
instrument that includes an electrically conductive needle (12) having a

diameter sized for insertion into an eye and configured to carry electrical
current between a proximal region of said needle and a distal region of

said needle (12) to serve as a first electrode, characterized by the steps of:

depositing a coating of insulating material (15) onto at least a
portion of a surface (16) of said needle (12) between said proximal region

of said needle and said distal region of said needle (12), and configuring
said insulating material (15) to have a first thickness substantially less than

said diameter,
depositing a layer of electrically conductive material (14) over said
insulating material (15) so that a distal region of said layer of electrically 

conductive material (14) is disposed adjacent to said distal region of said
needle (12) and is spaced therefrom by said insulating material (15), and

configuring said layer of electrically conductive material (14) to have a
second thickness substantially less than said diameter and to carry

electrical current between a proximal region of said layer of electrically
conductive material (14) and said distal region of said layer of electrically

conductive material (14), thereby to provide a second electrode, and
connecting said proximal region of said needle (12) and said
proximal region of said layer of electrically conductive material (14) to a

pair of contacts (76,78) configured to receive energy from a source to
cause said needle and said layer of electrically conductive material to carry

electrical current and induce current flow between said distal regions.
The process of claim 24 or 28 wherein said step of depositing said
layer of electrically conductive material (14) includes depositing said layer

by vapor deposition.
The process of claim 29 further comprising disposing a sub-layer of
electrically conductive material (50) over said insulating material (15)

before depositing said layer (14).
The process of claim 30 wherein said insulating material (15)
comprises a polymer, said sub-layer (50) comprises titanium, and said

layer of electrically conductive material (14) comprises gold.
The process of claim 24 or 28 wherein said deposition coating of
insulating material (15) comprises a conformal insulating layer. 
The process of claim 24 or 28 wherein said deposition coating of
insulating material (15) comprises parylene.
The process of claim 24 or 28 wherein said step of depositing said
layer of electrically conductive material (15) includes depositing said layer

to a thickness of 5 microns or less.
The process of claim 24 wherein said electrically conductive
material (14) comprises silver, nickel, gold, palladium, platinum, or tin.
The process of claim 24 or 28 further comprising depositing a
second layer of electrically conductive material over said layer of

electrically conductive material (14).
The instrument of claim 1 further comprising a surgical device (40)
disposed in said passage (36) so that a distal end of said surgical device is

disposed at said opening.
The instrument of claim 37 wherein said surgical device (40) is an
aspiration tube (80).
The instrument of claim 37 wherein said surgical device (40) is a
fibre optic cable.
The instrument of claim 37 wherein said tube (12) and said passage
(36) are sized for selective movement of said surgical device (40) within

said tube so that said distal end of said surgical device can be selectively
advanced and retracted with respect to said opening. 
The method of claim 28 further comprising configuring said
insulating material (15) so that said first thickness thereof is one-tenth of

said diameter or less.
The method of claim 28 further comprising configuring said layer
of electrically conductive material (14) so that said second thickness

thereof is one-tenth of said diameter or less.
The process of claim 24 further comprising :

attaching said proximal region of said tube (12) to a housing (62)
having an electrical connector with a pair of electrical contacts (76,78),

and
connecting a first one of said contacts (76) to said proximal region
of said tube (12), and connecting a second one of said contacts (78) to said

layer (14), said contacts being configured to receive energy from a source
(120) to cause said tube and said layer of electrically conductive material

to carry electrical current and induce current flow between said distal
regions.
The process of claim 28 or 43 further comprising depositing said
layer of electrically conductive material (15) less than completely around a

circumference of said surface (16) of said needle (12) in said distal region
thereof.
The process of claim 44 further comprising depositing said layer of
electrically conductive material over between 1/3 and 1/2 of said

circumference of said needle (12). 
The process of claim 28 or 43 further comprising depositing said
layer of electrically conductive material (14) completely around a

circumference of said surface (16) of said needle (12) in said distal region
thereof.
The method of claim 43 wherein said tube (12) is a needle.
The method of claim 28 or 47 wherein said needle is substantially
20 gauge in size.
The method of claim 43 further comprising slidably disposing a
member (40) in said passage (36) with respect to said opening.
The method of claim 49 further comprising coupling said member
(40) to an actuator (82) on said housing to enable a user to slidably

advance and retract said member within said tube (12).
The method of claim 50 wherein said coupling includes enabling
said member (40) to be extended distally through said opening.
The method of claim 51 wherein said member (40) comprises a
hollow second tube (80).
The method of claim 51 wherein said member (40) comprises an
optical fiber.
The method of claim 43 further comprising disposing a sheath (58)
over a portion of said tube (12) after said layer of electrically conductive

material (14) has been deposited. 
The instrument of claim 1 or 21 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) is a vapor deposition layer.
The instrument of claim 55 further comprising a sub-layer (50) of
electrically conductive material disposed between said deposition coating

of insulating material (15) and said deposition layer (14) of electrically
conductive material.
The instrument of claim 56 wherein said insulating material (15)
comprises a polymer, said sub-layer (50) comprises titanium, and said

layer of electrically conductive material (14) comprises gold.
The instrument of claim 1 or 21 wherein said deposition coating of
insulating material (15) comprises a conformal insulating layer.
The instrument of claim 1 or 21 wherein said deposition coating of
insulating material (15) comprises parylene.
The instrument of claim 1 or 21 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) has a thickness of 5 microns or less.
The instrument of claim 1 or 21 wherein said electrically
conductive material (14) comprises silver, nickel, gold, palladium,

platinum, or tin.
The instrument of claim 1 or 21 further comprising a second layer
of electrically conductive material disposed over said deposition layer of

electrically conductive material (14). 
The instrument of claim 21 wherein said first thickness of said
deposition coating of insulating material (15) is one-tenth of said diameter

or less.
The instrument of claim 21 wherein said second thickness of said
layer of electrically conductive material (14) is one-tenth of said diameter

or less.
The instrument of claim 21 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) is disposed less than completely

around a circumference of said surface (16) of said needle (12) in said
distal region thereof.
The instrument of claim 65 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) is disposed over between 1/3 and 1/2

of said circumference of said needle (12).
The instrument of claim 21 wherein said deposition layer of
electrically conductive material (14) is disposed completely around a

circumference of said surface (16) of said needle (12) in said distal region
thereof.
The instrument of claim 2 wherein said tube (12) is a needle.
The instrument of claim 21 or 68 wherein said needle is
substantially 20 gauge in size. 
The instrument of claim 69 further comprising a member (40)
slidably disposed in said passage (36) with respect to said opening.
The instrument of claim 70 further comprising an actuator (82) on
said housing (62) coupled to said member (40) to enable a user to slidably

advance and retract said member within said tube (12).
The instrument of claim 71 wherein said actuator (82) is coupled to
said member (40) to enable said member to be extended distally through

said opening.
The instrument of claim 72 wherein said member (40) comprises a
hollow second tube.
The instrument of claim 72 wherein said member (40) comprises an
optical fiber.
The process of claim 24 further comprising configuring said layer
of electrically conductive material (14) as an elongated strip of said

electrically conductive material that extends between said proximal region
and said distal region of said tube (12).
The process of claim 75 further comprising depositing said strip
over between 1/3 and 1/2 of a circumference of said tube (12) at least at

said distal region.
The process of claim 24 wherein said tube (12) has a distal tip (22)
at said distal region, and further comprising depositing said layer of 

conductive material (14) to dispose a distal end (24) thereof proximally of
said distal tip (22).
The process of claim 24 wherein said tube (12) has a distal tip (22)
in said distal region, said distal tip (22) having a limited circumferential

extent with respect to other portions of said distal region, and further
comprising depositing said layer of electrically conductive material (14) so

that said distal region thereof is circumferentially aligned with said tip.
The process of claim 78 further comprising depositing said layer of
electrically conductive material (14) so that said distal region thereof has a

circumferential extent that equals the circumferential extent of said tip
(22).
The process of claim 78 further comprising bevelling said distal
region of said tube to provide said tip (22).
The process of claim 78 further comprising arranging a surface (23)
of the tip (22) transversely to a longitudinal axis of said instrument.
The process of claim 24 further comprising configuring said
passage (36) to receive a device (40) during use of said instrument.
The process of claim 82 further comprising providing said device as
an aspiration tube (80), said passage (36) and said aspiration tube (80)

being sized to allow said aspiration tube to be advanced to at least said
opening at said distal region of said tube (12) to remove fluid from a

surgical site and thereafter retracted from said distal region. 
The process of claim 83 further comprising providing said tube (12)
as a 20 gauge needle.
The process of claim 84 further comprising providing said device
(40) as a fibre optic cable
The process of claim 24 wherein the step of depositing said coating
of insulating material (15) includes depositing a polymer material.
The process of claim 24 further comprising depositing said layer of
conductive material (14) so that said distal region thereof is disposed over

less than one half of a circumference of said tube (12).
The process of claim 24 further comprising adhering said layer of
electrically conductive material (14) to said deposition coating of

insulating material (15).
The method of claim 28 wherein said diameter is on the order of 20
gauge, further comprising depositing said layer of electrically conductive

material (14) to a thickness of 5 microns or less.
The method of claim 28 further comprising configuring said needle
to be hollow.
The process of claim 24 further comprising disposing a surgical
device (40) in said passage (36) so that a distal end of said surgical device

is disposed at said opening at said distal region of said tube. 
The process of claim 91 further comprising providing said surgical
device (40) as an aspiration tube (80).
The process of claim 91 further comprising providing said surgical
device (40) as a fibre optic cable.
The process of claim 91 further comprising configuring said tube
(12) and said passage (36) to be sized for selective movement of said

surgical device (40) within said tube so that said distal end of said surgical
device can be selectively advanced and retracted with respect to said

opening at said distal region of said tube.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
