<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643815</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
JOINT ASSEMBLY EMPLOYING MULTI-RING GASKET
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L2300	F16L2316	F16L2318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L23	F16L23	F16L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-ring gasket (24) and flanged pipe joint assembly employing such gasket. The gasket (24) for sealing the joint between two flanged pipes of polyvinylchloride, chlorinated polyvinylchloride or fiberglass-reinforced plastic pipe is provided. The gasket (24) has an inner ring (26), an outer ring (28) and a plurality of spokes (30) connecting the inner ring (26) to the outer ring (28). Voids (34), or reduced thickness areas, are formed between the inner ring, the outer ring and the spokes so as to leave substantial space between the flanges at the voids and thereby reduce the uneven distribution of stress on the flanges when the gasket (24) is installed. The joint assembly employing such gasket (24) has a groove (50) disposed in an inside surface of a flange (12 or 16) and has a channel (51) disposed through the flange. The channel (51) is in communication with the groove (50) and, by means of a port (56), an outside surface of the flange.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KC MULTI RING PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KC MULTI-RING PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR RONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR, RONALD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to flanged pipe joint assemblies, and particularly to gaskets for
sealing the joint between two pipes of a flanged pipe assembly, assemblies employing such
gaskets, and assemblies which permit monitoring and control of quality of the seal provided
by such gaskets.More particular, the present invention relates to a gasket according to the preamble of
claim 1 as well as its use in a joint assembly.A gasket according to the preamble of claim 1 is for example known from FR 342721.However, this reference refers to a gasket having spokes and strips of material of
different thicknesses.In the construction of industrial facilities, such as pulp and paper mills and chemical
plants, there is usually a need to employ pipe to convey fluids and fluid-like mixtures
throughout the facility. Since these materials are typically reactive, modern practice favors
the use of polyvinylchloride ("PVC"), chlorinated polyvinylchloride ("CPVC"), fiberglass-reinforced
plastic ("FRP") pipe or other essentially chemically inert pipe.The pipe used in such facilities includes flanges at the ends of the pipe sections for assembling
sections of pipe together at a joint, as is commonly understood in the an. Typically, a
gasket is placed between the flanges, and the flanges are forcibly held together by bolts
inserted through apertures disposed in the flanges and gasket. When the flanges are forcibly
drawn together by bolts disposed therethrough, uneven stress distributions around the
flange tend to weaken, and ultimately break, the flanges. While PVC, CPVC and FRP pipe
used in such installations have the advantage of durability in the caustic and acidic environments
of the reactive materials which flow through the pipes, their flanges are particularly
susceptible to breakage due to uneven stress distributions.The gasket provides a seal between the flanges of the pipe sections to contain within the pipe
the reactive materials conveyed therethrough. However, gaskets generally allow some
fugitive emissions of the reactive materials from the pipe. Moreover, gaskets tend to degrade
overtime, and ultimately fail, which can lead to substantial fugitive emissions. To minimize
fugitive emissions, joint assemblies are typically monitored regularly on an assembly-by-assembly 
basis. In addition, laws and regulations increasingly limit the release into the environment
of fugitive emissions of a wide variety of materials and require the monitoring of
such emissions. Such laws and regulations typically impose significant fines
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gasket (24) for providing a seal at the joint between a pair of pipe
flanges (12, 16) for connecting one flange to the other, said flanges (12, 16) having

an inner periphery of known size and shape and an outer periphery of
known size and shape, and a plurality of fasteners (18) disposed around said

flanges, comprising:


a) a first strip (26) of sealing material formed in a substantially continuous
loop having a predetermined shape, said first strip (26) having an outer periphery

whose size is greater than the size of the inner periphery of said flanges;
b) a second strip (28) of sealing material formed in a substantially-continuous
loop having a predetermined shape, said second strip (28) having an inner

periphery whose size is greater than said outer periphery of said first strip
(26) and less than the size of the outer periphery of said flanges (12, 16);
c) a plurality of spokes (30) of sealing material, each disposed between
and attached to said first strip (26) and said second strip (28), and extending

between said first strip (26) and said second strip (28),
characterized in
that said first strip (26) said second strip (28) and said spokes (30)
have a substantially uniform thickness between said inner periphery

and said outer periphery of said flanges,
that said plurality of spokes (30) extend between said first strip (26)
and said second strip (28) at the respective locations of said fasteners (18) with

said first strip and said second strip (28) being both substantially annular in shape.
A gasket (24) of claim 1, wherein said spokes (30) have respective
apertures (32) therein for receiving elongate members of said fasteners (18).
A gasket (24) of claim 1, wherein said first strip (26), said second
strip (28) and said spokes (30) comprise a single, substantially-flat, piece of material.
A gasket (24) of claim 1, wherein said first strip (26), said second
strip (28) and said spokes (30) being made of a substantially flat, chemically inert

and compressible material.
Use of a gasket (24) according to any of claims 1 - 4 in an assembly
comprising:


said gasket (24);
a first pipe flange (12);
a second pipe flange (16) disposed substantially adjacent and parallel to
said first flange (12) and having said gasket (24) disposed therebetween, thereby

defining a joint, said second flange (16) having
an inside and an outside surface and

having a groove (50) disposed in said inside surface (52) and a channel (51) in
communication, at one end thereof, with said groove (50) and, at the other end

thereof, with said outside surface (54) of said flange.
Use according to claim 5, wherein said fasteners (18) comprise elongate
members placed through respective apertures in said flanges (12, 16) and

means attached to said elongate members for forcibly drawing said flanges (12,
16) toward one another, said spokes (30) having respective apertures (32) therein

for receiving said elongate members. 
Use according to claim 6, wherein said fasteners (18) comprise bolts.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 7, wherein said channel (51) is
connected to a tapping mechanism (57).
Use according to any of claims 5 to 7, wherein said channel (51) is
connected to means for detecting fluids.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 7, wherein said channel (51) is
connected to means for sourcing fluids.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 7, wherein said channel (51) is
connected to means for removing fluids.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 11, wherein said fasteners (18)
comprise bolts disposed through apertures in said flanges (12, 16) and said

spokes (30) of said gasket (24), and nuts threaded onto said bolts.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 12, wherein at least one of said
flanges (12, 16) is made of polyvinylchloride.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 12, wherein at least one of said
flanges (12, 16) is made of chlorinated polyvinylchloride.
Use according to any of claims 5 to 12, wherein at least one of said
flanges (12, 16) is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic pipe.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
