<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610224</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fume hood controller
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24F7007	B08B1500	B01L100	F24F7007	B08B1502	B01L100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24F	B08B	B01L	F24F	B08B	B01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24F7	B08B15	B01L1	F24F7	B08B15	B01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOENIX CONTROLS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOENIX CONTROLS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARP GORDON P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARP, GORDON, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to laboratory fume hood
controllers and more specifically to methods and
apparatus for varying a fume hood's face velocity in
response to variations in one or more hood
containment affecting conditions.A laboratory fume hood is a ventilated enclosure
where harmful materials can be handled safely. The
hood captures contaminants and prevents them from
escaping into the laboratory by using an exhaust
blower to draw air and contaminants in and around
the hood's work area away from the operator so that
inhalation of and contact with the contaminants are
minimized. Access to the interior of the hood is
through an opening which is closed with a sash which
typically slides up and down to vary the opening
into the hood. The velocity of the air flow through the hood
opening is called the face velocity. The more
hazardous the material being handled, the higher the
recommended face velocity, and guidelines have been
established relating face velocity to toxicity.
Typical face velocities for laboratory fume hoods
are 18 to 46 m per min (60 to 150 feet per minute (fpm)), depending upon
the application.When an operator is working in the hood, the
sash is opened to allow free access to the materials
inside. The sash may be opened partially or fully,
depending on the operations to be performed in the
hood. While fume hood and sash sizes vary, the
opening provided by a fully opened sash is on the
order of 1m2 (ten square feet). Thus the maximum air flow
which the blower must provide is typically on the
order of 17 to 43 m3/min (600 to 1500 cubic feet per minute (cfm)).The sash is closed when the hood is not being
used by an operator. It is common to store
hazardous materials inside the hood when the hood is
not in use, and a positive airflow must therefore be
maintained to exhaust contaminants from such
materials even when the hood is not in use and the
sash is closed. As the hazard level of the
materials being handled and the resulting minimum
face velocity increases, maintaining a safe face
velocity becomes more difficult. An important consideration in the design of a
fume hood system is the cost of running the system.
There are three major areas of costs: the capital
expenditure of installing the hood, the cost of
power to operate the hood exhaust blower, and the
cost of heating, cooling, and delivering the
"make-up air," which replaces the air exhausted from
the room by the fume hood. For a hood operating
continuously with an opening of 1m2 (10 square feet) and a
face velocity of 30,5 m/min
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fume hood controller (10) having face velocity control
means (30) for controlling the face velocity of the hood in

accordance with a predetermined set-point value, the controller
comprising


means (35,34) for detecting changes in at least one
containment affecting condition other than the position of a

sash for covering an opening of the hood; and
change means (32,33) responsive to said detecting means
detecting a selected change in containment affecting condition

for causing said control means (30) to make a change in the face
velocity of the fume hood, characterised in that the change

means are responsive to a detection by said means for detecting
of a selected increase in the said selected containment

affecting condition requiring an increase in face velocity for
causing said control means to change the said set-point value

of the face velocity of the fume hood to a preselected increased
value, and being responsive to detection by said means for

detecting of a reduction in the said containment
affecting condition for causing said control means to reduce the

set-point value of face velocity of the fume hood.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 wherein said
incrementing means operates substantially instantaneously on a

detection by said detecting means; and including means (45) for
delaying operation of said decrementing means for a selected

time period when a selected reduction is detected.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said means
for detection detects the presence of a person within a selected

area of the face of the hood. 
A controller as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein
said means for detection detects movement within a selected area

of the face of the hood.
A controller as claimed in claim 4 wherein the means for
detecting movement includes means for detecting air motion or

turbulence at least outside the hood.
A controller as claimed in claim 4 wherein the means 
for detecting movement includes means for detecting air motion

or turbulence at least inside the hood.
A controller as claimed in claim 4 wherein the means
for detecting movement includes means for detecting air motion

or turbulence in a selected area relative to the hood, such
means including a strip (51) of material extending in the area,

and means (35,52) for detecting motion of said strip.
A controller as claimed in any preceding claim
wherein said means (36) for detecting includes means for

detecting at least one of weight and pressure in a selected area
relative to the fume hood face.
A controller as claimed in any preceding claim
wherein said means for detecting includes means (35) for

projecting a radiation beam into a selected area relative to the
face of the fume hood, means for detecting radiation reflected

from said area, and means responsive to the reflected radiation
for detecting selected containment affecting conditions in said

area.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the
means for detecting includes means for ejecting a tracer fluid

in the hood, and means for measuring the quantity of the tracer
fluid escaping from the hood.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said
means for detecting includes means for detecting the presence

of apparatus inside the hood within a predetermined distance
from the front of the hood.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the
face of the fume hood may be covered by one or more sashes, and

wherein said means (62) for detecting includes means for
detecting movement of at least one of said sashes.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 wherein said
control means controls flow volume through the fume hood, and 

wherein said change means changes flow volume.
A controller as claimed in claim 13 including means
for establishing a maximum flow volume, and means for changing

the maximum flow volume in response to the means for detecting.
A controller as claimed in claim 13 including means
for establishing a minimum flow volume, and means for changing

the minimum flow volume in response to the means for detecting.
A controller as claimed in claim 13 including means
responsive to the detecting means for effecting an offset in the

controlled flow volume.
A controller as claimed in claim 13 wherein the fume
hood has an opening which may be covered to varying extents by

at least one movable sash; and

   wherein the control means normally maintains a
selected volume relative to sash position, the selected volume

being maintained being changed by the changing means.
A controller as claimed in claim 16 wherein the
selected volume is a constant volume regardless of sash

position.
A controller as claimed in claim 18 wherein said
constant volume is constant at a first value for sash openings

above a threshold value and at a second value for sash openings
below the threshold.
A controller as claimed in claim 1 wherein there may
be varying degrees of containment; wherein the means for

detecting detects the degree of detected containment affecting
condition; and

   wherein the change means includes means for changing
the face velocity to a velocity appropriate for the detected

degree of containment affecting condition.
A controller as claimed in claim 20 wherein the means 
for changing the face velocity is operative to vary the face

velocity substantially continuously based on the degree of
detected condition.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
