<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647304</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PORTABLE SELF-CONTAINED COOLER/FREEZER FOR USE ON AIRPLANES, COMMON CARRIER UNREFRIGERATED TRUCKS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60H132	B60H132	B65D8800	B65D8812	B66C112	B66C116	F17C700	F17C702	F17C1300	F17C1300	F25D310	F25D310	F25D2900	F25D2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60H	B60H	B65D	B65D	B66C	B66C	F17C	F17C	F17C	F17C	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60H1	B60H1	B65D88	B65D88	B66C1	B66C1	F17C7	F17C7	F17C13	F17C13	F25D3	F25D3	F25D29	F25D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transportable container (10) for carrying refrigerated products in frozen or refrigerated temperatures includes a structural container having an insulated outer shell with an access doorway (21). The upper portion of the container (10) includes a transverse perforated baffle (25) and positioned above the baffle (25) are a pair of spaced apart canisters (27, 28) containing liquid refrigerant. A gas or liquid feeder tube (32) penetrates each bottle (27, 28) and communicates with an on/off valve (30, 31). A feeder tube (32) can draw liquid to dispense for cooling, or it can release gas and pressure within the canister to boil the CO2. When CO2 reaches its boiling point, the canister (27, 28), its bracket, and the cold plate reach very cold temperatures to cool the cargo area. The gas is released through copper tubing over the cold plate to act as method for convection.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PALLET REEFER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PALLET REEFER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAIA LOUIS P III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILBRANDT CYNTHIA S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAIA, LOUIS, P., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILBRANDT, CYNTHIA, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
"PORTABLE SELF-CONTAINED COOLER/FREEZER FOR USE ON AIRPLANES, COMMON CA UNREFRIGERATED TRUCKS"SPECIFICATION This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/602,856, filed October 23, 1990, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent ApplicationSerial No. 07/493,298, filed March 14, 1990, now U.S.Patent No. 4,991,402, which is a continuation of Serial No.343,025, filed April 24, 1989 (now abandoned) which is a continuation of Serial No. 119,702, filed November 12,1987, now U.S. Patent No. 4,825,666, all incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to refrigerated containers having self-contained refrigeration systems. Even more particularly, the present invention relates to an improved portable self-contained cooler/freezer apparatus wherein either an external bulk supply or self-contained carbon dioxide canister dispense C02 or like liquid coolant through a manifold and plate like diffuse system to regulate temperature within the container, and wherein a temperature controlled solenoid valve dispenses C02 or like coolant as needed into the container interior. The plate like diffuser allows use of the shipping container walls to cool.2. General BackgroundMany truck lines use refrigerated trucks to carry food products over long distances. Typically, such a truck is designed to carry either frozen foods or foods that must be maintained in higher, but still refrigerated temperatures, 

such as, for example, 40°F. These trucks typically carry either refrigerated or frozen food only and differ from the typical common carrier truck which is unrefrigerated and which carries any of a number of bulk, unrefrigerated commodities, such as palletized loads of any general merchandise, product, or equipment. Presently, there does not exist a means for carrying refrigerated and/or frozen food products over long distances of several hundred or even thousands of miles via common carrier, namely, with trucks that are not refrigerated but which have space for holding any number of general commodities.Several devices have been patented which have attempted to provide portable refrigeration devices. An example is U.S. Patent No. 3,633,381, entitled "Open-Cycle Portable Refrigerator." In that patent there is disclosed a portable refrigerator employing an open cycle system. A stored compressed gas, such as carbon dioxide is passed from the storage container through an evaporator which comprises a serpentine passageway for the gas
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A shipping container for shipping frozen and/or refrigerated cargo in an unrefrigerated cargo area of a substantially larger transport vehicle comprising: a) a container having an interior area with a volume to be loaded with the frozen and/or refrigerated cargo with an access opening that can be opened/closed; b) one or more refrigerant tanks mounted in the container for containing a cryogenic liquified refrigerant under pressure to be utilized for cooling the container interior; c) discharge piping means for piping liquified refrigerant from the tanks; d) valve means communicating with the discharge piping for valving the flow of liquified refrigerant that is discharged from the tank; e) temperature responsive controller means for opening the valve means to dispense liquified refrigerant from the tanks in order to maintain a desired preselected preset refrigerated or frozen temperature range within the container interior; f) wherein the liquified refrigerant converts to a gaseous phase downstream of the valve means; and g) an undercarriage portion at the lower end of the container that includes moving means for transporting the container quickly to and from the cargo area of an unrefrigerated vehicle having a substantially larger volume than the container volume.
2. The apparatus of Claim l further comprising means for controlling the gaseous oxygen concentration within the container.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising means for controlling the carbon dioxide concentration within the container.
4. The apparatus of Claim 2 including in part a cylinder containing gaseous oxygen under pressure.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising 


atmosphere control means, communicating with the container interior for selecting controlling the gaseous atmosphere within the interior.
6. The apparatus of Claim 5, further including at least an oxygen level sensor located within the interior of the container and for monitoring oxygen levels within the interior.
7. The apparatus of Claim 5 including at least a carbon dioxide level sensor located within the interior of the container and for monitoring carbon dioxide levels within the interior.
8. The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein the oxygen level is controlled between pre set, high and low oxygen set points.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8 further comprising a pressure regulator for controlling the pressure of gaseous oxygen discharged into the container interior.
10. The apparatus of Claim 9 further comprising a control valve for valving gaseous oxygen flow to the container interior.
11. The apparatus of claim 3 further including a carbon dioxide level analyzer and a carbon dioxide controller for maintaining carbon dioxide level below a preset maximum level.
12. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising nitrogen level control means for controlling an injection of nitrogen into the container interior to lower carbon dioxide concentration when the level of carbon dioxide exceeds a pre-set maximum level.
13. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising absorbent means for removing excess quantities of carbon dioxide from the container interior.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising absorbent means for removing gaseous ethylene from the container interior.
15. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising exhaust valve means for venting the container interior. 


 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for controlling humidity within the container interior.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 including a humidity controller for regulating the level of moisture in the atmosphere within the container interior.
18. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising dispensing means positioned at the bottom end portion of the container for dispensing selected gases for atmosphere control at the bottom of the container.
19. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising recirculation fan means for agitating air within the container interior.
20. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a closed loop piping temperature system for controlling container interior without substantial loss of the refrigerant.
21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein liquid refrigerant expands to a gaseous form downstream of the valve means and is dispensed into the container interior.
22. A transportable refrigeration system for use on unrefrigerated trucks and the like, comprising: a) a self-supporting container having an interior for carrying refrigerated or frozen cargo and adapted to be lifted; b) lower most lifting means positioned at the bottom of the container for quickly transferring the container into and out of an unrefrigerated truck; c) a canister for containing cryogenic liquid refrigerant under pressure; d) manifold means for transmitting refrigerant from the canister to the container interior; e) a pressure control valve for controlling the pressure of liquid refrigerant discharged from the canister to the manifold means; f) temperature control means positioned at least partially within the container for controlling temperature within the container interior by activating the 


valve to release liquid refrigerant from the canister via the manifold means.
23. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising means for controlling the amount of oxygen within the container.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the container has a base plate having two spaced apart, parallel slots adapted to be engaged by a forklift lifting device.
25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the canister and manifold are positioned in the top portion of the container interior.
26. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the canister, pressure control valve, temperature control means, manifold are positioned in the top portion of the container interior.
27. A portable transportable refrigeration system for use on airplanes and the like, comprising: a) a self-supporting container having an interior for carrying refrigerated or frozen cargo and adapted to be lifted; b) a canister for containing liquid refrigerant under pressure, positioned in the upper end portion of the container interior; c) a movable perforated baffle plate extending across the container interior at the upper end portion thereof and positioned directly under the canister; and d) temperature control means, communicating with the canister for controlling temperature within the interior, and including:
(i) manifold header means for discharging liquid refrigerant from the canister and including means for preliminarily charging the container interior with refrigerant from an external bulk source;
(ii) a pressure control valve for controlling the pressure of fluid discharged from the canister;
(iii) a temperature control valve positioned 


in the header downstream of the pressure control valve for controlling temperature within the interior.
28. A method of transporting refrigerated products within the interior of an unrefrigerated dry type truck comprising the steps of: a) housing the products in an insulated container with an interior for holding products that is substantially smaller in volume than the truck cargo interior volume; b) cooling the container interior with a liquid cryogenic refrigerant that is dispensed from a canister that is contained within the container interior; c) valving the flow of liquid refrigerant discharging from the canister using a liquid control valve; d) controlling temperature within the container interior by controlling the degree of opening of the valve.
29. A method of shipping refrigerated perishable goods in an unrefrigerated interior area of a common carrier type truck having a larger internal cargo holding area and between truck terminals comprising the steps of: a) placing the perishable goods into one or more structural containers that can be placed into the cargo area of the truck; b) cooling the perishable goods by dispensing a liquid refrigerant from one or more liquid refrigerant containing canisters that are transported within the containers; c) using a valve to dispense liquid refrigerant coolant from the canisters; d) controlling temperature within the container interior area by a control of the degree of opening of the valve; and e) transferring the containers to and from one track to another at the common carrier truck terminals.
30. The method of claim 28 or 29 further comprising the step of controlling the gaseous atmosphere within the container interior. 


 31. The method of claim 28 or 29 wherein in step "C", refrigerant is dispensed directly into the container interior.
32. The method of claim 30 wherein oxygen content within the container interior is controlled.
33. The method of claim 30 wherein carbon dioxide content within the container is controlled.
34. The method of claim 30 wherein the humidity of the container atmosphere is controlled.
35. A shipping container for shipping frozen and/or refrigerated cargo in an unrefrigerated cargo area of a substantially larger transport vehicle comprising: a) a container having an interior area with a volume to be loaded with the frozen and/or refrigerated cargo with an access opening that can be opened/closed; b) a refrigerant tank mounted in the container for containing a cryogenic liquified refrigerant under pressure to be utilized for cooling the container interior; c) discharge piping means for piping liquified refrigerant from the tank; d) valve means communicating with the discharge piping for valving the flow of liquified refrigerant that is discharged from the tank; e) temperature responsive controller means for opening the valve means to dispense liquified refrigerant from the tank in order to maintain a desired preselected preset refrigerated or frozen temperature range within the container interior; f) wherein the liquified refrigerant converts to a gaseous phase downstream of the valve means; and g) contact-prevention means for preventing direct contact between refrigerant dispensed from the tank and air in the interior area of the container.
36. The shipping container of claim 35, wherein the contact-prevention means includes a chamber means in fluid communication with the discharge piping and in thermal communication with the air in the interior area of the container. 


 37. The shipping container of claim 36, wherein the contact-prevention means further includes a tube means for directing refrigerant from the chamber means to exterior of the container without coming into direct contact with the air in the interior area of the container. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
