<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623185</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A CYLINDER LOCK-KEY COMBINATION WHICH INCLUDES A SIDE BAR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B2700	E05B1900	E05B2700	E05B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B27	E05B19	E05B27	E05B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cylinder lock-key combination includes a cylinder housing (2) and a plug (3) provided with a key slot (3a). A row of pin tumblers (5) coact with a side bar (6) in a manner to prevent the side bar moving to its release position unless the correct key (4) is inserted into its operative position in the plug (3). The side bar (6) is activated at the ends of the side bar by one or more driving pins (7) which coact with the key side surface and which are guided in the plug for movement at right angles to the plane of the key slot (3a) and which function to press the side bar to its locking position as the key is withdrawn from its operative position. The invention also relates to a key to the cylinder lock.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASSA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASSA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAEGGSTROEM AKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAEGGSTROEM, AKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a cylinder lock-key 
combination which includes a side bar, and more specifically 
to a cylinder lock-key combination of the 
kind defined in the preamble of the following Claim 1. U.S.A. 4,393,673 (Widen) describes a cylinder lock 
provided with a side bar and pin tumblers of the 
aforesaid kind, in which the bottom surfaces of the 
rotatable pin tumblers are intended to coact with a 
coded, shouldered side part of the key. The coded 
surfaces engage with a segment-shaped part of the 
bottoms of respective pin tumblers, and curved transition 
parts whose radii correspond to the radii of the 
pin tumblers are provided between the coded surfaces 
of the key. The side bar is spring-biased outwardly from the 
cylinder, into engagement with a recess in the lock 
housing, this recess being configured to urge the side 
bar into the cylinder plug upon rotation thereof, 
after having inserted the correct key into an operative 
position in the plug. The side bar includes a 
number of lugs having rounded engagement surfaces 
which coact with waisted parts of the side bar. In 
manufacture, the coded surfaces and the intermediate 
transition surfaces must be produced very accurately, 
and consequently the cylinder lock taught by this 
prior publication is comparatively expensive in  
 
manufacture. U.S.A. 3,264,852 (Gysin) teaches a cylinder lock with 
which there is used a key which is provided on the 
side surfaces thereof with grooves which, when the key 
is inserted to an operative position in the plug, 
coact with tumblers that have outwardly projecting 
pins which engage in respective grooves. The tumblers 
of this lock do not coact with a side bar. Moreover, 
the pins on the tumblers are subjected to a relatively 
high degree of wear, which is liable to jeopardize the 
function of the cylinder lock after long-time use. Other examples of the state of the prior art with 
regard to lock keys are found in SE B 380,861 
(Winkhaus) and AU B 371,883 (Prunbauer). One object of the present invention is to provide a 
cylinder lock-key combination provided with a side bar 
in which it is ensured that the side bar will be moved 
positively, or forcibly, into its locking position. Another object of the present invention is to provide 
a cylinder lock-key combination which can be manufactured 
simply and the mutually coacting, moveable parts 
of which will only be subjected to a small degree of 
friction, causing only a slight degree of wear to 
these moveable parts and achieving continued
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cylinder lock-key combination in which the cylinder 
lock (1) comprises 


a) a lock cylinder which is housed in a cylinder housing 
(2); 
b) a plug (3) which is accommodated in the cylinder 
housing (2) and has a key slot (3a) and a row of pin 

tumblers (5) whose axes lie in a plane which is parallel 
with or substantially parallel with the plane of the key slot 

and distanced therefrom, wherein the pin tumblers are able 
to move in the pin tumbler plane and rotate about their 

axes when activated by the key (4); 
c) a recess (3c) provided in the plug (3) and accommodating 
a side bar (6) which coacts with the pin tumblers 

(5) and is movable in a plane extending perpendicularly or 
susbstantially perpendicularly to the pin tumbler plane; 
d) a groove or recess (2a) in the cylinder housing (2) 
for receiving the side bar (6) in its locking position; 
e) a lock element (6a), such as a tongue, on the side bar 
(6) for coaction with a corresponding lock element (5b), 

such as a groove or a waisted portion on the pin tumblers 
in said tumbler row in the release position of the side 

bar, so that the side bar is able to leave the recess (2a) 
in the cylinder housing (2) as the plug (3) is turned; and 

said key comprising 
f) a code formed on one side surface of the key and 
functioning to coact with the pin tumblers (5) in said 

tumbler row so that subsequent to inserting the key to its 
operative position in the slot (3a), each pin tumbler will 

occupy a position which enables the side bar (6) to move to 
its release position and the plug (3) to be turned; 
characterized
 in that
 
g) the side bar (6) is activated by one or more driving 

pins (7) which coact with the key side surface and which 
are guided for movement in the plug perpendicular to the 

plane of the key slot (3a) and which when the key is withdrawn  
 

from its fully inserted position with the side bar 
(6) in its release position presses the side bar to its 

locking position. 
A combination according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the end of the driving pin or 

pins (7) distal from the side bar (6) are received in a 
corresponding recess (4i) or depression in the key (4) when 

the key is in its operative position. 
A combination according to Claim 1 or 2, 

characterized
 in that the pin tumblers (5) 
have a circular flange (5a) and the side surface of the key 

(4) has a groove (4f) whose width varies along its length 
and which receives the flanges of respective pin tumblers. 
A combination according to Claim 3, 
characterized
 
in that the groove (4f) includes straight 

parts (4e) which extend parallel with the key insertion 
direction and which normally define the key code positions, 

and further includes intermediate, angled transition parts 
(4g) of greater width than said straight parts (4e). 
A combination according to Claim 4, 
characterized
 
in that a code position is also defined 

by one or more of said transition parts (4g). 
A combination according to any one of Claims 3-5, 

characterized
 in that the straight, normal 
code positions (4e) of the key groove (4f) are extended 

over a distance which exceeds the radius of respective 
driving pins (7). 
A combination according to Claim 2, 
characterized
 
in that the depth of the cut-out or the 

recesses (4i) in the key (4) which coact with the driving 
pin (7) corresponds to or exceeds the depth to which said  

 
lock element, e.g. the tongue (6b) on the side bar (6) 

engages corresponding lock element, e.g. the waisted 
portions (5c), of respective pin tumblers (5). 
A combination according to Claim 3, 

characterized
 in that the other side of the key (4) is 
also provided with a groove for coaction with a further 

row of pin tumblers (5) and a further side bar (6) in the 
plug (3). 
A combination according to any one of Claims 1-8, 


characterized
 in that 

a) a side surface of the key presents one or more 
recesses or depressions (4i) whose positions correspond 

to the position of the driving pin or pins (7) when the 
key is inserted to its operative position in the plug (3); 
b) the code located in the key side surface and intended 
for coaction with pin tumblers (5) in the plug includes 

straight code positions (4e) whose number corresponds to 
the number of pin tumblers; and in that 
c) the straight code positions (4e) are extended through 
a distance which exceeds the radius of the driving pins and 

which preferably corresponds approximately to the diameters 
of said driving pins. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
