<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656704</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and devices for transmitting data packets via a network operating in accordance with the synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH).
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J316	H04J316	H04L1256	H04L1256	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J3	H04J3	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method for transmitting data packets from 
a plurality of sources (e.g. 3A), both synchronous and asynchronous, to a 

plurality of destinations (e.g. 3C) via a network (1) operating in accordance 
with the synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH). Between the sources (3A) and 

the network (1) there is connected a first station (2A), and between the 
network (1) and the destinations (3C) there is connected a second station (2C). 

The data packets are combined, in the first station (2A), in a frame (100), 
which frame is transmitted via the network (1). The data packets are 

removed, in the second station (2C), from the frame so as to be passed to their 
respective destinations (3C). The invention also relates to devices for 

implementing the method, and to a system in which the method is applied. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDERLAND PTT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE KPN N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOL CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOL, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method for transmitting, via a network 
operating in accordance with the synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH), data 
packets from a plurality of sources to a plurality of destinations, where the 
sources can be both synchronous and asynchronous. The invention also relates 
to devices for implementing the method, and to systems for data transmission 
in which the method is applied. The so-called synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH) is a relatively new 
standard for telecommunication. Each user of an SDH network is allocated a 
fixed amount of capacity in discrete units. Said discrete units form standard 
units which are known as "virtual containers" (VCs). While it is possible, by 
using said virtual containers, to transmit large quantities of data at relatively 
high speeds, an essentially rigid structure of standard bit rates is produced. In 
many cases this leads to transport capacity being wasted as a result of virtual 
containers being allocated which have a greater capacity than the average 
volume of traffic, for example in the case of users with a requested capacity 
which is only slightly larger than that of a virtual container, or in the case of 
users with a strongly fluctuating volume of traffic. In the last-mentioned case, 
the user in question will be allocated a relatively large number of virtual containers, 
of which often a large number are not filled or barely filled. Since 
containers which have been allocated to a particular user are not available to 
other users, the unused capacity in question is wasted. Reference [5] describes various techniques for interfacing to ISDN, 
particularly B-ISDN. The techniques disclosed include the combination of  
 
ATM and STM in hybrid data structures, but do not pertain to SDH, nor to 
the specific problems associated with the rigid container structure of SDH. Reference [3] discloses a method of combining in a synchronous 
frame asynchronous cells with isochronous channels, in particular combining 
PCM channels with channels having cells according to the IEEE standard 
802.6. This reference does not deal with SDH, nor does it suggest how 
synchronous and asynchronous channels can efficiently be combined in an 
SDH-container. The object of the invention is to overcome the abovementioned and 
other drawbacks of the prior art and to provide a method for transmitting data 
packets via a network operating in accordance with the synchronous digital 
hierarchy, which method offers greater efficiency and flexibility, particularly 
f
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of transmitting, via a network operating in accordance with 
the synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH), data packets from a plurality of 

sources to a plurality of destinations, where the sources can be both synchronous 
and asynchronous, characterized by the steps of: 


sending the data packets to a first station connecting the sources and the 
network, 
in the first station, combining the data packets in one or more frames, each 
frame comprising time slots for accommodating data packets from 

synchronous sources, and each frame being capable of accommodating data 
packets from asynchronous sources in time slots which are not or not 

entirely used by synchronous sources, 
transmitting the frames via the network, in suitable containers, to a second 
station connecting the network and the destinations, 
in the second station, taking the data packets from the frames, and 
sending the data packets to their respective destinations. 
Method according to claim 1, wherein for each time slot a bit is 
provided for specifying whether the time slot in question is used at least 

partially for a synchronous source. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein for each time slot which is 
at least partially used for a synchronous source a number of bits is provided 

for specifying which part of the time slot in question is used for the 
synchronous source. 
Method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein a number 
of bits of a frame is reserved for asynchronous sources. 
Method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein time slots 
of a frame may be allocated to specific sources. 
Method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the data 
packets from asynchronous sources, prior to being incorporated in the frame, 

are transformed into frame data packets, the transformation preferably 
comprising adding identification of the destination of the data packet in 

question. 
Method according to claim 6, wherein the transformation comprises 
encapsulation of the data packets. 
Method according to claim 6, wherein the transformation comprises 
extracting the data from each data packet and inserting said data in a frame 

data packet. 
Method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein a frame is 
transmitted as a virtual container of the type 4 (VC-4) in a synchronous 

transport module. 
Device for combining, in a frame, data packets to be transmitted via a 
network operating in accordance with the synchronous digital hierarchy 

(SDH), which device comprises means for extracting data packets from a data 
stream, means for combining the extracted data packets in one or more 

frames, and means for transmitting the frames in virtual containers, each 
frame comprising time slots for accommodating data packets from 

synchronous sources, and each frame being capable of accommodating data 
packets from asynchronous sources in time slots which are not or not entirely 

used by synchronous sources. 
Device according to claim 10, comprising means for providing, for 
each time slot of a frame, a bit for specifying whether the time slot in 

question is used at least partially for a synchronous source, said means 
preferably also providing, for each time slot which is at least partially used for 

 
a synchronous source, a number of bits for specifying which part of the time 

slot in question is used for the synchronous source. 
Device according to Claim 10 or 11, provided with means for 
encapsulating data packets in a further data packet, which means are designed 

for adding a header which comprises an identification of the destination of the 
data packet in question. 
Device for decomposing a frame transmitted via a network operating 
in accordance with the synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH), which frame 

comprises a number of time slots, the device comprising means for decoding 
structural information of the frame, means for decomposing the frame on the 

basis of the decoded structural information, and means for transmitting data 
packets derived from the frame, said structural information comprising, for 

each time slot of a frame, a bit for specifying whether the time slot in 
question is used at least partially for a synchronous source, and said structural 

information preferably also comprising, for each time slot which is at least 
partially used for a synchronous source, a number of bits for specifying which 

part of the time slot in question is used for the synchronous source. 
Device according to claim 13, wherein the means for decomposing 
the frame comprise means for decapsulating data packets. 
System for data transmission in accordance with the synchronous 
digital hierarchy (SDH), arranged for applying the method according to any of 

claims 1 through 9. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
