<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655154</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRAINING MANIKIN FOR CARDIO-PULMONARY RESUSCITATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B2300	G09B2328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B23	G09B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A training manikin (14, 90) for use in teaching students to perform cardio-pulmonary resuscitation includes a head (18), a neck (20), and a torso (16) molded integrally of a resilient material allowing flexure of the neck (18) and providing realistic resistance to compression of the torso (16) in simulating external heart massage. An audible signal device (129) indicates adequate chest compression. A tubular airway passage (34, 112) includes a restrictor (71, 124) and a device for indicating sufficient air flow, and can receive obstructors (50). A cavity (30, 126) in the torso (16, 92) holds a smaller, infant-size similar manikin (60, 150). The manikin (14, 90) may have a tough  watertight skin surrounding a core of resilient microporous foam of lesser density. One embodiment of the invention includes a ball-and-socket joint articulating the head portion (96) with the neck portion (94).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEABERG CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SEABERG COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOELLER DAVID E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHEINBERG SAMUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOELLER, DAVID, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHEINBERG, SAMUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TRAINING MANIKIN FOR CARDIO-PULMONARY RESUSCITATIONBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates to training individuals to perform cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and relates particularly to a manikin useful in providing such training.Manikins have been used for years for training individuals to perform mouth-to-mouth artificial respira- tion and closed chest heart massage, known as cardio- pulmonary resuscitation, or CPR, and for instruction in rescue breathing where heart failure is not a factor. In the past such manikins have been built in several pieces often including hollow shells of somewhat flexible and resilient materials, with various tubes, bellows, air bladders, valves, and pressure sensors housed within the shells. Articulation of head and neck portions has been accomplished through use of various swivel or hinge joints interconnecting separate parts. Such complexity of manikins provides some realism in the simulation of performing rescue breathing and CPR using such manikins, but is likely to add considerably to the initial cost and to the cost of maintaining such manikins.The complexity of such previously available manikins thus makes such manikins unaffordably expensive, and thereby creates an undesirable limitation on the availability of CPR training.It is desirable, nevertheless, to provide some feedback to a CPR student as reassurance that sufficient chest compression is being accomplished to achieve effective cardiac compression, and that sufficient air flow is being provided.Not only is it necessary to train would-be rescuers to perform CPR on adults, but it is also necessary to train them to resuscitate infants. 

 What is needed, then, is a CPR training manikin, on which mouth-to-mouth rescue breathing and closed chest heart massage can be practiced, which is inexpensive, durable, easily cleaned, and low in requirements for maintenance and repairs, and which provides for practicing techniques for revival of infants.Summary of the Invention The present invention provides a CPR training manikin which is easily manufactured, cleaned, and main¬ tained, and which is of uncomplicated structure, yet which affords the opportunity for a trainee to practice mouth-to-mouth rescue breathing and external cardiac compression. The CPR training manikin according to one embodiment of the present invention is primarily a unitary structure of molded foam plastic material in the shape of a human torso, neck, and head. A mouth communicates with a tubular airway through which a trainee can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is;
1. A unitary cardio-pulmonary resuscitation training manikin, comprising: (a) a head portion defining a mouth opening and a tubular airway extending from said mouth opening rearwardly through said head portion; (b) a torso portion; (c) a neck portion interconnecting said head and torso portions and allowing said head portion to be tilted between a normal position and a rearwardly tilted position, said head, neck, and torso portions being of a first, larger size, and said torso portion defining a rearwardly open body cavity; and (d) a smaller, infant-size manikin contained within said body cavity.
2. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said head portion has a back side defining an airway opening and said tubular airway extends entirely through said head portion to said airway opening.
3. The training manikin of claim 2, further including an obstructing ball of resilient foam material removably placed in said tubular airway and held in said tubular airway in a compressed configuration to simulate an obstructed airway in a human.
4. The training manikin of claim 2 wherein said airway opening is located on said back side of said head portion so as to be closed by a horizontal surface supporting said training manikin when said head portion is in said normal position, and to be spaced apart from such a horizontal surface when said head portion is in 


said rearwardly tilted position with respect to said torso and neck portions.
5. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said head, torso, and neck portions are an integral structure of micro-cellular foam and said neck portion is flexible to allow said head portion to be tilted, said neck portion having a back side and a pair of opposite lateral portions and defining a cavity in said back side, between said lateral portions, said cavity enhancing flexibility of said neck portion.
6. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said infant-size manikin includes a head portion having a mouth and a back side and defining a tubular airway extending through said head portion from said mouth toward said back side.
7. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said torso portion has a back side and wherein said infant-size manikin includes a smaller torso portion having a generally planar back side and wherein said body cavity is shaped to conform to the shape of said infant- size manikin to receive said smaller torso portion of said infant-size manikin snugly within said body cavity and to hold said infant-size manikin with the back side thereof located generally coplanar with said back side of said torso portion of said first, larger, size.
8. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said infant-size manikin includes a smaller torso portion of molded resilient polymeric foam material having a tough substantially watertight skin surrounding a core portion of lesser density. 


 9. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said head portion, torso portion, and neck portion are integrally molded of resilient polymeric micro-cellular foam material having a tough substantially watertight skin layer surrounding a foam core portion of lesser density.
10. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said neck portion has a front, a pair of opposite lateral portions, and a back side and defines a cavity open toward said back side, said front and lateral portions defining generally a "U" shape facilitating flexure of said neck portion.
11. The training manikin of claim 1, said head portion having a forwardly inclined generally planar back side.
12. The training manikin of claim 11, said torso portion including a back side and said forwardly inclined back side of said head being oriented parallel with said back side of said torso portion when said head is properly located for rescue breathing.
13. The training manikin of claim 1, including a restrictor device located within said tubular airway.
14. The training manikin of claim 1 wherein said neck portion and said head portion include a ball- and-socket joint interconnecting said head portion movably with said neck portion and allowing said head portion to turn from side to side with respect to said torso.
15. The training manikin of claim 14 wherein said head portion has a back side defining an airway opening and said tubular airway extends alongside said 


ball-and-socket joint and entirely through said head portion to said airway opening.
16. The training manikin of claim 14 wherein said ball-and-socket joint includes a ball portion extending upwardly with respect to said torso and matingly received in a downwardly open socket portion defined in said head portion.
17. The training manikin of claim 14, said torso portion and said neck portion being combined in an integral structure including a ball portion of said ball- and-socket joint and being of molded micro-cellular foam having a tough relatively dense skin and a foam core of lesser density, and said head portion defining a socket portion of said ball-and-socket joint and being of molded micro-cellular foam having a tough relatively dense skin and a foam core portion of lesser density.
18. The training manikin of claim 1, including audible means for producing a recognizable sound in response to application of adequate pressure to said torso portion to effect cardiac compression.
19. The training manikin of claim 18 wherein said audible means includes a clicker of sheet metal embedded in said torso portion.
20. The training manikin of claim 1 including a plurality of protuberances defined within said body cavity engaging said infant-size manikin and retaining said infant-size manikin within said body cavity.
21. A unitary cardio-pulmonary resuscitation training manikin, comprising:
(a) a head portion defining a mouth opening and having a back side defining an airway 


 opening, said head portion including a tubular airway extending from said mouth opening rearwardly therethrough to said airway opening; (b) a torso portion; and
(c) a neck portion interconnected with said torso portion, said head portion being interconnected with said neck portion through a ball-and-socket joint interconnecting said head portion movably with said neck portion and allowing said head portion to turn from side to side with respect to said torso and to be tilted with respect to said torso portion between a normal position and a rearwardly tilted position, all of said head, torso, and neck portions being of molded foam plastic structure.
22. The training manikin of claim 21, said tubular airway including therein a restrictor including means for providing an audible indication that sufficient air flow is being supplied into said mouth opening of said head portion.
23. The training manikin of claim 21 further including an audible signal device embedded in said torso portion for providing an audible indication that sufficient chest compression is being performed on said training manikin to simulate effective cardiac compression. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
