<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657834</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Credit card-sized modem with modular data access arrangement.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K700	G06K700	H01R3106	H01R3106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	H01R31	H01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A PCMCIA credit card-sized modem for use with a portable computer includes a 
modular data access arrangement (DAA). The modem includes a substantially 

rectangular modem frame configured for mounting within the case of the portable 
computer. The frame has a first end configured to interface with the computer. The 

second end includes an interface opening through which an interface module is 
inserted. The interface module includes the DAA. The interface module may be 

quickly and easily replaced to meet varying international telecommunication 
requirements. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGOPULOS THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATURELL DONALD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGOPULOS, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATURELL, DONALD R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to credit card-sized electronic assemblies, and 
more particularly, to credit card-sized modems. Credit card-sized electronic assemblies are gaining importance with the 
expanding portable computer market. These small electronic assemblies, which are 
sometimes referred to as PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International 
Association) devices, plug into equipment such as a portable computer to provide 
additional features such as extra memory, extra programming, modem capabilities or 
facsimile capabilities. The PCMCIA devices slip into a port or opening in the 
computer which conforms to the physical standards set by the PCMCIA. A connector 
at one end of the PCMCIA device is used as an interface to the personal computer. In the case of a PCMCIA modem or facsimile device, another connector, at the 
opposite end of the device, is used as an interface to external equipment such as a 
telecommunications network (telephone line) or a cellular communications interface 
circuit. The conventional credit card-sized modem includes modem circuitry and a 
DAA (data access arrangement) circuit. The DAA circuit provides an interface 
between the modem circuitry and a telephone line. For example, the DAA provides 
high voltage isolation, amplification, current limiting, impedance matching, and meets 
other electronic compatibility requirements. While the PCMCIA has provided standards for the physical requirements of 
these credit card-sized modems, the telecommunication interface requirements of the 
DAA circuit is not governed by one international entity. As a consequence, countries 
have very differing requirements that the DAA circuit must meet. For example, the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Underwriter's Laboratories Inc. (UL) 
set standards which DAA circuits in the United States must meet. Other countries 
have differing standards.  
 
It is desirable to produce a PCMCIA modem which may be used in different 
countries. However, a DAA assembly which meets the requirements of all 
countries is not currently available. One conventional solution to this problem is to 
use an external DAA circuit. As stated above, the PCMCIA modem includes an 
external connector for interfacing the modem to a telephone line. The DAA 
assembly is implemented as an integral part of the cable (known as a "bump" in the 
cable implementation) which connects the modem to the telephone line. Different 
cables, each including a different DAA circuit, could then be used to meet differing 
in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A credit card-sized modem assembly for a portable computer equipment, 
comprising: 

   a frame assembly configured for mounting within the case of the portable 
computer equipment, said frame assembly having a first end configured to interface 

with the computer equipment and a second end configured to interface with a 
telephone line; 

   a modem circuit disposed in said frame assembly at said first end; and 
   an interface module including an interface circuit for interfacing said modem 

circuit with said telephone line, said interface module being configured for removable 
mounting in said frame assembly at said second end. 
The modem assembly of claim 1, wherein said frame assembly 
comprises: 

   a substantially rectangular modem frame defining an interface opening as said 
second end of said frame assembly; and 

   a printed circuit board disposed in said modem frame, wherein said modem 
circuit is mounted on said printed circuit board at said first end of said frame 

assembly, said printed circuit board defining a cutout portion at said second end of 
said frame assembly in alignment with said interface opening, said cutout portion being 

configured to receive said interface module via said interface opening. 
The modem assembly of claim 2, wherein said interface module 
comprises: 

   a substantially rectangular interface module frame having a first end and a 
second end connected by two side frame portions, said second end including a face 

plate having a size not less than the size of said interface opening in said modem 
frame, each of said side frame portions including a longitudinal groove on an outer 

lateral surface configured to mate with an edge of said printed circuit board at said 
cutout portion when said interface module is inserted into said frame assembly through 

 
said interface opening, said face plate limiting the insertion of said interface module 

into said frame assembly to a point where said face plate is flush with a front face of 
said modem frame; 

   a second printed circuit board positioned in said interface module frame; and 
   said interface circuit disposed on said second printed circuit board. 
The modem assembly of claim 3, further comprising: 
   an edge connector having a first mating portion and a second mating portion, 

said first mating portion being disposed on said printed circuit adjacent said cutout 
portion and being electrically connected to said modem circuit, said second mating 

portion being connected to said interface module, said first and second mating portions 
being coupled together to provide a plurality of electrical connections between said 

modem circuit and said interface circuit when said interface module is positioned in 
said modem frame. 
A modem assembly for use with a portable computer equipment, 
comprising: 

   a substantially rectangular modem frame configured for mounting within the 
case of the portable computer equipment, said modem frame having a first end and a 

second end, a first portion adjacent said first end defines a modem electronics region 
and a second portion adjacent said second end defines an interface electronics region, 

said second end including an interface opening; 
   a modem circuit disposed in said modem electronics region; and 

   an interface module including an interface circuit for interfacing said modem 

circuit with a telecommunications network, said interface module configured for 
removable mounting in said interface electronics region of said modem frame through 

said interface opening. 
The modem assembly of claim 5, further comprising a printed circuit 
board mounted in said modem frame and primarily occupying said modem electronics 

region, said printed circuit board having a substantially rectangular cutout portion at 
said interface electronics region, said cutout portion being open at an end adjacent said 

interface opening to accept entry of said interface module into said cutout portion 
when said interface module is introduced into said interface electronics region through 

said interface opening. 
The modem assembly of claim 6 ,further comprising: 
   an edge connector having a first mating portion and a second mating portion, 

said first mating portion being disposed at a central portion of said printed circuit 
board between said modem electronics region and said interface electronics region and 

being electrically connected to said modem circuit, said second mating portion being 
connected to said interface module, said first and second mating portions being 

coupled together to provide a plurality of electrical connections between said modem 
circuit and said interface circuit when said interface module is positioned in said 

interface electronics region of said modem frame. 
The modem assembly of claim 7, wherein said first mating portion of 
said edge connector comprises a plurality of conductive pads disposed on said printed 

circuit board between said cutout portion and said modem electronics region. 
The modem assembly of claim 8, wherein said interface module 
comprises: 

   a substantially rectangular interface module frame having a first end and a 
second end connected by two side frame portions, said second end including a face 

plate having a size not less than the size of said interface opening in said modem 
frame, each of said side frame portions including a longitudinal groove on an outer 

lateral surface configured to mate with an edge of said circuit board at said cutout 
portion when said interface module is inserted into said interface electronics region 

through said interface opening, said face plate limiting the insertion of said interface 
module into said modem frame to a point where said face plate is flush with a front 

face of said modem frame; 
   a second printed circuit board positioned in said interface module frame; and 

   said interface circuit disposed on said second printed circuit board, 
   wherein said second mating portion of said edge connector is electrically 

connected to said interface circuit and is disposed at said first end of said interface 
module frame. 
The modem assembly of any of claims 3 to 9, 
wherein said modem frame has a length not greater than 

8.56cm (3.37 inches), a width not greater than 5.41cm 
(2.13 inches) and a height not greater than .498cm 

(.196 inches). 
The modem assembly of claim 10, wherein said 
interface module has a height not greater than 0.10 inches. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
