<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627064</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROCESS FOR EXTRACTING VAPOR FROM A GAS STREAM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D500	B01D500	B01D5300	B01D5300	F25B902	F25B904	F25J306	F25J306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	F25B	F25B	F25J	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D5	B01D5	B01D53	B01D53	F25B9	F25B9	F25J3	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high efficiency process and apparatus for extracting condensable vapors from a gas stream using a vortex tube expansion is disclosed. The process comprises partially condensing in a high pressure condenser (14) a raw feed high pressure gas stream in line (12) rich in condensable vapor by an exchange of heat with a cooling medium in line (16) comprising a cold exhaust stream from a vortex tube (18); separating condensate from the raw gas stream in a separator (22) to produce a raw lean gas stream in line (26); expanding the raw lean gas stream in the vortex tube (18) to produce the cold exhaust stream and a hot exhaust stream in line (36); and preferably ejecting the cold exhaust stream in line (38) with the hot exhaust stream in an ejector (40) to increase pressure differential through the vortex tube (18).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRAZE DAVID J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRAZE DAVID J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAZE DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAZE DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A PROCESS FOR EXTRACTING VAPOR FROM A GAS STREAMField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a process for extracting vapor components from a multi-component gas stream using a vortex tube.Background of the InventionAlthough vortex tubes are well known in the art, such devices have not gained wide acceptance due to a limited understanding of the thermodynamic principles involved. As a result few practitioners have studied the features of gas behavior in a vortex tube or adapted use of the vortex tube into gas separation technology.First observed in the 1930's, the vortex tube is responsible for the so-called Ranque effect wherein a gas at higher pressure which is throttled in a centrifugal field set up in a tube will separate into two outlet streams: one which is cooler and one which is hotter than the temperature of the gas feed. In a vortex tube, the gas stream is fed tangentially to the tube wall and expanded in the tube. The vortex thus formed creates an intense centrifugal field within which gas dynamic transport processes and to a lesser extent Joule-Thomson (JT) cooling establish temperature, pressure and compositional gradients in the tube both axially and radially. The net result is that the vortex core which becomes cooled flows in the opposite direction to the vortex periphery which becomes heated. The coolest gas occurs at the end of the tube in the cool flow direction and the hottest gas occurs at the end of the tube in the hot flow direction. Vapor components of the feed gas, if close to their dew point, initially condense in the core and are flung to the periphery by centrifugal action. However, condensate thus formed becomes heated and re-vaporized. The fraction of the peripheral stream which does not exit the hot end migrates back to the core and gets re- 

condensed as it flows in the cool direction. This condensate is then generally flung back to the peripheral stream before it can exit the cold end. As a result, condensate vapors entering the vortex tube with the feed are concentrated in and mostly discharged with the hot stream, and the cold stream exhausts as an essentially dry, saturated stream.Fulton U S. Patents 3,173,273 and 3,208,229, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, describes basic designs for most efficient vortex tube operation. The characteristic performance curve for a typical vortex tube as described by Fulton having the hot side insulated and operating under ideal gas conditions, where the Joule-Thomson cooling effect is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is; 1. A process for extracting vapor from a gas stream, comprising the steps of: partially condensing a raw high pressure gas stream rich in condensable vapor by an exchange of heat with a cooling medium comprising a cold exhaust stream from a vortex tube; separating condensate from the raw gas stream to produce a raw lean gas stream; expanding the raw lean gas stream in the vortex tube to produce the cold exhaust stream and a hot exhaust stream; and ejecting the cold exhaust stream with the hot exhaust stream in an ejector to give a mixed vortex tube exhaust stream and increase the pressure differential through the vortex tube. 2. A process for extracting vapor from a gas stream, comprising the steps of: partially condensing a raw high pressure gas stream rich in condensable vapor by an exchange of heat with a cooling medium comprising a cold exhaust stream from a vortex tube; separating condensate from the raw gas stream to produce a raw lean gas stream; expanding the raw lean gas stream in the vortex tube to produce the cold exhaust stream and a hot exhaust stream; mixing the cold exhaust stream with the hot exhaust stream to give a mixed vortex tube exhaust stream; and cooling a recirculation flow in the vortex tube by an exchange of heat with the cold exhaust stream. 3. The process of claim 1 further comprising the step of cooling a recirculation flow in the vortex tube by an exchange of heat with the cold exhaust stream. 


4. The process of claims 2 or 3, further comprising the steps of: partially condensing the hot exhaust stream by an exchange of heat with the mixed vortex tube exhaust stream; mixing the partially condensed hot exhaust stream with the condensate separated from the raw feed stream to form a mixed condensate hot exhaust stream; and separating condensate from the mixed condensate hot exhaust stream to form a mixed liquid stream and a lean hot exhaust stream. 5. The process of claim 4, further comprising the steps of: feeding the mixed liquid stream rich in volatiles to a stripping column prior to the step of liquid cooling the recirculation flow in the vortex tube; stripping volatiles from the mixed liquid stream to produce a volatiles-rich overhead and a volatiles-lean liquid bottoms; heating- the column by an exchange of heat with the raw high pressure stream prior to the raw stream partial condensing step; and mixing the rich gas overhead with the lean hot exhaust stream. 6. The process of claim 4, further comprising the step of further cooling the recirculation flow in the vortex tube by an exchange of heat with a liquid cool_ing medium comprising the mixed liquid stream, wherein the mixed liquid stream remains substantially liquid. 7. The process of claim 6, further comprising the step of precooling the hot exhaust stream by an exchange of heat with the mixed exhaust stream prior to the hot exhaust stream partial condensing step. 8. The process of claim 5, further comprising the step of precooling the hot exhaust stream by an exchange 


3 of heat with the mixed exhaust stream prior to the
4 hot exhaust stream partial condensing step.
1 9. The process of claim 7, further comprising the step
2 of further precooling the hot exhaust stream prior
3 to the hot exhaust stream partial condensing step
4 by an exchange of heat with the liquid cooling
5 medium.
1 10. The process of claim 8, further comprising the step
- of further precooling the hot exhaust stream prior to the hot exhaust stream partial condensing step
4 by an exchange of heat with the liquid cooling
5 medium.
1 11. The process of claim 4, wherein the hot exhaust
2 stream partial condensation step is cooled by an
3 exchange of heat with the cold exhaust stream prior
4 to the cold and hot vortex tube exhaust mixing
5 step.
1 12. The process of claim 5, wherein the hot exhaust
2 stream partial condensation step is cooled by an
3 exchange of heat with the cold exhaust stream prior
4 to the cold and hot vortex tube exhaust mixing
5 step.
1 13. The process of claim 4, wherein the cold exhaust
2 stream comprises 50 percent or more of the raw lean
3 gas stream.
1 14. The process of claim 4, wherein the cold exhaust
~
>
 stream comprises from about 60 to about 80 percent
3 of the raw lean gas stream.
1 15. The process of claim 5, wherein the column is i heated by an exchange of heat with the hot exhaust
3 stream prior to the hot exhaust stream partial
4 condensing step.
1 16. An apparatus for extracting vapor from a gas
2 stream, comprising:
3 (a) a high pressure partial condenser for
4 condensing condensable vapor from raw high
5 pressure gas stream using a cold exhaust
6 stream as a cooling-medium; 


 (b) a high pressure liquid-gas separator for separating condensate from the raw gas stream; (c) a vortex tube for expanding a lean raw gas stream from the high pressure separator to produce the cold exhaust stream and a hot exhaust stream; and (d) an ejector for mixing the hot and cold exhaust streams and increasing the pressure differential through the vortex tube. 17. An apparatus for extracting vapor from a gas stream, comprising: (a) a high pressure partial condenser for condensing condensable vapor from raw high pressure gas stream using a cold exhaust stream as a cooling medium; (b) a high pressure liquid-gas separator for separating condensate from the raw gas stream; (c) a vortex tube for expanding a lean raw gas stream from the high pressure separator to produce the cold exhaust stream and a hot exhaust stream; (d) a mixer for mixing the hot and cold exhaust streams; and (e) a first vortex heat exchanger integrally attached at a hot exhaust discharge end of the vortex tube for cooling a recirculation flow in the vortex tube and using the cold exhaust stream as cooling medium. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a first vortex heat exchanger integrally attached at a hot exhaust discharge end of the vortex tube for cooling a recirculation flow in the vortex tube and using the cold exhaust stream as cooling medium. 19. The apparatus of claims 17 or 18, further comprising: (a) a low pressure partial condenser disposed downstream of the vortex tube for partially condensing condensable vapor in the hot 


 exhaust stream having the mixed exhaust stream as cooling medium; (b) a line from the low pressure partial condenser for mixing the partially condensed hot exhaust stream with the condensate separated from the raw high pressure stream to form a mixed condensate hot exhaust stream; and (c) a low pressure separator for separating condensate from the condensate-containing hot exhaust stream to form a mixed liquid stream and a lean hot exhaust stream. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising: (a) a stripping column disposed upstream of the second vortex exchanger having a reflux reboiler for stripping volatiles from the volatiles-rich mixed liquid stream to produce a volatiles-rich gas overhead stream and a volatiles-lean liquid bottoms stream; (b) a line from the low pressure liquid-gas separator for directing the volatiles-rich mixed liquid stream to the stripping column; (c) an overhead line from the stripper for mixing the rich overhead stream with the lean hot exhaust stream from the low pressure liquid- gas separator; (d) a feed line for directing the raw high pressure gas prior to the raw stream partial condenser as heating medium for the reflux reboiler; and (e) a bottoms line from the stripper for withdrawing the lean liquid stream. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a second vortex heat exchanger integrally attached to the hot exhaust discharge end of the vortex tube for cooling the recirculation flow in the vortex tube and having the mixed liquid stream as cooling medium, wherein the mixed liquid stream remains substantially liquid. 


22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a gas cooled precooler disposed upstream of the low pressure partial condenser for precooling the hot exhaust stream using the mixed exhaust stream as cooling medium. 23. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising a gas cooled precooler disposed upstream of the low pressure partial condenser for precooling the hot exhaust stream using the mixed exhaust stream as cooling medium. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a liquid cooled precooler disposed upstream of the liquid cooled vortex exchanger for precooling the hot exhaust stream. ~ 25. The apparatus of claim 23, further comprising a liquid cooled precooler disposed upstream of the liquid cooled vortex exchanger for precooling the hot exhaust stream. 26. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the gas cooled precooler is disposed upstream of the mixer or ejector and uses the cold exhaust stream as cooling medium. 27. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the gas cooled precooler is disposed upstream of the mixer or ejector and uses the cold exhaust stream as cooling medium. 28. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the cold exhaust stream comprises 50 percent or more of the raw lean gas stream. 29. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the cold exhaust stream comprises from about 60 to about 80 percent of the raw lean gas stream. 30. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the reboiler is disposed upstream of the high pressure partial condenser and employs the hot exhaust stream as heating medium. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
