<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612695</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Biomass growth control apparatus for fluid bed biological reactor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J820	B01J822	C02F100	C02F100	C02F138	C02F138	C02F312	C02F312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J8	B01J8	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F3	C02F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reactor apparatus including a fluid bed reactor (10) 
wherein liquid to be processed is conducted upwardly therein 

through a bed to fluidize the bed (28), the bed including particulate 
solids having biological material supported thereon, and the 

liquid forming an effluent head above the bed. The reactor 
apparatus also includes a control apparatus (34) for removing excess 

biological material from the reactor. The control apparatus (34) 
includes a tubular separator column (36) which is emersed in the 

liquid effluent head (30), and a telescoping sludge valve (60) that has a 
draw-off port communicating openly with the effluent head surface 

and that is adjustable to raise and lower the draw-off port 
relative to the effluent head surface to control the sludge 

withdrawal rate. The control apparatus also includes an agitator 
arrangement (46) that withdraws bed particles from the separator 

column (36), shears excess biological material from those particles, 
and then returns the partially sheared particles and sheared 

biological material to the separator column. The agitator 
arrangement includes a throttling valve that is adjustable to 

vary the shear imparted to the particles. The returned material 
is pumped tangentially into the separator column to induce 

hydrocyclonic action in the separator column. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIREX
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIREX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETIT PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETIT, PETER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is a continuation-in-part of co-pending U.S. 
patent application Serial No. 025,353, filed February 25, 1993. The invention relates generally to fluid bed biological 
reactors including bed particles supporting biological material, 
and more particularly to control apparatus incorporated into 
fluid bed biological reactors to remove excess biological 
material therefrom. Fluid bed reactors are used in the biological 
processing of waste water. A fluid bed biological reactor 
includes a reactor tank containing a media bed of particulate 
solids, such as sand or activated carbon, which serve as a 
substrate for microorganisms. The waste water is conducted 
upwardly through the reactor tank at a velocity sufficient to 
fluidize the media bed, and the microorganisms are nourished 
under aerobic conditions by impurities in the upflow to process 
the waste water. The principles of operation of fluid bed 
biological reactors are provided in the following U.S. patents: 
Patent No. 4,202,774 issued May 13, 1980 to Kos; Patent No. 
4,182,675 issued January 8, 1980 to Jeris; Patent Nos. 4,009,105, 
4,009,099 and 4,009,098, all issued February 22, 1977 also to  
 
Jeris; and Patent No. 3,956,129 issued May 11, 1976 and Patent 
No. 3,846,289 issued November 5, 1974, both to Jeris et al. Excess biological material (i.e., biological material 
in excess of that needed for normal reactor operation) must be 
removed from the reactor to insure its proper and efficient 
operation, as discussed in U.S. Patent No. 4,177,144 issued 
December 4, 1979 to Hickey et al. In the above-mentioned Jeris 
and Jeris et al. patents, the growth of biological material in 
the media bed is monitored as a function of bed expansion by a 
bed level sensing device. When the media bed reaches a 
predetermined height to activate the sensing device, the bed 
particles are abraded with a mechanical stirrer to strip excess 
biological material therefrom. The partially stripped bed 
particles settle back into the media bed and the excess 
biological material is carried away in the reactor effluent 
stream. This is undesirable since sludge dewatering equipment, 
etc. must in some instances be added to the system downstream of 
the reactor to separate and remove the excess biological material 
from the treated effluent stream. Patent No. 4,177,144 illustrates an excess biological 
growth control system including an agitator arrangement having a 
mixing blade positioned in a separator column that is emersed in 
an effluent head above the media bed.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reactor apparatus comprising 
   a reactor for processing a liquid, said reactor 

containing a bed, said bed including particulate solids, and 
material supported on said particulate solids, the liquid forming 

a liquid effluent head extending above said bed, the liquid 
effluent head having an upper surface, 

   a tubular member supported in said reactor, said 
tubular member being emersed in the liquid effluent head, and 

said tubular member extending above said bed, 
   means for separating excess amounts of said material 

from said particulate solids, and 
   a conduit for withdrawing separated material from said 

tubular member, said conduit including a draw-off port 
communicating with the upper surface of the liquid effluent head. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein 
said conduit is adjustable to raise and lower said draw-off port 

relative to the upper surface of the liquid effluent head to 
selectively decrease and increase the flow rate of separated 

material and liquid through said draw-off port. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein 
said reactor apparatus includes a telescoping sludge valve, said 

telescoping sludge valve including said conduit, and said 
 

telescoping sludge valve being adjustable to raise and lower said 
conduit. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein 
said means for separating excess amounts of said material from 

said particulate solids includes means for withdrawing 
particulate solids having excess material thereon from said 

tubular member, means for shearing the excess material from those 
particulate solids, and means for tangentially returning the 

partially sheared particulate solids and sheared excess material 
to said tubular me
mber. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein 
said means for tangentially returning the partially sheared 

particulate solids and sheared excess material to said tubular 
member includes a third conduit extending tangentially from said 

tubular member. 
A fluid bed reactor apparatus comprising 
   a reactor for processing a liquid, said reactor 

containing a bed, said bed including particulate solids having 
biological material supported thereon, the liquid being passed 

upwardly through said bed to fluidize said bed, and the liquid 
forming a liquid effluent head which extends above said bed and 

from which the liquid is discharged from said reactor, the liquid 
effluent head having an upper surface, and 

   means for removing excess biological material from said 
reactor, said means for removing including a separator column 

emersed in the liquid effluent head, and means for withdrawing 
excess biological material from said separator column, said means 

for withdrawing communicating with the upper surface of the 
liquid effluent head. 
A fluid bed reactor apparatus as set forth in 
claim 6 wherein said means for withdrawing excess biological 

material includes a conduit having a draw-off port communicating 
with the upper surface of the liquid effluent head. 
A fluid bed reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 
6 wherein said means for withdrawing excess biological material 

includes a valve, said valve being adjustable to raise and lower 
said draw-off port relative to the upper surface of the liquid 

effluent head to selectively decrease and increase the flow rate 
of separated excess biological material and liquid through said 

draw-off port. 
A fluid bed reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 
6 wherein said means for withdrawing excess biological material 

includes a vertically extending conduit within said separator 
column, said conduit including an upper end having a notch 

extending downwardly from said upper end, said notch forming said 
draw-off port, and wherein the position of said conduit is 

vertically adjustable to lower and raise said notch with respect 
to the upper surface of the liquid effluent head. 
A fluid bed reactor apparatus as set forth in 
claim 6 wherein said means for removing excess biological 

material from said reactor includes means for separating excess 
biological material from said particulate solids, said means for 

separating including means for withdrawing particulate solids 
from said separator column, means for shearing excess biological 

material from those particulate solids, and means for 
tangentially returning the partially sheared particulate solids 

and sheared excess biological material to said separator column. 
A reactor apparatus comprising 
   a reactor for processing a liquid, said reactor 

containing a bed, said bed including particulate solids, and 
material supported on said particulate solids, and 

   an agitator apparatus including an agitator line 
extending into said reactor, said agitator line being 

communicable with said bed, a pumping means in said agitator line 
for drawing particulate solids from said bed into said agitator 

line, and adjustable means in said agitator line for shearing 
excess amounts of said material from said particulate solids 

drawn into said agitator line. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 11 
wherein said adjustable means for shearing excess amounts of said 

material from said particulate solids drawn into said agitator 
line includes an adjustable flow constricting device. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 12 
wherein said adjustable means for shearing excess amounts of said 

material from said particulate solids drawn into said agitator 
line includes a throttling valve. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 11 
wherein said reactor apparatus includes a tubular separator 

column supported within said reactor, said separator column 
extending upwardly from said bed, wherein said agitator line 

extends downwardly into said separator column, and wherein said 
agitator apparatus is separated from said separator column so 

that said agitator apparatus is removable from said reactor 
without first being disconnected from said separator column. 
A reactor apparatus comprising 
   a reactor for processing a liquid, said reactor 

containing a bed, said bed including particulate solids, and 
material supported on said particulate solids, and 

   an agitator apparatus including an agitator line 
extending into said reactor, said agitator line being 

communicable with said bed, a pumping means in said agitator line 
for drawing particulate solids from said bed into said agitator 

line, and a flow constricting device in said agitator line for 
inducing shear so that excess amounts of said material is sheared 

from said particulate solids drawn into said agitator line. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 15 
wherein said flow constricting device is adjustable to vary the 

degree of constriction in said agitator line. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 16 
wherein said flow constricting device includes a throttling 

valve. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 15 
wherein said flow constricting device includes a constriction 

orifice. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 15 
wherein each of said agitator line, said pumping means, and said 

flow constricting device are contained within said reactor. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 19 
wherein said reactor apparatus includes a tubular separator 

column supported in said reactor, said tubular separator column 
extending upwardly from said bed, and wherein said agitator line, 

said pumping means, and said flow constricting device are 
contained within said separator column. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 15 
wherein said reactor apparatus includes a tubular separator 

column supported within said reactor, said separator column 
extending upwardly from said bed, wherein said agitator line 

extends downwardly into said separator column, and wherein said 
agitator apparatus is separated from said separator column so 

that said agitator apparatus is removable from said reactor 
without first being disconnected from said separator column. 
A reactor apparatus comprising 
   a reactor for processing a liquid, said reactor 

containing a bed, said bed including particulate solids, and 
material supported on said particulate solids, 

   a separator column supported in said reactor, and 
   a means for separating excess amounts of said material 

from said particulate solids, said means for separating excess 
amounts of said material from said particulate solids including 

an agitator circuit, said agitator circuit being supported on 
said reactor, said agitator circuit including a bed withdrawal 

conduit communicable with said bed and extending into said 
separator column, a return conduit, and means connected between 

said withdrawal and return conduits for shearing excess amounts 
of said material from said particulate solids, and said agitator 

circuit being separated from said separator column so that said 
agitator circuit is removable from said reactor without 

disconnection from said separator column. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 22 
wherein said means for shearing excess amounts of said material 

from said particulate solids includes a pump. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 23 
wherein said pump is positioned within said separator column. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 24 
wherein said pump is positioned concentrically within said 

separator column. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 22 
wherein said means for shearing excess amounts of said material 

from said particulate solids includes a flow restricting device, 
said flow restricting device being positioned within said 

separator column. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 22 
wherein said agitator circuit is positioned entirely within said 

separator column. 
A reactor apparatus as set forth in claim 22 
wherein said separator column includes a bottom section, and a 

bottom section extension section telescopically received in said 
bottom section. 
A method for removing excess biological material 
from particulate solids in a fluid bed reactor, said fluid bed 

reactor including a reactor tank containing a bed of the 
particulate solids, and a tubular separator column within the 

reactor tank, the separator column being emersed in a liquid 
effluent head formed in the reactor tank above the bed, the 

separator column extending upwardly from the bed, and the 
separator column including a top section having a diameter, a 

bottom section having a diameter less than the diameter of the 
top section, a bottom section extension having a diameter less 

than the diameter of the bottom section, and an intermediate 
section converging downwardly from the top section to the bottom 

section, said method comprising the steps of: 
   drawing a portion of the bed upwardly into the 

separator column by creating an upward liquid velocity in the 
bottom section extension of the separator column that is greater 

than the upward liquid velocity in the reactor tank outside of 
the separator column, 

   removing excess biological material from the reactor 
tank by withdrawing particulate solids having excess biological 

material thereon from said separator column, and shearing excess 
biological material from the particulate solids withdrawn from 

the separator column, and 
   during said step of removing excess biological material 

from the reactor tank, maintaining an upward liquid velocity in 
the separator column such that the upward liquid velocity in the 

 
bottom section extension of the separator column is greater than 

the buoyant velocity of particulate solids carrying excess 
biological material and less than the buoyant velocity of 

particulate solids that have been subjected to shearing, such 
that the portion of the bed in the bottom section of the 

separator column is fluidized, and such that the upward liquid 
velocity in the top section of the separator column is less than 

the buoyant velocity of the particulate solids carrying excess 
biological material. 
A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein said 
bottom section defines a passage having a horizontal cross-sectional 

area, and said bottom section extension defines a 
passage having a horizontal cross-sectional area between 50% and 

85% of said cross-sectional area of said passage defined by said 
bottom section. 
A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein said 
step of maintaining an upward liquid velocity in the separator 

column includes maintaining fluidization velocity in the bottom 
section of the separator column at at least the same velocity as 

fluidization velocity in the reactor and at most 150% of the 
fluidization velocity in the reactor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
