<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633684</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mobile telephone user interface including fixed and dynamic function keys and method of using same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3023	G06F3023	H04M1247	H04M1247	H04M1274	H04M12745	H04M172	H04M1725	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A user interface for use in a mobile telephone 
handset which includes static visual display means for 

presenting the status of the mobile telephone and other 
services accessible by the user. The interface further 

includes dynamic visual display means for presenting a 
plurality of context sensitive function labels. A 

plurality of fixed-labels signaling keys and soft-label 
signaling keys are also provided in electrical communication 

with the static and dynamic visual display means. 
The soft-label signaling keys are operative to access 

the displayed function labels relevant to the current 
context of the user interface. A method is further 

disclosed which includes the provision of a mobile 
telephone handset as described above, as well as the 

steps of viewing the static and visual displays to 
obtain instructions as to the status of the mobile 

telephone, the availability of telephone functions and 
whether fixed or soft-label signaling keys should be 

utilized. As a further step, selected telephone function 
labels are presented on the static and dynamic 

visual displays and selected functions are accessed. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US WEST TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US WEST TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSOI KAM-CHEONG ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSOI, KAM-CHEONG ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to mobile 
communications and, more particularly, to a mobile 
telephone handset having an improved user interface and 
method of using the same. With the introduction of cellular telephone 
networks, the mobile telecommunications industry has 
exploded in the last ten years. As a result, neither 
range nor economic considerations presently raise 
substantial barriers to mobile telephone use. By 
conservative estimate, there are now sixteen million 
cellular telephone subscribers in more than eighty 
countries. These subscribers represent but a fraction 
of the potential mobile telephone market. In fact, the 
number is expected to increase threefold to fifty-three 
million by 1996. While the United States currently accounts for 
almost fifty percent of the world's cellular subscribers 
(Europe accounts for approximately twenty eight percent) 
it is believed that by 1996, thirty-five percent of the 
world's subscribers will be using a digital system.  Analog cellular networks will continue to 
provide competition as will wireless (cordless) telephones. 
The latter is expected to exceed fifty-eight 
million users by the year 2000. Telepoint applications 
have similarly been adopted around the world and cordless 
voice and data transmissions have become a reality 
with the development of the Wireless Private Branch 
Exchange (WPBX) and cordless local area networks 
(CLANs). Against this background, communications 
engineers have now turned their attention toward the 
design, development and implementation of user-friendly 
and ergonomically disposed mobile telephones. For 
example, see U.S. Patent Nos. 4,706,273 and 4,870,676, 
issued to Spear et al and Lewo, respectively, which are 
directed to vehicle sun visor telephones. See also, 
U.S. Patent No. 4,905,270 which is directed to a vehicular 
hands-free telephone system. As those skilled in the art will recognize, 
conventional mobile telephones generally present all 
information entry keys for all telephone functions. 
Such keys are adapted for use in cooperation with a 
single visual display -- regardless of whether the 
functions are relevant in the current context of the 
communication. Moreover, such visual displays do not 
present sufficient information to prevent users from 
entering an irrelevant or improper key. As a result, an 
erroneous key selection results in either an error 
message or similar indication that an invalid key has 
been entered -- neither of which is desirable from a 
user standpoint. To
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A user interface for use in a mobile 
telephone handset, comprising: 

   static visual display means for presenting the 
status of said mobile telephone and other services 

accessible by said user; 
   dynamic visual display means for presenting a 

plurality of context sensitive function labels; 
   a plurality of fixed-label signaling keys in 

electrical communication with said static and dynamic 
visual display means; and 

   a plurality of soft-label signaling keys in 
electrical communication with said static and dynamic 

visual display means, said soft-label keys operative to 
access said displayed function labels relevant to the 

current context of said user interface. 
A user interface as in claim 1, further 
comprising prompting means in electrical communication 

with said dynamic visual display means for indicating to 
sai
d user whether said fixed-label or said soft-label 
signaling keys should be used. 
A user interface as in claim 2, wherein 
said prompting means comprises a selectively displayed 

blinking cursor. 
A user interface as in claim 1, wherein 
said fixed-label signaling keys comprise Dual Tone 

Multi-Frequency (DTMF) signaling keys. 
A user interface for use in a mobile 
telephone handset, comprising:

 
   static visual display means for presenting the 

status of said mobile phone and other services accessible 
by said user; 

   dynamic visual display means for presenting a 
plurality of context sensitive function labels; 

   a plurality of Dual Tone Multi-Frequency 
(DTMF) signaling keys in electrical communication with 

said static and visual display means; 
   a plurality of soft-label signaling keys in 

electrical communication with said static and visual 
display means; and 

   prompting means in electrical communication 
with said dynamic visual display means for indicating to 

said user whether said DTMF or said soft-label signaling 
keys should be used, such that said user may access the 

functions relevant to the current context of said user 
interface. 
A user interface as in claim 5, wherein 
said prompting means comprises a selectively displayed 

blinking cursor. 
A mobile telephone handset, comprising: 
   an earpiece; 

   a mouthpiece; 
   static visual display means for presenting the 

status of said mobile phone and other services accessible 
by said user; 

   dynamic visual display means for presenting a 
plurality of context sensitive function labels; 

   a plurality of fixed-label signaling keys in 
electrical communication with said static and visual 

display means; and
 

   a plurality of soft-label signaling keys in 
electrical communication with said static and visual 

display means, said soft-label keys operative to access 
said displayed function labels relevant to the current 

context of said handset. 
A mobile telephone handset as in claim 7, 
further comprising prompting means in electrical communication 

with said dynamic visual display means for 
indicating to said user whether said fixed-label or said 

soft-label signaling keys should be used. 
A mobile telephone handset as in claim 8, 
wherein said prompting means comprises a selectively 

displayed blinking cursor. 
A mobile telephone handset as in claim 7, 
wherein said handset has an elongated body portion 

having a display side which includes said static and 
dynamic visual display means and said pluralities of 

fixed and soft-label signaling keys and a communication 
side which includes said earpiece and mouthpiece. 
A mobile telephone handset as in claim 7, 
wherein said fixed-label signaling keys comprise Dual 

Tone Multi-Frequency (DTMF) signaling keys. 
For use in mobile telephone communications, 
a method of interfacing a mobile telephone party 

to a secondary party, comprising the steps of: 
   providing a mobile telephone handset having an 

ear piece, a mouthpiece and a user interface which 
includes a static visual display, a dynamic visual 

display, a plurality of fixed-label signaling keys, a 
 

plurality of soft-label signaling keys and indicator 
means; 

   viewing said visual display to obtain instructions 
as to the status of said mobile telephone, the 

availability of telephone functions and whether fixed or 
soft-label signaling keys should be utilized; and 

   accessing selected telephone functions whose 
labels are presented on said static and dynamic visual 

displays. 
For use in a telephone having a primary 
visual display and a plurality of fixed label signaling 

keys each having a corresponding group of designations, 
a method of entering selected designations in said 

primary visual display, comprising the steps of: 
   providing at least one dynamic visual display 

means for presenting a plurality of context sensitive 
function labels; 

   providing a plurality of soft-label signaling 
keys in electrical communication with said primary 

visual display and said dynamic visual display means, 
said soft-label signaling keys operative to individually 

access the corresponding designations of said groups, 
said designations represented as soft labels on said 

dynamic visual display means; 
   depressing a selected fixed-label signaling 

key corresponding to said group of said selected designation 
so as to enter a predetermined designation in 

said primary visual display; and 
   depressing said soft-label signaling key 

corresponding to said selected designation so as to 
replace said entered designation with said selected 

designation where necessary. 
For use in a mobile telephone having a 
primary visual display and a plurality of fixed label 

signaling keys each having a numeric designation and a 
corresponding group of alphabetic designations, a method 

of entering selected alphabetic designations in said 
primary visual display, comprising the steps of: 

   providing at least one dynamic visual display 
means for presenting a plurality of context sensitive 

function labels; 
   providing a plurality of soft-label signaling 

keys in electrical communication with said primary 
visual display and said dynamic visual display means, 

said soft-label signaling keys operative to individually 
access the corresponding designations of said alphabetic 

groups, said designations represented as soft labels on 
said dynamic visual display means; 

   depressing a selected fixed-label signaling 
key corresponding to said group of said selected alphabetic 

designation so as to enter a predetermined alphabetic 
designation in said primary visual display; and 

   depressing said soft-label signaling key 
corresponding to said selected designation so as to 

replace said entered designation with said selected 
designation where necessary. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
