<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623085</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TABLET ACCUMULATOR FOR AUTOMATED VIAL FILLING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61J300	A61J300	A61J700	A61J700	B65B130	B65B130	B65B510	B65B510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61J	A61J	A61J	A61J	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61J3	A61J3	A61J7	A61J7	B65B1	B65B1	B65B5	B65B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for staging drugs dispensed from a drug dispensing apparatus (26) including an accumulator (70) operative to temporarily accumulate drugs for later dispensing into vials. The accumulator (70) includes one or more staging containers (72, 74, 76, 78) positioned to receive dispensed drugs that fall freely under the influence of gravity, each container (72, 74, 76, 78) having an outlet (80, 82, 84, 86) that is selectively openable so that the drugs retained therein can be delivered to a vial (18) at a later time. Several orders can be staged in parallel if several such staging containers (72, 74, 76, 78) are provided. The drugs are staged in the accumulator (70) for dispensing before vials are positioned so that dispensing of all the drugs for each vial (18) may be performed simultaneously.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODALE KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY ARCHIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODALE, KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY, ARCHIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPECIFICATIONTITLE :TABLET ACCUMULATOR FOR AUTOMATED VIAL FILLING SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention generally relates to methods and apparatus for dispensing prescriptions. More specifically, the invention relates to methods and apparatus for staging medications for dispensing and filling containers, such as vials.Generally, out-patients from a hospital or medical office have been provided with prescriptions in one of two ways. One way is to provide oral, solid prescriptions that are prefilled in vials at a remote location and kept in inventory at a pharmacy. These pre¬ filled vials are removed from stock when needed and relabelled with patient specific information. Another method involves filling prescriptions by having a pharmacist hand-count the required drugs from a bulk supply and then place a patient specific label on a vial.There are disadvantages to both of these prescriptions filling methods. If pharmacists elect to use prefilled vials, they must carry an inventory of several hundred drug types. Further, they must manage inventory levels and monitor stock for expiring products. Generally, a pharmacist will pay a premium for having the vials prefilled. On the other hand, filling prescriptions from bulk on an individual basis is very labor intensive and subject to human accounting errors. Further, servicing a large out-patient population requires large numbers of 

pharmacists.Many out-patient facilities use a combination of these two systems, supplying prefilled vials on high volume products and hand-filling vials with products that are less in demand.A method of direct dispensing drugs into a vial is used in some operations. Direct dispensing is a process wherein tablets are dispensed one at a time and counted during each dispensing stroke. The counting stroke accounts for a high accuracy rate but significantly reduces the speed of drug delivery.Often, a single order may require the dispensing of as many as 200 different drugs to fill the order. However, individual canisters only store a single drug. Therefore, if 200 different drugs are required to fill an order, the vial must be re-positioned 200 separate instances to fill an individual order. This method of repositioning and dispensing is known as serial processing. Serial processing can be a very accurate method of dispensing drugs to fill a prescription. Using serial processing, the drugs can be either counted by an machine referred to as an "automatic tablet counter" or by hand. The individual drugs are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM!
1. An apparatus for staging drugs prior to dispensing into a container, comprising: means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and for storing the drug; means for releasably retaining the drug within the means for storing; and means for releasing said means for retaining and allowing the drug to again fall under the influence of gravity.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drug comprises a substantially funnel shaped enclosure having a top end that is open and a bottom end that has a closeable opening.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for releasably retaining the drug comprises a door. 4. The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said door is hingedly attached to said means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drug.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for releasing said means for releasably retaining comprises a piston and solenoid assembly, the piston being operatively attached to the means for retaining so as to move said means for retaining between opened and closed positions. 6. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the means for releasably retaining is biased to its closed position.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1 comprising a plurality of means for receiving a drug falling under the influence 


of gravity and storing the drug.
8. The apparatus of Claim 7 comprising a like plurality of respective means for releasably retaining the drug. 9. The apparatus of Claim 8 comprising a like plurality of respective means for releasing the means for retaining.
10. A drug staging apparatus, comprising: a storage container having an inlet and an outlet, the inlet operatively positioned to receive drugs falling under the influence of gravity; a pivoting door operatively positioned at the outlet to open and close the outlet; and a solenoid and piston assembly operatively coupled to the door to open and close the door.
11. A method for staging a drug as a part of a prescription filling process, comprising the steps of: dispensing the drug from a dispensing apparatus; allowing the drug to fall under the influence of gravity into a temporary storage container; releasably retaining the drug in the temporary storage container; positioning a container to collect the drug; and releasing the drug from the temporary storage container and allowing the drug to fall under the influence of gravity from the temporary storage container.
12. The method of Claim 11 wherein the step of releasing the drug from the temporary storage container comprises opening a pivoting door.
13. The method of Claim 11 wherein the step of releasing the drug from the temporary storage container comprises actuating a solenoid and piston assembly and 


causing a pivoting door attached to the piston to move to an open position.
14. A system for automatically filling prescriptions, comprising: means for receiving at least one patient's order, the at least one order comprising patient identification information and one or more prescriptions; at least one prescription filling line including means for automatically filling a vial with drugs, means for labeling the vial, and means for capping the vial with the drugs; means for temporarily accumulating drugs prior to vial filling operatively associated with the means for automatically filling vials; means for channeling drugs from the means for temporarily accumulating drugs to a vial operatively associated with the means for temporarily accumulating drugs; means for assigning one of the prescriptions to the at least one prescription filling line for processing; means for receiving vials from the at least one filling line and for sorting the vials according to the at least one order; and means for collecting vials pertaining to each of the at least one order.
15. The system of Claim 14 wherein the means for temporarily accumulating the drugs further comprises: means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and for storing the drug; means for releasably retaining the drug within the means for storing; and means for releasing said means for retaining and allowing the drug to again fall under the influence 


of gravity.
16. The system of Claim 15 wherein said means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drug comprises a substantially funnel shaped enclosure having a top end that is open and a bottom end that has a closeable opening.
17. The system of Claim 15 wherein said means for releasably retaining the drug comprises a door.
18. The system of Claim 17 wherein said door is hingedly attached to said means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drug.
19. The system of Claim 15 wherein said means for releasing said means for releasably retaining comprises a piston and solenoid assembly, the piston being operatively attached to the means for retaining so as to move said means for retaining between opened and closed positions.
20. The system of Claim 15 wherein the means for releasably retaining is biased to its closed position.
21. The system of Claim 15 wherein said means for temporarily accumulating the drugs comprises a plurality of means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drug. 22. The system of Claim 21 wherein said means for temporarily accumulating the drugs comprises a like plurality of respective means for releasably retaining the drug.
23. The system of Claim 22 wherein said means for temporarily accumulating the drugs comprises a like plurality of respective means for releasing the means for retaining.
24. A system for automatically filling 


prescriptions, comprising: a controller operative to receive patient orders, the orders comprising patient identification information and at least one prescription; at least one filling line conveyor; a device storing the at least one empty vial associated with said filling line conveyor; an unscrambler disposed along the filling line conveyor operative to retrieve the at least one vial and to position the at least one vial on the filling line conveyor; and a filler positioned along the filling line conveyor downstream of the unscrambler and operative to dispense said drugs into said tablet accumulator in accordance with said at least one prescription, said filler including a plurality of canisters from which the drugs are dispensed and a tablet accumulator positioned for receiving the drugs from the canisters and to stage part of at least one prescription prior to positioning of at least one vial for collecting said drug; 25. The system of Claim 24 wherein the tablet accumulator comprises: means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and for storing the drug; means for releasably retaining the drug within the means for storing; and means for releasing said means for retaining and allowing the drug to again fall under the influence of gravity.
26. The system of Claim 25 wherein said means for receiving a drug falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drug comprises a substantially funnel shaped enclosure having a top end that is open and a bottom end
*
 that has a closeable opening. 


 27. An apparatus for dispensing drugs into vials, comprising: a plurality of canisters in which are stored drugs to be dispensed, the canisters so constructed that the drugs are dispensed therefrom by dropping the drugs therefrom and allowing the drugs to fall freely under the influence of gravity; channels members positioned to contain the free falling drugs within the apparatus; and a tablet accumulator positioned for receiving the free falling drugs from the canisters and for temporarily staging the drugs prior to vial filling.
28. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein said tablet accumulator comprises: means for receiving the drugs falling under the influence of gravity and for storing the drugs; means for releasably retaining the drugs within the means for storing; and means for releasing said means for retaining and allowing the drugs to again fall under the influence of gravity.
29. The apparatus of Claim 28 wherein said means for receiving the drugs falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drugs comprises a substantially funnel shaped enclosure having a top end that is open and a bottom end that has a closeable opening.
30. The apparatus of Claim 28 wherein said means for releasably retaining the drugs comprises a door.
31. The apparatus of Claim 30 wherein said door is hingedly attached to said means for receiving the drugs falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drugs.
32. The apparatus of Claim 28 wherein said means 


for releasing said means for releasably retaining comprises a piston and solenoid assembly, the piston being operatively attached to the means for retaining so as to move said means for retaining between opened and closed positions.
33. The apparatus of Claim 28 wherein the means for releasably retaining is biased to its closed position.
34. The apparatus of Claim 28 wherein said means for temporarily accumulating the drugs comprises a plurality of means for receiving the drugs falling under the influence of gravity and storing the drugs.
35. The apparatus of Claim 34 wherein said means for temporarily accumulating the drugs comprises a like plurality of respective means for releasably retaining the drugs.
36. The apparatus of Claim 35 wherein said means for temporarily accumulating the drugs comprises a like plurality of respective means for releasing the means for retaining. 37. The apparatus of Claim 27 further comprising a member disposed beneath the tablet accumulator for receiving the drugs when they are released therefrom and for directing the drugs into the vial. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
