<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611134</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wide band, low noise, fine step tuning, phase locked loop frequency synthesizer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L7197	H03L716	H03L722	H03L723	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The synthesizer (10) includes a first divider 
(16) for dividing a first signal provided by a reference frequency 

source (12). A first 
phase locked loop (20) is provided for receiving a divided first signal 

from the first 
divider (16) and providing an intermediate frequency signal in response 

thereto. The 
first phase locked loop (20) includes a first phase detector (22) for 

comparing the phase 
of the first signal to the phase of a first feedback signal and 

providing a first phase 
difference signal in response thereto. The first phase locked loop (20) 

includes a first 
voltage controlled oscillator (30) for providing the intermediate signal 

in response to the 
first phase difference signal. The first phase locked loop (20) includes 

a first mixer 
(32) for mixing the intermediate signal with a second signal at a second 

frequency F2 
and providing the first feedback signal in response thereto. A second 

divider (38) is 
included in the first phase locked loop (20) for dividing the first 

feedback signal prior 
to its application to the first phase detector (22). A third divider 

(39) is provided for 
shifting the frequency of the intermediate frequency signal, and a 

second phase locked 
loop (40) is coupled to the third divider for processing the frequency 

shifted intermediate 
frequency signal and providing an output frequency signal from the 

synthesizer. 
The second phase locked loop (40) includes a second phase detector (42) 

for comparing 
the phase of the shifted intermediate signal to the phase of a second 

feedback signal 
and providing a second phase difference signal in response thereto. A 

second voltage 
controlled oscillator (50) is included for providing the output 

frequency signal from the synthesizer (10). 
The synthesizer is suitable for implementation for instance in radar and 

communications systems. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANG STEVE S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANG, STEVE S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to frequency synthesizers and synthesizing 
methods, and more particularly, to a wide bandwidth, low noise, fine frequency 
step phase locked loop frequency synthesizer and synthesizing method that provides for 
a large number of frequency steps. Frequency synthesizers are used to generate reference frequencies for radar 
systems, communication systems, test instruments and numerous other devices. In 
many of these applications, there is a need for low phase noise and frequency agility. 
In general, frequency synthesizers include a signal source, a frequency multiplier or 
divider and a phase locked loop. The signal source (typically a crystal oscillator) 
provides a signal at a reference frequency. The frequency multiplier or divider uses this 
signal to synthesize a signal at a frequency of interest. The phase locked loop 
synchronizes the signal at the frequency of interest with an input signal. Noise around a signal may be represented as fluctuations of either the amplitude 
or phase of the carrier. This noise is commonly referred to as phase noise, since fluctuations 
in phase are typically the dominant source of noise close to the carrier. Phase 
noise causes lower receiver sensitivity in multi-signal environments, clutter noise in 
Doppler radar systems, and phase errors in digital communication systems. Phase 
noise imposes fundamental limitations wherever a weak signal is processed in the presence 
of a strong interfering signals. In receivers, phase noise sidebands of the receiver 
local oscillator are transferred to the IF product of the strong interfering signal and 
cover up the weak wanted signals. In a Doppler radar system, the strong interfering  
 
signal is produced by reflections from large stationary objects. Phase noise side bands 
of this unwanted return signal are decorrelated by delay and potentially cover the weak 
Doppler signal in the form of clutter noise. Phase noise is also a limiting factor in 
digital data transmission systems. Phase noise adds to overall system noise increasing 
the bit error rate and may cause a cycle slip in carrier or data clock recovery. Conventional phase locked loop frequency synthesizers exhibit better frequency 
agility using higher reference frequencies. This is due to the fact that phase locked 
loops generally require several cycles to acquire (lock) onto a signal. At higher 
frequencies, more cycles are available in a shorter period of time. In conventional systems, the phase locked synthesized
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus comprising: 

reference frequency means (12,14) for providing a 
plurality of reference frequency signals having 

predetermined reference frequencies F1, F2, F3; 
first frequency dividing means (16) coupled to the 
reference frequency means for shifting the frequency of the 

first frequency signal at frequency F1 to provide a 
frequency divided reference frequency signal at frequency 

F1'; 
first phase locked loop means (20) coupled to the 
reference frequency means for receiving the frequency 

divided reference frequency signal at frequency F1' and the 
second reference frequency signal at frequency F2, and for 

providing an intermediate output signal at frequency FI in 
response thereto; 
second frequency dividing means (39) coupled to the 
first phase locked loop means for shifting the frequency of 

the intermediate frequency signal at frequency FI to provide 
a frequency divided intermediate frequency signal at 

frequency FI'; and 
second phase locked loop means (40) coupled to the 
reference frequency means and to the second frequency 

dividing means for receiving the third reference frequency 
signal at frequency F3 and the frequency divided 

intermediate signal at frequency FI' and for providing an 
output signal of the frequency synthesizer at frequency FO 

in response thereto; 
 
   wherein the first phase locked loop means (20) 

comprises: 

first voltage controlled oscillator means (30) for 
providing the frequency intermediate signal FI in response 

to a first phase difference signal; 
first mixing means (32) coupled to the first voltage 
controlled oscillator means (30) and to the reference 

frequency means for mixing the intermediate frequency signal 
with the second reference frequency signal at frequency F2  

 
and for providing a first feedback signal in response 

thereto; 
third frequency dividing means (38) coupled to the first 
mixing means (32) for shifting the frequency of the first 

feedback signal to provide a frequency divided first 
feedback signal; and 
first phase detector means (22) coupled to the first and 
third frequency dividing means for comparing the phase of 

the frequency divided reference frequency signal at 
frequency Fl' to the phase of the frequency divided first 

feedback signal and for providing the first phase difference 
signal in response thereto; 
 
   characterised in that the first, second and third 

frequency dividing means (16,39,38) each comprise a 
programmable divider. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first phase 
locked loop means (20) comprises first loop filter means 

(34) coupled between the first mixing means (32) and the 
third frequency dividing means (38) for filtering the first 

feedback signal. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said 
second phase locked loop means (40) comprises: 


second phase detector means (42) coupled to the second 
frequency dividing means (39) for comparing the phase of the 

frequency divided intermediate signal to the phase of a 
second feedback signal and for providing a second phase 

difference signal in response thereto; 
second voltage controlled oscillator means (50) coupled 
to the second phase detector mean (42) for providing the 

output signal (FO) of the apparatus in response 
to the second phase difference signal; and 
second mixing means (52) coupled to the reference 
frequency source, the second voltage controlled oscillator 

means (50), and the second phase detector means (42), for 
mixing the output signal (FO) with said third reference frequency signal at said 

frequency F3 provided by the reference frequency source  
 

(12,14), and for providing the second feedback signal in 
response thereto. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the first phase 
locked loop means (20) further comprises first video 

amplifier means (24) and first filter means (28,26) coupled 

between the first phase detector means (22) and the first 
voltage controlled oscillator means (30) for amplifying and 

filtering the first phase difference signal. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the second phase 
locked loop means (40) further comprises second video 

amplifier means (44) and second filter means (46,48) coupled 
between the second phase detector means (42) and the second 

voltage controlled oscillator means (50) for amplifying and 
filtering the second phase difference signal. 
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the second phase 
locked loop means (40) comprises: 


second loop filter means (54) coupled between the second 
mixing means (52) and the second phase detector means (42) 

for filtering the second feedback signal; and 
second loop amplifier means (56) coupled between the 
second mixing means (52) and the second phase detector means 

(42) for amplifying the second feedback signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
