<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611485</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROMECHANICAL POSITIONING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02N202	H01J37073	G01B700	H01L4109	H01J3720	G01B700	H02N202	H01J3720	H01L4109	H01J3706	G01Q1000	G01Q6010	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02N	H01J	G01B	H01L	H01J	G01B	H02N	H01J	H01L	H01J	G01Q	G01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02N2	H01J37	G01B7	H01L41	H01J37	G01B7	H02N2	H01J37	H01L41	H01J37	G01Q10	G01Q60	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electromechanical positioning device to be used for positioning, for example, a probe-tip (12) in a scanning tunneling microscope, an electron emitter in a field electron gun, a mirror in an interferometer etc. comprises a low-mass support (10) as a moving drive means. The support, which is mounted to be frictionally movable in an electromechanical movement activating means, can be moved comparatively fast owing to its low mass and very precisely because its response to the movement force is controlled by sawtooth control pulses, preferably via a piezo-mechanical structure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an electromechanical positioning device for exactly placing a 
tip means, particularly the tip of a needle-like probe, into a space of atomic order at the surface of 
a sample, said device comprising a piezo-tube having electrodes to be connected to variable 
voltages for the generation of movement actions of said tip means. A positioning device of this kind, constructed as a piezo-mechanical device for 
positioning a tip means in a scanning tunneling microscope, is known from Review Sci. Inst. 
63(1), Jan. 1992, pp. 263-264. In the device disclosed therein a support carrying a sample to be 
investigated is frictionally mounted in a piezo-tube. Drawbacks of these devices are a comparatively 
complex construction, a comparatively high weight, their bulkiness, and the use of two 
different methods of movement for coarse and for fine positioning. A further moving device for positioning a sample to be analysed in the range of 
atomic order, particularly in a scanning tunneling microscope (STM), is disclosed in DE 36 10 
540 Al. According to this prior art the sample is placed on three piezo-holders having electrodes 
to be connected to variable voltages for the generation of positioning actions of said tip means. 
The distance between tip and sample can only be variied fine, that means in the range of the 
piezo-expansions. Coarse positioning actions with this moving device are only possible laterally, 
say transverse to the movement of the sample relative to the tip means. A still further electromechanical positioning device, say micromanipulator, is 
disclosed in DE 38 22 504 A1. The micromanipulator comprises piezo-holders for carrying and 
moving the respective sample. For micromovements the holders are piezo-electrically adjustable. 
For respective macromovements at least one of the holders comprise a socket, which is piezo-electrically 
deformable, whereby in the socket a bolt is mounted to be frictionally movable in said 
piezo-holder responsive to variable voltages to be applied to the holder. Thus the sample can be 
placed coarsely into a starting position for the required fine placing in relation to the tip of a 
needle-like probe or the like. It is an object of the invention to mitigate the drawbacks of the known 
electromechanical positioning devices. It is a further object to design the device so that no 
movements of the sample are required to position - say bring closer to or move away from, 
respectively - the tip means or the like into the space of atomic order at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromechanical positioning device for exactly placing a tip means (12), particularly the 
tip of a needle-like probe, into a space of atomic order at the surface of a sample (20), said 

device comprising a piezo-tube (2) having electrodes (4,6) to be connected to variable voltages 
for the generation of movement actions of said tip means, characterized in that said tip means 

(12) is connected to a low-mass support means (10), said support means is frictionally mounted 
to be movable along a friction surface in a longitudinal direction vertical to the surface of the 

sample, in side said piezo-tube (2), and said piezo-tube comprises means for transmitting 
electrically controllable movement actions to said support means (10) in response to said 

variable voltages. 
A positioning device according to claim 1, characterized in that said piezo-tube (2) surrounds - 
particularly closely fitting - a friction holder (8), which is particularly tube-shaped too, and said 

low-mass support means (10) is mounted longitudinal movable inside said friction holder (8) 
under a frictional force, whereby the ratio between said frictional force and said low-mass is that the support 

means does not follow comparatively rapid movements of said friction holder but does follow 
comparatively slow movements of said holder (8). 
A positioning device according to claim 1 or 2, chracterized in that said friction surface forms 
part of pinched portions or intermediate elements (11a) connected to said low-mass support 

means (10), or the inner surface of said friction holder (8) or both of them, particularly said 
intermediate elements (11a) are comprised of three knobs, one in the middle and one at each end 

of said support means (10) or holder (8), within said friction holder (8), and projecting alternately 
at one and the other side of the support means (10) or at both sides each. 
A positioning device according to claim 1 or 2, chracterized in that said low-mass support 
means (10) is comprised of a longitudinal member, particularly an elastic needle-like wire, having 

an elastically bended shape so that it frictionally contacts the inside of the friction holder (8) at 
least at three contact areas (11b), the frictional strength - say the intensity of frictional force - 

being adjustable by altering the grade of elastic bending. 
A positioning device according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, chracterized in that said piezo-tube 
(2) has electrodes (4, 6) connected to a sawtooth generator producing said movement  

 
actions, said low-mass support means (10) being responsive to slow movements and being not 

responsive to fast movements of the friction holder (8). 
A positioning device according to claim 5, characterized in that means are provided to control 
the sawtooth pulse of said generator in response to a predetermined signal applied by the tip 

means (12), said predetermined tip means signal subsequently being stabilised by means of a 
control loop. 
A positioning device according to claim 6, characterized in that changing over to a subsequent 
positioning range of the tip means (12) is effected by means of a sawtooth-pulse control signal 

generated in dependence of the tip-means-to-sample spacing (d). 
A positioning device according to at least one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that said 
piezo-tube (2) is surrounded, particularly coaxially and / or in a proper distance, by a further 

piezo-tube (22) for scanning the sample (20) laterally - say transverse to the movement direction 
of said support means (10) - relative to the tip means (12). 
A positioning device according to at least one of claims 3 to 8, characterized in that said 

friction holder (8), particularly the inside coating of which, is made of glass, a ceramic material 
or a metal, having a predetermined surface-roughness at the inside surface to produce the 

required frictional force. 
A scanning tunneling electron microscope provided with a positioning device as claimed in 
any one of the preceding claims, for coarse as well as fine positioning of a tip means relative to a 

sample to be examined. 
A field electron source provided with a positioning device as claimed in any one of the claims 
1 to 9, for positioning an electron emitter relative to a control electrode of the electron source. 
An optical instrument wherein an optical element to be positioned with a high precision is 
provided with a positioning device as claimed in any one of the claims 1 to 9. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
