<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624714</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tunnel liner, its fabrication method, and its fabrication apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21D906	E21D906	E21D1108	E21D1108	E21D1138	E21D1138	E21D1140	E21D1140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21D9	E21D9	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tunnel liner used for a shield tunneling 
method for a tunnel having a diameter of 1.5 to 7 m is 

fabricated by dividing a ring-shaped liner into a 
plurality of parts in the circumferential direction. 

The tunnel liner is required to be excellent in the 
dimensional accuracy with respect to the outer 

peripheral surface, to be tight, to be high in 
strength, and to be high in water 
tightness at the 
abutment between the adjacent liners. The tunnel liner 

is fabricated by a method of filling each arcuate 
enclosed hollow form with concrete, vibro-compacting 

concrete, molding the end surfaces of the tunnel liner, 
mounting the forms within a centrifugal molding drum, 

and tightly molding the outer peripheral surface of the 
forms by applying of a centrifugal force. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON HIGH STRENGTH CONCRETE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO GAS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON HIGH STRENGTH CONCRETE CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO GAS CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI MITSUTOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHITANI MITSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI, MITSUTOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHITANI, MITSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a concrete 
tunnel liner used for a shield tunneling method for a 
tunnel having a diameter of about 1.5 to 7.0 m; its 
fabrication method; and its fabrication apparatus. A tunnel liner laid around the inner surface of 
a tunnel having a diameter of several meters has been 
generally fabricated using concrete segments, concrete 
blocks and the like. The tunnel liner used for a shield tunneling 
method requires the function that the outer surface is 
tightly contacted with a shield machine for preventing 
permeation of water. Namely, the outer peripheral surface must be 
excellent in dimensional accuracy, high in water 
tightness, and smooth in surface finish. Such a tunnel 
liner is fabricated to be divided into arcuate plates, 
and is assembled in a cylindrical shape at a job site. 
Accordingly, the abutment portion between adjacent 
liners must be high in water tightness. To increase the  
 
water tightness, the abutment surfaces of the tunnel 
liners are provided with projections and grooves engaged 
with each other. The arcuate plate-like concrete tunnel liner has 
been conventionally fabricated by a method of mounting 
reinforcing steelbar or coupler in a form which is 
stationary such that the outer peripheral surface of 
the tunnel liner becomes the upper surface of concrete, 
placing concrete in the form, compacting concrete using 
a vibrator. The concrete liner thus fabricated has been 
manually finished in its upper surface of concrete. On the other hand, there has been known a 
fabrication method of forming forms within a centrifugal 
molding drum having an inside diameter equal to the 
outside diameter of a tunnel liner, placing concrete in 
the drum, thereby centrifugally molding arcuate plate-like 
tunnel liners. The tunnel liner fabricated by centrifugal 
molding has excellent characteristics of being compact 
in concrete at the outside diameter portion, high in 
dimensional accuracy, smooth in the surface, and 
superior in water tightness. However, the abutment 
portion between the adjacent tunnel liners has not been 
perfect. Namely, in fabrication of an arcuate plate-like 
tunnel liner, the projections or recessed grooves  
 
provided on the surfaces of the peripheral edge of the 
tunnel liner are not accurately formed, and honeycomb 
surface is generated on the concrete surface. 
Moreover, micro-gaps are generated due to the inertia 
force of the rotation at the abutment surface of 
concrete with the inner surface of the form on the 
downstream side of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tunnel liner comprising a ring-shaped connected 
body composed of straight liners each having a 

rectangular shape in the circumferential development and 
taper liners having each a trapezoidal shape. 
A tunnel liner according to claim 1, which 
comprises two straight liners each having a center angle 

of 90° , two single taper liners each having an average 
center angle of (90- α), and one double taper liner 

having an average center angle of 2 α. 
A tunnel liner according to claim 1, wherein each 
an abutment portion between the adjacent liners 

provides a projection-groove engaging connection. 
A tunnel liner according to claim 1, wherein said 
abutment portion between the adjacent liners is 

provided with a seat on which a band-like sealing 
material for separating the inner periphery from the 

outer periphery of the liner is seated, and a crimping 
means for pressing said sealing material. 
A method of constructing a prestressed concrete 
 

tunnel liner comprising the steps of: 
   burying an unbonded PC steel material in each 

arcuate liner along the circumferential direction, and 
providing openings from which the end portions of said 

unbonded PC steel material are exposed on the inner 
surface of the liner; 

   assembling said liners in a cylindrical shape; 
   coupling said PC steel materials in a ring 

shape; and 
   stretching said PC steel materials for 

introducing a prestress in the tunnel liner in the 
circumferential direction. 
A method of fabricating a tunnel liner comprising 
the steps of: 

   dividing one circumference of the tunnel liner 
into individual liners of n-piec
es each having an 
arbitrary arc length, and preparing the combination of 

n-kinds of forms of (n-1) pieces; and 
   allocating the combination of n-kinds of said 

forms in a centrifugal molding form drum, thereby 
centrifugally molding said liners. 
A method of fabricating a tunnel liner according to 
claim 6, wherein one circumference of the tunnel liner 

is divided into five individual liners each having an 
 

arbitrary arc length not more than the quarter arc, and 
the combination of five kinds of forms in the number of 

four pieces is prepared. 
A method of fabricating a tunnel liner according to 
claim 6, wherein one liner of the five individual 

liners is formed to have a short arc length, the 
remaining four liners being allocated in upper and lower 

drum shells of the centrifugal molding drum, and said 
liner of the short arc length is separately 

centrifugal-molded. 
A method of fabricating a centrifugal molding 
concrete liner comprising the steps of: 

   holding an arcuate enclosed hollow form in a 
posture that one end of an arcuate side plate is high 

and the other end thereof is low; 
   filling said form with concrete from the upper 

side; 
   accelerating the flowing-down filling of 

concrete and vibro-compacting concrete by applying of 
vibration; 

   mounting a plurality of thus prepared forms in a 
centrifugal molding drum, and consolidating concrete by 

applying a centrifugal force; 
   removing said forms from the centrifugal molding 

 
drum, and also removing each forming panel on an 

arcuate inner surface side of each said form for 
finishing the arcuate inner surface side of concrete; 

and 
   performing concrete curing. 
A method of fabricating a centrifugal molding 
concrete liner according to claim 9, wherein each said 

form is mounted in the centrifugal molding drum such 
that a rectangular side plate of said form on the 

concrete charge side is positioned on the upstream side 
of the rotational direction of the centrifugal molding 

drum. 
A method of fabricating a centrifugal molding 
concrete liner comprising the step of reversing the 

rotational direction of a drum in fabricating a 
centrifugal molding concrete of an arcuate plate like 

member. 
A method of fabricating a centrifugal molding 
tunnel liner comprising the steps of: 

   mounting forms of individual tunnel liners 
divided in an arcuate shape within a centrifugal 

molding drum having a diameter smaller than the outside 
diameter of a tunnel liner to be fabricated;

 
   placing concrete within said forms for 

centrifugal molding; 
   compacting concrete centrifugally and removing said 

forms from the centrifugal molding drum; and 
   removing an excessive thickness of the placed 

concrete on the inside diameter side of the individual 
liners. 
An apparatus for fabricating a centrifugal molding 
concrete liner comprising: 

   a centrifugal molding drum; and 
   a plurality of individual liner forms each 

having a hollow arcuate shape, which are removably 
fixed within said drum; 

   wherein each of said individual liner forms is 
an enclosed form including an arcuate outer surface 

plate, an arcuate inner surface plate, two rectangular 
side plates and two arcuate side plates; 

   said arcuate inner surface plate is provided 
with a frame-like parting surface having a specified 

height around the inner surface of the form; and 
   an enclosable concrete charge port is provided 

near one rectangular side plate, and an air vent hole 
is provided near the other rectangular side plate. 
An apparatus for fabricating a centrifugal molding 
 

concrete liner according to claim 13 further 
comprising: 

   a vibration-exciter for exciting an arcuate 
enclosed hollow form while supporting an arcuate side 

plate in a posture that one end is high and the other 
end is low; and 

   a concrete supply apparatus moved over said 
vibration-exciter for supplying concrete in said 

enclosed hollow form. 
An apparatus for fabricating a centrifugal molding 
concrete liner according to claim 14, wherein the 

exciting force of said vibration-exciter is three to 
five times as much as the acceleration of gravity. 
An apparatus for fabricating a centrifugal molding 
concrete liner according to claim 14, wherein said 

vibration-exciter comprises a plurality of unbalanced 
load rotational type vibration-exciters, and the 

rotational direction is directed rightwardly as seen 
from the rightward and downward direction of said 

arcuate side plate. 
A form for fabricating a centrifugal molding 
tunnel liner comprising an arcuate bottom plate 

provided on the back surface with ribs for providing a 
 

rigidity to said bottom plate; 
   wherein said form is independently formed, and a 

plurality of said forms are disposed on the inner 
surface of a centrifugal molding drum. 
An apparatus of mounting/dismounting molding forms 
for concrete liners in a centrifugal molding drum 

comprising: 
   projections provided on the outer surfaces of 

both end portions of an arcuate concrete liner form 
mounted within a centrifugal molding drum; 

   L-shaped hooks engaged with said projections for 
holding the form on the inner wall of the drum, which 

is provided while passing through the wall of the drum; 
and 

   a rod mechanism for engaging and disengaging 
said L-shaped hooks with and from said projections, 

which is provided outside the drum. 
An apparatus of mounting/dismounting molding forms 
for a concrete liners in a centrifugal molding drum 

according to claim 18, wherein said L-shaped hook is so 
constructed that the locking end of an L-shape is 

positioned within the drum, a center pin supporting 
portion is provided outside the drum and an engaging 

portion engaged to a reciprocating nut is provided at 
 

the other end, and the reciprocating nut is engaged 
with a screw of a rotating rod. 
An apparatus for centrifugally molding concrete 
liners comprising: 

   a driven side meshing transmission unit mounted on 
the outside diameter of a centrifugal molding drum for 

concrete liners; and 
   an auxiliary power unit for low speed rotation 

which includes a drive side transmission unit meshing 
with said driven side transmission unit; 

   wherein said auxiliary power unit is disposed to 
be movable forward and rearward to said centrifugal 

molding drum. 
An apparatus for centrifugally molding concrete 
liners according to claim 20, wherein said meshing 

transmission unit comprises a spur gear meshing with a 
pinion. 
An apparatus for centrifugally molding concrete 
liners according to claim 20, wherein said meshing 

transmission unit comprises a pin roller gear meshing 
with a sprocket. 
A method for fabricating tunnel liners comprising 
 

the steps of: 
   removably mounting individual enclosed hollow 

forms for a plurality of arcuate liners within a 
centrifugal molding drum rotating around the vertical 

center axis; and 
   centrifugally molding said liners. 
A method for fabricating tunnel liners according 
to claim 23, wherein each an arcuate enclosed hollow 

form is held such that arcuate side plates are erected, 
said form is filled with concrete, followed by vibro-compactin
g, 
and each said form is mounted within a 

centrifugal molding drum, whereby centrifugally molding 
the liners. 
A apparatus for fabricating tunnel liners 
comprising: 

   a centrifugal molding drum having a center axis 
disposed in the vertical direction; 

   arcuate enclosed hollow forms removably mounted 
within said drum; and 

   a plurality of drive rollers disposed around the 
outer periphery of said drum. 
A composite tunnel liner comprising: a steel box 
or FRP box formed of an arcuate bottom plate and side 

 
walls erected around four peripheries of the bottom 

plate, whereby said box is filled with concrete. 
A method for fabricating composite tunnel liners 
comprising the steps of: 

   fixing a plurality of segment-like boxes divided 
in the circumferential direction, which are connceted 

with each other, within a drum of a centrifugal molding 
apparatus; 

   placing concrete within said boxes, and 
centrifugal molding and curing the concrete; and 

   instantly removing an integrally molded product 
of said boxes and concrete from the drum of the 

centrifugal molding apparatus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
