<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620734</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERAPEUTIC NUCLEOSIDES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3170	A61K3170	A61K317042	A61K317042	A61K317052	A61K317076	A61K31708	A61P3100	A61P3112	C07H1900	C07H1916	C07H19173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	C07H	C07H	C07H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61P31	A61P31	C07H19	C07H19	C07H19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Compounds of formula (I), wherein R
<
1
>
 represents an n-propoxy, cyclobutoxy, cyclopropylamino, piperidino or pyrrolidino group; or a physiologically functional derivative thereof. The invention further includes methods for the preparation of compounds of formula (I), compositions containing them and the use of these compounds as antiviral agents.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELLCOME FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE WELLCOME FOUNDATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURNS CHARLENE LOUISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALUGE SUSAN MARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSZALKA GEORGE WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRENITSKY THOMAS ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURNS, CHARLENE, LOUISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALUGE, SUSAN, MARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSZALKA, GEORGE, WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRENITSKY, THOMAS, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Therapeutic NucleosidesThe present invention relates to novel 2' ,3' -dideoxy-3' -fluoro-purine nucleoside compounds, salts, esters and physiologically functional derivatives thereof, processes for their preparation, pharmaceutical formulations containing them and to their use in therapy, particularly in the treatment or prophylaxis of viral infections.In the field of antiviral chemotherapy, few drugs exist which effectively combat the virus per se. owing to the difficulty of attacking the virus while leaving uninfected host cells unimpaired. It has been established that certain stages in the virus life-cycle, which vary from species to species, are specified by the virus itself. These stages may prove susceptible to attack where they differ sufficiently from any corresponding host-cell function. However, owing to great similarity between viral and host functions, effective treatments have proved very difficult to identify.One group of viral pathogens of major consequence worldwide are the hepatitis viruses, in particular, hepatitis B virus (HBV) .HBV is most common in Asian countries and prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa. The virus is etiologically associated with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and is thought to cause 80% of the world's liver cancer. In the United States more than ten thousand people are hospitalised for HBV illness each year, an average of 250 die with fulminant disease. The United States currently contains an estimated pool of 500,000-1 million infectious carriers. Chronic active hepatitis will develop in over 25% of carriers and often progresses to cirrhosis. It is estimated that 5000 people die from HBV-related cirrhosis each year in the USA and that perhaps 1000 die from HBV-related liver cancer. Even when a universal HBV vaccine is available, the need for effective anti-HBV compounds will continue. The large reservoir of persistently infected carriers, estimated at 220 million worldwide, will receive no benefit from vaccination and 

 will continue to be at high risk for HBV induced liver disease. This carrier population serves as a source of infection for susceptible individuals perpetuating the incidence of disease, particularly in endemic areas or high risk groups, such as drug abusers and homosexuals. Thus, there is a great need for effective antiviral agents, both to control the chronic infection and to reduce progression to hepatocellular carcinoma.Clinical effects of infection with HBV range from headache to fever, malaise, nausea, vomiting, anorexia and abdominal pains.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A compound of formula (I)
wherein R represents an n-propoxy, cyclobutoxy, cyclopropylamino, piperidino or pyrrolidino group; or a physiologically functional derivative thereof.
2. A compound according to claim 1 selected from:
2-Amino-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-y5-D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-6-n- propoxy-9H purine;
2-Amino-6-cyclobutoxy-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-y3-D-erythro-pento- furanosyl)-9H-purine;
2-Amino-6-(1-pyrrolidino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro- -D-erythro- pentofuranosyl)-9H-purine;
2-Amino-6-(1-piperidino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro -β-D-erythro-pen- tofuranosyl)-9H-purine: and
physiologically functional derivatives thereof. 


 3. 2-Amino-6-(cyclopropylamino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-/9-D-erythro- pentofuranosyl)-9H-purine or a physiologically functional derivative thereof.
4. A physiologically functional derivative of a compound of formula (I) according to any one of claims 1 to 3.
5. A derivative according to claim 4 selected from carboxylic acid esters, sulphonate esters, amino acid, esters, mono- di- or triphosphate esters and salts.
6. A pharmaceutical formulation comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 5, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor.
7. A formulation according to claim 6 in unit dosage form.
8. A formulation according to claim 7 in the form of a tablet or capsule.
9. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation according to claim 6 for use in therapy.
10. Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 5 or a formulation according to claim 6 for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of a virus infection.
11. Use of a compound or a formulation as claimed in claim 10 wherein the virus infection is a hepatitis B virus.
12. A method of treatment or prevention of the symptoms or effects of a virus infection in an infected animal which comprises treating said animal with a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 5. 


13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the virus infection is a hepatitis B virus.
14. A method according to claim 12 wherein the effective amount is from 0.5 to 120mg per kg bodyweight per day.
15. A method according to claim 12 wherein the effective amount is 2 to 60mg per kg bodyweight per day.
16. A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (I)
wherein R represents an n-propoxy, cyclobutoxy, cyclopropylamino, piperidino or pyrrolidino group or a physiologically functional derivative thereof which process comprises:
(A) reacting a purine base of formula (II)
(II)

 wherein R is as hereinbefore defined, or a functional equivalent thereof, with a compound of formula (III)
F
wherein R represents hydrogen or a hydroxy protecting group and A is a phosphate group or salt thereof or a purine or pyrimidine moiety other than (II) or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (I); or
(B) reacting a compound of formula (IV)

 wherein R is as hereinbefore defined and Z represents a precursor group for the fluoro atom with agent(s) and/or under conditions serving to convert the precursor group Z to a fluoro atom in the erythro configuration;
and thereafter, or simultaneously therewith, effecting one or more of the following optional conversions:- 


 (i) removing any remaining protecting group(s);
(II) when a compound of formula (I) is formed, converting it into a salt, ester or physiologically functional derivative of a compound of formula (I) ; or
(iii)when a salt, ester or physiologically functional derivative of a compound of formula (I) or a solvate of any thereof is formed, converting the derivative into a compound of formula (I) or into a different derivative of the compound of formula (I).
17. A process according to claim 16 for the preparation of a compound of formula (I) selected from:
2-Amino-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro- -D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-6-n- propoxy-9H purine;
2-Amino-6-cyclobutoxy-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro -β-D-erythro-pento- furanosyl)-9H-purine;
2-Amino-6-(1-pyrrolidino) -9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro- -D-erythro- pentofuranosyl)-9H-purine;
2-Amino-6-(l-piperidino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro- -D-erythro-pen- tofuranosyl)-9H-purine; and
physiologically functional derivatives thereof.
18. A process according to claim 16 for the preparation of 2-Amino- 6-(cyclopropylamino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro- ?-D-erythro-pento- furanosvl)-9H-purine or a physiologically functional derivative thereof. 


19. A process according to claim 16 for the production of a physiologically functional derivative of a compound of formula (I) according to any one of claims 1 to 3.
20. A process according to claim 19 wherein the derivative is selected from carboxylic acid esters, sulphonate esters, amino acid esters, mono-, di- or triphosphate esters and salts.
21. A process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical formulation containing a compound of formula (I)

 wherein R represents an n-propoxy, cyclobutoxy, cyclopropylamino, piperidino or pyrrolidino group or a physiologically functional derivative thereof which comprises preparing said compound by a process which comprises:
(A) reacting a purine base of formula (II)
(ID

 wherein R is as hereinbefore defined or a functional equivalent thereof, with a compound of formula (III)
F
wherein R represents hydrogen or a hydroxy protecting group and A is a phosphate group or salt thereof or a purine or pyrimidine moiety other than (II) or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (I) ; or
(B) reacting a compound of formula (IV)

 wherein R is as hereinbefore defined and Z represents a precursor group for the fluoro atom with agent(s) and/or under conditions serving to convert the precursor group Z to a fluoro atom in the erythro configuration;
and thereafter, or simultaneously therewith, effecting one or more of the following optional conversions:- 


 (i) removing any remaining protecting group(s) ;
(ii) when a compound of formula (I) is formed, converting it into a salt, ester or physiologically functional derivative of a compound of formula (I) ; or
(iii)when a salt, ester or physiologically functional derivative of a compound of formula (I) or a solvate of any thereof is formed, converting the derivative into a compound of formula (I) or into a different derivative of the compound of formula (I)
and bringing the resulting compound of formula (I) together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers to form the said pharmaceutical formulation.
22. A process according to claim 21 for the preparation of a formulation containing a compound selected from:
2-Amino-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-9-D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-6-n- propoxy-9H purine;
2-Amino-6-cyclobutoxy-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-9-D-erythro-pento- furanosyl)-,9H-purine;
2-Amino-6-(l-pyrrolidino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-9-D-erythro- pentofuranosyl)-9H-purine;
2-Amino-6-(1-piperidino)-9-(2,3-dideoxy-3-fluoro-?-D-erythro-pen- tofuranosyl)-9H-purine: and
physiologically functional derivatives thereof. 


23. A process according to claim 21 for the preparation of a pharma¬ ceutical formulation containing 2-Amino-6-(cyclopropylamino)-9- (2.3-dideoxy-3-fluoro- β -D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-9H-purine or a physiologically functional derivative thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
