<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646984</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electromagnetic detection system provided with an antenna element having one winding.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q700	H01Q700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q7	H01Q7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electromagnetic detection system comprising a transmitter 
and receiver device, a transformer having a primary side which is 

connected with the transmitter and receiver device, at least one 
antenna element which is connected with a secondary side of the 

transformer for generating an electromagnetic interrogation field 
in a detection zone and at least one responder adapted to radiate 

a detection signal under the influence of the interrogation 
field, the antenna element consisting of a current loop having 

only one winding. The system further comprises a tuning element 
which is connected with the secondary side of the transformer and 

with the antenna element, so that on the secondary side of the 
transformer a resonance circuit is formed having a resonance 

frequency which corresponds with the operating frequency of the 
transmitter and receiver device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIP HARM JACOB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROOSENBOOM DERK JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIP, HARM JACOB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROOSENBOOM, DERK JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electromagnetic detection system 
comprising a transmitter and receiver device, a transformer with a 
primary side which is connected with the transmitter and receiver 
device, at least one antenna element which is connected with a 
secondary side of the transformer for generating an 
electromagnetic interrogation field in a detection zone and at 
least one responder adapted to radiate a detection signal under 
the influence of the interrogation field, the antenna element 
consisting of a current loop having only one winding. Such an electromagnetic detection system is disclosed in 
European patent application 0331269. Generally, these and similar 
detection systems are adapted for detecting and recognizing 
particular persons, articles, vehicles, animals and the like, or 
the class or group to which these persons, articles, vehicles, 
animals and the like belong. These systems comprise responders 
which generate a coded detection signal in a suitable 
interrogation field. Such a responder is disclosed, for instance, 
in Dutch patent 176404. This responder is employed on a large 
scale, for instance in automatic cattlefeed systems. A cow or a 
pig carries the responder, for instance on a collar. If this 
responder is used in the proximity of a transmitting coil which 
radiates an electromagnetic interrogation field, the responder 
reacts thereto by radiating a unique code. This code is received 
by an antenna which may, for instance, be the same as the 
transmitting antenna, detected in an electronic device and 
applied to a computer. The computer then determines how much feed 
there is in store for the animal, whereafter this amount can be 
deposited automatically in a feeding through in the proximity of 
the animal. A gate construction ensures that only the animal in 
question receives its share of feed and that the animal, while  
 
eating, is not disturbed by other animals. In practice, for the 
purpose of detecting the responder of an animal, the animal is 
typically made to walk through windings of the antenna. In that 
case, the antenna coil has appropriate dimensions for that 
purpose, for instance of 2 x 1 metres. It is an advantage that 
the antenna coil resonates at the operating frequency. In fact, 
as a result of the resonant rise, the current in the circuit then 
becomes much greater than the control current, so that a 
particular field strength can be achieved even at a small control 
current. Moreover, for the received signals, the resonating coil 
constitutes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic detection system comprising a transmitter 
and receiver device, a transformer having a primary side which is 

connected with the transmitter and receiver device, at least one 
antenna element which is connected with a secondary side of the 

transformer for generating an electromagnetic interrogation field 

in a detection zone and at least one responder adapted to radiate 
a detection signal under the influence of the interrogation 

field, the antenna element consisting of a current loop having 
only one winding, characterized in that the system further 

comprises a tuning element which is connected with the secondary 
side of the transformer and with the antenna element, so that on 

the secondary side of the transformer a resonance circuit is 
formed having a resonance frequency which corresponds with the 

operating frequency of the transmitter and receiver device. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the tuning element comprises a coil with a 

regulable self-induction for tuning the resonance frequency to 
the operating frequency. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the coil and the antenna element are 

connected in series. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 2 or 
3, characterized in that the tuning element further comprises a 

capacitance. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 4, 
characterized in that the capacitance and the antenna element are 

connected in series. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the coil comprises a magnetizable core 

material, the system further comprising a regulable DC voltage 
source which generates a direct current for magnetizing the core 

material and thus controlling the self-induction of the coil. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 6, 
characterized in that the DC voltage source is part of a control 

loop in which the DC voltage source is controlled in such a 
manner that a current and an associated voltage in the resonance 

circuit have the same phase. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 7, 
characterized in that the DC voltage source is controlled in such 

a manner that the current and the voltage of a transmitted signal 
applied to a primary side of the transformer by the transmitter 

and receiver unit have the same phase. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 6, 
characterized in that the DC voltage source is part of a control 

loop in which the DC voltage source is controlled in such a 
manner that a current and an associated voltage in the resonance 

circuit are at a maximum. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 7, 
characterized in that the DC voltage source is controlled in such 

a manner that the current and the voltage of a transmitted signal 
applied to a primary side of the transformer by the transmitter 

and receiver unit are at a maximum. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the regulable coil 

and the transformer are part of one and the same component. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to any one of 
the preceding claims, characterized in that the system further 

comprises a second transmitter and receiver device, a second 
antenna element coupled thereto, which comprises a current loop 

having one winding and a regulable coupling transformer with a 
first and a second side, windings of the first side being 

connected in parallel to the current loop of the first-mentioned 
antenna element and windings of the second side being connected 

in parallel to the current loop of the second antenna element. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 11, 
characterized in that the coupling between the windings of the 

first and second side, respectively, of the second transformer is 
adjusted in such a manner that the magnetic coupling between the 

first-mentioned antenna element and the second antenna element is 
compensated. 
An electromagnetic detection system comprising a first and a 
second transmitter and receiver device which are respectively 

connected via a first and a second transformer with a first and a 
second antenna element for generating electromagnetic 

interrogation fields in at least one detection zone and at least 
one responder adapted to radiate a detection signal under the 

influence of an interrogation field, the antenna elements each 
consisting of a current loop having only one winding, 

characterized in that the system further comprises a regulable 
coupling transformer having a first and a second side, windings 

of the first side being connected in parallel with the current 
loop of the first antenna element and windings of the second side 

being connected in parallel with the current loop of the second 
antenna element. 
An electromagnetic detection system according to claim 14, 
characterized in that the coupling between the windings of the 

first and second sides, respectively, of the second transformer 
is adjusted in such a manner that the magnetic coupling between 

the first antenna element and the second antenna element is 
compensated. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
