<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613364</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLIMATE CHAMBER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61H3310	A61H3306	A61H3306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61H	A61H	A61H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61H33	A61H33	A61H33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided a climate chamber having impervious walls and a steam producing device (13) comprising an electrically heated metal block (14), means (21) for providing a steady, known flow of water on to the block (14) such that steam is produced substantially immediately upon contact with the block (14). An outer casing (23) of plastic shields the device (13) which is very hot and an outlet on the stainless steel inner casing (22) urges steam out into the chamber.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORDIC SAUNAS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORDIC SAUNAS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RENWICK JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RENWICK, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to climate chambers and 
more particularly to steam rooms, sauna rooms and 
steam cubicles. Climate chambers are well known and provide an 
enclosed space which may be filled with steam so as to 
produce a typical working environment of around 100% 
Relative Humidity at temperatures of about 40-42°C, 
although up to 50°C can sometimes be tolerated. Such 
chambers provide an environment which is considered to 
be advantageous to the user, although the temperature 
range specified can vary according to choice and may 
indeed be much lower than those just mentioned or may 
have an upper limit of 125°C with a Relative Humidity 
of only 1 or 2%. It is known to use an external boiler to 
provide the steam for climate rooms via suitable 
pipework. In alternative arrangements a vessel 
containing water is provided low down in the climate 
room and a heating element similar to those used in 
electric kettles is employed to boil the mass of water 
in the vessel. In both of these systems a mass of 
water has to be heated before producing any steam and 
there is, therefore, a considerable delay in achieving 
suitable conditions within the room. In CH-A-0503959 there is provided a climate 
chamber comprising substantially impervious walls and 
incorporating one or more steam producing devices, the 
or each steam producing device comprising a member 
adapted to be heated and a water flow device whereby a 
controlled flow of water from the flow device is 
caused to contact the member thereby to produce steam 
substantially immediately upon contact with the 
member, the heat produced by the member and the water 
flow rate being set or controlled relative to each 
other. The present invention is characterised in that  
 
control means are provided for selectively varying the 
flow of water from said water flow device and the 
heat produced by the heated member wherein the heat 
produced by the member is always just sufficient to 
ensure that the rate of production of steam is 
substantially equal to the rate of flow of water. The term climate chamber, as used herein, 
means any chamber within which the humidity may be 
varied from 0 to 100%. Relative Humidity and the 
temperature varied from ambient to 125°C. Examples of 
such climate chambers include steam rooms (e.g. 
saunas) and steam cubicles. The heat produced by the member and the flow 
of water may be independently variable so as to 
provide any combination of Relative Humidity and 
temperature within the chamber. The member may heat 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A climate chamber comprising substantially 
impervious walls and incorporating one or more 

steam producing devices (13), the or each steam 
producing device (13) comprising a member (14) 

adapted to be heated and a water flow device (21) 
whereby a controlled flow of water from the flow 

device (21) is caused to contact the member (14) 
thereby to produce steam substantially 

immediately upon contact with the member, the 
heat produced by the member and the water flow 

rate being set or controlled relative to each 
other, characterised in that control means 

are provided for selectively varying the flow of 
water from said water flow device and the heat 

produced by the heated member wherein the heat 
produced by the member is always just sufficient 

to ensure that the rate of production of steam is 
substantially equal to the rate of flow of water. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 1 wherein 
the water flow device (21) is positioned above 

the member (14) so that water flows under gravity 
on to the member. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
2 wherein the water flow is delivered by a 

controlled pump or mains water pressure. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 3 wherein 
the water flow device (21) provides a spray of 

water droplets directed at the member (14). 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims  
 

1 to 4 wherein the or each steam producing device 
(13) is located within the chamber. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 5 wherein 
the or each steam producing device (13) is 

located near the floor (11) of the chamber. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 6 wherein 
an inner casing (22) extends over the top and 

sides of the or each steam producing device (13) 
and an outer casing (23) extends over the top and 

sides of the inner casing (22). 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 6 wherein 
an inner casing (22) surrounds the top, base and 

sides of the or each steam producing device and 
is provided with one or more steam outlet holes 

(30) and an outer casing (23) extends over the 
top and sides of the inner casing (22) and is 

also provided with one or more steam outlet 
apertures (31). 
A climate chamber as claimed in claims 1 to 8, 
wherein an outer casing (23) extends over the top 

and sides of the steam producing device (13) and 
comprises one or more steam outlet apertures 

which include at least one substantially 

vertically extended portion (68). 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 9, wherein 
in use the extended portion (68) reduces the 

temperature of the steam and air mixture passing 
therethrough. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 10, wherein  
 

the temperature of the steam and air mixture is 
reduced to below 75°C. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claims 8 to 11 
wherein the inner casing (22) is provided with an 

indentation (32) below one of said apertures (31) 
for receiving a fragrance release material. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims 
7 to 12 wherein the inner casing (22) is made of 

stainless steel and the outer casing (33) is made 
from plastic. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 4 wherein the or each steam producing device 

(13) is located externally of and immediately 
adjacent or at a distance from the chamber. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 14 wherein 
the or each steam producing device (13) is 

located below the floor (11) of the chamber and 
incorporates a steam outlet in the floor. 
A steam chamber as claimed in claim 15 wherein 
the floor has a waste outlet (39) which 

constitutes the outlet through which the steam 
enters the chamber. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 14 wherein 
the or each steam producing device (13) is 

located above the ceiling of the chamber and 
circulation means (40) is provided to circulate 

the steam within the chamber. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims  
 

1 to 17 wherein the member (14) of the or each 
device comprises a metal block incorporating a 

heating element (33). 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 18 wherein 
the heating element (33) is electrically powered 

and is mineral insulated before being cast into 
said metal block. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 19 wherein said control means comprises an 

overtemperature switch. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 20 wherein the control means provides manual 

control means for setting desired chamber 
temperature and humidity and desired length of 

time at that temperature. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 21 wherein the control means provides 

programmable means for operation at different 
operating conditions for chosen periods of time. 
A climate chamber as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 22 wherein the controlled flow of water is 

ensured by the provision of regulation means. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 23 wherein 
said regulation means comprises a constant head 

device (21) or a constant displacement pump. 
A climate chamber as claimed in claim 23 or claim 
24 wherein the regulation means incorporates a 

solenoid valve (20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
