<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612155</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coding method, coder and decoder for a digital signal
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M750	H03M730	H03M700	H03M700	H03M750	H03M730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In quantizing a digital signal every frequency bands by quantization units and 
transmitting (transmitting or recording) such quantized digital signal, second 

quantization accuracy information (Q2a to Q2d) indicating a difference between first 
quantization accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d) serving as a reference and actual 

quantization accuracy information (Qa to Qd) from a quantization accuracy 
determination unit (17) is coded at a quantization accuracy information coding unit (18) 

to transmit the coded quantization accuracy information to thereby realize efficient 
coding while 
maintaining the degree of freedom in the manner of giving quantization 
accuracy. Accordingly, more efficient coding can be attained while leaving the degree 

of freedom in the manner of giving quantization accuracy by a lesser number of bits.. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAGAWA JAPAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KYOYA TSUTSUI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAGAWA, JAPAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KYOYA, TSUTSUI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a coding method for a digital
signal applied to an encoder/decoder system which is adapted to
carry out coding of an input signal such as a digital audio
signal, etc. to transmit or receive a coded signal through a
communication medium, or record or reproduce it through a
recording medium to send such coded signal to a decoder to decode
it to obtain a reproduced signal, a coder using such a coding
method, a decoder for decoding an information signal coded by
such a coding method, and a recording medium on which an
information signal coded by such a coding method is recorded.There are various efficient coding techniques for an audio
signal or a speech signal, etc. For example, there can be
enumerated a subband coding (SBC) which is a frequency band
division system including no coding processing using blocks
(signal sample blocks) in which an audio signal, etc. on the time
base is divided into signal components in plural frequency bands
without dividing such a signal into blocks (signal sample blocks)
to encode them; a frequency band division system including coding
processing using blocks (signal sample blocks), which is so
called transform coding, adapted to transform a signal on the
time base to a signal on the frequency base (spectrum transform)
to divide it into signal components in plural frequency bands to 
encode such signal components every respective bands; and the
like.Further, there has been proposed an efficient coding
technique in which the above-described subband coding (SBC) and
the transform coding are combined. In this case, for example,
an approach is employed to carry out a band division by the
subband coding (SBC) thereafter to spectrum-transform signals
every respective bands into signals (signal components) on the
frequency base to implement coding to the spectrum-transformed
signal components every respective bands. As a filter for the
band division, there is, e.g., so called a QMF filter. This QMF
filter is described in 1976 R.E. Crochiere, Digital coding of
speech in subbands, Bell Syst. Tech. J., Vol. 55, No. 8 1976.
In addition, in ICASSP 83, BOSTON, Polyphase Quadrature filters-A
new subband coding technique, Joseph H. Rothweiler, a technique
for carrying out band division by using filters of the equal band
width is described.Here, as the above-described spectrum transform processing,
e.g., there is such a spectrum transform processing to divide an
input audio signal into blocks (signal sample blocks) every
predetermined unit time (frame) to carry
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A coding method for the coding of a digital signal comprising the steps of:

employing quantization accuracy information generating means (33, 37) to generate
first quantization accuracy information,
employing said first quantization accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d) and second
quantization accuracy information (Q2a to Q2d) to determine a desired quantization

accuracy (Q2) of said digital signal,
effecting quantization of said digital signal with said desired quantization accuracy
(Q2), and
sending only said second quantization accuracy information (Q2a to Q2d) to a decoder.
A coding method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said second quantization accuracy
information (Q2a to Q2d) is quantization accuracy difference information obtained by

taking a difference between quantization accuracy information (Qa to Qd) outputted
from quantization accuracy determination means (17) and said first quantization

accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d).
A coding method as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein said first quantization
accuracy information is fixed quantization accuracy information.
A coding method as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein said first quantization
accuracy information is calculated on the basis of normalization coefficients in

normalization carried out prior to said quantization of said digital signal.
A coding method as set forth in anyone of claims 1 to 4 wherein, when coding is
implemented with respect to said digital signal, which is divided into current and other

time blocks, said first quantization accuracy information relates to any of said other
time blocks.
A coding method as set forth in claim 5 wherein first quantization accuracy
information relates to a time block earlier tha
n said current time block. 
A coding method as set forth in anyone of claims 1 to 6 wherein said second
quantization accuracy information is subjected to variable length coding before being

sent to said decoder.
A coding method as set forth in anyone of claims 1 to 6 wherein said second
quantization accuracy information has a fixed length.
A coder for coding a digital signal comprising:

quantization accuracy information generating means (33) for generating first
quantization accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d);
means (32) for generating second quantization accuracy information (Q2a to Q2d);
means for carrying out quantization (14) of said digital signal with a quantization
accuracy determined by said first quantization accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d) and

said second quantization accuracy information (Q2a to Q2d); and
means for sending only said second quantization accuracy information to a decoder.
A coder as set forth in claim 9, further comprising quantization accuracy
determination means, and difference means, wherein said second quantization accuracy

information is quantization accuracy difference information obtained from said
difference means (32) by taking a difference between quantization accuracy information

outputted (31) from said quantization accuracy determination means and said first
quantization accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d).
A coder as set forth in claim 9 wherein said first quantization accuracy information
(Q1a to Q1d) is fixed quantization accuracy information.
A coder as set forth in anyone of claims 9 to 11, further comprising coefficient
normalization means (13), wherein said first quantization accuracy information is

calculated on the basis of normalization coefficients in normalization carried out by said
normalization means (13) prior to said quantization of said digital signal.
A coder as set forth in anyone of claims 9 to 12, wherein when coding is
implemented with respect to said digital signal, which is divided into current and other

time blocks, said quantization accuracy information relates to any of said other time
blocks.
A coder as set forth in claim 13 wherein said first quantization accuracy information
relates to a time block earlier than said current time block. 
A coder as set forth in anyone of claims 9 to 14 wherein said second quantization
accuracy information is subjected to variable length coding before being sent to said

decoder.
A coder as set forth in anyone of claims 9 to 14 wherein said second quantization
accuracy information has a fixed length.
A decoder for decoding a coded information signal produced when a digital signal
is coded by a coder generating coder-generated first quantization accuracy information

(Q1a to Q1d) and coder-generated second quantization accuracy information
(Q2a to Q2d), said decoder comprising:


means (21) for receiving said coded information signal from the coder;
quantization accuracy information generating means (45) generating decoder-generated
first quantization accuracy information (q1a to q1d); and
means for determining a quantization accuracy information (q1a to q1d) of said digital
signal with the quantization accuracy of said digital signal being determined by said

decoder-generated first quantization accuracy information (q1a to q1d) outputted from
said quantization accuracy information generating means (45) and said coder-generated

second quantization accuracy information (Q2a to Q2d) sent from said coder.
A decoder as set forth in claim 17 wherein said coder includes difference means
(32) and wherein said coder-generated second quantization accuracy information is

quantization accuracy difference information obtained from said difference means by
taking a difference between quantization accuracy information outputted from

quantization accuracy determination means in said coder and said coder-generated first
quantization accuracy information.
A decoder as set forth in claim 17 wherein said coder-generated first quantization
accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d) and said decoder-generated first quantization

accuracy information (q1a to q1d) are of a fixed quantization accuracy.
A decoder as set forth in anyone of claims 17 to 19 wherein said coder includes
normalization means (13) and wherein said coder-generated first quantization accuracy

information (Q1a to Q1d) and said decoder-generated first quantization accuracy
information (q1a to q1d) are calculated on the basis of normalization coefficients in

normalization carried out by said normalization means (13) prior to said quantization of
said digital signal. 
A decoder as set forth in anyone of claims 17 to 20 wherein said coder includes
divider means (12) and wherein, when coding is implemented with respect to said

digital signal, which is divided by said divider means (12) into current and other time
blocks, said coder-generated first quantization accuracy information (Q1a to Q1d) and

said decoder-generated first quantization accuracy information (q1a to q1a) relate to any
of said other time blocks.
A decoder as set forth in claim 21 wherein said coder-generated first quantization
accuracy information and said decoder-generated first quantization accuracy information

relate to a time block earlier than said current time block.
A decoder as set forth in anyone of claims 17 to 22 wherein said coder-generated
second quantization accuracy information is subjected to variable length coding.
A decoder as set forth in anyone of claims 17 to 22 wherein said coder-generated
second quantization accuracy information has a fixed length.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
