<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642785</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sustained release heterodisperse hydrogel systems for insoluble drugs
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K922	A61K920	A61K928	A61K922	A61K4736	A61K4736	A61K928	A61K930	A61K930	A61K920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	A61K47	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sustained release pharmaceutical formulation 
includes a sustained release excipient including a 

gelling agent, an inert pharmaceutical diluent, an 
optional cationic crosslinking agent, and a medicament 

having moderate to poor solubility is disclosed. In 
certain embodiments, the sustained release excipient is 

granulated with a solution or suspension of a 
hydrophobic polymer in an amount effective to slow the 

hydration of the gelling agent when the formulation is 
exposed to an environmental fluid. In another 

embodiment, the tablet is coated with a hydrophobic 
polymer. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MENDELL CO INC EDWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDWARD MENDELL CO., INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAICHWAL ANAND R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAICHWAL, ANAND R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The advantages of controlled release products are well
known in the pharmaceutical field and include the ability
to maintain a desired blood level of a medicament over a
comparatively longer period of time while increasing patient
compliance by reducing the number of administrations
necessary to achieve the same. These advantages have been
attained by a wide variety of methods. For example, different
hydrogels have been described for use in controlled
release medicines, some of which are synthetic, but most of
which are semi-synthetic or of natural origin. A few contain
both synthetic and non-synthetic material. However,
some of the systems require special process and production
equipment, and in addition some of these systems are susceptible
to variable drug release.Oral controlled release delivery systems should ideally
be adaptable so that release rates and profiles can be
matched to physiological and chronotherapeutic requirements.While many controlled and sustained release formulations
are already known, certain moderately to poorly
soluble drugs present formulation difficulties which render
them inapplicable for sustained release formulations which
might be suitable for, e.g., relatively soluble drugs. It
is often not possible to readily predict whether a particular
sustained release formulation will provide the desired
sustained release for a relatively insoluble drug, and it
has generally been found that it is necessary to carry out
considerable experimentation to obtain sustained release
formulations of such drugs having the desired bioavailability
when ingested.An example of a poorly soluble drug is nifedipine,
which is very poorly soluble, and often exhibits poor 
bioavailability when incorporated into sustained release
formulations. Accordingly, a great deal of attention has
been given to the preparation of sustained release nifedipine
formulations which provide acceptable bioavailability.
Certain prior art, such as U.S. Patent No. 4,765,989
(Wong, et al.) describe an osmotic system wherein nifedipine
is contained along with osmopolymers in a compartment
enclosed by a wall which is substantially impermeable to
the passage of the drug. The osmopolymer exhibits an
osmotic pressure gradient across the wall against the
external fluid. A passageway in the wall communicates with
the first composition and the exterior of the device for
delivering nifedipine to the passageway.Other techniques which have been described in the
prior art for preparing sustained release nifedipine
formulations include
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sustained release oral solid dosage form for absorption of a therapeutically
active medicament in the gastrointestinal tract, comprising:


an effective amount of a medicament having a solubility of less than 10 g/l
to render a therapeutic effect;
a sustained release excipient comprising a gelling agent comprising a
heteropolysaccharide gum and a homopolysaccharide gum capable of cross-linking

said heteropolysaccharide when exposed to an environmental fluid, the ratio of said
heteropolysaccharide gum to said homopolysaccharide gum being from 1:3 to 3:1;

an inert pharmaceutical diluent selected from the group consisting of
monosaccharide, a disaccharide, a polyhydric alcohol, and mixtures thereof, the

ratio of said inert diluent to said gelling agent being from 1:8 to 8:1; and a

pharmaceutically acceptable cationic cross-linking agent capable of cross-linking
with said gelling agent and increasing the gel strength when the dosage form is

exposed to an environmental fluid; the ratio of said medicament to said gelling
agent being from 1:3 to 1:8; said dosage form providing a sustained release of said

medicament when exposed to an environmental fluid.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1, wherein said heteropolysaccharide
gum comprises xanthan gum and said homopolysaccharide comprises locust bean

gum.
The oral solid dosage form of claims 1 and 2, wherein said cationic cross-linking
agent comprises from 0.5 to 16 percent of said formulation, by weight.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1, wherein said medicament has a
solubility of less than 1000 mg/l.
The oral solid dosage form of claims 1-4, wherein said medicament is a
therapeutically effective dihydropyridine. 
The oral solid dosage forms of claims 1-4, wherein said medicament is
selected from the group consisting of nifedipine, nimodipine, nivadipine,

nitrendipine, nisolidipine, niludipine, nicardipine and felodipine.
The oral solid dosage form of claims 1-6, wherein said cationic cross-linking
agent comprises an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal sulfate, chloride, borate,

bromide, citrate, acetate or lactate.
The oral solid dosage form of claims 1-7, wherein said cationic cross-linking
agent comprises calcium sulfate.
The oral solid dosage form of claims 1-8, which further comprises an
effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable wetting agent for said

medicament.
The solid dosage form of claim 9, wherein said wetting agent is polyethylene
glycol.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1, wherein said medicament is
nifedipine.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1, wherein said gelling agent, said inert
diluent, and said cationic cross-linking agent are granulated with a hydrophobic

material selected from the group consisting of an alkyl cellulose, a copolymer of
acrylic and methacrylic acid esters, waxes, shellac, zein, hydrogenated vegetable oils,

and mixtures of any of the foregoing, prior to incorporation of said medicament,
said hydrophobic material being included in said dosage from in an amount

effective to slow the hydration of said gelling agent when exposed to an
environmental fluid.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 12, wherein said hydrophobic material is
ethylcellulose. 
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1 which is a tablet.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1 which is in granular form.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1, which comprises a gelatin capsule
containing a sufficient amount of said granules to provide an effective dose of said

therapeutically active medicament.
The oral solid dosage form of claims 1-6 which is a tablet, at least part of a
surface of said tablet being coated with a hydrophobic material to a weight gain

from 1 to 20 percent, by weight.
The oral solid dosage from of claim 10 which comprises a granulation which
is coated with a hydrophobic material to a weight gain from 1% to 20%.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 18, wherein said hydrophobic material is
selected from the group consisting of a alkylcellulose, a copolymer of acrylic and

methacrylic acid esters, waxes, shellac, zein, hydrogenated vegetable oils, and
mixtures of any of the foregoing, prior to incorporation of said medicament, said

hydrophobic polymer being included in said dosage form in an amount effective to
slow the hydration of said gelling agent when exposed to an environmental fluid.
The oral solid dosage form of claim 1 which is a tablet, said tablet further
comprising a coating containing from 10 to 40 percent of the total amount of said

medicament included in said dosage form.
The dosage form of claim 11, wherein the amount of nifedipine is 20 mg, 30
mg, 60 mg or 90 mg.
The dosage form of claim 1, wherein said cationic cross-linking agent
comprises from 1 percent to 20 percent of said dosage form, by weight. 
The dosage form of claims 1-22, wherein said sustained release excipient
comprises from 10 to 75 percent gelling agent, from 2 to 15 percent cationic cross-linking

agent, and from 30 to 75 percent inert diluent.
The dosage form of claims 1-22, wherein said sustained release excipient
comprises from 30 to 75 percent gelling agent, from 5 to 10 percent cationic cross-linking

agent, and from 15 to 65 percent inert diluent.
A sustained release oral solid dosage form for absorption of a therapeutically
active medicament in the gastrointestinal tract, comprising:


an effective amount of a medicament having a solubility of less than 10 g/l
to render a therapeutic effect;
a sustained release excipient comprising a gelling agent comprising a gelling
agent comprising xanthan gum and a galactomannan capable of cross-linking said

xanthan gum when exposed to an environmental fluid, the ratio of said xanthan
gum to said galactomannan being from 1:3 to 3:1; an inert pharmaceutical diluent

selected from the group consisting of a monosaccharide, a disaccharide, a
polyhydric alcohol, and mixtures thereof, the ratio of said inert diluent to said

gelling agent being from 1:8 to 8:1; and a pharmaceutically acceptable cationic
cross-linking agent capable of cross-linking with said gelling agent and increasing

the gel strength when the dosage form is exposed to an environmental fluid; the
ratio of said medicament to said gelling agent being from 1:3 to 1:8; said dosage

form providing a sustained release of said medicament when exposed to an
environmental fluid.
A method of preparing an oral extended release formulation of a
medicament having poor solubility in water, comprising:


preparing a sustained release excipient comprising from 10 to 99 percent by
weight of a gelling agent comprising a heteropolysaccharide gum and a

homopolysaccharide gum capable of cross-linking said heteropolysaccharide gum
when exposed to an environmental fluid, the ratio of said heteropolysaccharide gum

to said homopolysaccharide gum being from 1:3 to 3:1, from 1 to 20 percent by
weight of a cationic cross-linking agent capable of cross-linking with said gelling 

agent to increase the gel strength when exposed to an environmental fluid, and from
0 to 89 percent by weight of an inert pharmaceutical diluent; and
adding an effective amount of a medicament having a solubility of less than
10 g/l to render a desired therapeutic effect, such that a final product is obtained

having a ratio of said medicament to said gelling agent from 1:3 to 1:8; such that a
gel matrix is created when said formulation is exposed to an environmental fluid

and said formulation provides therapeutically effective blood levels of said
medicament for at least 12 hours.
A method for preparing a sustained oral solid dosage from for a drug having

a solubility of less than 10 g/l, comprising:

preparing a sustained release excipient comprising a gelling agent and a
cationic cross-linking agent in an amount effective to cross-link said gelling agent

when said gelling agent is exposed to fluid in an environment of use;
preparing a granulate of an effective amount of a medicament having a
solubility of less than 10 g/l with a pharmaceutically acceptable wetting agent,

mixing said wetted medicament with said sustained release excipient;
coating said granulate with a hydrophobic material to a weight gain from 1% to

20%; and
preparing an oral solid dosage form suitable for human consumption by
compressing an appropriate amount of said coated granulate into a tablet, or by

incorporating an appropriate amount of said coated granulate into a gelatin capsule.
A method for preparing a sustained release oral solid form for nifedipine
comprising:


preparing a sustained release excipient comprising from 10 to 99 percent by
weight of a gelling agent comprising xanthan gum and locust bean gum in a ratio of

from 1:3 to 3:1, from 1 to 20 percent by weight of a cationic cross-linking agent,
and from 0 to 89 percent by weight of an inert pharmaceutical filler;
adding an effective amount of nifedipine to render a desired therapeutic
effect;
tableting the resultant mixture such that a final product is obtained having a
ratio of said medicament to said gelling agent from 1:3 to 1:8; such that a gel matrix 

is created when said tablet is exposed to gastrointestinal fluid and said tablet
provides therapeutically effective blood levels of said medicament.
The method of claim 26, further comprising tableting said mixture of said
sustained release excipient and said medicament.
The method of claims 27-29, further comprising coating said tablets with a
hydrophobic coating to a weight gain from 1% to 20%.
The method of claims 26 and 28, further comprising granulating said
sustained release excipient with a hydrophobic material.
The method of claims 26-27, wherein said medicament is nifedipine.
The method of claims 26-32, wherein said cationic cross-linking agent is
calcium sulfate.
The method of claim 30, wherein said hydrophobic coating comprises
ethylcellulose.
The method of claims 26 and 28, further comprising wetting said
medicament with an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable wetting

agent prior to blending said medicament with said sustained release excipient.
The method of claim 35, wherein said wetting agent comprises polyethylene
glycol.
The method of claim 35, further comprising coating said mixture of said
sustained release excipient, said medicament and said wetting agent with a

hydrophobic material. 
The method of claims 26-28, wherein said sustained release excipient
comprises from 10 to 75 percent gelling agent, from 2 to 15 percent cationic cross-linking

agent, and from 30 to 75 percent inert diluent.
The method of claims 26-28, wherein said sustained release excipient
comprises from 30 to 75 percent gelling agent, from 5 to 10 percent cationic cross-linking

agent, and from 15 to 65 percent inert diluent.
The method of claims 26-28, wherein said formulation provides
therapeutically effective blood levels of said medicament for at least 24 hours.
The method of claim 39, wherein said gelling agent comprises from 5% to
65% of said tablet, by weight.
A sustained release excipient, comprising:

a gelling agent comprising a heteropolysaccharide gum and a
homopolysaccharide gum which cross-links with said heteropolysaccharide gum

when exposed to a fluid in an environment of use, the ratio of said
heteropolysaccharide gum to said homopolysaccharide gum being from 1:3 to 3:1;
an inert pharmaceutical diluent selected from the group consisting of
monosaccharide, a disaccharide, a polyhydric alcohol, and mixtures thereof, the

ratio of said inert diluent to said gelling agent being from 1:8 to 8:1; and
a pharmaceutically acceptable cationic cross-linking agent capable of cross-linking
with said gelling agent when exposed to an environmental fluid.
A sustained release excipient comprising:

   a sustained release excipient comprising from 10 to 99 percent by weight
gelling agent, from 0 to 89 percent by weight of an inert pharmaceutically acceptable

diluent selected from the group consisting of a monosaccharide, a disaccharide, a
polyhydric alcohol, and mixtures thereof, and from 1 to 20 percent by weight of a

pharmaceutically acceptable cationic cross-linking agent capable of cross-linking
with said gelling agent when exposed to an environmental fluid to increase the gel

strength. 
The sustained release excipient of claim 42, wherein said
heteropolysaccharide gum comprises xanthan gum and said homopolysaccharide

gum comprises locust bean gum.
The sustained release excipient of claims 42-44, wherein said cationic cross-linking
agent comprises from 1 to 20 percent of said sustained release excipient, by

weight.
The sustained release excipient of claims 42-45, wherein said gelling agent,
said inert diluent, and said cationic cross-linking agent are granulated with a

hydrophobic material selected from the group consisting of an alkylcellulose, a
copolymer of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters, waxes, shellac, zein, hydrogenated

vegetable oils, and mixtures of any of the foregoing, said hydrophobic material
being included in an amount effective to slow the hydration of said gelling agent

when exposed to an environmental fluid.
The sustained release excipient of claim 46, wherein said hydrophobic
material is ethylcellulose.
The sustained release excipient of claims 42-47, which comprises from 10 to
75 percent gelling agent, from 2 to 15 percent cationic cross-linking agent, and from

30 to 75 percent insert diluent.
The sustained release excipient of claim 48, which comprises from 30 to 75
percent gelling agent, from 5 to 10 percent cationic cross-linking agent, and from 15

to 65 percent inert diluent.
A sustained release excipient, comprising:

a gelling agent;
an inert pharmaceutical diluent selected from the group consisting of
monosaccharide, a disaccharide, a polyhydric alcohol, and mixtures thereof, the

ratio of said inert diluent to said gelling agent being from 1:8 to 8:1; 
said gelling agent and said inert pharmaceutical diluent being granulated with
a hydrophobic material selected from the group consisting of an alkylcellulose, a

hydrophobic cellulose material, a copolymer of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters,
shellac, waxes, zein and mixtures of any of the foregoing, prior to the incorporation

of said medicament, said hydrophobic polymer being included in an amount
effective to sl
ow the hydration of said gelling agent when said dosage form is
exposed to a fluid in an environment of use.
The sustained release excipient of claim 50, wherein said hydrophobic
material is included in an amount from 1 to 20 percent, by weight.
The sustained release excipient of claims 50-51, wherein said gelling agent
comprises xanthan gum and locust bean gum in a ratio from 1:3 to 3:1.
Use of nifedipine for the manufacture of a medicament, as claimed in any of
claims 1-25, for use in the treatment of a patient at a predetermined dosage interval

from 12 to 24 hours.
A sustained release oral solid dosage form for providing a therapeutically
effective dose of nifedipine in the gastrointestinal tract, comprising:


a sustained release excipient comprising from 10 to 99 percent by weight of a
gelling agent comprising xanthan gum and locust bean gum in a ratio of from 1:3 to

3:1, from 1 to 20 percent by weight of a cationic cross-linking agent, and from 0 to
89 percent by weight of an inert pharmaceutical filler;
the ratio of said nifedipine to said gelling agent being from 1:3 to 1:8; and
said dosage from providing a sustained release of said nifedipine when
exposed to an environmental fluid.
The sustained release oral solid dosage form of claim 54, wherein said dosage
form provides therapeutically effective blood levels of said nifedipine for 24 hours.
The dosage form of claim 54, wherein said nifedipine is in an amount of 20
mg, 30 mg, 60 mg or 90 mg.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
