<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633224</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for making hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F100	C02F100	C02F122	C02F122	C02F146	C02F146	C02F1461	C02F1461	C02F148	C02F148	C02F900	C02F900	F25C100	F25C100	F25D2312	F25D2312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	F25C	F25C	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F9	C02F9	F25C1	F25C1	F25D23	F25D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water making apparatus includes 
an upper water reservoir disposed at a predetermined portion of the refrigerating chamber 

of the refrigerator, a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water generating 
section for generating hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water by electrolysis 

of water from the upper water reservoir, a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure 
water storing section for storing hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water 

generated at the hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water generating section, 
and a freezing container for storing hexagonal molecular
 structure water after receiving 
water stored at the hexagonal molecular structure water storing reservoir of the hexagonal 

molecular structure water storing section through a connecting pipe. The hexagonal and 
pentagonal molecular structure water have useful effects for preventing adult diseases. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLD STAR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDSTAR CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HWANG GUI NAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HWANG, GUI NAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for making hexagonal and pentagonal 
molecular structure water, and more particularly to separately supplying hexagonal 
molecular structure water and pentagonal molecular structure water. Conventionally, water is classified into hexagonal water and pentagonal water 
based on its molecular structure, as shown in Figs. 2A to 2C. Each water of these 
structures has a different effect to human body when taken. The hexagonal molecular 
structure water, as shown in Fig. 2A, is well known to have an effect in prevention of 
some adult diseases such as cancer, constipation, diabetic, and gastroenteric disorder. The 
pentagonal molecular structure water, as shown in Fig. 2C, is well known to have good 
effects for skin care and the prevention of skin disease. Meanwhile, the water molecular structure described above can be rearranged by 
the change of ions solved in the water. For example, Lithium(Li), Natrium(Na), 
Calcium(Ca), Strontium(Sr), Silver(Ag), and Zinc(Zn) may cause the water structure to 
change into the hexagonal molecular structure water. In addition, Kalium(K), 
Rubidium(Ru), Magnesium(Mg), Aluminum(Al), Chlorine(Cl) and Cesium(Cs) break the 
hexagonal molecular structure and create a pentagonal molecular structure. There, so far, have not been known the apparatus of making the common  
 
molecular structure the hexagonal or pentagonal molecular structure water, except for 
method of just making the water cool or freezing the water. Referring to Fig. 1, reference numeral 1 indicates a body of refrigerator. On front surface of the refrigerator 1, a freezing chamber door 5 and a 
refrigerating chamber door 6 are engaged with an upper hinge 2, a middle hinge 3, and 
a lower hinge 4, respectively. Reference numeral 8 indicates a quick freezing chamber with an ice container(not 
shown), which is disposed inside the freezing chamber 7. Conventionally, the ice 
generated at the ice container with common water like piped water can be available for 
use, but it has not been good for the health care. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for 
making hexagonal molecular structure water and pentagonal molecular structure water by 
means of ions generated by the electrolysis of water. It is another object of the present invention to provide a freezing apparatus of 
hexagonal molecular structure water, useful for the human body, by means of the 
electrolysis of water when making the ice in the refrigerator. For the object of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for making hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water, 
comprising: 

   an upper water reservoir disposed at a predetermined portion of a refrigerating 
chamber of a refrigerator; 

   a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water generating section for 
generating hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water by electrolysis of water 

from the upper water reservoir; 
   a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water storing section for storing 

hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water generated by the hexagonal and 
pentagonal molecular structure water generating section; and 

   a freezing container for storing hexagonal molecular structure water after receiving 
water stored at the hexagonal molecular structure water storing reservoir of the hexagonal 

molecular structure water storing section through a connecting pipe. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said upper water reservoir includes a lid 
disposed at a top thereof and an exhausting section disposed at a bottom thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said exhausting section includes a hollow 
cock support, a T-shaped cock passing through the cock support, a spring disposed 

between a lower space of the cock and a lower protrusion of the cock support, and a lid 
integrally formed with ribs thereof and disposed at the cock support. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 
 

structure water generating section includes a pushing protrusion, disposed at a 
predetermined portion thereof, for opening the cock, a plate-shaped filter disposed at an 

intermediate position thereof, positive and negative pole plates disposed at both sides 
thereof, and hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water paths disposed at lower 

portion thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 
structure water storing section is divided into a pentagonal molecular structure water 

storing reservoir and a hexagonal molecular structure water storing reservoir by disposing 
a separating plate at an intermediate position thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said hexagonal molecular structure water 
storing reservoir includes a pump, disposed at a predetermined position of the connecting 

pipe disposed at a side thereof, for causing hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure 
water to flow into a freezing container through the connecting pipe. 
The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 
structure water storing reservoirs each includes a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 

structure water path, disposed at a side thereof, connecting the hexagonal and pentagonal 
molecular structure water generating section with the hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 

structure water storing section, and a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water 
valve disposed at a lower wall thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said freezing container includes a connecting 
pipe disposed at a wall thereof. 
An apparatus for making hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water, 
comprising: 

   a water reservoir support for supporting an upper water reservoir; 
   a permanent magnet, disposed at a lower portion thereof, for stabilizing water 

structure generated around a path; and 
   a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water generating section, disposed 

at a lower portion of the permanent magnet, for converting water into hexagonal and 
pentagonal molecular structure water by means of electrolysis. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said water reservoir support is integrally 
formed with a supporting plate of which inner side is semi-circularly grooved. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said permanent magnet is alternatively 
disposed with a south pole and a north pole. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said path includes a pushing protrusion at 
an upper portion thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 
structure water generating section, further comprising: 

   a filter, disposed at an intermediate position thereof in a vertical direction, for 
passing a positive and negative ions therethrough; 

   a positive pole plate, spaced apart from the filter, for gathering negative ions and 
a negative pole plate for gathering positive ions; 

   a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water generating reservoir for 
 

generating hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water; 
   a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water storing reservoir for storing 

hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water therein; and 
   a hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water valves for discharging 

hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water. 
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said hexagonal and pentagonal molecular 
structure water generating section includes a waterspout container, having a ventilating 

plate with a plurality of holes, for supporting a cup and storing therein water from 
splashing of water. 
An apparatus for making hexagonal and pentagonal molecular structure water, 
comprising: 

   a plate-shaped negative and positive pole plates each disposed at upper and lower 
portions of an affixing frame coupled with the freezing chamber of the main body; and 

a freezing container detachably mounted to said affixing frame. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said positive and negative pole plates 
includes an insulating material therebetween. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said positive and negative pole plates 
includes a plurality of electric poles in front thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said freezing container includes a 
hexagonal molecular ice generating section and a pentagonal molecular structure ice 

 
generating section at both sides thereof and an ion filter supported by a support plate. 
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said supporting plate is consisted of a plurality thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
