<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0282175</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENDOVASCULAR STENT AND METHOD OF FABRICATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F282	A61B1700	A61F206	A61B1700	A61F284	A61F288	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61B17	A61F2	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wire stent (10) for insertion and expansion into a 
passageway comprises a plurality of curved sections that 

are formed into a generally circular configuration. 
Adjacent curved sections are joined by a bend or cusp (13), so 

that a series of alternating opposing loops (15, 16) are formed. 
The wire stent as formed has a cylindrical shape with a 

longitudinal opening through which a folded balloon 
catheter is inserted. The opposing loops are tightly 

contracted about the catheter so that the cylindrical 
shape has an overlapping region in which portions of 

adjacent loops longitudinally overlap. The loops are 
arranged so that when the balloon catheter is inflated, 

adjacent loops diverge circumferentially relative to each 
other, thereby decreasing the overlapping region while 

increasing the diameter of the cylindrical shape (24, 25). As the 
diameter of the cylindrical shape increases, the wire 

stent contacts the surface of a passageway in which the 
stent is inserted. 
In a method of the present invention, the wire stent (10) 
is fabricated from a wire formed into a planar serpentine 

configuration (30). The wire is centered over a semi-cylindrical 
trough (43) in a flat plate (40) and then pressed 

into the trough by a forming bar (45) so that a portion of the 
wire assumes the semi-cylindrical shape. A pulling tool (47), 

having a hook (47a) at one end, is engaged at the hook with the 
exposed loops (13) of the serpentine configuration for pulling 

the exposed loops over the exposed portion of the forming 
bar to form a generally cylindrical shape from the wire. 

Once the wire is extracted from the trough and the forming 
bar is removed, a folded balloon catheter (22) is inserted 

through the cylindrical shape and the wire is tightly 
pressed about the catheter. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOK INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOK INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANTURCO CESARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANTURCO, CESARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to stents and a method of making a 
stent. It is desirable in various situations to provide means for 
expanding a constricted vessel or for maintaining an open 
passageway through a vessel. Such situations arise, for 
instance, after an angioplasty of a coronary artery. In 
these situations, wire stents, are useful to prevent 
restenosis of the dilated vessel, or to eliminate the 
danger of occlusion caused by "flaps" resulting from 
intimal tears associated with angioplasty. Wire stents can 
also be used to reinforce collapsing structures in the 
respiratory and biliary tracts. Typical of the wire stents of the prior art is the stent of 
Gianturco, U.S. Patent No. 4,580,568, wherein the stent is 
compressed and encased in a sheath. The sheath is then 
positioned in the vascular system and the stent is held in 
position by a flat-ended pusher while the sheath  
 
is withdrawn. The zig-zag configuration of this 
particular stent allows it to expand in the passageway to 
hold the passageway open and enlarged. Stents comprised of variously shaped spiral springs 
are described by Maass et al. in U.S. Patent No. 
4,553,545, and in Radiology Follow-Up of Transluminally 
Inserted Vascular Endoprosthesis: An Experimental Study 
Using Expanding Spirals, Radiology, September 1984; 
152: 659-663. Applications of torque to the end of these 
spiral springs increases the number of coils while 
decreasing the stent diameter for insertion. Once 
inserted, an opposite torque is applied to the spiral 
springs causing the stent diameter to increase. Use of 
this type of stent requires a sophisticated coaxial cable 
to apply torque to the stent once it has been inserted 
into the vessel. Dotter et al. reported the use of a prosthesis 
constructed of a thermal shape memory alloy which is 
passed into the passageway through a catheter. See, 
Dotter CT et al., Transluminal Expandable Nitinol Coil 
Stent Grafting: Preliminary Report, Radiology, April, 
1983; 147: 259-260. This coil stent is compacted by 
cooling, inserted, and then heated in situ until the stent 
expands in the passageway. This stent is positioned 
within the vessel by a detachable positioning device 
capable of supplying electrical energy to heat the thermal 
coil. Other references which may have relevance to the 
present invention are the following U.S. patents: Abolins, 
No. 3,278,176; Alfidi et al., No. 3,868,956; Simon, No. 
4,425,908; and Sakura, Jr., 4,214,587. Among the drawbacks of the prior art wire stents and 
expandable coil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A stent comprising a wire formed into a serpentine 
configuration including a series of straight sections (33) 

and a plurality of bends (35), said straight sections being 
joined by said bends to form a series of alternating loops 

(15) and (16), said serpentine configuration being formed 
into a cylindrical shape having a longi
tudinal axis (31) 
and wherein said straight sections are bent into generally 

circular configurations surrounding and generally 
perpendicular to said axis, and means for expanding said 

circular configurations. 
2. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said wire is made of 
malleable material. 
3. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said wire is made of 
malleable material from the group consisting of annealed 

stainless steel, tungsten and platinum. 
4. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said means for expanding 
is a balloon catheter (22), said balloon catheter being 

received within said cylindrical shape and extending along 
said axis. 
5. The stent of Claim 4, wherein said balloon catheter is 
a folded balloon catheter. 
6. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said circular 
configurations have a contracted condition in which said  

 
alternating loops include longitudinally overlapping 

portions (20) adjacent said bends. 
7. The stent of Claim 6, wherein said circular 
configurations further have an expanded condition in which 

said longitudinally overlapping portions (20) of adjacent 
loops are circumferentially diverged relative to said 

contracted condition. 
8. The stent of Claim 7, wherein said means for expanding 
is a balloon catheter (22), and said balloon catheter is 

folded and received within said cylindrical shape and 
extends along said axis. 
9. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said alternating loops 
include longitudinally overlapping portions adjacent said 

bends which are arranged to diverge circumferentially in 
response to expansion of said means for expanding. 
10. The stent of Claim 9, wherein said means for expanding 
is a balloon catheter, and said balloon catheter is folded 

and received within said cylindrical shape and extends 
along said axis. 
11. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said wire includes two 
opposite ends, said wire being formed into a loop (18) 

adjacent each of said ends such that said ends are 
substantially shielded.  

 
12. The stent of Claim 1, wherein said wire has a outer 
diameter of 0.0018 inches. 
13. A stent having a longitudinal axis and comprising: a 
plurality of longitudinally-spaced wire loops, each having 

a cusp, adjacent ones of said loops sharing a common length 
of wire, each of said loops being formed about said 

longitudinal axis into a discontinuous cylindrical shape 
such that said cylindrical shape can be expanded or 

contracted by displacing said loops circumferentially; and 
means for expanding said cylindrical shape from a 

contracted condition to an expanded condition. 
14. A stent according to Claim 13, wherein said loops are 
arranged so that said cusps of adjacent loops are in 

opposing orientation. 
15. A stent according to Claim 13, wherein: 
said loops are arranged so that said cusps of adjacent 

loops are in opposing orientation; and said contracted 
condition includes said cylindrical shape having a first 

overlap region (20) in which adjacent ones of said loops 
longitudinally overlap each other. 
16. A stent according to Claim 15, wherein said expanded 
condition includes said cylindrical shape having a second 

overlap region (21) in which adjacent ones of said loops 
longitudinally overlap each other, said second overlap 

region being smaller than said first overlap region.  
 
17. A stent according to Claim 13, wherein said means for 
expanding includes a balloon catheter extending along said 

longitudinal axis and received through said cylindrical 
shape. 
18. A stent according to Claim 17, wherein said means for 
expanding includes a folded balloon catheter. 
19. The stent according to Claim 13, wherein each of said 
wire loops is made of malleable material. 
20. The stent of Claim 13, wherein each of said wire loops 
has a wire outer diameter of 0.0018 inches. 
21. A wire stent (49) having a longitudinal axis and 
comprising: 


alternating clockwise and counterclockwise single coil 
helical sections (51) and (52) situated about said 

longitudinal axis, adjacent ones of said helical sections 
being joined at a cusp (53); and 
means for expanding said helical sections from a 
contracted condition to an expanded condition such that 

adjacent cusps are displaced circumferentially relative to 
each other. 
22. A stent according to Claim 21, wherein said means for 
expanding is a folded balloon catheter extending along said 

longitudinal axis and received through each of said helical  
 

sections. 
23. The stent according to Claim 21, wherein said helical 
sections are made of malleable material. 
24. The stent of Claim 21, wherein each of said helical 
sections has a wire outer diameter of 0.0018 inches. 
25. A method for making the stent according to Claims 1 to 
24 comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming a wire into a planar serpentine 
configuration having a series of alternating opposing 

loops, each with a closed end; 
(b) placing said wire on a flat surface (40) having a 
trough (42) with a semi-cylindrical wall (43), said wire 

being situated over said trough such that said serpentine 
configuration is generally centred over said trough; 
(c) using a cylindrical tool (45), forcing said wire 
into said trough between said cylindrical tool and said 

semi-circular wall; and 
(d) forcing said opposing loops (15) and (16) over 
said cylindrical tool to form said wire into a generally 

cylindrical shape having a longitudinal axis, such that 
said loops lie longitudinally adjacent each other. 
26. The method of Claim 25, further comprising the steps 
of: 


(e) removing said cylindrical tool (45) and removing 
said wire from said trough (42);  

 
(f) inserting a folded balloon catheter (22) into said 
cylindrical shape; and 
(g) tightening said cylindrical shape about said 
balloon catheter such that the wire contacts the balloon 

catheter along its entire length and adjacent loops have 
longitudinally overlapping portions (20) adjacent the 

closed ends of said loops. 
27. The method of Claim 25, wherein the step of forming a 
wire into a planar serpentine configuration includes the 

step of forming a loop (18) adjacent each of the free ends 
of the wire. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
