<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617295</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Superconducting magnetometer with digital output.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R33035	G01R33035	H01L3922	H01L3922	H03K1902	H03K19195	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	H01L	H01L	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	H01L39	H01L39	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A superconducting magnetic sensor includes a 
SQUID (10) for interlinking with an external magnetic 

flux, an A.C. bias circuit (11) for driving the SQUID 
with an A.C. bias current having a first frequency, a 

feedback circuit (15) supplied with output voltage 
pulses from the SQUID for calculating a difference 

between the total number of positive output voltage 
pulses and the total number of negative output voltage 

pulses and for producing a feedback magnetic flux in 
response thereto such that the external magnetic flux 

is canceled out by the feedback magnetic flux, and a 
modulation current source (12) for supplying a 

modulation current having a frequency substantially 
smaller than the frequency of the bias current and for 

producing a modulation magnetic flux in response to the 
modulation current such that the modulation magnetic 

flux interlinks with the SQUID. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTOH KOHTAROH C O FUJITSU LIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTOH, KOHTAROH, C/O FUJITSU LIMITED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to 
superconducting circuits and more particularly to a 
superconducting magnetic sensor that uses a 
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). Superconducting quantum interference devices 
(SQUIDs) are used for super-high sensitivity 
magnetometers suitable for detecting feeble magnetic 
fields of biological bodies such as brain or heart. In 
such a medical application of SQUIDs, it is desired to 
construct the magnetometer to have a large number of 
channels such that the detection of the magnetic field 
is achieved simultaneously in such a plurality of 
channels. Conventionally, analog SQUIDs that produce an 
analog output voltage have been used for constructing 
such a super-high sensitivity magnetometers. On the 
other hand, a magnetometer that uses a digital SQUID 
has been proposed recently (Fujimaki, N. et al, "A 
single-chip SQUID magnetometer," IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
ELECTRON DEVICES vol.35, no.12, December 1988, pp.2412 
- 2417), wherein the SQUID magnetometer of the 
reference is driven by an A.C. bias current and 
produces output voltage pulses in synchronization with 
the A.C. bias current as a result of detection of the 
magnetic field. It will be noted that such a digital 
output of the magnetometer is suitable for processing 
in digital circuits. The foregoing single-chip SQUID magnetometer 
includes a SQUID sensor and a superconducting detection 
loop coupled magnetically thereto, and the SQUID sensor 
produces positive output voltage pulses or negative 
output voltage pulses depending upon the direction of  
 
an unknown magnetic field that interlinks with the 
superconducting detection loop. The SQUID sensor is 
biased by an A.C. bias current as mentioned previously 
and produces the foregoing output voltage pulses in 
synchronization to such a bias current. Further, the 
SQUID magnetometer includes a superconducting 
accumulation loop provided commonly on a chip on which 
the SQUID sensor is provided, wherein the 
superconducting accumulation loop is configured to 
store a flux quantum via a write gate in response to 
each output voltage pulse produced by the SQUID sensor. 
The superconducting accumulation loop further produces 
an analog feedback current which is fed back to the 
superconducting detection loop for creating a magnetic 
flux that counter-acts the unknown magnetic field. The 
measurement of the magnetic field is achieved by 
counting up the number of the output pulses produced by 
the SQUID sensor until the unknown
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A superconducting magnetometer, 
comprising: a superconducting magnetic sensor (10, 30, 

31) for interlinking with an external magnetic flux 
(x), said superconducting magnetic sensor being 

supplied with a first A.C. bias current (Ic) for 
producing output voltage pulses in response to said 

first A.C. bias current, said superconducting magnetic 
sensor having a flux versus critical current 

characteristic describing a relationship between a 
magnetic flux acting upon said superconducting magnetic 

sensor and said first A.C. bias current, said flux 
versus critical current characteristic defining a first 

region in which said super conducting magnetic sensor 
assumes a zero voltage state and a second region 

surrounding said first region and in which said 
superconducting magnetic sensor assumes a finite 

voltage state, said superconducting magnetic sensor 
producing said output voltage pulse in response to a 

transition from said zero voltage state to said finite 
voltage state; first biasing means (11, 32) for 

supplying said first A.C. bias current with a first 
frequency; feedback means (15, 39) supplied with said 

voltage pulses from said superconducting magnetic 
sensor for counting up the number of said voltage 

pulses, said feedback means further producing a 
feedback current in response to the number of said 

voltage pulses; and first superconducting magnetic 
coupling means (L₃) coupled magnetically to said 

superconducting magnetic sensor, said first 
superconducting magnetic coupling means being supplied 

with said feedback current from said feedback means for 
producing a counter-acting magnetic flux in response to 

 
said feedback current, said superconducting magnetic 

coupling means coupling said counter-acting magnetic 
flux to said superconducting magnetic sensor; 

   characterized in that the superconducting 
magnetic sensor further comprises: 

   second biasing means (12, 40) for producing a 
second A.C. bias current having a second frequency 

different from said first frequency; and 
   second superconducting magnetic coupling 

means (L₂, L₄) coupled magnetically to said 
superconducting magnetic sensor, said second 

superconducting magnetic coupling means being supplied 
with said second A.C. bias current from said second 

biasing means for producing a modulation magnetic flux 
in response to said second A.C. bias current, said 

second superconducting magnetic coupling means coupling 
said modulation magnetic flux to said superconducting 

magnetic sensor. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 1, characterized in that said second fr
equency 
is substantially smaller than said first frequency. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 2, characterized in that said second frequency 

is smaller than said first frequency by a factor of one 
hundred to one thousand. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 1, characterized in that said flux versus 

critical current characteristic has an asymmetric shape 
with respect to a polarity of said magnetic flux, and 

wherein said first biasing means produces said first 
A.C. bias current without a D.C. bias offset. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 1, characterized in that said flux versus 

critical current characteristic has a symmetric shape 
with respect to a polarity of said magnetic flux, and 

wherein said first biasing means produces said first 
A.C. bias current with a D.C. bias offset. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 1, characterized in that said feedback means 

(15, 39) comprises an updown counter (16, 38) for 
counting said output voltage pulses as a difference 

between the number of positive output pulses and the 
number of negative output pulses. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 6, characterized in that said updown counter 

(16) is provided in a room temperature environment. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 6, wherein said updown counter comprising a 

superconducting storage loop (38) for storing a 
magnetic flux quantum in response to each output 

voltage pulse. 
A superconducting magnetometer as claimed 
in claim 1, characterized in that said superconducting 

magnetometer comprises a superconducting coil (L₃) 
coupled magnetically to said superconducting magnetic 

sensor (10) and acting both as said first 
superconducting magnetic coupling means and said second 

superconducting magnetic coupling means, said 
superconducting coil superposing said feedback current 

and said second A.C. bias current with each other. 
A multichannel superconducting 
magnetometer, characterized by: 

   a plurality of superconducting magnetometers 
each comprising: a superconducting magnetic sensor (10) 

for interlinking with an external magnetic flux (x), 
said superconducting magnetic sensor being supplied 

with a first A.C. bias current for producing output 
voltage pulses in response to said first A.C. bias 

current, said superconducting magnetic sensor having a 
flux versus critical current characteristic describing 

a relationship between a magnetic flux acting upon said 
superconducting magnetic sensor and said first A.C. 

bias current, said flux versus critical current 
characteristic defining a first region in which said 

super conducting magnetic sensor assumes a zero voltage 
 

state and a second region surrounding said first region 
and in which said superconducting magnetic sensor 

assumes a finite voltage state, said superconducting 
magnetic sensor producing said output voltage pulse in 

response to a transition from said zero voltage state 
to said finite voltage state; feedback means (15) 

supplied with said voltage pulses from said 
superconducting magnetic sensor for counting up the 

number of said voltage pulses, said feedback means 
further producing a feedback current in response to the 

number of said voltage pulses; first superconducting 
magnetic coupling means (L₃) coupled magnetically to 

said superconducting magnetic sensor, said first 
superconducting magnetic coupling means being supplied 

with said feedback current from said feedback means for 
producing a counter-acting magnetic flux in response to 

said feedback current, said superconducting magnetic 
coupling means coupling said counter-acting magnetic 

flux to said superconducting magnetic sensor; second 
superconducting magnetic coupling means (L₂) coupled 

magnetically to said superconducting magnetic sensor, 
said second superconducting magnetic coupling means 

being supplied with a second A.C. bias current for 
producing a modulation magnetic flux in response to 

said second A.C. bias current, said second 
superconducting magnetic coupling means coupling said 

modulation magnetic flux to said superconducting 
magnetic sensor; 

   first biasing means (11) for supplying said 
first A.C. bias current with a first frequency, said 

first biasing means supplying said first A.C. bias 
current to an interior of a cooling vessel in which 

said superconducting magnetic sensors are held by a 
single conductor line, said first biasing means further 

distributing said first A.C. bias current to each of 
said superconducting magnetic sensors; and 

   second biasing means (12) for producing a 
 

second A.C. bias current having a second frequency 
different from said first frequency, said second 

biasing means supplying said second A.C. bias current 
to the interior of said cooling vessel by a single 

conductor line, such that said second A.C. bias current 
is supplied to said plurality of superconducting 

magnetic sensors consecutively. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
