<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644685</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data transmission system for sparse array print head
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J246	B41J2455	H04N150	B41J245	B41J2455	H04N150	B41J245	B41J244	H04N140	B41J2447	H04N140	B41J244	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	H04N	B41J	B41J	H04N	B41J	B41J	H04N	B41J	H04N	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	H04N1	B41J2	B41J2	H04N1	B41J2	B41J2	H04N1	B41J2	H04N1	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image data transmission system minimizes image 
data source access cycles and serial transmission 

channel bandwidth requirements when supplying image 
data to a sparse LED array in a rotary printer. A 

subpixel data accessing unit is employed within the 
transmission system to compensate for the physical 

offset of red, green and blue diode sets in a page scan 
direction. A column correction unit is employed to 

accommodate redundant exposure of an image location by 
the diodes in a line scan direction. The subpixel data 

accessing unit preferably includes a set of First-In, 
First-Out (FIFO) memories, which receive input lines of 

image data with pixels organized as sets of three bytes 
corresponding the red, green and blue (RGB) information 

of unique physical locations of an image and output 
lines of image data with R, G and B components from 

pixels in offset input lines. The column correction 
unit preferably includes a tapped parallel shift 

register memory. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERCZEG KAREN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARRABEE JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORLICKI DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERCZEG, KAREN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARRABEE, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORLICKI, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates in general to systems for 
printing digitized images. The invention relates 
specifically to printing systems that utilize a 
rotating print drum equipped with a print head to scan 
a photosensitive media. U.S. Patent 
Application Serial No. 08/075,433, filed on June 14, 
1993, entitled "Integrated Rotary Printer Drive System" 
by Orilick et al., describes a rotary printer drive 
system having a print head that includes a light-emitting-diode 
(LED) array. The LED array, located 
within a rotating print drum, is focused with an 
optical system onto a photographic media fixed to a 
concentrically mounted cylindrical shoe. The LEDs are 
modulated so as to raster scan image information onto 
the media as the drum rotates and is axially translated 
through the shoe. Data is transmitted to the LED array 
via a rotary transformer channel at a rate dictated by 
the measured rotational rate of the print drum. As described in European 
Patent Application EP-A-0 645 924 entitled "Method and Apparatus for 
Exposing Photosensitive Media with Multiple Light 
Sources", by D.H. Smith et al. and published on 29.03.95 the LED array is preferably formed as an 
integrated structure having a two dimensional array of 
LED's arranged in columns and rows, wherein the columns 
and rows are arranged at a spatial frequency less than 
the spatial frequency of image lines and image pixels to 
be produced. The geometry of this "sparse" LED array is  
 
such that multiple physical pixel locations on the media 
are simultaneously exposed by individual LED elements of 
the print head at any time. As the print head scans 
along a line, adjacent pixels are uniquely exposed and 
each pixel is redundantly exposed with its unique 
information in non-contiguous pixel time intervals. A method and apparatus for direct color printing is disclosed 
in EP-A-0 321 143. The printing system employs a large area 
pattern of exposure-producing elements, such as controllable 
light sources which are aligned with the movement of the print 
medium. All of the light sources in each row contribute, as 
necessary, to the exposure of each pixel in a corresponding 
row of the resulting color print. A controller is used for 
determining the effect of said exposure-producing elements on 
said print medium. Document EP-A-0 357 175 discloses a high resolution halftone 
dot generator system including a LED array. The LED array is 
used to create on a rotating drum surface in a microdot line 
by microdot line and scanline by scanline the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data transmission system (24) for an array print head (22) comprising:
 
   a colour subpixel component accessing means (30) for receiving input lines of 

image data comprising a plurality of input pixel data words and for serially 
transmitting output lines of image data comprising a plurality of output pixel data 

words, and column correction means (50) for receiving the serially transmitted output 
lines of image data with a plurality of output stages transmitting the output pixel 

data words of the serially transmitted output lines in parallel as column corrected 
output data lines, 
characterized in that
, each input pixel data word includes a set 
of contiguous data bytes corresponding to colour subpixel components of the 

input pixel data word, and each output pixel data word includes a set of non-contiguous 
data bytes corresponding to different subpixel components from 

different input pixel data words from offset input lines; and each output stage of 
the column correction means (50) transmits a column corrected output data line for 

each received output pixel data word and each output pixel data word is shifted 
through the column correction means (50) such that it is included in a plurality of 

column correct output data lines in sequence. 
The data transmission system claimed in claim 1, further comprising 
conversion means, coupled to each output stage of the column correction means (50), 

for converting the column corrected output data lines to analog drive signals. 
The data transmission system as claimed in claim 2, further comprising a light emitting diode 
(LED) array (22) coupled to the output of the conversion means to receive the analog 

drive signals. 
The data transmission system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the colour 
subpixel component accessing means (30) comprises means for separating the input 

pixel data words into their colour subpixel components and supplying the colour 
subpixel components to corresponding data channels, and means for assembling  

 
subpixel components from each of the data channels to form the output pixel data 

words. 
The data transmission system as claimed in claim 4, wherein at least one 
data channel includes a First-in, First-out (FIFO) memory (36) for storing subpixel components for N lines 

of input image data. 
The data transmission system as claimed in claim 5, wherein a second data 
channel includes a FIFO memory (40) for storing subpixel components for 2N lines of 

image data. 
The data transmission system as Claimed in claim 5, wherein each data 
channel includes a compensation lock up table (LUT) (34, 38, 42). 
The data transmission system as claimed in 1, wherein the column 
correction means (50) comprises a parallel shift register. 
A rotary printer comprising:
 
   a cylindrical shoe (20) for retaining a photosensitive media; a rotatable print 

drum (10) coupled to a movable carriage (12), the rotatable print drum including a print 
head (22) having an array of light emitting elements; means (14, 16, 18) for moving the carriage (12) to 

axially traverse the rotatable print drum (10) through the cylindrical shoe (20); a data 
transmission system (24) for transmitting image data from an image file to the print 

head (22); said data transmission system (24) comprises a colour subpixel component 
accessing means (30) for receiving input lines of image data comprising a plurality of 

input pixel data words and for serially transmitting output lines of image data 
comprising a plurality of output pixel data words, and column correction means (50) for 

receiving the serially transmitted output lines of image data with a plurality of 
output stages transmitting the output pixel data words of the serially transmitted 

output lines in parallel as column corrected output data lines, 
characterized in 
that,
 each input pixel data word includes a set of contiguous data bytes 
corresponding to colour subpixel components of the input pixel data word, and 

each output pixel data word includes a set of non-contiguous data bytes  
 

corresponding to different subpixel components from different input pixel data 
words from offset input lines; and each output stage of the column correction 

means (50) transmits a column corrected output data line for each received output 
pixel data word and each output pixel data word is shifted through the column 

correction means (50) such that it is included in a plurality of column correct output 
data lines in sequence. 
The rotary printer as claimed in claim 9, wherein the column correction 
means (50) is located on the rotatable print drum (10). 
The rotary printer as claimed in claim 9, wherein the data transmission 
system (24) further comprises conversion means, coupled to each output stage of the 

column correction means (50), for converting the column corrected output data lines to 
analog drive signals that are supplied to the light emitting elements of the print 

head. 
The rotary printer as claimed in claim 9, wherein the colour subpixel 
component accessing means (30) comprises means for separating the input pixel data 

words into their colour subpixel components and supplying the subpixel 
components to corresponding data channels, and means for assembling subpixel 

components from each of the data channels to form the output pixel data words. 
The rotary printer as claimed in claim 12, wherein at least one data channel 
includes a FIFO memory (36) for storing subpixel components for N lines of input 

image data. 
The rotary printer as claimed in claim 13, wherein a second data channel 
includes a FIFO memory (40) for storing subpixel components for 2N lines of image 

data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
