<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636354</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for prefitting an orthopaedic member
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F502	A61F501	A61F504	A61F501	A61F5058	A61F502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for prefitting a stiffened member to a curved 
body having a geometry approximatable by a cone. Two points are 

initially selected on the surface of the body which also lie on two 
different planes passing through the body, such that the intersection 

of the surface and the planes defines two closed curves. A cone is 
approximated based on parameters relating to the curves and the 

selected points. A three-dimensional pattern of a stiffened member 
is then superimposed onto the conical surface at a modelling position 

corresponding to the desired placement position of the member on 
the body. The geometry and dimensions of the pattern are 

mathematically specified relative to the conical surface and the 
specifications provide a model for fabricating the prefitted stiffened 

member. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEBOLON JOSEPH F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEBOLON, JOSEPH F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to orthotics, and more
particularly to a method for prefitting a stiffened orthopaedic brace
component to a curved surface of the body.The proper fit of an orthotic device to the body of a patient is
critical to performance of the device, as well as to the comfort of the
patient. The fit of common orthotic devices, such as orthopaedic
braces for joint stabilisation, is often approximated by offering a
matrix of several sizes, across the entire size range. For example, a
typical size matrix is small, medium, and large. The contours of the
human body, however, are not always uniform and symmetrical,
thereby rendering the standardisation of properly fitting size matrices
for orthotic devices problematic.The problem is particularly acute when attempting to fit the
human body with off-the-shelf orthotic devices having support
components fabricated from relatively stiff materials, such as metals
or rigid plastics. Because these components lack the ability to
conform to the curves of the body contours, they are often preformed
to have a generalised curved configuration that is intended to
approximate the shape of the body and provide a close fit thereto.
Nevertheless, it has been found that the body contours often have
irregularities that the generalised curves of preformed orthotic
devices do not adequately approximate.As an alternative to standardised size matrices, orthotic
devices can be customised for a more proper fit. Custom fitting,
however, requires a large number of measurements of individual
body dimensions rendering custom fitting and custom fabrication
processes time-consuming and costly. The present invention can
also relate to other stiffened components which are to be fitted to a
body such as sports braces and protection articles.Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide
a systematic method for prefitting a stiffened member to a curved
surface that is applicable to both standardised sizing and custom 
fitting of the member to the surface. It is a particular
object of the present invention to provide a systematic
method for prefitting a stiffened orthotic device to a
curved surface of the human body.The present invention enables the prefitting of an
orthotic device to the human body that is adaptable to
the oftentimes irregular and complex contours of the body
and/or that integrates relatively complex curves into the
preformed device closely approximating the contours of
the body. The present invention also facilitates the
systematic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for prefitting a stiffened member (52, 54)
to a curved surface of a body (36, 42; 36'), the method

comprising:

defining a cone (12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22a, 22b, 24a,
24b, 26a, 26b, 28a, 28b; 76; 76'; 76'') having a three

dimensional conical surface (80) approximating a curved
surface of a body; and
superimposing a three dimensional pattern (78) onto
said three dimensional conical surface at a modelling

position corresponding to a desired placement position of
a stiffened member on said curved surface of said body.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said cone is
an elliptical or circular cone.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 comprising:

selecting a first point (56) and a second discrete
point (58) on said curved surface (36') of said body,

wherein said first and second points are spaced a
longitudinal distance (L; L'; L'') apart;
selecting a first peripheral curve (64; 64'; 64'')
on said surface around said body containing said first

discrete point;
selecting a second peripheral curve (66; 66'; 66'')
on said surface around said body containing said second

discrete point;
said defining of said cone being based on said
longitudinal distance and said first and second

peripheral curves.
A method according to claim 3 wherein said first
peripheral curve lies on a first plane (60; 60' 60'')

through said cone and said second peripheral curve lies
on a second plane (62; 62'; 62'') through said cone.
A method according to claim 4 wherein said first and
second planes are substantially parallel.
A method according to claim 4 or claim 5 wherein
said planes are substantially cross-sectional to said

body.
A method according to any one of claims 4 to 6
further comprising


defining a first circle (68) lying on said plane by
determining a first circle-defining parameter, wherein

said first circle approximates said first peripheral
curve; and
defining a second circle (70) lying on said plane by
determining a second circle-defining parameter, wherein

said second circle approximates said second peripheral
curve.
A method according to claim 7 wherein said cone is
defined based on said longitudinal distance (L') and said

first and second circle-defining parameters. 
A method according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein
said first and second circle-defining parameters are

radii, diameters, or circumferences of said first and
second circles, respectively.
A method according to claim 3 further comprising

defining a first ellipse (72) lying on a first plane
by determining at least two first ellipse-defining

parameters, wherein said first ellipse approximates said
first peripheral curve; and defining a second ellipse

(74) lying on a second plane by determining at least two
second ellipse-defining parameters, wherein said second

ellipse approximates said second peripheral curve.
A method according to claim 10 wherein said cone is
defined on the basis of said longitudinal distance (L'')

and said at least two first and second ellipse-defining
parameters.
A method according to claim 10 or claim 11 wherein
said first and second ellipse-defining parameters are

major and minor axes of the ellipses.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein
said body is a section of a human body.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein
said body is a statistically modelled body based on a

population pool of bodies. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein
said stiffened member is an orthopaedic brace component.
A method according to claim 15 when dependent on
claim 13 or claim 14 wherein said desired placement

position is adjacent to a body joint to be supported by
said brace.
A method according to any preceding claim further
comprising determining dimensional specifications of said

three-dimensional pattern (78) relative to said three-dimensional
conical surface (80), wherein said

dimensional specifications of said three-dimensional
pattern correspond to dimensional specifications of said

stiffened member prefitted onto said curved surface of
said body.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said three-dimensional
pattern is converted to a two-dimensional

mapping (98) and said dimensional specifications are
derived from the two-dimensional mapping.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 16
further comprising mapping said three-dimensional conical

surface (80) on a two-dimensional surface and
superimposing a two-dimensional mapping (84)

corresponding to said three-dimensional pattern (78) on
said two-dimensional surface. 
A method according to claim 19 further comprising
determining dimensional specifications of said two-dimensional

mapping relative to said two-dimensional
surface, wherein said dimensional specifications

correspond to dimensional specifications of said
stiffened member prefitted onto said curved surface of

said body.
A method of fabricating a stiffened member which has
been prefitted to a curved surface of a body, comprising

performing the method according to any one of claims 17,
18 or 20, and fabricating the member in accordance with

said dimensional specifications of said pattern.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
