<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659665</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for continuously feeding articles from a main conveying line to intermediate outlet ways arranged angularly with respect to the main line.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4782	B65G4782	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G47	B65G47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The device for continuously taking over articles (2) 
from a main conveying line (1), comprises a plurality 

of raising means (9) supported by a rotary drum 
(10) situated under a slide surface (3) of the main 

line (1), upstream of a relative intermediate outlet 
way (7). 
The raising means (9) are operated in phase relation 
with proceeding of the articles (2) along the main 

line (1), so as to take over and raise the same 
articles (2) from the slide surface (3). 
Pushing means (24), aimed at cooperating with raising 
means (9), are movable longitudinally over the 

said main conveying line (1), so as to transfer the 
raised articles (2) from the raising means (9) to 

the intermediate outlet way. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
P R B PACKAGING SYSTEMS S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
P.R.B. PACKAGING SYSTEMS S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEDICI GABRIELE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEDICI, GABRIELE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to transferring various 
articles to outlet ways provided along a main 
conveying line. It is known that in many manufacturing fields the 
articles, after having undergone other operative 
phases along the main conveying line, must be transferred 
to auxiliary conveying lines, in correspondence 
with intermediate outlets. Such auxiliary conveying lines are usually arranged 
at a certain angle with respect to the main line, in 
particular perpendicular thereto. Often, a selective transferring to different outlets 
is required so as to separate different articles 
coming from the same main line. This requirement has not been met yet in a simple 
and efficient way, since the transferring of the 
articles to different outlets usually necessitates 
complicated devices, that obviously reduces the 
productivity. The object of the present invention is to propose a 
device that allows for a continuous selective transferring 
of articles to one or more intermediate 
outlets placed along a main conveying line of these 
articles. The above mentioned object is achieved in accordance 
to the contents of the claims.  The characteristic features of the present invention 
are pointed out in the following, with the particular 
reference to the enclosed drawings, in which: 
Figure 1 shows a schematic side view of the device 
being the subject of the invention; Figure 2 shows the same schematic side view of the 
device in a different operative step; Figure 2a shows a plan view of a part of the main 
line conveying the articles which advance according 
to the arrow A of Figure 2; Figures 3 and 4 show side views of subsequent 
operative steps performed by the device; Figure 5 shows a side view of a further operative 
step of the device; Figure 6 shows a sectional view taken along the 
line V-V of Figure 2; Figure 7 shows a sectional view taken along the 
line VII-VII of Figure 5. With reference to the above mentioned figures, the 
reference numeral 1 indicates the main line conveying 
the articles 2. The conveying line 1 includes a slide surface 3 for 
the articles 2, that is formed, in correspondence 
with the operative zone of the subject device, by a 
plurality of longitudinal plates 4 arranged side by 
side. Over the slide surface 3 there are a plurality of 
equispaced movable cross bars 5 that are carried, at 
their ends, by chain means 6, operated in direction 
longitudinal to the line 1. The cross bars 5 are aimed at pushing on the back  
 
side of articles 2, or of groups of articles
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for continuously feeding articles from a 
main conveying line to intermediate outlet ways 

which are arranged angularly with respect to the 
said main line, the device being characterised in 

that it includes: 
at least a raising means (9) located beneath the 

slide surface (3) of the main conveying line, upstream 
of an intermediate outlet way (7), this 

raising means being operated in suitable phase 
relation with proceeding of the articles (2) along 

the said main line (1), in such a way to take over 
and raise articles (2) from the said slide surface 

(3); 
a pushing means (24) movable longitudinally over the 

said main conveying line (1), so as to transfer the 
raised articles (2) from the raising means (9) to 

the intermediate outlet way (7). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that it further includes rotary drum means (10), 

situated beneath the slide surface (3) and driven to 
rotate around a horizontal axis transverse to the 

said main line (1) this rotary drum means (10) 
carrying along its periphery a series of the said 

raising means (9) operated in turn to take over 
respective articles (2) and to raise said articles 

up to an intermediate transferring flat (31) adjacent 
to the said outlet way (7), with pushing means 

(24) situated close to the same intermediate flat 
(31) for transferring the said articles to the said 

outlet way (7). 
Device according to claim 2, characterised in 
that each one of the said raising means (9) is 

 
shaped like a comb and includes a plurality of 

prongs (11) that insert among corresponding staggered 
longitudinal plates (4) forming the said slide 

surface (3), the said prongs being supported side by 
side by a bar (12) rotatably mounted between a pair 

of circular heads (13) of the said rotary drum means 
(10), the said heads being connected to a driving 

shaft (14) of the said rotary drum means (10). 
Device according to claim 2, characterised in 
that the said intermediate transferring flat (31) 

is formed by a plurality of longitudinal plates (32) 
arranged side by side at the level of the upper 

active run (8a) of a conveying line (8) of the said 
outlet way (7), so that the prongs (11) of the said 

raising means (9) can insert among the said plates 
(32). 
Device according to claim 2, characterised in 
that the said raising means (9) are driven to rotate 

in a direction contrary to the rotation direction of 
the said rotary drum means (10), so that the attitude 

of the said raising means (9) is maintained 
unchanged. 
Device according to claim 5, characterised in 
that the said raising means (9) are fixed to respective 

bars (12) rotatably supported by a pair of 
circular heads (13) of the said rotary drum (10), 

respective toothed wheels (20) being keyed to the 
ends of the said bars (12) and engaging a toothed 

belt (21) that is trained around idler pulleys (22) 
and a pinion (23) fixed to an adjacent side wall 

(15), the said pinion (23) and the said driving 
shaft (14) of the said rotary drum (10) being coaxial. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the said outlet way (7) includes an outlet 

conveying line (8) arranged perpendicularly to the 
said main conveying line (1), the upper active run 

(8a) of the said outlet conveying line being located 
at a level higher than the said slide surface (3) of 

the said main conveying line (1), so that articles 
(2) being transported along the said main conveying 

line (1) may pass thereunder. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that it includes a plurality of the said pushing 

means (24) jointed to a chain (25) that is longitudinally 
arranged above the said main conveying line 

(1) and that is driven with a speed higher than the 
advancement speed of the said articles (2) along the 

said main conveying line (1). 
Device according to claim 8, characterised in 
that the said pushing means (24) are jointed to the 

said chain (25) at respective pivots (27) and are 
equipped with a roller (28) that is made to run 

along a longitudinal guide (29) adjacent to the 
active run of the said chain (25), the said guide 

(29) having a terminal part (30) that is inclined so 
as to make the said pushing means (24) to rotate in 

a direction contrary to the advancement direction of 
the articles (2), when the said articles are released. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
