<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634204</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and device for the separation of an unsaturated hydrocarbon from a fluid mixture with other hydrocarbons
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C700	C07C7144	B01D6138	C07C7152	C10G3100	C07C1102	C10G3109	B01D5314	B01D5314	B01D5322	B01D6138	C07C1100	B01D5322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	B01D	C07C	C10G	C07C	C10G	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C07C	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C7	C07C7	B01D61	C07C7	C10G31	C07C11	C10G31	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D61	C07C11	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluid mixture from which an unsaturated 
hydrocarbon has to be separated, is passed in the first 

stage at superatmospheric pressure to one side of a first 
semiselective gas separation membrane with a non-porous 

active layer, and a liquid complexing agent is passed 
along the other side of said first membrane, where said 

unsaturated hydrocarbon is bound through complexation in 

the interface of membrane and complexing agent. In the 
second stage said unsaturated hydrocarbon is dissociated 

from the complexing agent through temperature increase, 
the mixture of complexing agent and dissociated 

unsaturated preferably is passed at superatmospheric 
pressure to one side of a second semiselective membrane 

with a non-porous active layer and the unsaturated 
hydrocarbon migrates to the other side of the membrane and 

is discharged. Finally, the complexing agent is recycled. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for 
the separation of an unsaturated hydrocarbon from a fluid 
mixture with other hydrocarbons wherein in a first stage 
the unsaturated hydrocarbon migrates through a membrane to 
a carrier fluid and in a second stage the unsaturated 
hydrocarbon is separated from the carrier fluid and 
removed. Such a process is known from US-A-5,057,641. Unsaturated hydrocarbons such as ethene, 
propene, butene and styrene constitute a very important 
link in chemical production processes (polymers and other 
applications). They mostly occur in mixtures with other 
hydrocarbons, from which they often have to be separated. 
Usually cryogenic conditions are applied for the 
separation of ethene/ethane, propene/propane, 
butene/butane, styrene/ethylbenzene, etc. These separation 
processes are costly, however, both in terms of capital 
expenditure and operational costs. This is bound up with 
the fact that there is little distance between the boiling 
points of these hydrocarbons. In fact this is also the 
case with other chemical substances, for instance in the 
separation of nitrogen and oxygen. Since the thirties already it has been known 
that unsaturated hydrocarbons have the property of 
complexing reversibly with metals and metal ions, in 
particular with transition metal ions such as Ag+ and Cu+. 
This has given rise to some separation processes based on 
extraction.  
 A well-known technique for application of 
reversibly complexing substances in a separation process 
is to immobilize them in the pores of a microporous 
membrane. Such a membrane is called an immobilized liquid 
membrane or facilitated transport membrane. Facilitated 
transport membranes for the separation of unsaturated and 
saturated hydrocarbons have received very much attention 
since the seventies, initially from Standard Oil Company 
(US-A-3,758,603, US-A-3,758,605 and US-A-4,235,983) and 
Monsanto Company (US-A-3,773,844). Recently as well other 
research groups have focused on this type of membrane (US-A-5,015,268, 
GB-A-2,169,300, DE-A-3,924,102). This 
separation method is based on the use of microporous 
membranes, with silver salts (mostly nitrate, sometimes 
tetrafluoroborate) applied in the pores in an aqueous 
solution, sometimes supplemented with a thickening agent 
to inhibit leakage. The separation is effected under 
atmospheric conditions at both sides of the membrane, as a 
pressure drop would entail loss of complexing liquid. A 
flow of sweep gas (often nitrogen) is passed at the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Process for the separation of an unsaturated hydrocarbon 
from a fluid mixture with other hydrocarbons wherein in a 

first phase the unsaturated hydrocarbon migrates through 
a membrane to a carrier fluid and in a second phase the 

unsaturated hydrocarbon is separated from the carrier 
fluid and removed, characterized in that in the first 

stage the fluid mixture is passed at superatmospheric 
pressure to one side of a first semiselective gas separation 

membrane with a non-porous active layer, comprising 
an elastomeric polymer or a glassy polymer, and a 

liquid complexing agent is passed along the other side of 
said first membrane, where said unsaturated hydrocarbon 

is bound through complexation in the interface of 
membrane and complexing agent, in that in the second 

stage said unsaturated hydrocarbon is dissociated from 
the complexing agent through temperature increase, in 

that the mixture of complexing agent and dissociated 
unsaturated hydrocarbon is separated and that the 

complexing agent is recycled. 
Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
mixture of complexing agent and dissociated unsaturated 

hydrocarbon is passed at superatmospheric pressure to one 
side of a second semiselective membrane with a non-porous 

active layer and in that the unsaturated hydrocarbon 
migrates to the other side of the membrane and is 

discharged. 
Process according to any one of claims 1-2, characterized 
in that the complexing agent comprises a salt of silver 

or copper.  
 
Process according to any one of claims 1-3, characterized 
in that the membranes used in the first stage are hollow 

fibre membranes. 
Process according to any one of the claims 1-4, 
characterized in that the active layer of the membranes 

is made of an elastomeric material, such as PDMS or EPDM. 
Device to carry out the process according to any one of 
the preceding claims, comprising: 


a first system of semiselective gas separation membranes 
comprising a non-porous active layer, means with which a 

fluid mixture is supplied at super-atmospheric pressure 
to one side of the membranes, means with which a liquid 

complexing agent is supplied to the other side of the 
membranes, means with which to heat the complexing agent 

with bound unsaturated hydrocarbon which has flowed along 
the other side of the membrane, and means to separate the 

unsaturated hydrocarbon from the complexing agent and 
means to recycle the complexing agent. 
Device according to claim 6, further comprising a second 
system of semiselective gas separation membranes 

comprising a non-porous active layer, means with which at 
superatmospheric pressure the heated complexing agent and 

the component dissociated from it are passed along one 
side of the membranes of the second system and means with 

which to remove the component that has migrated through 
said membranes of the second system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
