<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656095</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED OSCILLATING PISTON ENGINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01B900	F01B902	F01C100	F01C107	F02B100	F02B104	F02B5300	F02B5300	F02B7502	F02B7502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01B	F01B	F01C	F01C	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01B9	F01B9	F01C1	F01C1	F02B1	F02B1	F02B53	F02B53	F02B75	F02B75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal combustion engine (10) has a rotating annular cylinder (14) containing a plurality of mutually oscillating pairs of pistons (16), one of each pair being rigidly fixed to a first axially-oscillating tube (20), the other of each pair being fixed to a second such tube (24) concentric with the first. Each of the tubes is connected, by a "Scotch yoke", to a crank throw (38) on a crankshaft (40). Each Scotch yoke includes an arm (41) fixed at one end to its associated tube (20, 24) for oscillation therewith. The arm (41) includes an elliptical slot (42) that carries an annular ball bearing race (48) for movement therein, one crank throw (38) being journaled within each race (48). The cylinder (14) is rotated by the crankshaft (40) through a gear train (78) in a fixed ratio to the rotation rate of the shaft (40). The pistons (16), having conical end faces (56), impart a rotational motion to the crankshaft (40) during the power stroke of the cycle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HASBUN TOMMY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILEY BRUCE C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HASBUN, TOMMY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILEY, BRUCE C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILEY BRUCE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILEY, BRUCE, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED OSCILLATING PISTON ENGINE Background of the Invention This invention relates generally to the field of internal combustion engines. Specifically, this invention relates to certain improvements in a type of internal combustion engine that has a plurality of oscillating pairs of pistons contained within a rotating annular cylinder.The oscillating piston/rotating cylinder engine has been described in U.S. Patent No. 3,516,392 -Morgan. In this type of engine, an annular cylinder is rotated in a predetermined ratio to the oscillations of a plurality of pairs of oscillating pistons contained within the cylinder. The pistons are oscillated so that adjacent pistons in each pair are moved alternately toward and away from each other for the respective strokes of a four-stroke cycle internal combustion engine. Intake ports, exhaust ports, and ignition means in the rotating cylinder are located by the rotation of the cylinder with respect to the pistons in accordance with the firing order and cycle of the engine.While the Morgan engine is capable of favorable efficiencies as compared with those of conventional reciprocating piston engines, increasingly rigid standards of fuel economy and emissions control have made further improvements in mechanical and thermal efficiency highly desirable. In this regard, for example, the Morgan engine has a relatively large number of moving parts that add weight and complexity, and create friction losses, while the design of the pistons (essentially disc-shaped, with flat sides) does not optimize the extraction of useful energy from 

combustion during the power stroke.It would be highly desirable, therefore, to improve the Morgan engine, whereby the advantages of the basic oscillating piston/rotating cylinder design are retained, while increasing efficiency by reducing the number of moving parts and optimizing piston design.Summary of the Invention Broadly, the present invention is an oscillating piston/rotary cylinder internal combustion engine, of the type described in U.S. Patent No. 3,516,392 (the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference) , wherein the improvements include: (a) the use of unitary oscillating power arms (rather than articulated crank arms) , of the "Scotch yoke" type, to transmit power from the torque tubes to the crank shaft; (b) the use of pistons, having conical surfaces, that are rigidly connected to the torque tubes that transmit power from the pistons to the crankshaft via the power arms; (c) a magnetic. Hall effect ignition
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An internal combustion engine, of the type having a rotating annular cylinder containing a plurality of mutually oscillating pairs of pistons, first means for oscillating the pistons so as to move the pistons in each pair toward and away from each other in accordance with the strokes of the operational cycle of the engine, a crankshaft having at least two crank throws, second means coupled to the crank throws for converting the oscillation of the pistons during the power stroke of the cycle into rotation of the crankshaft, and third means for rotating the cylinder in response to the rotation of the crankshaft, wherein the engine includes an improvement in the second means, comprising: first and second concentric tubes aligned coaxially with the axis of rotation of the cylinder and journaled for rotation along said axis, each of the tubes having a proximal portion extending into the cylinder, and a distal portion spaced from the cylinder, one piston of each pair of pistons being rigidly fixed to the proximal portion of the first tube, and the other piston of each pair of pistons being rigidly fixed to the proximal portion of the second tube; a first rigid arm having a first end fixed to the distal portion of the first tube, and a second rigid arm having a first end fixed to the distal portion of the second tube, the first and second arms each having a substantially elliptical aperture spaced from its first end; and fourth means for journaling each of the crank throws in the elliptical aperture of one of the 


 arms so as to operatively engage each of the arms with one of the crank throws; whereby the oscillation of the pistons axially rotates the first and second tubes in mutually opposite directions, thereby oscillating the first and second arms in mutually opposite directions to rotate the crankshaft by means of the engagement between the crank throws and the arms. 2. The engine of Claim 1, wherein the first ends of the first and second arms are respectively fixed to the first and second tubes so that there is substantially no relative movement between each of the first ends and the tube to which it is fixed. 3. The engine of Claim 1, wherein the fourth means includes an annular ball bearing race installed on each of the crank throws, each of the ball bearing races being seated within the elliptical aperture of one of the arms so as to be movable therein along the axis of the aperture.
4. The engine of Claim 1, wherein the crankshaft includes a plurality of integral balancing discs at spaced intervals along its length.
5. The engine of Claim 4, wherein at least one of the balancing discs is journaled within an annular ball bearing race.
6. The engine of Claim 1, wherein each of the pistons includes a pair of oppositely-directed, substantially conical end faces. 7. The engine of Claim 6, wherein the end faces are configured so that when the pistons in each mutually-oscillating pair of pistons are moved toward each other during the compression stroke of the cycle. 


they provide compression ignition for operation of the engine in the diesel cycle.
8. The engine of Claim 1, wherein the engine further includes ignition means, comprising: at least two diametrically-opposed spark plugs disposed within the cylinder; magnet means fixed to the crankcase so as to be disposed toward the cylinder; magnetic pick-up means, mounted on the cylinder for rotation therewith, and disposed so as to be brought into proximity to the magnet means as the cylinder rotates, for generating a triggering pulse in response to the proximity the magnet means; an electrical power source; and ignition voltage generation means, electrically connected to the spark plugs, the magnetic pick-up means, and the electrical power source, for delivering an ignition voltage pulse to the spark plugs in response to the triggering pulse.
9. The engine of Claim 8, wherein the magnet means includes at least eight magnets equidistantly spaced in a fixed annular arrangement, and wherein the magnetic pick-up means includes a pair of magnetic pick-ups mounted on the cylinder in diametrically opposed positions.
10. The engine of Claim 9, wherein the ignition voltage generation means are electrically connected to the electrical power source through a conductive slip ring mounted for rotation with the cylinder.
11. An internal combustion engine, of the type having an annular cylinder rotatably journaled within a 


crankcase and containing a plurality of mutually oscillating pairs of pistons, first means for oscillating the pistons so as to move the pistons in each pair toward and away from each other in accordance with the strokes of the operational cycle of the engine, a crankshaft, second means coupled to the crankshaft for converting the oscillation of the pistons during the power stroke of the cycle into rotation of the crankshaft, and third means for rotating the cylinder in response to the rotation of the crankshaft, wherein the improvement comprises: magnetic ignition means, comprising: at least two diametrically-opposed spark plugs disposed within the cylinder; magnet means fixed to the crankcase so as to be disposed toward the cylinder; magnetic pick-up means, mounted on the cylinder for rotation therewith, and disposed so as to be brought into proximity to the magnet means as the cylinder rotates, for generating a triggering pulse in response to the proximity the magnet means; an electrical power source; and ignition voltage generation means, electrically connected to the spark plugs, the magnetic pick-up means, and the electrical power source, for delivering an ignition voltage pulse to the spark plugs in response to the triggering pulse. 12. The engine of Claim 11, wherein the magnet means includes at least eight magnets equidistantly spaced in a fixed annular arrangement, and wherein the magnetic pick-up means includes a pair of magnetic 


pick-ups mounted on the cylinder in diametrically opposed positions.
13. The engine of Claim 12, wherein the ignition voltage generation means are electrically connected to the electrical power source through a conductive slip ring mounted for rotation with the cylinder.
14. The engine of Claim 11, wherein the crankshaft includes at least two crank throws, the second means being coupled to the crank throws, and wherein the improvement further comprises: first and second concentric tubes aligned coaxially with the axis of rotation of the cylinder and journaled for rotation along said axis, each of the tubes having a proximal portion extending into the cylinder, and a distal portion spaced from the cylinder, one piston of each pair of pistons being rigidly fixed to the proximal portion of the first tube, and the other piston of each pair of pistons being rigidly fixed to the proximal portion of the second tube; a first rigid arm having a first end fixed to the distal portion of the first tube, and a second rigid arm having a first end fixed to the distal portion of the second tube, the first and second arms each having a substantially elliptical aperture spaced from its first end; and fourth means for journaling each of the crank throws in the elliptical aperture of one of the arms so as to operatively engage each of the arms with one of the crank throws; whereby the oscillation of the pistons axially rotates the first and second tubes in mutually opposite directions, thereby oscillating 


 the first and second arms in mutually opposite directions to rotate the crankshaft by means of the engagement between the crank throws and the arms. 15. The engine of Claim 14, wherein the first ends of the first and second arms are respectively fixed to the first and second tubes so that there is substantially no relative movement between each of the first ends and the tube to which it is fixed. 16. The engine of Claim 14, wherein the fourth means includes an annular ball bearing race installed on each of the crank throws, each of the ball bearing races being seated within the elliptical aperture of one of the arms so as to be movable therein along the axis of the aperture.
17. The engine of Claim 14, wherein the crankshaft includes a plurality of integral balancing discs at spaced intervals along its length.
18. The engine of Claim 17, wherein at least one of the balancing discs is journaled within an annular ball bearing race.
19. The engine of Claim 14, wherein each of the pistons includes a pair of oppositely-directed, substantially conical end faces. 20. The engine of Claim 14, wherein the engine comprises: two crank throws that are separated by approximately 180° of arc; and four mutually oscillating pairs of pistons, one of each pair being rigidly fixed to proximal portion of the first tube, the other of each pair being rigidly fixed to the proximal portion of the second tube; 


 wherein the third means rotates the cylinder one complete revolution for each four revolutions of the crankshaft. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
