<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636505</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Filler unit for a fuel tank, particularly for a motor-vehicle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K15035	B29C4904	B60K1503	B60K1504	F16L900	F16L9127	B29C4904	B60K1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B29C	B60K	B60K	F16L	F16L	B29C	B60K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K15	B29C49	B60K15	B60K15	F16L9	F16L9	B29C49	B60K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A filler unit for a fuel tank, particularly for a 
motor-vehicle, comprises a pair of tubular pipes 

(3, 5). These pipes are disposed adjacent one 
another and have respective first ends (3a, 5a) to 

be connected to the tank. The second end (5b) of 
one of the pipes (5) is connected to the other 

pipe (3) which is associated with connection means 
(10) which enable the latter to be fixed in 

correspondence with an opening in the motor-vehicle 
body. The pipes (3, 5) are formed in a 

single substantially rigid piece produced from a 
polyamide-based plastics material. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERGOM MATERIE PLASTICHE SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERGOM MATERIE PLASTICHE S.P.A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIMMINELLI FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIMMINELLI, FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a filler 
unit for a fuel tank, particularly for a motor-vehicle 
tank, of the type indicated in the 
precharacterising part of Claim 1. US-A-3187936 discloses such a filler unit. Filler units are known which comprise a 
fuel inlet pipe and a breather pipe both formed 
from separate corrugated pipes produced by 
extrusion of a polyamide-based material, and thus 
effecting a tight seal with respect to 
hydrocarbons, but, owing to their high degree of 
flexibility, these units are awkward to mount and 
require the use of a plurality of reciprocal 
connection members and of further elements for 
fixing to the body disposed along the units in 
order to enable them to fit along a predetermined 
path inside the body. Filler units are also known in which the 
fuel inlet pipe and the breather pipe are produced 
as a single rigid piece of polyethylene by means 
of a blow-moulding process, the units frequently 
being subjected to an expensive and harmful 
fluoridisation process which only improves their 
sealing partially owing to the poor sealing effect  
 
with respect to hydrocarbons which is typical of 
polyethylene. The main object of the present invention 
is to propose a filler unit of the above-mentioned 
type provided with an optimal sealing effect with 
respect to hydrocarbons and which simultaneously 
permits easy and rapid fitting of the whole unit 
on the motor-vehicle. This object is achieved by virtue of the 
features set forth in Claim 1. By virtue of the above characteristics, 
the filler unit according to the invention is 
produced with a minimum number of parts, which 
enables the overall sealing effect of the unit to 
be optimised, since only a small number of 
connections is required between the elements of 
the unit. In particular, the seal connections 
which are mainly subject to losses owing to 
imperfections in the seals which can wear over 
time, are reduced to the minimum. Furthermore, the filler unit to which the 
present invention relates can be fitted extremely  
 
simply and quickly and is notable in that its 
weight is lower than similar units of known type. Preferably, the filler unit comprises a 
connection rib which is formed integrally with 
both pipes and which extends at least over a 
greater part of their common length. In this way, the unit is strengthened by 
the connection rib even though the pipes have thin 
walls, with all the advantages of the reduction in 
the overall weight of the unit, and further 
enabling the pipes to have a large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A filler unit for a fuel tank, particularly for a 
motor-vehicle, comprising: 


a first tubular pipe (3) for the admission of fuel and 
a second, tubular breather pipe (5), disposed adjacent one 

another and having respective first ends (3a, 5a) to be 
connected to the tank, 
in which the second end (5b) of the breather pipe (5) 
is connected to the fuel inlet pipe (3), and connection 

means (10) are present which are associated with the second 
end (3b) of the fuel inlet pipe (3) in order to enable it 

to be anchored in correspondence with an opening provided 
in the motor-vehicle body, both tubular pipes (3, 5) being 

formed in a substantially rigid single piece produced from 
a polyamide-based plastics material,
 
   characterized in that the fuel inlet pipe (3) is 

provided with a bellows portion (7) in the vicinity of its 
first end (3a). 
A unit according to Claim 1, characterized in that said 
bellows portion (7) is integral with the fuel inlet pipe 

(3). 
A unit according to Claim 1 or 2, characterised in that 
it comprises a connection rib (4) which is formed integrally 

with both tubular pipes (3, 5) and which extends over at 
least the majority of their common length. 
A unit according to Claim 2 or 3, characterized in that 
the breather pipe (5) comprises an integral expansion tank 

(9) disposed in the vicinity of its first end (5a). 
A unit according to Claim 3 or 4, characterized in that  
 

it comprises at least one support bracket (12) integral with 
the first (3) and second (5) pipes. 
A unit according to Claim 5, characterized in that the 
support bracket (12) is fixed in correspondence with the 

connection rib (4). 
A unit according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, characterized 
in that the breather pipe (5) is connected to the 

fuel inlet pipe (3) in an intermediate zone thereof and in 
that the breather pipe (5) has a substantially siphon-like 

arrangement in correspondence with the connection zone.  
 
A unit according to any one of Claims 1 
to 7, characterized in that both pipes (3, 5) have  

 
parts provided with different degrees of rigidity 

and produced integrally with one another, which 
can be achieved by a co-extrusion process. 
A unit according to Claim 8, 
characterized in that the tubular pipes (3, 5) comprise an 

integral portion produced from a material which is 
more flexible than the remaining part of the two 

pipes (3, 5) disposed in the vicinity of the 
respective first ends (3a, 5a). 
A unit according to Claim 9, 
characterized in that both tubular pipes (3, 5) 

are produced from a polyamide-based material 
comprising a concentration of elastomer which is 

sufficient to permit blow-moulding of the pipes 
(3, 5) in correspondence with their second ends 

(3b, 5b) and of their substantially central parts, 
and with a polyamide-based material comprising a 

higher percentage of elastomer relative to the 
above concentration, in the vicinity of their 

first ends (3a, 5a) so as to impart greater 
flexibility to the first ends (3a, 5a) than the 

remaining parts of the two pipes (3, 5). 
A unit according to any one of Claims 1 
to 10, characterized in that the two tubular pipes (3,5) 

can be shaped by a blow-moulding process.  
 
A unit according to Claim 1 or 7, 
characterized in that the connection means (10) 

comprise a main tubular member (15) provided at 
one end with a threaded portion (15a) allowing a 

cap to be screwed on, this main body (15) being 
able to be connected at the opposite end to the 

second end (3b) of the fuel inlet pipe (3). 
A unit according to Claim 12, 
characterized in that the main tubular body (15) 

is associated with a secondary tubular body (20) 
having a portion (20b) which is substantially 

parallel to the main tubular body (15) which is to 
be connected to the second end (5b) of the 

breather pipe (5), the main and secondary tubular 
bodies (15, 20) communicating with one another. 
A unit according to Claim 12 or Claim 13, 
characterized in that the main tubular body (15) 

has a cup element (22) which can be secured to the 
motor-vehicle body. 
A unit according to Claim 14, 
characterized in that the cup element (22) is 

provided with a pipe (25) for the passage of gas 
which is connected to the secondary tubular body 

(20), a two-way safety valve (27) being interposed 
in the gas p
assage pipe (25).  
 
A unit according to Claim 14 or Claim 15, 
characterized in that the cup element (22) is 

provided with a downflow pipe (28) for liquids, 
connected to the rib (4) by snap-engagement means 

provided integrally on the rib (4). 
A unit according to any one of Claims 12 
to 16, characterized in that the second ends (3b, 

5b) of the fuel inlet pipe (3) and breather pipe 
(5) have substantially co-planar respective terminal portions 

which are both connected to the connection means 
(10) by co-moulding in a single sealing part (13) 

which is substantially in the shape of a figure-of-eight. 
A unit according to Claim 17, 
characterized in that at least one annular seal 

(30) is interposed between the fuel inlet pipe (3) 
and the main tubular body (15). 
A unit according to any one of Claims 12 
to 16, characterized in that a hollow restrictor 

element (33) having an inlet end (33a) facing the 
threaded portion (15a) and an opposite outlet end 

(33c) with a narrow section relative to the inlet 
end (33a) is disposed inside the main tubular body 

(15).  
 
A unit according to Claim 19, 
characterized in that the hollow restrictor 

element (33) is connected internally to the above 
main tubular body (15) by snap-engagement means 

(35). 
A unit according to Claim 19, 
characterized in that the hollow restrictor 

element (33) comprises a pivoting baffle (37) 
which can move normally in a transverse position 

inside the restrictor element (33) so as to close 
its cavity and being able to be moved into a 

position which is substantially tangential to the 
restrictor element (33), overcoming a resilient 

return force, following the ingress of a body 
through the narrow outlet end (33c). 
A unit according to Claim 19, 
characterized in that a flow directing member (38) 

is connected to the outlet end (33c) of the 
restrictor element (33). 
A unit according to Claim 22, 
characterized in that the flow directing member 

(38) extends beyond a connection zone of the 
breather pipe (5) to the fuel inlet pipe (3) in 

the direction of the first end (3a) of the pipe 
(3).  

 
A unit according to Claim 22 or 23, characterised in 
that the flow directing unit (38) is connected to the 

restrictor element (33) by snap-engagement means (39). 
A unit according to any one of Claims 22 to 24, 
characterized in that the flow directing unit comprises a 

corrugated tube (38) disposed substantially coaxially inside 
the fuel introduction pipe (3). 
A process for producing coupled tubular pipes (3, 5) 
of plastics material, particularly for a filler unit (1) for 

a motor-vehicle tank, the coupled tubular pipes (3, 5) being 
obtainable by successive operations of extruding and blow-moulding 

a polyamide-based material, and comprises: 

the extrusion of a preliminary tubular body or 
"parison" having a predetermined length, and 
blow-moulding the "parison" in a hollow mould defining 
the outer surface of at least a first and a second tubular 

pipe (3, 5) disposed adjacent one another and jointly having 
at least one connection portion (4), by supplying a 

pressurised fluid to the closed mould inside the tubular 
pipes (3, 5),
 
   characterised in that during the blow-moulding stage 

of the "parison" a bellows portion (7) in the vicinity of 
an end (3a) of the first (3) of the tubular pipes (3, 5) is 

formed. 
A process according to Claim 26, characterized in that 
an integral strengthening rib (4) interposed between the 

first and the second tubular pipes (3, 5) and extending at 
least over the greater part of their common length is 

provide during the blow-moulding stage of the "parison". 
A process according to Claim 27, characterized in that  
 

the extrusion operation comprises a co-extrusion stage 
during which the "parison" is produce with at least two 

integral portions of polyamide-based materials having 
respective degrees of rigidity different to one another. 
A process according to any one of Claims 26 to 28, 
characterized in that the hollow mould is shaped so as to 

define at least a bracket (12) integral with the strengthening 
rib (4). 
A process according to any one of Claims 26 to 29, 
characterized in that the hollow mould is shaped so as to 

define snap-engagement means integral with the rib (4) for 
securing a downflow pipe (28) for liquids. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
