<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637375</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ACOUSTO-OPTIC TUNABLE FILTER-BASED SURFACE SCANNING SYSTEM AND PROCESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02K900	F02K996	G01B1106	G01B1106	G01B1130	G01B1130	G01J312	G01J312	G01N2117	G01N2117	G01N2121	G01N2121	G01N2131	G01N2131	G01N2159	G01N2159	G01N2164	G01N2164	G01N2184	G01N2184	G01N2188	G01N2188	G01N2193	G01N2194	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02K	F02K	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01J	G01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02K9	F02K9	G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01J3	G01J3	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A scanning system (10) for inspecting a surface (16) including a light source (30) which generates a beam of light (32) that is reflected, scattered or causes fluorescence at the surface to be inspected. An optical interface (14) receives the beam of light and directs it along a predetermined path extending to and from the surface. An acousto-optic tunable filter (34) tuned to pass light having a wavelength corresponding to a known optical property of a predetermined material is positioned within the path of light. A detector (42) is positioned to receive light emanating from the surface and is configured to monitor the intensity of light at each predetermined wavelength being monitored and generate a corrsponding signal. The system is preferably attached to a scan board (90) thereby enabling the system to be used in scanning a surface. The system also includes a signal processor (22) which processes the signal generated by the detector. The resulting data is displayed by an output device (26).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIOKOL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIOKOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYLE TIMOTHY E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON KENDALL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEARSON LEE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYLE, TIMOTHY, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, KENDALL, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEARSON, LEE, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ACOUSTO-OPTIC TUNABLE FILTER-BASED SURFACE SCANNING SYSTEM AND PROCESSBACKGROUND1. The Field of the Invention The present invention is related to a system and process for inspecting surfaces. More particularly, the present inven¬ tion is related to a system for obtaining near real time, non¬ destructive detection and evaluation of various materials on surfaces by directing light at the surface and analyzing the in- tensity and polarity of the light emanating from the surface at a wavelength corresponding to a known optical property of a pre¬ determined material.2. Technical BackgroundA typical manufacturing process utilized in many applica- tions is the bonding of two materials. The criticality of the strength of the bond will vary depending on the particular ap¬ plication for which the bonded material is to be used. For example, in the manufacture of solid rocket motors, bond strength is particularly critical. The bonds in a solid rocket motor can be subjected to for¬ ces of high magnitude due to acceleration, ignition pressuriza- tion and thermal loads. A weak bond or area of debonding can be the source of stress risers which can result in further weaken¬ ing of the bond, eventually leading to failure of the bond, and can distort the geometry of the bonded material thereby adverse¬ ly affecting the firing characteristics of the motor.In the manufacture of a solid rocket motor, a variety of materials must be successfully bonded to one another. For exam¬ ple, some of the bonds found in a typical solid rocket motor are the bond between the case and the insulator, between the insula¬ tor and the liner, between the liner and the propellant and between the nozzle phenolic and the metal nozzle housing. A weak bond or debond in any of these bonds could result in catas¬ trophic failure of the rocket motor. When two materials are bonded together, contaminants on the surface of either of the materials can weaken the bond and, in some instances, cause areas of debonding. Organic materials 

such as greases, hydraulic fluids and mold release agents are the primary source of contamination of bonding surfaces in solid rocket motors. Other contaminants include particulates such as sand or dust. Oil vapors are often present in environments where hydraulic systems and electric motors are present. These vapors can condense on surfaces to be bonded. Even small levels of these contaminants, not visible to the human eye, can degrade bond strength.The extent to which a surface can be cleaned prior to bond- ing and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A system for scanning a surface to obtain near real¬ time data concerning characteristics of the surface, comprising: a light source capable of generating a beam of light; an optical interface configured to receive the beam of light from the light source and direct the beam of light along a predetermined path extending to and from the sur¬ face, the optical interface including means for directing the beam onto a discrete location on the surface; an acousto-optic tunable filter positioned within the path of light, the filter tuned to pass light having a wavelength corresponding to a known optical property of a predetermined material; a detector positioned to receive light emanating from the surface, the detector capable of monitoring the inten- sity of light at at least one predetermined wavelength, the detector capable of generating a signal corresponding to the intensity of each wavelength being monitored; a signal processor in communication with the detector for processing the signal generated by the detector; and means for moving the directing means relative to the surface such that the surface may be scanned with the beam of light.
2. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 1, further comprising a polarizer positioned within the path of light for polarizing the beam of light before it is directed onto the surface.
3. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 2, further comprising an analyzing polarizer positioned within the path of light for analyzing the polarization of light emanating from the surface.
4. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 1, wherein the means for moving the directing means relative to the surface comprises a scan board to which the light source, the optical interface, the acousto-optic tunable filter and the detector are attached. 


 5. A system for scanning a surface to obtain near real¬ time data concerning characteristics of the surface, comprising: a light source capable of generating an incident beam of light; an optical interface configured to receive the inci¬ dent beam of light from the light source and direct the incident beam onto a discrete location on the surface, the optical interface further configured to gather at least a portion of the beam which is scattered off the surface; an acousto-optic tunable filter positioned to receive the incident beam, the filter tuned to pass light corre¬ sponding to the absorption band of a predetermined material and at least one reference band outside the absorption band; a detector positioned to receive the gathered portion of the scattered beam, the detector capable of monitoring the intensity of light at the absorption band of the prede¬ termined material and at the reference band, the detector capable of generating a signal corresponding to the inten- sity of each wavelength being monitored; a signal processor in communication with the detector for processing the signal generated by the detector; and means or moving the optical interface relative to the surface such that the surface may be scanned with the beam of light.
6. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 5, wherein the optical interface is further configured to gather at least a portion of the back-scatter component of the scattered beam when the beam is scattered off a rough metallic surface.
7. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 5, wherein said optical interface is further configured to gather a portion of the specular component of the scattered beam when the beam is scattered off a smooth surface.
8. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 5, wherein the optical interface is further configured to gather a 


portion of the specular component of the scattered beam when the beam is scattered off a rough, non-metallic surface.
9. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 5, wherein the light source emits light in the near to mid infrared range.
10. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 5, wherein the acousto-optic tunable filter is inherently config¬ ured to linearly polarize the incident beam to produce two orthogonal components of polarized light exiting the filter at different angles and wherein the optical interface further includes a partition positioned to block one of the components of polarized light from being directed onto the surface.
11. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim
10, further comprising an analyzing polarizer positioned to receive the gathered portion of the scattered beam.
12. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim
11, wherein the acousto-optic tunable filter and the optical interface are positioned relative to the surface such that the component of the incident beam directed onto the surface is vertically polarized.
13. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 11, wherein the analyzing polarizer is oriented to pass the 90 degree depolarized portion of the beam when the surface being scanned is a rough metallic surface.
14. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 5, wherein the means for moving the directing means relative to the surface comprises a scan board to which the light source, the optical interface, the acousto-optic tunable filter and the detector are attached. 


 15. A system for scanning a surface to obtain near real¬ time data concerning characteristics of the surface, comprising: a light source capable of generating an incident beam of light including wavelengths in the ultraviolet range; an optical interface configured to receive the inci¬ dent beam of light from the light source and direct the incident beam onto a discrete location on the surface, the optical interface further configured to gather at least a portion of the fluorescent beam emitted from the surface; an acousto-optic tunable filter positioned to receive the gathered portion of the fluorescent beam, the filter tuned to pass light corresponding to the fluorescent wave¬ length of a predetermined material; a detector positioned to receive the fluorescent beam emitted from the surface, the detector capable of monitor¬ ing the intensity of light at the fluorescent wavelength of the predetermined material, the detector capable of gener¬ ating a signal corresponding to the intensity of the wave¬ length being monitored; a signal processor in communication with the detector for processing the signal generated by the detector; and means for moving the optical interface relative to the surface such that the surface may be scanned with the beam of light.
16. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim
15, further comprising a chopper wheel for modulating the inci¬ dent beam such that the effect of any ambient light at the fluorescent wavelength of the predetermined material is substan¬ tially eliminated.
17. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim
15, further comprising an optical filter arrangement positioned to filter the incident beam of light and configured to pass light having wavelengths corresponding to the fluorescence inducing wavelength of the predetermined material. 


 18. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 17, wherein the optical filter arrangement includes a band-pass filter.
19. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 15, further comprising a polarizer positioned to polarize the incident beam of light.
20. A system for scanning a surface as defined in claim 19, wherein the acousto-optic tunable filter is inherently configured to linearly polarize the gathered portion of the fluorescent beam to produce two orthogonal components of polar¬ ized light exiting the filter at different angles and wherein the detector includes a first detector positioned to receive one component of the polarized light exiting the filter and a second detector positioned to receive the other component of polarized light exiting the filter.
21. A process for scanning a surface to obtain near real¬ time data concerning characteristics of the surface, comprising the steps of: generating an incident beam of light with a light source; passing the incident beam of light through an acousto- optic tunable filter tuned to pass light corresponding to the absorption band of a predetermined material and at least one reference band outside the absorption band; directing the incident beam of light passed through the acousto-optic tunable filter onto a discrete location on the surface; gathering at least a portion of the beam scattered off the surface; introducing the gathered portion of the scattered beam into a detector capable of monitoring the intensity of light at the absorption band of the predetermined material and at the reference band, the detector capable of generat¬ ing a signal corresponding to the intensity of each wave- length being monitored; 


 analyzing the intensity of the gathered portion of the scattered beam at the absorption band of the predetermined material and at the reference band; and selecting a different discrete location on the surface and repeating the preceding steps.
22. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 21, wherein the step of gathering at least a portion of the beam scattered off the surface includes gathering at least a portion of the back-scatter component of the scattered beam when the beam is scattered off a rough metallic surface.
23. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 21, wherein the step of gathering at least a portion of the beam scattered off the surface includes gathering at least a portion of the specular component of the scattered beam when the beam is scattered off a smooth surface.
24. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 21, wherein the step of gathering at least a portion of the beam scattered off the surface includes gathering at least a portion of the specular component of the scattered beam when the beam is scattered off a rough, non-metallic surface.
25. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 21, further comprising the step of polarizing the incident beam with the acousto-optic tunable filter to produce two orthogonal components of polarized light exiting the filter at different angles and blocking one of the components of polarized light from being directed onto the surface.
26. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim
25, further comprising the step of directing the gathered por¬ tion of the scattered beam through an analyzing polarizer.
27. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim
26, further comprising the step of polarizing the incident beam includes producing a vertically polarized beam and the step of directing the incident beam onto a discrete location on the 


surface includes directing the vertically polarized beam onto a discrete location on the surface.
28. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claims 26 and 27, wherein the step of directing the gathered portion of the scattered beam through an analyzing polarizer comprises directing the gathered portion of the scattered beam through an analyzing polarizer oriented to pass the 90 degree depolarized portion of the beam when the surface being scanned is a rough metallic surface.
29. A process for scanning a surface to obtain near real¬ time data concerning characteristics of the surface, comprising the steps of: generating an incident beam of light including wave¬ lengths in the ultraviolet range; directing the incident beam onto a discrete location on the surface; gathering at least a portion of the fluorescent beam emitted from the surface; passing the gathered portion of the fluorescent beam through an acousto-optic tunable filter tuned to pass light corresponding to the fluorescent wavelength of a predeter¬ mined material; introducing the light passed through the acousto-optic tunable filter into a detector capable of monitoring the intensity of light at the fluorescent wavelength of the predetermined material, the detector capable of generating a signal corresponding to the intensity of the wavelength being monitored; analyzing the intensity of the gathered light at the fluorescent wavelength of the predetermined material; and selecting a different discrete location on the surface and repeating the preceding steps.
30. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 29, further comprising the step of substantially eliminating the effect of ambient light at the fluorescent wavelength of the 


predetermined material by modulating the incident beam with a chopper wheel.
31. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 29, wherein the step of directing the incident beam onto a discrete location on the surface includes passing the incident beam of light through an optical filter arrangement configured to pass light having wavelengths corresponding to the fluores¬ cence inducing wavelength of the predetermined material.
32. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim 29, wherein the step of directing the incident beam onto a discrete location on the surface includes passing the incident beam through a polarizer to polarize the incident beam of light.
33. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim
32, further comprising the step of passing the gathered portion of the fluorescent beam through an analyzing polarizer.
34. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim
33, wherein the step of passing the gathered portion of the fluorescent beam through an analyzing polarizer includes passing the gathered portion of the fluorescent beam through the acous- to-optic tunable filter to produce two orthogonal components of polarized light exiting the filter at different angles.
35. A process for scanning a surface as defined in claim
34, wherein the step of introducing the light passed through the acousto-optic tunable filter into a detector includes introduc- ing one of the orthogonal components of the polarized light exiting the filter into a first detector and introducing the remaining orthogonal component of the polarized light exiting the filter into a second detector. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
