<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651345</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for reading MICR data.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K900	G06K900	G06K920	G06K920	G06K962	G06K962	G06K968	G06K968	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of identifying characters which are printed on a 
document (14) in a magnetic ink (MICR). The method including first 

attempting to read the characters with a MICR character reader (22) as 
the primary means for identifying the characters printed on the 

documents, and secondly reading the characters with a supplemental 
optical reader (23) to assist in the identification of characters whose 

identity cannot be accurately determined by the MICR reader (22). 
The optical reader (23), being supplemental to the MICR reader (22), 

is less sophisticated in construction and operation as an optical reader 
employed as the sole or primary reader in document processing system. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T GLOBAL INF SOLUTION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T GLOBAL INFORMATION SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKLIN GENE R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO BENEDICT C M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKLIN, GENE R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO, BENEDICT C.M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to character recognition systems 
and, more particularly, to a system for reading MICR characters. Documents such as checks and deposit slips used in the banking 
industry, for example, have certain key data printed on the documents. 
The key data may include bank number, customer account number, 
document or check number, and the monetary amount of the document, 
for example, and is typically printed on the documents in magnetic ink 
in special stylized fonts. One such stylized font, adopted by the 
American Banking Association, is called E-13B. Figure 3 illustrates 
the E-13B numerical font characters. The documents with this key 
data thereon are processed by banking machines like proof and sorting 
machines. The document processing is effected by moving the 
documents with the key or magnetic ink character recognition (MICR) 
data thereon in reading relationship with a magnetic or MICR reader 
positioned along a document track included in the banking machines. 
As a document is moved in the document track past the MICR reader, 
waveforms are generated by the MICR reader. Each character within a 
particular font is printed so as to have its own individual waveform 
generated by the MICR reader. One characteristic of E-13B font is 
that each character within the font always starts with a positive-going 
waveform to indicate the start of a character. The output signals from 
the MICR reader are electronically processed by character recognition 
circuitry to identify the waveforms being read as being indicative of 
individual characters within that particular font. There are several general situations which cause problems with 
the reading of characters which are printed in E-13B font. These 
situations include:  1. Characters which are not printed according to predetermined 
specifications. These include characters with ragged edges, 
characters with broken elements, and characters with missing 
elements. Even though a character is printed correctly, initially, 
some of the situations mentioned here may develop through 
abusive handling of the document on which the characters are 
printed. 2. Characters with extraneous MICR ink spatter nearby. This is 
commonly referred to as EIF. 3. Characters with pitch problems. Character pitch is most easily 
defined as the distance between the right hand edge of one 
character to the right hand edge of an adjacent character printed 
in the same font. 4. Misreads. A "misread" occurs when the character recognized by 
the recognition
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recognizing a character which is printed on a 
document (14) in a magnetic ink (MICR) font, said method comprising 

the step of: magnetically reading said MICR character; and being 
characterized by the step of optically reading said MICR character 

should said step of magnetically reading said MICR character fail to 
identify said character. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that said 
step of optically reading said MICR character comprises the steps of: 

optically imaging said character to provide an array including rows and 
columns of binary image data corresponding to said imaged character, 

with said image data comprising a first bit to indicate the presence of a 
portion of said character and a second bit to indicate the absence of a 

portion of said character summing said first bits along the columns of 
said array to generate a histogram, said histogram containing a total of 

first bits for each of the associated columns included in said array; and 
comparing said histogram to each one of a plurality of predetermined 

histograms, each one of said predetermined histograms corresponding 
to a known character. 
A method of recognizing a character which is printed in E-13B 
font on a document wherein magnetically reading said E-13B 

character fails to identify said character, said method being 
characterized by the steps of: (a) optically imaging said character to 

provide an array including rows and columns of binary image data 
corresponding to said character, with said image data comprising a 

first bit to indicate the presence of a portion of said character and a 
second bit to indicate the absence of a portion of said character (b) 

 
adding up said first bits which are located in a starting column of said 

array to arrive at a total count of first bits for said starting column; (c) 
repeating step (b) for the next adjacent column in said array and the 

remaining subsequent columns in said array to arrive at a total count of 
first bits for each of the columns remaining in said array; and (d) using 

the total counts of first bits for each of the columns in said array as 
being indicative of the character within the E-13B font. 
A method according to claim 3, characterized in that step 
(d) is effected by: (d-1) grouping said columns so as to obtain a 

predetermined number of groups of columns within said array, with 
said predetermined number being fewer than the number of columns in 

said array; (d-2) adding together the total counts for each of the 
columns included in said groups of columns so as to obtain a group 

total count for each of said groups of columns; and (d-3) using said 
group total counts for each of said groups of columns in said array as 

being indicative of a character within said E-13B font. 
A method according to claim 4, characterized in that said 
grouping step (d-1) is effected to obtain said predetermined number of 

groups which is equal to the number of identifying zones within a 
character in E-13B font. 
A method of electronically reading an MICR character 
which is printed on a document (14) including the steps of: (a) 

providing relative movement between the MICR data on the document 
(14) and an MICR reader (22) so as to obtain an electronic waveform 

corresponding to a character included in said MICR data; (b) 
comparing characteristics associated with said waveforms with 

 
predetermined characteristics to provide a first identification of said 

character; characterized by the steps of (c) providing relative 
movement between the MICR data on the document (14) and an 

optical imager (23) so as to obtain an array of optical image data 
corresponding to characters included in said MICR data; (d) scanning 

the array in a first direction to find what appears to be a line of 
characters; (e) segmenting a block of image data from said array for 

what appears to be said character in said line of characters; (f) 
summing the binary ones which appear in a column of one side of a 

character to obtain a sum of the binary ones in that column; (g) 
repeating step (f) for the remaining columns in the block for a 

character; (h) comparing the sums for the columns in the block with 
predetermined sums to provide a second identification of said 

character; (i) providing said first identification as a result of said 
method when said first identification is conclusive (j) providing said 

second identification as a result of said method when said first 
identification is inconclusive. 
A method of recognizing a character which is printed on a 
document (14) in a magnetic ink (MICR) font, said method including 

the step of: (a) magnetically reading said MICR character and 
generating a first identification of said character; and characterized by 

the steps of (b) optically reading said MICR character and generating a 
second identification of said character; (c) providing said first 

identification as a result of said method when said first identification is 
conclusive. (d) providing said second identification as a result of said 

method when said first identification is inconclusive; (e) generating 
an error signal when both said first and said second identification of 

said character are inconclusive. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
