<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621695</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integrated circuit with an active-level configurable pin and method therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F122	G06F122	G06F300	G06F300	H03K1730	H03K1730	H03K19173	H03K19173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F3	G06F3	H03K17	H03K17	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated circuit (20) configures the active level of an 
input, output, or input/output pin by sensing a logic state on the 

pin's bonding pad (21) at the inactivation of a reset signal, such 
as a power-on reset signal. The integrated circuit (20) selects a 

true or complement signal to provide to or from an internal 
circuit (25). The voltage level on the pin is latched on the active-to-inactive 

transition of the power-on reset signal. Thus, the use 
of proper board-level termination resistors (70, 71) programs the 

pins to the desired active logic level without the need for 
additional logic circuitry or a dedicated device pin. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLOYD JEFFERY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS LLOYD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLOYD, JEFFERY A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS, LLOYD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to electrical circuits, and 
more particularly, to input and output circuitry for integrated 
circuits. Integrated circuits such as microprocessors use binary 
control signals to control the operation of other devices in the 
system such as peripheral integrated circuits. These control 
signals may either be "active low", signifying that when the 
signal has a relatively low voltage known as a logic low voltage, 
the signal is active or logically true, or "active high", signifying 
that when the signal has a relatively high voltage known as a 
logic high voltage, the signal is active or logically true. Different 
microprocessor families which control the operation of 
peripheral devices use different active levels for their control 
signals. For example, a Motorola MC68000-family microprocessor 
has a control signal known as the "R/W" signal indicating 
whether a read cycle or a write cycle is in progress. A logic high 
voltage indicates that a read cycle is in progress, whereas a logic 
low voltage indicates that a write cycle is in progress. However, 
the analogous signal in an Intel 8086-family microprocessor, the 
read strobe "R", is active at a logic low. Known peripherals may 
be operated with only one of the two microprocessor families 
without requiring either extra external logic or an extra device 
configuration pin. What is needed, then, is an integrated circuit 
which interfaces to both active-high and active-low control 
signals without additional components.  Accordingly, there is provided, in one form, an integrated 
circuit with an active-level configurable pin, comprising a 
bonding pad, a latching portion, an input pin configuration portion, 
and an internal circuit. The bonding pad receives an input signal. 
The latching portion is coupled to the bonding pad, latches a logic 
state of the bonding pad in response to an inactivation of a reset 
signal, and provides a first signal indicative of the latched logic 
state. The input pin configuration portion is coupled to the 
bonding pad and to the latching portion, and provides an internal 
input signal as a selected one of the input signal or a complement 
of the input signal selected in response to the latched logic state. 
The internal circuit receives the selected one of the input signal 
and the complement of the input signal. In another form, there is provided a method for configuring 
an integrated circuit pin for an unknown active voltage level of an 
external signal. A logic state present on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An integrated circuit with an active-level configurable pin 
(20), comprising: 

   a bonding pad (21) for receiving an input signal; 
   latching means (23) coupled to said bonding pad (21), 

for latching a logic state of said bonding pad in 
response to an inactivation of a reset signal, and 

for providing a first signal indicative of said 
latched logic state; 

   input pin configuration means (24) coupled to said 
bonding pad (21) and to said latching means (23), 

for providing an internal input signal as a 
selected one of said input signal or a 

complement of said input signal selected in 
response to said latched logic state; and 

   an internal circuit (25) for receiving said selected one 
of said input signal and said complement of said 

input signal. 
The integrated circuit (20) of claim 1 further comprising: 
   output pin configuration means (26) coupled to said 

bonding pad (21), said latching means (23), and 
said internal circuit (25), for providing a 

selected one of an internal output signal or a 
complement of said internal output signal, 

selected in response to said latched logic state, 
to said bonding pad (21) when enabled; and 

   input/output control means (27) coupled to said 
internal circuit (25), for disabling said output 

pin configuration means (26) in response to an 
output enable signal being inactive. 
An integrated circuit with an active-level configurable pin 
(20), comprising:

 
   an internal circuit (25) for providing an internal 

output signal; 
   a bonding pad (21) for providing an output signal; 

   latching means (23) coupled to said bonding pad (21), 
for latching a logic state of said bonding pad 

(21) in response to an inactivation of a reset 
signal, and for providing a first signal indicative 

of said latched logic state; 
   output pin configuration means (26) coupled to said 

bonding pad (21) and to said latching means (23), 
for providing an output signal to said bonding 

pad (21) as a selected one of said internal output 
signal or a complement of said internal output 

signal selected in response to said latched logic 
state. 
The integrated circuit (20) of claim 1 or claim 3 further 
comprising a power-on reset circuit (22) having an input for 

receiving an external reset signal, and an output for 
providing said reset signal. 
The integrated circuit (20) of claim 1 or claim 3 wherein 
said latching means (23) comprises a flip-flop (31) having a 

data input coupled to said bonding pad (21), a clock input for 
receiving said reset signal, a true output coupled to said 

input pin configuration means (24), and a complementary 
output coupled to said input pin configuration means (24). 
The integrated circuit of claim 5 wherein said input pin 
configuration means (24) comprises: 

   an inverter (81) having an input terminal coupled to 
said bonding pad (21), and an output terminal; 

   a first transmission gate (82) having a first terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said inverter 
(81), a second terminal for providing said 

internal input signal, a true control terminal 
coupled to said true output of said flip-flop 

 
(31), and a complementary control terminal 

coupled to said complementary output of said 
flip-flop (31); and 

   a second transmission gate (83) having a first 
terminal coupled to said bonding pad (21), a 

second terminal coupled to said second terminal 
of said first transmission gate (82), a true 

control terminal coupled to said complementary 
output of said flip-flop (31), and a 

complementary control terminal coupled to said 
true output of said flip-flop (31). 
The integrated circuit (20) of claim 5 wherein said latching 
means (23) further comprises a buffer (30) having an input 

coupled to said bonding pad (21), an output coupled to said 
flip-flop (31). 
The integrated circuit (20) of claim 2 or claim 3 wherein 
said output pin configuration means (26) comprises: 

   an inverter (81) having an input terminal for receiving 
said internal output signal, and an output 

terminal; 
   a first transmission gate (82) having a first terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said inverter 
(81), a second terminal, a true control terminal 

coupled to said true output of said flip-flop 
(31), and a complementary control terminal 

coupled to said complementary output of said 
flip-flop (31); 

   a second transmission gate (83) having a first 
terminal for receiving said internal output 

signal, a second terminal coupled to said second 
terminal of said first transmission gate (82), a 

true control terminal coupled to said 
complementary output of said flip-flop (31), and 

a complementary control terminal coupled to 
said true output of said flip-flop (31); and

 
   a buffer (54) having an input terminal coupled to said 

second terminals of said first (82) and second 
(83) transmission gates, a control input 

terminal coupled to said input/output control 
means (27), and an output terminal coupled to 

said bonding pad (21). 
A method for configuring an integrated circuit pin (21) for 
an unknown active voltage level of an external signal, 

comprising the steps of: 
   latching a logic state present on the integrated circuit 

pin (21) at an inactivation of a reset signal to 
provide a latched signal; 

   providing an internal signal at a true logic state of the 
external signal in response to said latched 

signal being in a first logic state; 
   providing said internal signal at a complementary 

logic state of the external signal in response to 
said latched signal being in a second logic state; 

and 
   providing said internal input signal to an internal 

circuit (25). 
A method for configuring an integrated circuit pin (21) for 
an unknown active voltage level of an external signal, 

comprising the steps of: 
   latching a logic state present on the integrated circuit 

pin (21) at an inactivation of a reset signal to 
provide a latched signal; 

   receiving an internal output signal from an internal 
circuit (25); 

   providing the external signal at a true logic state of 
said internal output signal in response to said 

latched signal being in a first logic state; 
   providing the external signal at a complementary logic 

state of said internal output signal in response 
 

to said latched signal being in a second logic 
state; and 

   providing the external signal to the internal circuit 
pin (25). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
