<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654164</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVING NEWSPAPERS AND SIMILAR FOLDED SHEET UNITS FROM A STACK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07F1104	G07F1104	G07F1114	G07F1116	G07F1126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07F11	G07F11	G07F11	G07F11	G07F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Folded sheet units, such as newspapers and magazines (16) are successively removed from a stack of such sheet units by inserting at least one sheet engaging member, such as a pin (42), between adjacent sheet layers of the sheet unit to be removed adjacent to the fold (38) thereof. The pin (42) is subsequently moved transversely towards the fold so as to withdraw the sheet unit (16) from the stack. This principle of withdrawing newspapers from a stack is used in a vending machine for newspapers or magazines.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERLINGSKE DAGBLADE AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DE BERLINGSKE DAGBLADE A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYSEN KELD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTMEYER KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAEHLER STEEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYSEN, KELD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTMEYER, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAEHLER, STEEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVING NEWSPAPERS AND SIMILAR FOLDED SHEET UNITS FROM A STACKThe present invention relates to a method for successively removing folded sheet units, such as newspapers, magazines or the like, each comprising superposed sheet layers, from a stack of such sheet units.In vending machines and other apparatuses for dispensing products one by one, products such as newspapers, magazines or the like folded sheet units comprising superposed sheet layers are normally arranged in a stack of such sheet units. The sheet units should then be removed one by one from one end of the stack and delivered to a customer or user.Various attempts have been made to ensure reliable separation of the sheet unit to be removed from the remaining stack. Examples of known apparatuses are disclosed in Danish patent No. 138,196, European patent publications Nos. 0,165,504, 0,282,457, and 0,424,329, German Offenlegungsschrift Nos. 23 53 477, 25 18 429, and 25 57 880, and in US patent No. 4,008,828.In the majority of these prior art apparatus the sheet unit to be removed is engaged by frictional forces and pushed from the stack in the direction of the plane of the sheet unit. In European patent publication No. 0,424,329 it is proposed to remove newspapers and magazines from a stack by means of a pair of rotating discs having points or needles extending from the peripheral surface thereof. The prior art devices may function satisfactorily when the sheet units stacked are relatively thin and when the sheet layers of the unit are relatively stiff. However, when the sheet units are relative- ly thick and comprises a great plurality of sheet layers, malfunction may occur.The present invention provides a method and apparatus by means of which a single folded sheet unit having a thickness 

within a wide range may efficiently be removed from a stack of such units.Thus, the present invention provides a method for succes¬ sively removing folded sheet units, such as newspapers, magazines, or the like each comprising superposed sheet layers, from a stack of such sheet units, and the method according to the invention is characterized in inserting at least one sheet engaging member between adjacent sheet layers of the sheet unit to be removed adjacent to the fold thereof, and subsequently moving the sheet engaging member transverse¬ ly towards the fold so as to withdraw the sheet unit or sheet assembly from the stack. Thus, the sheet engaging member will come into engagement with the inner side of the fold of one of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for successively removing folded sheet units, such as newspapers, magazines, or the like each comprising superposed sheet layers, from a stack of such sheet units, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in inserting at least one sheet engaging member between adjacent sheet layers of the sheet unit to be removed adjacent to the fold thereof, and sub¬ sequently moving the sheet engaging member transversely towards the fold so as to withdraw the sheet unit from the stack.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein a pair of op¬ positely directed sheet engaging members are inserted into the sheet unit at opposite edge portions thereof.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said at least one sheet engaging member, which has been inserted into the sheet unit, is moved along a predetermined track or path from said stack, which is located within a vending machine, to a position from which the sheet unit may be delivered to a customer.
4. A method according to any of the claims 1-3, wherein said at least one sheet engaging member is inserted into the successive sheet units at the same position, the stack of sheet units being advanced when a sheet unit has been removed so as to position a new sheet unit of the stack in position for removal.
5. A method according to any of the claims 1-4, wherein the sheet units of the stack extend substantially horizontally.
6. A method according to claims 4 and 5, wherein the stack is advanced in a vertically upward direction.
7. A method according to any of the claims 1-6, wherein said at least one sheet engaging member is a pin or rod member. 


8. An apparatus for successively removing folded sheet units, such as newspapers, magazines, or the like each comprising superposed sheet layers, from a stack of such sheet units, said apparatus comprising a support for supporting the stack of sheet units, at least one sheet engaging member for engag¬ ing with the sheet unit to be removed, and moving means for moving the sheet engaging member so as to remove the sheet unit from the stack, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said at least one sheet engaging member is mounted so as to be moveable between a retracted inoperative position in which it is out of engage¬ ment with the sheet units of the stack, and an extended operative position in which it is engaging between adjacent sheet layers of the sheet unit to be removed adjacent to the fold of the sheet unit.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8 comprising a pair of spaced, oppositely directed sheet engaging members for engag¬ ing with the sheet unit to be removed at opposite edge por¬ tions thereof.
10. An apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said at least one sheet engaging member is a pin or rod member.
11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the pin or rod member is axially moveable between said inoperative and operative positions.
12. An apparatus according to claims 9, 10 and 11, wherein the pair of oppositely directed pin or rod members are sub¬ stantially aligned.
13. An apparatus according to any of the claims 8-12, further comprising biassing means for biassing each sheet engaging member towards its extended operative position and releasable locking means for releasible retaining the sheet engaging member in its retracted inoperative position. 


14. An apparatus according to any of the claims 8-13, wherein the moving means comprise a guide track extending between a first position adjacent to the fold of the folded unit to be removed from the stack and a second delivery position sub- stantially spaced from the first position, and driving means for moving said at least one sheet engaging member along the guide track between said first and second positions.
15. An apparatus according to claim 13 and 14, further com¬ prising activating means located at said second position for moving said at least one sheet engaging member to its re¬ tracted position and for activating the locking means, and releasing means located at said first position to release the locking means.
16. An apparatus according to any of the claims 8-16, wherein the stack support comprises a substantially horizontally extending support member and means for moving the support member and the stack supported thereby vertically so as to maintain the upper folded sheet unit of the stack at a pre¬ determined level when folded sheet units are successively removed from the stack.
17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the support member comprises a resilient rim portion for supporting the superposed folds of the folded units of the stack.
18. An apparatus according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the support member forms the bottom of a box-shaped stack holder or cassette removeably arranged within the apparatus.
19. An apparatus according to any of the claims 14-18, fur¬ ther comprising a transparent front wall, a folded sheet unit removed from the stack being visible through the front wall in said second delivery position.
20. An apparatus according to any of the claims 14-19, fur¬ ther comprising means for discharging the folded unit 


retained in the delivery position from the apparatus when means of payment has been inserted into and accepted by the apparatus.
21. An apparatus according to claim 20, further comprising control means for activating the moving means when the folded unit has been discharged so as to move a further folded sheet unit from said first position to said second delivery posi¬ tion.
22. A vending machine comprising an apparatus for succes- sively removing folded sheet units, such as newspapers, magazines, and the like each comprising superposed sheet layers, from a stack of such sheet units, said apparatus comprising a support for supporting the stack of sheet units and means for removing a sheet unit from the stack and dis- charging it to a customer when payment means has been inserted into the machine and accepted, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the removing means are adapted to move the sheet unit withdrawn from the stack to a display position in which it is visible to the customer, the sheet unit being discharged to the customer from the display position.
23. A vending machine according to claim 22, wherein the display position is defined behind a transparent front wall part of the vending machine.
24. A vending machine according to claim 22 or 23, defining a vertically extending narrow space or slot in which the sheet unit is positioned in said display position.
25. A vending machine according to claim 24, further com¬ prising retractable support means for supporting a lower edge portion of a sheet unit in the display position.
26. A vending machine according to claim 25, further com¬ prising control means for retracting the support means from 


said slot when payment means has been inserted into the vending machine and accepted, whereafter the sheet unit displayed is discharged or may be removed from the machine.
27. A vending machine according to any of the claims 22-26, wherein the removing means comprises at least one sheet engaging member mounted so as to be moveable between a retracted inoperative position in which it is out of engage¬ ment with the sheet units of the stack, and an extended operative position in which it is engaging between adjacent sheet layers of the sheet unit to be removed adjacent to the fold of the sheet unit.
28. A vending machine according to claim 27, comprising a pair of axially spaced, oppositely directed sheet engaging members for engaging with the sheet unit to be removed at opposite edge portions thereof.
29. A vending machine according to claim 27 or 28, wherein said at least one sheet engaging member is a pin or rod member.
30. A vending machine according to claim 29, wherein the pin or rod member is axially moveable between said inoperative and operative positions.
31. A vending machine according to claims 29, 30, and 31, wherein the oppositely directed pin or rod members are sub¬ stantially aligned.
32. A vending machine according to any of the claims 22-31, further comprising biassing means for biassing each sheet engaging member towards its extended operative position and releasable locking means for releasible retaining the sheet engaging member in its retracted, inoperative position.
33. A vending machine according to any of the claims 22-32, wherein the removing means comprise a guide track extending 


from a first position adjacent to the fold of the folded unit to be removed from the stack, and a second delivery position substantially spaced from the first position, and driving means for moving said at least one sheet engaging member along the guide track between said first and second posi¬ tions.
34. A vending machine according to claim 33 and 34, further comprising activating means located at said second position for moving said at least one sheet engaging member to its retracted position and for activating the locking means, and releasing means located at said first position to release the locking means.
35. A vending machine according to any of the claims 22-34, wherein the stack support comprises a substantially hori- zontally extending support member and means for moving the support member and the stack supported thereby vertically so as to maintain the upper folded sheet unit of the stack at a predetermined level when folded sheet units are successively removed from the stack.
36. A vending machine according to claim 35, wherein the support member comprises a resilient rim portion for sup¬ porting the superposed folds of the folded units of the stack.
37. A vending machine according to claim 35 or 36, wherein the support member forms the bottom of a box-shaped stack holder or cassette removeably arranged within the apparatus. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
