<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657055</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED RF TAGGING SYSTEM WITH MULTIPLE DECODING MODALITIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B1324	G08B1324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B13	G08B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An RF tagging system including an RF tag (10, 30) and an RF tag reader (80). The RF tag includes a plurality of RF resonant circuits. Each RF resonant circuit is resonant at a different specific frequency. Each plurality of RF resonant circuits divided into a group of decoder circuits (12, 32) and a group of data RF circuits (14, 34). The group of data RF circuits have resonant frequencies corresponding to a predetermined identification code when the resonant frequencies of the data RF circuits are decoded in accordance to the one decoding modality. The RF tag reader detects the resonant frequencies of the decoder RF circuits to determine the one decoding modality. The RF tag reader is operative in each of the predetermined decoding modality. The decoder RF resonant circuits may also indicate the number of data RF resonant circuits on the RF tag. The RF tag reader determines the number of RF circuits from the decoder RF resonant circuits to confirm the accurate detection of the data RF resonant circuits.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN RUDYARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO GEORGE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM, SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN, RUDYARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO, GEORGE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Improved RF Tagging System with Multiple Decoding ModalitiesField £_£ invention The present invention generally relates to the field of RF tagging systems in which the presence of resonant circuits on a tag are detected to generate a code determined in accordance with which resonant circuits are being detected. The present invention is more particularly directed to an RF tagging system which includes an RF tag reader operable in a plurality of different decoding modalities which is responsive to decoder RF resonant circuits on a tag for operating in a designated one of the decoding modalities to generate the code. The RF tag reader first detects the resonant frequencies of the decoder RF resonant circuits to determine the designated decoding modality. Thereafter, the RF reader detects the resonant frequencies of a plurality of data RF resonant circuits and then determines the code in accordance with the designated modality. Further, the decoder RF resonant circuits may designate the number of data RF resonant circuits to permit the RF tag reader to verify accurate detection of the data RF resonant circuits . In addition, the RF tag reader may be operative in a calibration mode rendered operable by the decoder RF resonant circuits to compensate for frequency shifts of the resonant frequencies of the data RF resonant circuits due to the interaction of the tagged item with the data RF resonant circuits on the RF tags. More specifically, in the calibration mode, the RF tag reader compensates for spatial and/or frequency dependent resonant frequency shifts in the resonant frequencies of the data RF resonant circuits due to interaction between the tagged item and the data RF resonant circuits on the tag. 

 Background of the inventionPrior art systems are known in which the existence of a single resonant circuit in a detection field or zone is utilized as an anti-theft type apparatus. Essentially, if an article having a single resonant frequency tag passes through a detection zone, an alarm is generated which indicates the unauthorized presence of store goods in the detection zone. Such resonant circuits have been constructed in accordance with standard printed circuit board techniques.Some prior RF tagging systems have provided multiple different tuned (resonant) circuits on a tag so as to specifically identify the goods to which the tag is attached or the destination to which those goods should be directed. Such systems have been proposed for parcel or other article delivery systems wherein resonant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An RF tagging system comprising: an RF tag including a plurality of RF resonant circuits, each said RF resonant circuit being resonant at a given RF frequency, said plurality of RF resonant circuits including a group of decoder RF resonant circuits having resonant frequencies defining one of a plurality of predetermined decoding modalities and a group of data RF resonant circuits having resonant frequencies corresponding to a predetermined identification code when the resonant frequencies of said data RF resonant circuits are decoded in accordance with said one decoding modality; and an RF tag reader for detecting the resonant frequencies of said group of decoder RF resonant circuits and determining said one decoding modality and detecting the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits, being operative in each of said plurality of predetermined decoding modalities, and decoding said resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits in accordance with said one decoding modality to provide said identification code after detecting the resonant frequencies of said group of decoder RF resonant circuits and determining said one decoding modality. 2. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 1 wherein said group of data RF resonant circuits includes a predetermined number of data RF resonant circuits, wherein said resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits are also indicative of said predetermined number, and wherein said RF tag reader 


 determines said predetermined number upon detecting the resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits to confirm the accurate detection of the resonant frequencies of said data RF resonant circuits . 3. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 2 wherein said RF tag reader determines said predetermined number and confirms the accurate detection of the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits before decoding the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits and providing said identification code.
4. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 2 wherein said RF tag reader repeats the detection of the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits until said accurate detection is confirmed or until said RF tag reader has repeated said detection a preselected number of times without accuracy confirmation.
5. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 4 wherein said preselected number is two.
6. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 4 wherein said RF tag reader generates an error code after repeating said detection said preselected number of times without said accuracy confirmation. 7. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 2 wherein said RF tag reader repeats the detection of the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits until said accurate detection is confirmed or until a preselected time period elapses without accuracy confirmation.
8. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 7 wherein said RF tag reader generates an error code after repeating said detection for said preselected time period without said accuracy confirmation. 


 9. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 2 wherein said RF tag reader compares said predetermined number to the number of resonant frequencies detected on the tag for confirming said accurate detection. 10. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 2 wherein said RF tag reader compares said predetermined number to the number of data RF resonant circuits detected for confirming said accurate detection.
11. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 1 wherein one of said decoding modalities is binary decoding.
12. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 1 wherein one of said decoding modalities is numerical decoding. 13. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 1 wherein one of said decoding modalities is alphanumeric decoding.
14. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 1 wherein said RF tag further includes a group of reference RF resonant circuits, said reference RF resonant circuits being resonant at predetermined undisturbed resonant frequencies, wherein said RF tag reader is further selectively operable in a calibration mode for detecting the actual resonant frequencies of said reference RF resonant circuits, for determining resonant frequency shifts between said predetermined undisturbed resonant frequencies and said actual resonant frequencies of said reference RF resonant circuits, and being responsive to said resonant frequency shifts for detecting the resonant frequencies of said data RF resonant circuits.
15. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 14 wherein said resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits further define said calibration mode, and wherein said RF tag reader is responsive to said 



decoder RF resonant circuits for being selectively operable in said calibration mode.
16. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 15 wherein said resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits further define the number of reference RF resonant circuits on said RF tag, wherein said RF tag reader determines the number of said reference RF resonant circuits on said RF tag responsive to said decoder RF resonant circuits, and wherein said RF tag reader compares the number of reference RF resonant circuits determined responsive to said decoder RF resonant circuits to the number of reference RF resonant circuits detected to confirm accurate detection of said reference RF resonant circuits. 17. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 14 wherein said calibration mode includes a first mode for calibration for spatial dependent resonant frequency shifts or a second mode for calibrating for frequency dependent resonant frequency shifts. 18. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 17 wherein the resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits further define said first and second calibration modes and wherein said RF tag reader is responsive to said decoder RF resonant circuits for being operable in said first calibration mode, said second calibration mode, or both said first and second calibration modes.
19. An RF tag as defined in claim 18 wherein said RF tag includes spatial reference RF resonant circuits, and wherein said resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits further define the locations of said spatial reference RF resonant circuits on said RF tag.
20. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 1 wherein each said data RF resonant circuit has a resonant frequency within a respective different 


frequency band and wherein said resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits also identify said frequency band.
21. AN RF tagging system as defined in claim 20 wherein said RF tag reader includes a plurality of frequency variable detectors responsive to said decoder RF resonant circuits for tuning to said frequency bands.
22. An RF tagging system comprising: an RF tag including a plurality of RF resonant circuits, each said RF resonant circuit being resonant at a given RF frequency, said plurality of RF resonant circuits including a predetermined number of data RF resonant circuits having resonant frequencies corresponding to a predetermined identification code and a group of decoder RF resonant circuits having resonant frequencies indicative of said predetermined number; and an RF tag reader for detecting the resonant frequencies of said data RF resonant circuits to provide said identification code and for detecting the resonant frequencies of said decoder RF resonant circuits and determining said predetermined number for confirming the accurate detection of all said data RF resonant circuits.
23. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 22 wherein said RF tag reader determines said predetermined number and confirms the accurate detection of the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits before providing said identification code.
2 . An RF tagging system as defined in claim 22 wherein said RF tag reader repeats the detection of the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits until said accurate detection is confirmed or 


until said RF tag reader has repeated said detection a preselected number of times without accuracy confirmation.
25. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 24 wherein said preselected number is two.
26. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 24 wherein said RF tag reader generates an error code after repeating said detection said preselected number of times without said accuracy confirmation. 27. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 22 wherein said RF tag reader compares said predetermined number to the number of resonant frequencies detected on said RF tag for confirming said accurate detection.
28. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 22 wherein said RF tag reader compares said predetermined number to the number of data RF resonant circuits detected for confirming said accurate detection.
29. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 22 wherein said RF tag reader repeats the detection of the resonant frequencies of said group of data RF resonant circuits until said accurate detection is confirmed or until a preselected time period elapses without accuracy confirmation.
30. An RF tagging system as defined in claim 29 wherein said RF tag reader generates an error code after repeating said detection for said preselected time period.
31. An RF tagging system comprising: an RF tag including a plurality of RF resonant circuits, each said RF resonant circuit being resonant at a given RF frequency, said plurality of RF resonant circuits including a predetermined number of data RF resonant circuits having resonant frequencies 


 corresponding to a predetermined identification code; and an RF tag reader for detecting the resonant frequencies of said data RF resonant circuits 5 to provide said identification code and for determining the number of detected data RF resonant circuits and comparing said number of detected data RF resonant circuits to said predetermined number for confirming the 10 accurate detection of all said data RF resonant circuits. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
