<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632934</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for making an armature
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R3932	H01R3900	H02K1304	H02K1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R39	H01R39	H02K13	H02K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The method according to the invention provides for the assembly of a high current commutator and winding (11) to form an armature, and especially the connection of pairs of ends of conductors of the winding to the brush commutating segments (8). Each segment (8) is provided with a connection portion (7a) which is adapted to be supported by a support member (12) while a connection member (16), such as an electrode or sonotrode applies energy to fuse the stack formed by the connection portion (7a) and the conductor ends (14, 15) together. The support member (12) confines the securing energies to the stack thus allowing the commutator segments (8), connection portions (7a) and a core of the commutator to be made lighter than where conventional production techniques are used.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATLIFF CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATLIFF COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGERTON DOUGLAS ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGERTON, DOUGLAS ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is concerned with a 
method for manufacturing an armature and a construction 
of the armature. In particular the invention is 
concerned with the method of connecting the conductors 
comprising the windings to a commutator segment 
anchorage in a high current armature. High current 
armatures are employed in electric starter motors for 
vehicle engines, although the invention may be applied 
to other types of armature. High current armatures require winding 
conductors of large gauge wire or strip (normally above 
2mm² C.S.A.) in order to tolerate the high current loads 
to which they are subjected. The gauge of such 
conductors creates particular problems with the 
connection of each winding conductor to a corresponding 
segment of the commutator. Conventionally the commutator is formed by 
mounting a conducting collar on an insulating core. One 
end of the collar is formed into a flange which extends 
radially outward from the collar. The collar, including 
the flange part, is divided into isolated longitudinally 
extending segments. Each segment thus comprises a lug 
and an axially extending brush contact. Each segment of 
the commutator is insulated from the adjacent segments 
by the introduction of an insulating resin. Slots are  
 
then formed, one each in the spaces between them in each 
lug, by machining from the circumferential surface 
radially inwards. To connect the winding to the commutator, two 
ends of the conductor from the winding are introduced to 
each slot, one end being placed radially outwards from 
the other, and secured in place by hot staking. Hot 
staking involves applying an electrode to the radially 
outermost conductor end and applying another electrode 
to the brush contact of the segment. A large electric 
current is then applied through the conductors and 
segment and pressure is applied to the conductor ends 
via the electrode contacted therewith. This causes the 
conductor ends to fuse into the slot, resulting in a 
mechanically secure and electrically good contact 
between the windings and the commutator. A problem with this method of manufacture is 
that the commutator must be engineered to support the 
large mechanical, thermal and electrical stresses 
applied by the hot staking step. In consequence, the 
moulded core must be made of special temperature 
resistant material. These materials are relatively 
expensive or hazardous, and frequently limit the 
commutator performance due to thermal distortion or 
degradation of the moulding material
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of connecting a winding to a segment (5) of 
a commutator to form an armature for an electric rotary 

machine comprising the steps of:
 
   positioning end portions (14,15) of first and second 

conductors of the winding against a contact surface (7c) of 
a connection portion (7a) of the segment (5) to form a 

stack,
 
   engaging a connection member (16) against the stack 

so that the end portions of the conductors are interposed 
between the connection member (16) and the contact surface 

(7c),
 
   characterised by the step of engaging a support 

member (12) with a support surface (7b) of the connection 
portion (7a), whereby connection energies can be applied via 

the members (12,16) and the connection energies are confined 
to the stack. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the steps of 
the method are performed simultaneously upon a fraction of 

the several segments (5) of the commutator and repeated 
sequentially on different fractions until all the segments 

(5) of the commutator have been connected to the conductors 
of the winding.  

 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the 
conductor ends (14,15) are secured by electro-welding. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the 
conductor ends (14,15) are secured by sonic-welding. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the connection portion (7a) is provided by bending 

an end of the segment (5) outwardly and back so that the 
contact surface (7c) is provided by the surface of the 

connection portion (7a) facing away from the axis, and the 
support surface (7b) is provided on the opposite, axis 

facing surface of the connection portion (7a). 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the stack is formed with the first conductor end 

interposed between the contact surface and the second 
conductor end. 
A method according to claim 6 wherein the stack is 
constructed to extend radially. 
An apparatus for connecting conductors of a 
winding to a segment (5) of a commutator to form an 

armature wherein the conductor ends (14,15) are presented 
to a connection portion (7a) of the segment (5) to form 

a stack, the apparatus comprising
  
 

   a connection member (16) engagable with one of the 
conductor ends (14,15) to apply energy to the stack to fuse 

the stack together
 
   characterised in that the apparatus includes a 

support member (12) engagable with a support surface (7b) of 
the connection portion (7a) to support the stack and to 

confine the energies applied to fuse the stack. 
Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the support 
member (12) is an annular sleeve having an axial bore 

adapted to receive the brush contacting parts (8) of the 
commutator and a plurality of longitudinally extending, 

circumferentially spaced notches (13) are provided in the 
outer surface of one end of the sleeve to receive each stack 

formed by all the commutator connection portions (7a) and 
pairs of conductor ends (14,15). 
Apparatus according to claim 8 adapted to fuse the 
stack together by hot staking, wherein an electrode is 

provided in each notch (13) and a complementary electrode is 
provided by each connection member (16). 
Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the stack is 
fused together by sonic welding the sonotrode being provided 

by the connection member (16), and an anvil being provided 
by each notch (13).  

 
Apparatus according to any one of the claims 8 
to 11 wherein a plurality of connection members (16) are 

provided to enable simultaneous fusing of several 
stacks. 
A commutator for use in making a high current 
armature comprising
 
   a plurality of segments (5) extending 

circumferentially around a core (3) each segment (5) 
having a connection portion (7a) adapted to be fused 

with the ends of two conductors (14, 15) of a winding, 
to electrically and mechanically connect each segment 

(5) with a corresponding pair of conductors (14, 15) 
characterised in that
 
   each connection portion (7a) is provided with 

a support surface (7b) engageable by a support member 
(12) whereby the connection portion (7a) can be 

supported while it is fused with a conductor. 
A commutator according to claim 13 wherein the 
connection portion (7a) is radially spaced from a brush 

contact surface of the segment (5), overlies the brush 
contact surface so that the support surface (7b) faces 

the axis of the commutator and the connection surface 
(7c) faces away from the axis.  

 
A commutator according to claim 14 wherein the 
connection
 portion (7a) is radially spaced by bending an 
end of a segment (5) into a 'U' shape. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
