<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614394</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN ILLUMINATING TOY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63H500	A63H500	A63H3300	A63H3300	A63H3322	A63H3322	G02B600	G02B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63H5	A63H5	A63H33	A63H33	A63H33	A63H33	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
I 
&
 K TRADING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
I 
&
 K TRADING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNELLY KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNELLY KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AN ILLUMINATING TOYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed to a novel amusement device and, in particular, to an illuminating toy sword or wand that combines the use of light and sound to produce the effect of a light saber or magic wand- Toy swords are well known in the art and have been made of grey plastic molded in the shape of the sword, to look like real metal swords. These swords have been designed to look realistic, to attract attention and to captivate children. However, these toy swords suffer from the disadvantage that they have no play value beyond their use as an imitation sword. Also, prior art toy swords do not stimulate the imagination of the child, encourage the use of the sword by the child or maintain the interest of the child over extended periods of time.To overcome this deficiency toy manufacturers have developed toy light sabers or laser light swords for children. These toy swords included a flashlight with a plastic sword member covering the light bulb. While serving a purpose, these swords were large, bulky and less than adeguate. Such swords suffered from a disadvantage that they provide non-uniform illumination and do not provide a desired scrolling effect to add realism to the toy.Further, toy magic wands are also known in the art. These wands consist merely of handles with a wand attached thereto that contains sparkle or other types of mylar pieces and a regular incandescent light bulb therein to cause illumination. However, a disadvantage of these wands is that they do not provide the magical sound effects normally associated with the familiar effect 

 sought to be obtained or uniform illumination of the wand with an aesthetically pleasing illuminated tip at the end thereof.Accordingly, an improved toy light sword or magic wand that provides enhanced play value by combining light and sound to provide a realistic light saber or magic wand is desired.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Generally speaking, in accordance with the instant invention, a toy light sword is provided. The toy light sword includes a handle and a light source supported therein. A light rod is optically coupled to the light source. A sound generator is disposed in the handle for generating a sound. A circuit activates the sound generator and light source simultaneously to provide an illusion of a real magic wand or sword.In one embodiment, the light source further includes a scrolling feature such that the light appears to the eye to travel along the sword away from the light source. The handle of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An illuminated toy, comprising a handle, light source means mounted in said handle for emitting focused light, elongated light pathway means extending from said handle and having a first end and a second end, said first end being optically coupled to said light source means for providing a pathway for said focused light; said focused light being focused in the direction of said second end of said elongated pathway means, and scrolling means coupled to said light source means for scrolling the focused light along said elongated light pathway.
2. The illuminated toy of claim 1, wherein said scrolling means includes selectively actuated circuit means operatively coupled to said light source means for varying the intensity of said focused light emitted by said light source means to create the appearance of light scrolling the length of said elongated pathway means.
3. The illuminated toy of claim 2, wherein said selectively actuated circuit means includes a metal-oxide- semiconductor field-effect transistor.
4. The illuminated toy of claim 1, wherein said light source means includes a lensed light emitting diode.
5. The illuminated toy of claim 1, wherein said elongated pathway means is a light rod, said light rod being light resistant in inverse relation to the intensity of said emitted focused light.
6. The illuminated toy of claim 5, wherein said light rod is formed of thermoplastic. 


 7. The illuminated toy of claim 1, and including sound generating means mounted in said handle for producing a sound simultaneously with said light source means emitting said focused light.
8. The illuminated toy of claim 5, wherein said light rod is translucent.
9. The illuminated toy of claim 7, wherein said sound generating means generates a first sound associated with movement of said toy.
10. The illuminated toy of claim 7, wherein said sound generating means generates a second sound associated with said light with deactivation of said toy simultaneously with deactivation of said light source means.
11. An illuminated toy, comprising a handle, light source means mounted in said handle for emitting focused light of variable intensity, elongated light pathway means having a first end and a second end, said first end being mounted to said handle and optically coupled to said light source means for providing a pathway for said focused light; said focused light being focused in the direction of said second end of said elongated light pathway means; sound generating means mounted in said handle for producing a sound simultaneously with said light source means emitting said focused light; scrolling means for scrolling the light source along said pathway means; said pathway means being a light rod, said light rod emitting a visual effect of illumination of light with a light travel distance proportional to variations in the intensity of said emitted focused light; and said sound generating means generates a second sound associated with said light with 


 deactivation of said toy simultaneously with deactivation of said light source means.
12. An illuminated toy, comprising a handle, light source means mounted in said handle for emitting focused light of varying intensity, elongated light pathway means having a first end and a second end, said first end being mounted on said handle and optically coupled said light source means for providing a pathway for said focused light; focused light being focused in the direction of said second end of said light pathway means; sound generating means mounted in said handle for producing a sound simultaneously with said light source means emitting said focused light; said pathway means being a light rod, said light rod emitting a visual effect of illumination of light with a light travel distance proportional to the variations in intensity of said emitted focused light; and sound generating means generating a first sound associated with movement of said toy.
13. The illuminated toy of claim 1, including a head coupled to said second end of said elongated light pathway means.
14. The illuminated toy of claim 13, wherein said head is star shaped.
15. The illuminated toy of claim 13, wherein said light source means and said elongated light pathway means illuminate said head.
16. The illuminated toy of claim 11, including a head coupled to said second end of said elongated light pathway means.
17. The illuminated toy of claim 16, wherein said light source means and said elongated light pathway means illuminate said head. 


 18. The illuminated toy of claim 12, including a head coupled to said second end of said elongated light pathway means.
19. The illuminated toy of claim 18, wherein said light source means and said elongated light pathway means illuminate said head.
20. An illuminated toy sword, comprising a handle, light source means mounted in said handle for emitting focused light, light pathway means having a first end and a second end, said first end being mounted at or about said handle and optically coupled to said light source means for providing a pathway for said focused light; said focused light being focused at said second end of said pathway means, and scrolling means for scrolling the light source along said pathway.
21. The illuminated toy of claim 2, and including switch means coupled to said circuit means for selectively actuating said circuit means to emit light of variable intensity whereby the appearance of light scrolling occurs in response to said switch means.
22. The illuminated toy of claim 21, wherein said switch means includes a manually actuated switch disposed on said handle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
