<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650714</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of making an absorbent article using an activatable composite elastic member.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F1315	A61F1349	B32B702	B32B702	B32B2700	B32B2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	B32B7	B32B7	B32B27	B32B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of making an absorbent article, in which a 
composite elastic member is attached to a topsheet, backsheet, core or any 

combination thereof. The composite elastic member comprises a first, relatively 

unextensible layer and a second, elastically extensible layer. The elastically 
extensible layer is attached to the unextensible layer in its relaxed state. The 

composite elastic member is supplied from a supply station while in its relatively 
unelongatable state and is activated by stretching or "ring rolling" just prior to, or 

shortly after attaching the composite elastic member to the topsheet, backsheet, core 
or any combination thereof. Alternatively, the method according to the invention 

comprises imparting extensibility to the composite elastic member in a manner such 
that the composite elastic member remains unelongatable in its longitudinal 

direction, followed by applying the composite elastic member to the topsheet, 
backsheet core or any combination thereof. The method according to the invention 

allows supply of an elastic member without need for tension control means and 
allows controlled design of the elastic properties of an absorbent article. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLES PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIVO MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOON SEE-AUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMER ATTILA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLES, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIVO, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOON, SEE-AUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMER, ATTILA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to method of making an absorbent article, the article having a 
liquid-pervious topsheet, a liquid-impervious backsheet and an absorbent core 
placed therebetween, the method comprising the step of applying an elastication 
means to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any combination thereof, the 
elastication means comprising a composite member having a first, relatively 
unextensible layer and a second, elastically extensible layer. The invention also relates to an absorbent article comprising a composite elastic 
member and to a composite elastic member for use in a method of manufacturing 
an absorbent article. From US-A-4 908 247, a shirrable composite elastic member is known which is 
comprised of a central, pre-stretched elastomeric layer such as a natural rubber 
layer, which is laminated to two outer layers. The outer layers consist for instance 
of extrusion-cast polystyrene and are relatively brittle but strong enough to  
 
maintain the central layer in its stretched condition. The elastic composite can be 
applied to a disposable absorbent article at low tension and high speed and is 
activated by mechanical manipulation so that elasticity is obtained in selective areas. 
The disposable absorbent article is, after activation of the elastic composite, 
gathered by the contraction of the composite elastic member. Although the above 
composite elastic member allows application to a disposable diaper in a continuous 
manufacturing process at relatively high speed, there are several aspects of the 
above composite elastic member that can be improved upon. Firstly, the manufacture of the known composite elastic member requires the 
pretensioning of the central element, which complicates a continuous manufacturing 
process of the elastic composite as the central elastic element needs to be supplied in 
a pre-stretched state at a constant tension. Secondly, for relatively weak or brittle outer layers, winding of the composite 
member onto a roll could lead to activation. Storage of the known composite 
member will therefore be relatively difficult. Thirdly, the known composite elastic member will contract after activation by an 
amount which is in part determined by the percentage of elongation applied during 
pre-stretching of the central layer. The total amount of contraction can be 
controlled by activating a longer or shorter length of the composite elastic member. 
Contraction of the known composite member will cause the absorbent products, to 
which it is attached,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of making an absorbent article, the article having a liquid-pervious 
topsheet, a liquid-impervious backsheet and an absorbent core placed therebetween, 

the method comprising the steps of: 
applying an elastication means to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any 

combination thereof, the elastication means comprising a composite member having 
a first, relatively unextensible layer and a second, elastically extensible layer, 

characterized by 

supplying the composite member from a supply station, 
transporting the composite member from the supply station to the topsheet, 
the backsheet, the core or any combination thereof in a direction of transport, the 

second, elastically extensible layer of the composite member being during transport 
attached to the first layer in a relatively unextended state, the composite member 

being during transport relatively unelongatable at least in the direction of transport, 
 
followed by imparting a physical deformation to the composite member to render 

the composite member elastically elongatable. 
Method of making an absorbent article, the article having a liquid-pervious 
topsheet, a liquid-impervious backsheet and an absorbent core placed therebetween, 

the method comprising the steps of: 
applying an elastication means to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any 

combination thereof, the elastication means comprising a composite member having 
a first, relatively unextensible layer and a second, elastically extensible layer, 

characterized by 
supplying the composite member from a supply station, 
transporting the composite member from the supply station to the topsheet, 
the backsheet, the core or any combination thereof in a direction of transport, the 

composite member being during transport relatively unelongatable in the direction 
of transport, followed by 
applying the composite member to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or 
any combination thereof, 
 
   wherein a physical deformation has been imparted to the composite member prior 

to applying it to the topsheet, the backsheet the core or any combination thereof 
to render at least one area of the composite member elastically elongatable such 

that the composite elastic member remains relatively unelongatable in the 
direction of transport. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in first applying the 
composite member to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any combination 

thereof, followed by imparting a physical deformation to the composite member to 
render the composite member elastically elongatable. 
Method according to claim 3, wherein prior to application of the composite 
member the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any combination thereof have been 

physically deformed to impart extensibility thereto. 
Method according to claim 3 wherein a physical deformation is imparted 
simultaneously to the the composite member and to the topsheet, the backsheet, the 

core or any combination thereof. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in first imparting a physical 
deformation to the composite member to render the composite member elastically 

 
elongatable in the direction of transport, followed by attaching the composite 

member to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any combination thereof. 
Method according to claim 6, characterized in attaching the composite 
member in a pre-stretched state to the topsheet, the backsheet, the core or any 

combination thereof. 
Method according to claim 6, characterized in gathering the the topsheet, the 
backsheet, the core or any combination thereof, before attaching the composite 

member thereto. 
Method according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the 
method of imparting a physical deformation to the composite member comprises 

applying a pull force in the longitudinal direction of the composite member. 
Method according to any of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the method of 
imparting a physical deformation to the composite member comprises contacting 

the composite member with corrugated deformation means. 
Method according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the 
physical deformation is imparted only to the first, relatively unextensible layer, the 

second, elastically extensible layer remaining substantially undeformed. 
Absorbent article comprising a liquid-pervious topsheet, a liquid-impervious 
backsheet and an absorbent core placed therebetween, at least one elaticated zone 

and elatication means comprising a composite member having a first, relatively 
unextensible layer other than the topsheet or the backsheet, and a second, elastically 

extensible layer which has been attached to the first layer in a relatively unextended 
 

state, the first layer having been provided with at least a physically deformed area 
in which the first layer is elongatable. 
Absorbent article according to claim 12, wherein the topsheet and the 
backsheet are physically deformed in the elasticated zone. 
Composite member comprising a first, relatively unelongateble layer and a 
second, elastically elongatable layer, which is attached to the first layer in its 

unextended state, the first and second layer being relatively flat, characterized in 
that the composite member is stored in its relatively unelongatable state in a supply 

configuration for supply to a production line for the formation of an absorbent 
article. 
Composite member according to claim 14, wherein the composite member is 
provided with a physical deformation in at least one area. 
Compostite member according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the first layer 
comprises a nonwoven material. 
Composite member according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the first layer 
comprises a film of thermoplastic material. 
Composite member according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the first, relatively 
unextensible layer and the second, elastically extensible layer are co-extruded 

layers. 
Composite member according to claim 14,15, 16 or 17, wherein the second, 
elastically extensible layer comprises a nonwoven material. 
Composite member according to claim 14, 15, 16 or 17 wherein the second, 
el
astically extensible layer comprises an adhesive coating. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
