<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632675</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Diaphragm-edge integral moldings for speakers, acoustic transducers comprising same and method for fabricating same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R700	H04R3100	H04R712	H04R720	H04R3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R7	H04R31	H04R7	H04R7	H04R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A diaphragm for speakers comprises a self-support, shaped body 
including a tightly woven synthetic polymer fiber cloth substrate which 

has, at least a diaphragm portion and edge portion shaped integrally with 
and extending from the diaphragm portion. The diaphragm portion of the 

cloth substrate had a polymer resin at least partially impregnated therein 
and the edge portion has a relatively flexible polymer material at least 

partially impregnated therein so that the edge portion is lower in stiffness 
than the diaphragm portion. The stiffness difference between the 

diaphragm and edge portions may be created by using one type of 
thermoplastic resin which is applied to the diaphragm and edge portions in 

different amounts. 
The diaphragm-edge integral molding is fabricated by applying the 
respective types of polymers to the diaphragm and edge portions of the cloth 

substrate and subjecting the applied substrate to hot pressing in a mold 
capable of forming the integral molding. When applied as dynamic 

speakers, the integral molding exhibits a broad frequency band, low 
distortion rates and high sound quality. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURATA KOUSAKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURA TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURATA, KOUSAKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURA, TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to diaphragms for speakers or acoustic transducers
and more particularly, to integrally molded diaphragm-edge articles which are
adapted for use in acoustic output apparatus. The invention also relates to
methods for fabricating the diaphragm-edge integral moldings and to acoustic
transducers comprising the same.As is well known in audio and allied industries, digitalization of
reproduction music sources has advanced materially. This makes a great
demand for speakers, which are higher in sound quality than conventional
counterparts, for use in acoustic output apparatus.One of physical properties required for the diaphragm of speakers is
stiffness of diaphragm material. The improvement of the stiffness contributes
to suppressing partial vibrations such as surface resonance and reducing
distortion rates, ensuring reproduction of higher frequency components. The
physical characteristics required for materials for the edge portion include
flexibility, by which distortions with the diaphragm are suppressed, enabling
reproduction of lower frequency components. In order to satisfy both
requirements, usual practice is to use a structure which makes use of different
types of materials for both diaphragm and edge or surround portions. For 
instance, with microspeakers having a diameter of not larger than 40 mm, it is
usual from the standpoint of their structural arrangement and fabrication cost
to integrally mold diaphragm and edge portions from a single material such as
a film of polyethylene terephthalate resin (PET) or polycarbonate (PC).
However, the integral molding from such a single material is disadvantageous
in that if the stiffness of the diaphragm is increased in order to improve a high-band
threshold frequency, fh, the edge increases in stiffness, so that a
minimum resonance frequency, f0, is simultaneously shifted toward a higher
frequency band. On the contrary, when the stiffness of the edge is decreased in
order to decrease the value of f0, the stiffness of the diaphragm is lowered with
fh being shifted toward a lower frequency band. More particularly, it is not
possible to satisfy the requirements for both diaphragm and edge, which are
contrary to each other, in order to realize broad band frequency
characteristics, thus resulting in narrow band frequency characteristics. In
addition, limitation is placed on the inherent movements of the edge and the
diaphragm of speaker as will be required by application of reproduction signals,
generating an excessive distortion. Hence, it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A diaphragm for speakers which comprises a self-supporting, shaped body
(10) including a tightly woven synthetic polymer fiber cloth substrate (12) which has,

at least, a diaphragm portion (14) and an edge portion (16) shaped integrally with and
extending from said diaphragm portion;


said diaphragm portion of said cloth substrate having a polymer resin at least
partially impregnated therein in order to impart stiffness to said diaphragm portion;

and
said edge portion being lower in stiffness than said diaphragm portion;

characterised in that:

said edge portion has a rubber material at least partially impregnated therein;
the fibers of said cloth substrate are selected from the group consisting of
polyester fibers and polyamide fibers; and
said polymer resin is selected from the group consisting of epoxy resins,
acrylic resins and urethane resins.
A diaphragm according to Claim 1, wherein said cloth substrate has a weave
structure which consists of fine fibers and thick fibers, said thick fibers being woven in

said cloth substrate at intervals in vertical and horizontal directions to impart appropriate
stiffness to said cloth substrate.
A diaphragm according to Claim 2, wherein said thick fibers are woven at equal
intervals to make check patterns of said thick fibers in said cloth substrate.
A diaphragm according to Claim 2 or 3, wherein said fine fibers have a denier of
from 20 to 200.
A diaphragm according to any one of the preceding Claims, wherein said
diaphragm portion has a high-band threshold frequency not less than 20,000 Hz. 
A diaphragm according to any one of the preceding Claims, further comprising a
reinforcing layer formed on said diaphragm portion in a pattern corresponding to said

diaphragm portion.
A diaphragm according to Claim 6, wherein said reinforcing layer is made of a
tightly woven synthetic polymer fiber cloth impregnated with a thermoplastic resin.
A diaphragm according to Claim 7, wherein said reinforcing layer is made of a
plurality of the impregnated polymer fiber cloth pieces.
A diaphragm according to Claim 6, wherein said reinforcing layer consists of a
film of a metal or alloy vacuum deposited on said diaphragm portion.
A diaphragm according to Claim 6, wherein said reinforcing layer consists of
artificial diamond.
A diaphragm according to any one of the preceding Claims, wherein said cloth
substrate is made of fibers individually coated with a thermoplastic polymer when spun.
A diaphragm according to any one of the preceding claims, having a damping
agent applied to said diaphragm and/or edge portions whereby unnecessary resonance

is eliminated.
An acoustic transducer which comprises an acoustical driving means and a
diaphragm to be driven by the driving means, said diaphragm comprising a diaphragm

according to any one of the preceding Claims.
An acoustic transducer according to Claim 13, wherein said driving means is a
moving coil.  
A method for fabricating a diaphragm for speakers which comprises a self-supporting,
shaped body including a tightly woven synthetic polymer fiber cloth

substrate which has, at least, a diaphragm portion and an edge portion shaped
integrally with and extending from said diaphragm portion wherein said diaphragm

portion of said cloth substrate has a polymer resin at least partially impregnated
therein in order to impart stiffness to the diaphragm portion and the edge portion has

a flexible material at least partially impregnated therein so that the edge portion is
lower in stiffness than the diaphragm portion, the method comprising applying the

polymer resin and the flexible material in patterns, respectively, corresponding to the
diaphragm portion and the edge portion on the cloth substrate and subjecting thus

applied substrate to a thermoforming press in a mold capable of forming a
diaphragm-edge integral molding;

   characterised in that:

said synthetic polymer fiber cloth substrate is made of fibers selected from
the group consisting of polyester fibers and polyamide fibers;
said polymer resin is selected from the group consisting of epoxy resins,

acrylic resins and urethane resins; and
said flexible material is a rubber material.
A method according to Claim 15, wherein a plurality of molding patterns are
screen printed on the substrate and thermoforming pressed to obtain a plurality of

diaphragm-edge integral moldings at one time. 
A method according to claim 15 or 16, wherein said polymer resin and said
rubber material in the form of the patterns are melted during the course of the

pressing whereby the resultant melt is impregnated at least partially in said cloth
substrate.
A method according to claim 15, 16 or 17, wherein said polymer resin and
said rubber material are, respectively, applied in the form of films.
A method according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein reinforcing layer
applied with said polymer resin and having a pattern corresponding to the diaphragm

portion is superposed on said diaphragm portion of said cloth substrate and subjected
to the thermoforming press to bond said reinforcing layer and each said cloth

substrate together to improve stiffness of the diaphragm portion.
A method according to claim 19, wherein said reinforcing layer consists of a
tightly woven polymer resin fiber cloth applied with said polymer resin.
A method according to claim 19, wherein said reinforcing layer consists of a
plurality of the patterns of the applied woven polymer resin fiber cloth.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
