<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646234</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-VALIDATING SENSORS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01K1500	G01F176	G01F184	G01D3028	G01D1800	G01D1800	G01K1500	G01D300	G01D300	G01D3028	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01K	G01F	G01F	G01D	G01D	G01D	G01K	G01D	G01D	G01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01K15	G01F1	G01F1	G01D3	G01D18	G01D18	G01K15	G01D3	G01D3	G01D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensor provides a measurement and information about the validity of the measurement. The sensor includes a transducer for generating a data signal related to the value of a variable and a transmitter for receiving the data signal and generating output signals. The transmitter generates a first output signal related to the value of the variable. The transmitter also generates a second output signal based on a dynamic uncertainty analysis of the first output signal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOXBORO CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE FOXBORO COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARKE DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENRY MANUS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTAR WADE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANG JANICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARKE, DAVID W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENRY, MANUS, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTAR, WADE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANG, JANICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to sensors and to control
systems incorporating sensors.A sensor generates measurement data. Typically,
the measurement data is a signal that estimates the value
of a process variable. In practice, the signal does not
perfectly represent the value of the process variable.
Instead, the signal also includes effects resulting from
the sensor (such as sensor faults or distortion) and
other process influences (including those attributable to
"faulty" process behavior).Sensor and control system designers employ
numerous techniques to increase the reliability of
measurement data. For example, sensor designers try to
develop improved sensor designs that minimize both the
occurrence of sensor faults and the distortions occurring
during normal operation. In another approach, control
system designers implement rigorous programs of sensor
checking, maintenance, and calibration to reduce both the
frequency at which sensor faults occur and the distortion
caused by poorly maintained sensors.In conjunction with increasing the reliability of
measurement data, designers employ fault detection
techniques to increase a control system's ability to
recognize that measurement data is unreliable. For
example, control system designers often rely on sensor
redundancy to reduce the effect of any sensor fault that
may occur. If measurement data from a sensor in a group
of redundant sensors is inconsistent with measurement
data from other sensors in the group, a control system
can designate the inconsistent data as unreliable and
ignore that data. In another approach to fault detection, control
systems monitor information about the process and the
sensor for signs of sensor faults. Until recently,
sensors have been limited to a single analog
communication channel, normally based on the 4-20mA
convention, and, therefore, have been unable to transmit
signals other than a measurement data signal. Faced with
this limitation, users of process fault detection
techniques have tried to extract sensor and process fault
information from measurement data. However, in
attempting to minimize distortion of the measurement
data, sensor designers have tried to eliminate, by
sophisticated filtering and other means, every component
of the measurement data signal that does not actually
relate to the variable being measured. Thus, improved
sensor designs have limited the information available for
extraction from the measurement signal for fault
detection purposes.Recent use of digital communications technology by
control system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sensor (12) for providing a measurement and information about
the validity of the measurement, said sensor comprising:


a transducer (22) for generating a data signal (44) related to the
value of a variable; and
a transmitter (24) including:
means for receiving said data signal (44),

   characterized in that said transmitter further includes:

means for estimating a measurement of said variable based on said
data signal and for generating a first output signal (26) that is related to

the estimated measurement of said variable when said data signal is non-faulty
and that is based on a combination of said estimated measurement

of said variable and a first past performance value of said variable when
said data signal is recovering from a fault,
means for performing an uncertainty analysis in relation to the first
output signal, and
means for generating a dynamic second output signal (28) based on

said dynamic uncertainty analysis of the first output signal.
The sensor of claim 1, wherein when said sensor (12) experiences
a fault, said transmitter (24) modifies said first and second output signals

(26,28) to account for an impact of said fault.
The sensor of claim 1, wherein said transmitter (24) generates a
third output signal (30) that indicates a state of reliability of said first

output signal (26).
The sensor of claim 1, said sensor further comprising a plurality of
transducers (22) that generate a plurality of data signals related to the

value of one or more variables, wherein said transmitter generates said 
first output signal based on one or more of said data signals.
The sensor of claim 1 or claim 4 in which said transducer (22) or
said plurality of transducers also generate a second data signal related to

the value of a second variable; and in which said transmitter (24) also
includes means for generating a third output signal related to a

measurement of said second variable and a fourth output signal based on
a dynamic uncertainty analysis of the third output signal.
The sensor of claim 5, wherein when said sensor (12) experiences
a fault, said transmitter (24) modifies said first, second, third, and fourth

output signals to account for an impact of said fault.
The sensor of claim 5, wherein said transmitter (24) generates a
fifth output signal (30) that indicates a state of reliability of said first

output signal.
The sensor of claim 7, wherein said transmitter (24) generates a
sixth output signal (30) that indicates a state of reliability of said third

output signal.
The sensor of claim 8, wherein said transmitter (24) generates a
seventh output signal (32) that indicates an operational status of said

sensor.
A method of providing a measurement and information about the
validity of the measurement comprising the steps of:


receiving a data signal (44) related to the value of a variable;
estimating a measurement of said variable based on said data signal;
generating a first output signal (26) that is related to the estimated 
measurement of said variable when said data signal is non-faulty and that

is based on a combination of said estimated measurement of said variable
and a first past performance value of said variable when said data signal

is recovering from a fault;
performing a dynamic uncertainty analysis in relation to the first
output signal; and
generating a second output signal (28) based on said dynamic
uncertainty analysis of the first output signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein said first output signal is
generated based on a second past performance value of said variable when

said data signal is faulty.
The method of claim 11, wherein said second past performance
value equals a value of said first output signal immediately prior to said

data signal becoming faulty.
The method of claim 11, wherein said second past performance
value equals an average of values of said first output signal.
The method of claim 11, wherein said second past performance
value equals a combination of a value of said first output signal

immediately prior to said data signal becoming faulty and an average of
values of said first output signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein said first past performance value
equals a value of said first output signal immediately prior to said data

signal becoming faulty.
The method of claim 10, wherein said first past performance value 
equals an average of values of said first output signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein said first past performance value
equals a combination of a value of said first output signal immediately

prior to said data signal becoming faulty and an average of values of said
first output signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein, when said data signal is faulty,
said estimating step modifies said estimated measurement to account for

an impact of said fault.
The method of claim 10, wherein, when said data signal is faulty,
said uncertainty analysis accounts for an impact of said fault.
The method of claim 10, further comprising generating a third
output signal (30) that indicates a state of reliability of said first output

signal.
The method of claim 20, wherein said third output (30) signal
indicates whether said data signal if faulty, non-faulty, or recovering from

a fault.
The method of claim 10, claim 18 or claim 19 further including the
steps of:


receiving a second data signal related to the value of a second
variable;
estimating a measurement of said second variable based on said
second data signal;
generating a third output signal related to the estimated
measurement of said second variable; 
performing an uncertainty analysis in relation to the third output
signal; and
generating a fourth output signal based on said uncertainty analysis
of the third output signal.
The method of claim 22, said method further including the step of
determining whether said second data signal is faulty, wherein, when said

second data signal is faulty, said estimating step modifies said estimated
measurement of said second variable to account for an impact of said

fault.
The method of claim 23, wherein, when said second data signal is
faulty, said uncertainty analysis of said third output signal accounts for an

impact of said fault.
The method of claim 22, said method further including the step of
generating a fifth output signal (30) that indicates a state of reliability of

said first output signal (26).
The method of claim 25, said method further including the step of
generating a sixth output signal (30) that indicates a state of reliability of

said third output signal.
A sensor according to claim 1 in which the variable is temperature
and the transducer generates a data signal related to temperature.
A sensor according to claim 1 operable as a Coriolis flow meter for
providing measurements of mass flow, density and temperature, including:


said transducer or plurality of transducers for generating a first data
signal related to mass flow, a second data signal relating to density and a 

third data signal related to temperature;
said transmitter generating a mass flow measurement signal in
response to said first, second and third data signals, a mass flow

measurement signal and a first uncertainty signal based thereon, a density
measurement signal and a second uncertainty signal based thereon, and a

temperature measurement signal and a third uncertainty signal based
thereon.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
