<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631344</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sealed insulation displacement connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1352	H01R1358	H01R424	H01R1358	H01R1352	H01R424	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H01R4	H01R13	H01R13	H01R4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sealed insulation displacement (IDC) connector is 
shown at (2) as a branch connector used,for example, for 

grounding cables to the chassis of an automobile. The 
branch connector (2) comprises sealing means (14, 64) in 

order to provide a sealed IDC connection between IDC 
contact portions (18) and conducting wires (4). The branch 

connector (2) comprises a cover member (8) for receiving 
the conducting wires (4) and a base member (6) having 

compartments (28) for receiving the cover members (8) 
therein. The base member (6) comprises a branch conductor 

(10) having a plurality of juxtaposed IDC contacting 
portions (18), the branch conductor (10) in-moulded to an 

insulative housing (12). The compartments (28) also 
comprise wire retention means that are V-shaped slots (42) 

having a tapered profile (44) in order to provide sharp 
edges that press into the wires (4). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHITAKER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE WHITAKER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOURIMSKY FRIEDRICH JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOURIMSKY, FRIEDRICH JOSEF ALOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an insulation
displacement connector according to the pre-characterizing portion of claim 1.It is common to find sealed electrical connectors in
the electrical industry, and in particular in automobiles
whereby connectors in the engine compartment are subject
to harsh environmental conditions and corrosive agents.
Electrical connectors in an automobile engine compartment
must be able to withstand high water pressures due to the
high splashing pressure that may occur when the vehicle is
at speed. Sealed connectors for automobile use, commonly
have crimped connections and are quite costly to produce
as there are more parts, manufacturing steps and more
complicated assembly procedure compared to unsealed
connectors.In providing electrical connectors for the automobile
industry, for example, it is desirable to reduce the
number of manual operations during assembly of the
automobile as these are costly procedures. There is
therefore a need to provide electrical harnesses that can
be manufactured in an automated manner, requiring as
little manual handling as possible thereof during the
assembly process, but nevertheless meeting the rising
demands on reliability and electrical current carrying
capacity.EP A1-0 095 307 discloses an electrical wire connector consisting of an
insulating, hollow, open-topped body, an insulating cover, a flat plate wire
connecting element having slots and a U-shaped cut-off and strain relief
element, where the connection to a wire is achieved by pressing the wire into
the slots upon telescoping the cover into the body. On one hand the wire is in
contact with the connecting element, which is made of brass, and on the other
hand the end of the wire is in contact with the U-shaped cut-off element,
which is made of stainless steel. The connector body cavity is filled with a
viscous sealant e.g. a waterproof grease, which is displaced upon closing the
connector.It is therefore an object of this invention to
provide a reliable electrical connector that is cost
effective and that can be easily and rapidly assembled.It is another object of this invention to provide a
sealed connector for insulation displacement technology.It is yet another object of this invention to provide
a cheap and reliable sealed branch connector that can be
used for distributing electrical power or grounding a
plurality of conductors, for example for use in an  
automobile.The objects of this invention have been
achieved according to the invention by an electrical insulation displacement
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical insulation displacement connector (2) comprising

a) a base member (6) having insulation displacement contacts
(IDC) (18) therein, and
b) a cover member (8) having wire mounting means (48) for
mounting an electrical wire (4) thereto;
c) the cover member (8) being fixable to the base member (6)
such that electrical connection is made between
 the wires (4)
and the IDC contacts; and
d) sealing means (64) are provided between the cover (8), the
base, and the wire (4);

   
characterized in that
e) said sealing means comprises discrete single wire sealing means
(64) provided between the cover (8) and the wire (4);
f) the cover member (8) has a continuous outer sealing surface
(60);
g) said sealing means comprises elastomeric cover sealing means
(14) provided between continuous outer sealing surfaces of the

base member (6) and the cover member (8); and
h) the elastomeric cover sealing means (14) is a layer of
elastomeric material.
The electrical connector of claim 1 characterized in that the cover
sealing means (14) is in-moulded to the base member (6).
The electrical connector of claims 1 or 2 characterized in that the
IDC contacts (18) are in-moulded with the base member (6).
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in that the base
member (6) has a plurality of the insulation displacement contacts

(18) for receiving a plurality of wires (4). 
The connector of claim 4 characterized in that the plurality of IDC
contacts (18) are electrically interconnected by an interconnecting

base portion (16). 
The connector of claim 4 or 5 characterized in that
the IDC contacts (18) are disposed in a parallel juxtaposed

manner. 
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in
that there is one cover member (8) for each wire (4).
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in
that the IDC contacts (18) are integrally formed with an

exterior contact portion (20) for electrically connecting
the IDC contacts (18) to an external conductor other than

the wires (4).
The connector of claim 8 characterized in that the
exterior contact portion (20) also serves to securely mount

the base member (6) to a structure via mounting means (22)
of the contact portion (20).
The connector of claims 8 or 9 characterized in that
the IDC contacts (18), interconnecting base portion (16)

and exterior contact portion (20) are of one integral
stamped and formed sheet metal part.
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in
that the base member (6) comprises an insulative housing

(12) having compartments (28) surrounding the IDC contacts
(18), whereby the cover member (8) is receivable within the

compartment (28) and securely fixable thereto.
The connector of claim 11 characterized in that there
is one separate compartment (28) for each wire (4) and

corresponding IDC contact portion (18).
The connector of claim 11 or 12 characterized in that
the compartment (28) comprises walls (32, 34, 36) extending

from a base wall (30) below the upstanding IDC contacts
(18) in a direction parallel to the contacts and past a

wire receiving end (38) thereof. 
The connector of any of claims 11-13 characterized in
that the compartment (28) comprises a wall (36)

substantially transverse to the direction of the wire (4)
and parallel to the IDC contacts (18), the wall (36)

comprising a V-shaped slot (42) for receiving the wire (4)
therein during mounting of the cover member (8) to the base

member (6), the spacing between edges (70, 72) of the V-shaped
slot (42) such that when the cover member (8) is

securely fixed to the base member (6), the wire (4) is
tightly squeezed therebetween.
The connector of claim 14 characterized in that the
edges (70, 72) of the V-shaped slot (42) have transversely

thereof a tapered profile (44), whereby the smallest
distance between opposing edges (70, 72) is adjacent the

cover member (8).
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in
that the cover member (8) comprises an insulative housing

(46) having a wire receiving cavity (46) aligned and
adjoined thereto, and IDC receiving slots (50) transversely

intersecting the wire receiving cavity (46).
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in
that the wire sealing means (64) comprises a cylindrical

shaped single wire seal (64) of elastomeric material.
The connector of any preceding claim characterized in
that the continuous outer sealing

surface (60) is on an IDC contact receiving side (52) of the cover member (8),
the whole sealing surface pressable against the

cover sealing means (14) on the base member (6) such that
when the cover is retained to the base member by retention

means (40, 58), the elastomeric sealing means (14) is
resiliently compressed against the cover sealing surface 

(60).
The connector of claim 18 characterized in that the
sealing surface (60) is planar.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
