<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615515</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A ROLLED TAB FOR A ROLL OF PLASTIC FILM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H1800	B65H1828	B65H1910	B65H1910	B65H1922	B65H1929	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H18	B65H18	B65H19	B65H19	B65H19	B65H19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOWBRANDS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOWBRANDS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH TERRY BUD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, TERRY, BUD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A ROLLED TAB FOR A ROLL OF PLASTIC FILMThis invention relates to an apparatus and process for forming a rolled tab in the tail end portion of a plastic film wound on a core. The rolled tab provides a leading edge for a roll of household plastic film in order to provide a convenient grasping tab to start the roll.Commercial plastic film for consumer use is customarily manufactured by winding plastic film on a core and packaging the roll in a dispensing container for retail sale. The plastic film has a tail end portion extending around the surface of the roll and terminating at a ta« edge. The plastic film is customarily manufactured with a clinging or adhesive surface to enhance its function as a wrapping material such as, for example, Saran Wrap'" or Handi- W rap™ (trademarks of The Dow Chemical Company) films commonly used as household wrappings. Because of the clinging characteristic of the film, the tail end portion sticks to the surface of the roll making it difficult to identify and grasp the tail edge in order to separate the tail end portion from the surface of the roll without tearing it. The need for finding the tail edge of the film on the roll of plastic film and starting to unwind it without tearing has been long recognized, particularly with plastic film having considerable cling. Hence, roll-starting features have been used in the past to facilitate peeling the tail end portion of the film away from the surface of the roll.U.S. Patent Nos.4,804,513 and 4,925,028, disclose one successful means of providing a rolled tab in a roll of plastic film. The rolled tab, produced by the process and apparatus disclosed in the above patents, helps the consumer find the starting edge of the roll.The above patents disclose an apparatus adapted for use on a conveyor line to form a rolled tab in the tail end portion of plastic film wound on a roll of plastic film moving on the conveyor line. The tail end portion initially extends circumferentially around the surface of the roll to which the tail end portion adheres and terminates at a tail edge The apparatus comprises a bucket which is connected to the conveyor line for movement thereon and has a floor and wall extending therefrom The floor of the bucket has a tractional surface 

 supporting the roll and the wall has a substantial lyfrictionless surface pushing the roll in the direction of the conveyor line. The apparatus further comprises a drive means, extending in a stationary position substantially parallel to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. An apparatus for forming a rolled tab on a roll of plasticfilm wound on a core comprising:
(a) a trunion roller conveying means having a plurality of rotatable trunion rollers for conveying a roll of plasticfilm wound on a core to a traction device, said roll of plasticfilm wound on a core adapted to be supported on the trunion rollers;
(b) at least one traction device having a tractional surface for contacting a 10 rotating roll of plastic film wound on a core;
(c) a means for rotating the roll of plastic film wound on a core supported on the trunion rollers prior to or substantially simultaneously while contacting the traction device; and
(d) means for contacting the roll of plasticfilm wound on a core with the traction device's tractional surface such that the leading edge ofthe roll contacts the tractional surface and the leading edge is rolled back upon successive revolutions ofthe roll, said contact sufficient to form a rolled tab.
20 2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the traction device is a device attached to and moves with the conveyor apparatus, wherein said device comprises an elongated support member having a tractional surface for grabbing the leading edge of a roll of plasticfilm.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the fraction device comprises an elongated _
5
 support bar member pivotally supported in a parallel position between at least two roller members of a trunion-type conveyor apparatus, said traction device having a tractional surface for grabbing and rolling the leading edge of a roll of plasticfilm such that a rolled tab 


 for the roll of film is formed when a roll of plastic film comes in rotational contact with the traction device.
4. The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein the tractional surface is plurality of spaced apart flexible finger-like members releasably attached to the support bar along the longitudual surface of the bar at an angle to the longitudual axis of the bar.
5. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein the fingers are flat plate-type members wherein one side of the plate has a resilient tractional surface for grabbing the roll edge.
6. The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein the tractional surface of the fingers comprises a plurality of grooves and ridges for grabbing the roll edge.
7. The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein the fingers are generally rectangular in shape with one side having the roughened surface for grabbing the roll edge.
8. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein the fingers are at a 21 degree angle.
9. The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein the tractional surface is a different material layered or coated to the body of the finger.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the traction device is stationary.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein the traction device has a tractional surface of flexible material.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the mean for rotating the roll of plastic film is a drive means for rotating the rollers ofthe conveyor line.
13. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the means for rotating the roll of plastic film is a belt driven device mean in contact with the top surface ofthe roll supported on the rollers.
14. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the traction device is at least a pair of stationary manifold blocks with a tractional surface.
15. The apparatus of Claim 14 including means for blowing air to the circumferential surface of the roll of film
16. An apparatus for preparing a roll of plastic film wound on a core having a rolled tab comprising: 


 a means for forming a roll of plastic film wound on a core,
a means for passing the roll of plastic film to a conveying means,
means for conveying the roll of plastic film to a traction device,
a means for rotating the roll of plasticfilm on the conveying means, and
a means contacting the rotating roll of film with the traction device such that a rolled tab forthe roll of film is formed.
1 17. A process for forming a rolled tab on a roll of plasticfilm wound on a core comprising the steps of
(a) conveying a roll of plasticfilm wound on a core on a trunion roller conveying means having a plurality of rotatable trunion rollers for conveying the roll of plasticfilm
•
J5 wound on a core to at least one traction device having a tractional surface, said roll of plastic film wound on a core adapted to be supported on the trunion rollers;
(b) rotating the roll of plasticfilm wound on a core supported on the trunion rollers prior to or substantially simultaneously while contacting the traction device's tractional surface; and 0
(c) contacting the rotating roll of plastic film wound on a core with at least one traction device having a tractional surface, said contact being with the traction device's tractional surface such thatthe leading edge ofthe roll contacts the tractional surface and the leading edge is rolled back upon successive revolutions ofthe roll, said contact sufficient to 5 form a rolled tab.
18. A process for preparing a roll of plasticfilm having a rolled tab comprising:
forming a roll of plastic film,
0 passing the roll of plasticfilm to a conveying means,
rotating the roll of plasticfilm on the conveying means, and
contacting the rotating film with an insertdevice comprising a support bar member having attached thereto a plurality of fingers, said fingers having a means for grabbing and rolling the leading edge of a roll of plastic film such that a rolled tab forthe roll of film is formed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
