<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A high voltage transmission switching apparatus with gas monitoring device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H3302	H01H3356	H02B13035	H02B13065	H02H100	H02H100	H02H700	H02H722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H02B	H02B	H02H	H02H	H02H	H02H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H33	H01H33	H02B13	H02B13	H02H1	H02H1	H02H7	H02H7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high voltage switching apparatus 10 is described containing an 
arc-quenching gas containing sulphurhexafluoride in a vessel 12 that is monitored 

by a gas monitoring device 20. A temperature transducer 34 is attached to the 
exterior of the vessel 12 to sense the temperature of the gas. A gas line 24 

leads from a control panel 18 to an enclosure 22 of the device 20. The 
device 20 has a front display panel with a digital communication terminal 42 for 

connecting to a computer to load and download data to and from the device 20 
relating to the density of the gas within the vessel 12. The device 20 includes 

a data input module 44, a control module 46, a relay module 48, a display 
module 50 and a DC power supply module 52 mounted in an enclosure 22. 

The enclosure 22 has an internal heater 56 for maintaining the temperature 
within the enclosure above 20°C. The control module 46 has a 

microprocessor 70 that is program controlled to poll the transducers and calculate 
the present density of the gas and determine if the density has sufficient 

deviation to warrant the activation of a series of relays. Additionally, the 
microprocessor 70 is programmed to record the events that occur to the device 

as a historical record that may be later downloaded. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONS ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONSOLIDATED ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GWYNNE DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LLOYD GREG A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEATON WILLIAM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STENDIN ANDERS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GWYNNE,DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LLOYD,GREG A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEATON,WILLIAM J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STENDIN,ANDERS M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with 69KV-500KV high voltage electrical 
switching apparatus having an arc-quenching gas containing sulphurhexafluoride for 
protecting the apparatus and a gas monitor for monitoring the quantity of 
sulphurhexafluoride within the apparatus to prolong the usable life and to 
minimize premature failure of the apparatus. Sulphurhexafluoride is widely used as an electrical arc-quenching gas in 
high voltage electrical switching apparatus in 69KV-500KV electrical distribution 
systems such as station and sub-station circuit breakers to prevent electrical arcing 
while the circuit breaker is being opened or closed. However to insure the 
elimination of electrical arcing, the breaker vessel must contain a sufficient 
quantity of sulphurhexafluoride. Should the amount or density of the 
sulphurhexafluoride within the breaker vessel be inadequate, then arcing may 
occur causing the breaker to fail. The 69KV-500KV high voltage circuit breakers apparatuses have external 
breaker control cabinets with pressure monitors therein for monitoring the gas 
pressure within the circuit breaker vessels. Generally the monitor includes a 
pressure gauge with an analog display that displays the gauge gas pressure within 
the breaker vessel. Frequently the pressure monitor has two or more associated 
temperature compensated pressure switches that are set to generate warning 
signals to the station or sub-station operators when the pressure within the 
circuit breaker vessel falls below preset pressure values. An example of such 
a system is illustrated in United States Patent No. 3,934,454, issued 27 January 
1976, to Stephen G. Simo. Such pressure monitoring arrangements are based upon the assumption that 
the gas pressure, even when temperature compensated, is indicative of the 
quantity or density of the sulphurhexafluoride contained within the vessel. Such 
systems assume that sulphurhexafluoride gas, whether in diluted or undiluted form, 
is a "perfect gas" in which the pressure and quantity are linearly related. 
However, experimentation has shown that the relationship is not linear, 
particularly at high and low pressures. The problem is further compounded by 
the fact that sulphurhexafluoride has a rather high liquefaction temperature,  
 
requiring that the sulphurhexafluoride gas be diluted with a low liquefaction gas 
such as nitrogen. Such dilution further complicates the issue of whether the 
pressure gauge accurately displays the quantity of sulphurhexafluoride in the 
breaker vessel.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high voltage transmission switching apparatus, comprising: 
   a switching apparatus housing having a high voltage element in a 

gas insulated pressurized vessel, in which the high voltage element generates 
strong electromagnetic radiation; 

   an arc-quenching gas containing sulphurhexafluoride contained within 
the interior of the pressurized vessel to insulate the high voltage element; 

   a gas density monitoring device operative connected to the 
pressurized vessel for monitoring the density of the sulphurhexafluoride within the 

vessel; 
   said monitoring device having a pressure transducer for determining 

the pressure of the arc-quenching gas within the pressurized vessel and for 
generating an analog signal representative of the determined pressure; 

   said monitoring device having a temperature transducer for 
determining the approximate temperature of the arc-quenching gas within the 

pressurized vessel and for generating an analog signal representative of the 
determined temperature; 

   said monitoring device having an electronic analog-to-digital converter 
means responsive to the pressure and temperature analog signals for generating 

corresponding pressure and temperature digital signals; 
   said monitoring device having a control means with (1) an 

electronic memory means for storing information concerning a preset reference 
gas density value, and (2) an electronic processing means responsive to the 

digital signals and the electronic memory means for generating a present digital 
signal representative of the present density value of the arc-quenching gas within 

the switching vessel; and 
   said monitoring device having a digital display responsive to the 

present digital density signal for visually displaying the present density value. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the present digital density signal is expressed as a percentage 

of the reference density value. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the gas monitoring device further includes (1) an enclosure, and 

 
(2) 

a heater for maintaining the temperature within the enclosure above a preset 
temperature. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 3 wherein the control means includes a heater control means that is 

responsive to the temperature of the arc-quenching gas for controlling the heater 
to maintain the temperature above the preset temperature. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 4 wherein the heater control means includes an enclosure temperature 

sensor for sensing the temperature within the enclosure and wherein the heater 
control circuit is responsive to the temperature within the enclosure and the 

temperature of the arc-quenching gas to activate the heater to maintain the 
temperature above the preset temperature. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 4 wherein the heater control means has duty cycle circuitry for varying the 

time period that the heater is activated to maintain the temperature in the 
enclosure above the preset temperature. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the gas monitoring device further includes (1) an enclosure, and 

(2) a heater for maintaining the temperature within the enclosure above the 
temperature of the arc-quenching gas above a preset temperature. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the monitoring device has an electromagnetic shield surrounding 

the control means to minimize electromagnetic interference of the operation of 
the control means from the strong electromagnetic radiation. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the electronic processing means periodically generates a present 

digital density signal representative of the density value of the arc-quenching gas 
within the vessel at each periodic time and wherein the electronic memory means 

has mass memory means for storing such periodic present density signals. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 9 wherein the monitoring device has an electronic communication port 

adapted to transmit the stored periodic digital density signals to a remote data 
processing device. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the monitoring device has (1) a pressure and temperature 

module containing the electronic analog-to-digital converter means, (2) a memory 

and processing module containing the electronic memory means and the electronic 
processing means, and (3) a display module containing the digital display. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 11 wherein each of the modules are spaced from each other and are 

protected by separate electromagnetic radiation shields. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the electronic memory means contains a first alarm density value 

and wherein the monitoring device includes a first alarm relay and wherein the 
processing means is operatively connected to the first alarm relay and includes 

alarm circuitry responsive to the first alarm density value and the present 
calculated density value for activating the first alarm relay when the present 

calculated density value is equal to or less than the first alarm density value. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the electronic memory means includes a temporary electronic 

memory and a permanent electronic memory and wherein electronic processing 
means periodically calculates the present density value and stores such present 

density value in the temporary electronic memory and wherein the electronic 
processing means periodically averages the present density values and generates 

a time-averaged density value and stores such time-averaged density value in the 
permanent memory for subsequent retrieval. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 14 wherein the electronic processing means generates events information 

that is stored in the permanent memory containing the date on which the event 
occurred along with information concerning the type of event that occurred. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 1 wherein the monitoring device includes a vapor-resistent enclosure that 

is mounted to the apparatus. 
The high voltage transmission switching apparatus as defined in 
claim 16 wherein the temperature transducer it mounted to an exterior of the 

vessel with a conductor extending from the transducer to the monitoring device 
enclosure. 
A sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device for a high voltage 
transmission switching apparatus having a pressurized vessel with a high voltage 

element insulated by an arc-quenching gas, comprising: 
   a pressure transducer for determining the pressure of the 

arc-quenching gas within the pressurized vessel and for generating an analog 
signal representative of the determined pressure; 

   a temperature transducer for determining the approximate 
temperature of the arc-quenching gas within the pressurized vessel and for 

generating an analog signal representative of the determined temperature; 
   an electronic analog-to-digital converter means responsive to the 

pressure and temperature analog signals for generating corresponding pressure and 
temperature digital signals; 

   a control means with (1) an electronic memory means for storing 
information concerning a preset reference gas density value, and (2) an electronic 

processing means responsive to the digital signals and the electronic memory 
means for generating a present digital signal representative of the present density 

value of the arc-quenching gas within the switching vessel; and 
   a digital display responsive to the present digital density signal for 

visually displaying the present density value. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the present digital density signal is expressed as a percentage of the 

reference density value. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the gas monitoring device further includes (1) an enclosure, and (2) 

 
a heater for maintaining the temperature within the enclosure above a preset 

temperature. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
20 wherein the control means includes a heater control means that is responsive 

to the temperature of the arc-quenching gas for controlling the heater to adjust 
the temperature within the enclosure to maintain the temperature above the 

preset temperature. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
21 wherein the heater control means includes an enclosure temperature sensor 

for sensing the temperature within the enclosure and wherein the heater control 
circuit is responsive to the temperature within the enclosure and the temperature 

of the arc-quenching gas to activate the heater to maintain the temperature in 
the enclosure above the preset temperature. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
21 wherein the heater control means has duty cycle circuitry for varying the time 

period that the heater is activated to maintain the temperature in the enclosure 
above a preset value. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the gas monitoring device further includes (1) an enclosure, and (2) 

a heater for maintaining the temperature within the enclosure above a preset 
temperature. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the monitoring device has an electromagnetic shield surrounding the 

control means to minimize electromagnetic interference of the operation of the 
control means from the strong electromagnetic radiation. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the electronic processing means periodically generates a present digital 

density signal representative of the density value of the arc-quenching gas within 
the vessel at each periodic time and wherein the electronic memory means has 

mass memory means for storing such periodic present density signals. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
26 wherein the monitoring device has an electronic communication port adapted 

to transmit the stored periodic digital density signals to a remote data processing 
device. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the monitoring device has (1) a pressure and temperature module 

containing the electronic analog-to-digital converter means, (2) a memory and 
processing module containing the electronic memory means and the electronic 

processing means, and (3) a display module containing the digital display. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
28 wherein each of the modules are spaced from each other and are protected 

by separate electromagnetic radiation shields. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the electronic memory means contains a first alarm density value and 

wherein the monitoring device includes a first alarm relay and wherein the 
processing means is operatively connected to the first alarm relay and includes 

alarm circuitry responsive to the first alarm density value and the present 
calculated density value for activating the first alarm relay when the present 

calculated density value is equal to or less than the first alarm density value. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
18 wherein the electronic memory means includes a temporary electronic memory 

and a permanent electronic memory and wherein electronic processing means 
periodically calculates the present density value and stores such present density 

value in the temporary electronic memory and wherein the electronic processing 
means periodically averages the present density values and generates a 

time-averaged density value and stores such time-averaged density value in the 
permanent memory for subsequent retrieval. 
The sulphurhexafluoride gas monitoring device as defined in claim 
31 wherein the electronic processing means generates events information that is 

stored in the permanent memory containing the date on which the event 
occurred along with information concerning the type of event that occurred. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
