<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642934</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and system for preparing items to be mailed
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07C100	B07C100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07C	B07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07C1	B07C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For the preparation of items to be mailed, a number of 
main documents (1) are fed. Printing instructions for the 

printing of a number of enclosure documents are stored in a 
memory, each in association with a corresponding enclosure 

code. In at least some of the processing instructions, at 
least an enclosure code is included. In reaction to an 

enclosure code forming part of processing instructions 
associated with a supplied main document (1), printing 

instructions stored in the memory in association with a 
corresponding enclosure code are selected and fed to a printer 

(16-1, 16-2). An enclosure document is printed by the printer 
(16-1, 16-2) in accordance with the selected printing 

instructions and added to the main document (1). By printing 
the enclosures in reaction to enclosure codes associated with 

the main documents, a wide variety of enclosures can be 
incorporated into items to be mailed without logistic 

problems. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HADEWE BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HADEWE B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIDDING GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIDDING, GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of preparing items to 
be mailed 
according to the preamble of claim 1. Such a method is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,606,728. In 
this method, stocks of each enclosure are each loaded into a 
separate feeder station. The enclosure codes associated with a 
document each refer to a particular feeder station. In 
response to enclosure codes associated with a particular main 
document being fed, the feeder stations are selectively 
activated or driven to feed an enclosure document at such a 
time that this enclosure document is added to the main 
document. Because in this prior art method the enclosure documents 
are printed before the preparation of the items to be mailed 
is carried out, it has to be known for the purpose of printing 
the enclosure documents how many copies of each enclosure 
document are required during a particular period of operation 
or within the framework of a particular mailing action. In 
practice, it has been found that this is often difficult to 
foresee, as a result of which shortages occur regularly and 
excess enclosure documents are regularly destroyed. It need 
not be explained that this entails not only considerable costs 
but also a waste of raw materials and energy as well as a 
considerable environmental problem. Also when loading the feeder stations, due account must be 
taken of the required numbers of each enclosure document 
during a particular run. Further, coordination is required in 
order to ensure that the enclosure documents are loaded into  
 
the correct feeder stations. This, however, can easily give 
rise to errors and misunderstandings, for instance between a 
mailing coordination department and a mailroom. When in 
drawing up the code associated with a main document the 
assumption was, for instance, that an enclosure document "A" 
is stored in feeder station No. 1, the enclosure code "1" will 
be added to main documents to which enclosure "A" is to be 
added. If other enclosures, for instance enclosures "C", have 
been loaded into feeder station No. 1, enclosure "C" will be 
added to the main documents to which enclosure "A" should be 
added. A further drawback of this prior art method is that if a 
large variety of possible enclosures is desired, a large 
number of feeder stations are required, which feeder stations 
moreover have to be loaded and operated. Applicant's European patent application 0,556,922 
discloses a method whereby enclosure codes associated with a 
main document refer directly to the enclosures in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of preparing items to be mailed, comprising the 
steps of: 


individually feeding main documents (1); 
supplying processing instructions in association with 
each of said main documents (1) to a control unit (20); and 
feeding selected enclosure documents to each of said 
main documents (1) in reaction to supplied processing 

instructions associated to respective ones of said 
documents (1);
 
   
characterized by
 the steps of: 
storing printing instructions for printing enclosure 
documents and enclosure codes each associated to printing 

instructions for printing a particular one of said enclosure 
documents in a memory; 
including stored enclosure codes in at least some of 
said processing instructions; 
selecting stored printing instructions for printing 
particular ones of said documents in reaction to associated 

enclosure codes included in the supplied processing 
instructions; 
supplying the selected printing instructions to at least 
one printer (16-1, 16-2); 
controlling said at least one printer (16-1, 16-2) for 
printing said
 particular ones of said enclosure documents in 
accordance with the supplied selected printing instructions; 

and 
feeding each of the printed enclosure documents from 
said at least one printer (16-1, 16-2) to the respective ones 

of said main documents (1), wherein printed enclosure 
documents to be fed to each of said main documents (1) are 

maintained separate from printed enclosure documents to be 
fed to the other ones of said main documents (1). 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the enclosure 
documents are printed by at least two printers (16-1, 16-2).  

 
A method according to claim 2, wherein at least one 
printer prints at a greater speed than at least one other 

printer, selected printing instructions are arranged 
according  

 
to size and the printing instructions of the largest size are 

transmitted to the fastest one of said printers. 
A method according to claim 2, wherein different pages of 
at least one of the enclosure documents are printed by 

different printers (16-1, 16-2). 
A method according to claim 4, wherein printing 
information for printing enclosure documents each comprising 

at least two pages is translated into separate printing 
instructions for separately printing pages of the respective 

enclosure documents, said printing instructions are stored in 
said memory in the form of series of instructions for printing 

series of separate pages, and, in reaction to a corresponding 
enclosure code being included in supplied processing 

instructions, said printing instructions for printing separate 
pages of the enclosure documents are distributed to different 

printers (16-1, 16-2). 
A method according to claim 4, wherein printing 
instructions of said at least one of the enclosure documents 

are distributed to different printers (16-1, 16-2) in 
combination with different instructions regarding the pages to 

be printed. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the paper on which the enclosure documents are printed 

is preprinted. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein selected printing instructions for printing at least 

some of the enclosure documents are modified before being 
supplied to at least one printer (16-1, 16-2). 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
further comprising the steps of compiling a data base 

including files containing processing instructions, each of 
said files being coupled with an identification code, 

supplying an identification code associated with a main 
document (1) to the control unit (20) and selecting one of 

said files associated with a corresponding one of the 
identification codes in reaction to the supplied  

 
identification code; the processing instructions of the 

selected file forming the processing instructions associated 
with the fed main document. 
A method according to claim 9, wherein each 
identification code corresponds with at least one addressee, 

prior to the supply of at least one of said main documents (1) 
intended for a particular one of said addressees, printing 

instructions for printing enclosure documents to be sent to 
said addressee are stored in said memory in association with 

an enclosure code and a corresponding enclosure code is added 
to the processing instructions associated with the 

identification code corresponding with said addressee, and a 
main document intended for said addressee is processed in 

accordance with the processing instructions associated with 
the identification code corresponding with said addressee. 
A method according to claim 10, wherein after feeding and 
processing said at least one main document (1) which is 

intended for a particular addressee, at least said enclosure 
code is removed from said processing instructions associated 

with said identification code corresponding with said 
addressee. 
A system for carrying out the method according to any one 
of the preceding claims, comprising 


a station (14) for feeding main documents (1), 
at least one feeder station (15-1, 15-2) for feeding 
enclosure documents, which feeder station (15-1, 15-2) is 

equipped with a printer (16-1, 16-2), 
conveyors (17, 18-1, 18-2, 19) for bringing together a 
main document (1) and enclosure documents fed from said at 

least one feeder station (15-1, 15-2), 
a control unit (20) coupled to the printer (16-1, 16-2) 
and comprising a memory for storing a data base (9) comprising 

printing instructions for printing enclosure documents and 
enclosure codes each associated with particular ones of said 

printing instructions,  
 
means (21, 22) for supplying processing instructions 
associated with a main document (1) to the control unit (20), 
the control unit (20) being adapted for selecting 
printing instructions for printing particular ones of said 

documents in reaction to associated enclosure codes included 
in received processing instructions and transmitting said 

selected printing instructions to the at least one printer 
(16-1, 16-2). 
A system according to claim 12, comprising at least two 
feeder stations (15-1, 15-2) for supplying enclosure 

documents, each feeder station being equipped with a printer 
(16-1, 16-2). 
A system according to claim 13, wherein at least one of 
said printers is faster than at least one other one of said 

printers and the control unit is adapted for arranging 
printing instructions for printing said documents according 

to printing size and for supplying the most extensive 
printing instructions of printing instructions for printing 

at least two enclosure documents to the faster printer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
