<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641175</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DETERMINING BRAIN ACTIVITY INCLUDING THE NATURE OF BRAIN LESIONS BY ELECTROENCEPHALOGRAPHY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B50476	A61B50476	A61B5048	G06F1700	G06F1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOK IAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEUCHTER ANDREW F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOK, IAN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEUCHTER, ANDREW, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DETERMINING BRAIN ACTIVITY INCLUDINGTHE NATURE OF BRAIN LESIONSBY ELECTROENCEPHALOGRAPHYPortions of the work leading to this application were developed under a grant of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) under Grant No. MH 40705. The NIMH may have rights in this application.BACKGROUNDDiagnosing disorders and afflictions in the human brain with non-invasive procedures is important medically and scientifically. Determining activation during tasks, cognitive processing, or in other conditions as evidenced by brain activity and through non-invasive procedures is also most valuable. Assessing, non-invasively, when the brain is experiencing normal activity provides additional valuable data.This invention relates to determining the nature of brain lesions using quantitative electro¬ physiology. In particular, the invention relates to analyzing electroencephalographic information in a manner to permit assessment of the nature of brain lesions. The invention is further directed to give a characterization of afflictions such as dementia, being selective for ulti-infarct dementia or Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease and demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.The invention is also directed to determining activation tasks by using quantitative electrophysiology, particularly the activation of specific brain regions rendered in mental processing such as motor and memory activity, cognitive processing or other conditions.Brain imaging used by physicians in clinical practice includes structural imaging and functional 

 imaging. Structural imaging is effected by computed axial tomography (CAT) scanning or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning. Functional imaging is effected by positron emission tomography (PET) , single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or electroencephalo- graphy (EEG) .Structural imaging is performed for determining the location of a brain tumor or other kind of gross structural alteration of the brain. Functional imaging tests are performed to determine functional alteration in the brain where there may not be significant structural alteration. These broad categories of tests are comple¬ mentary. A physician evaluating a neurological or psychiatric illness could perform a test from both cate¬ gories to assess and/or diagnose a patient's condition. The present invention particularly concerns functional imaging.PET scanning measures brain metabolism and can identify areas that are hypoactive. SPECT scanning measures cerebral blood flow, which is an indirect
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
46 CLAIMS
1. A method of determining the electrical output of a brain region in the head of a subject comprising obtaining first data representative of energy in the brain region in a primary frequency domain, determining second data representative of energy in the primary frequency domain relative to the energy in a secondary frequency domain, and relating the first data with the second data thereby obtaining a value repre¬ sentative of electrical output in the brain region.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein relating is effected by determining the first data and second data relative to a selected base value and wherein when the first data and the second data both increase or decrease relative to the selected base value, a concor¬ dance condition is indicated, and wherein when one of the first data and the second data respectively increase or decrease relative to the selected base while the other of the first data or second data, respectively, is oppo¬ sitely directed relative to the selected base, a dis¬ cordance condition is indicated.
3. A method as claimed in claim 2 including providing a selected base for the first data and a selected base for the second data.
4. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the first data are compared to a selected base value of the first data and the second data are compared to a selected base value of the second data thereby to obtain respectively either the concordance or discordance indication, and wherein the discordance and concordance is established in the primary frequency domain. 


 47
5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first data are divided by a selected first data value, and the second data are divided by a selected second data value thereby to obtain a normalized base value for normalizing the first data, and a normalized base for normalizing the second data, respectively, and wherein the first data relative to the normalized base value of the first data and the second data relative to the normalized base value of the second data yields concor- dance and discordance indications.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5 including employing a selected percentage of the normalized base value of the first data as a first selected base value, and employing a selected percentage of the normalized base value of the second data as a second selected base value and wherein when the first data are relatively less than the first selected base value and the second data are relatively greater than the second selected base value, respectively, a discordance is indicated, and wherein when the first selected data is increased relative to the first selected base value and the second data is relatively increased relative to the second selected base value, a concordance is indicated.
7. A method as claimed in claim 2 including obtaining a quantified value of the amount of departure of the discordance indication and the concordance indication by determining the amount of departure from the selected base.
8. A method as claimed in claim 7 including mapping topographically the quantified value over the brain region.
9. A method as claimed in claim 7 including having multiple primary frequency domains and including 


 48 mapping the quantified value for multiple primary frequency domains.
10. A method as claimed in claim 7 including displaying a topographical map of the quantified value in a primary frequency domain.
11. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the primary frequency domain includes at least one of a beta region and a theta region.
12. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first data are obtained from energy measured by selected electrode channels, and locating the selected electrode channels strategically about the brain.
13. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first data are an absolute power, and the second data are a relative power, the absolute power being power measured by selected electrode channels, over the primary frequency domain and the relative power being the distribution of power in the primary frequency domain relative to the power in the secondary frequency domain in the selected electrode channels.
14. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein relating the absolute power and the relative power is defined by the combination of the absolute power and relative power such that the relative power at a selected primary frequency domain is equal to the absolute power at the selected primary frequency domain divided by the power for the secondary frequency domain.
15. A method as claimed in claim 1 including comparing the representative value with a selected base representative of the brain region and assessing from the comparison the physiology in the brain region. 


 49
16. A method as claimed in claim 1 including diagnosing from the representative value the existence or non-existence of a brain lesion characterized by at least one of the disorders indicated by dementia, such dis- orders being selectively multi-infarct dementia,
Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease or a demyelinating disease, selectively, multiple sclerosis.
17. A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein multiple channels are obtained by locating multiple electrodes over the head of the subject in strategic locations about the head, obtaining data in an analog form from the electrodes, digitizing the analog data from the electrodes, and subjecting the digitized data to Fourier Transformation to obtain absolute power for each channel in the primary frequency domain.
18. A method as claimed in claim 17 including obtaining a relative power for each channel, such relative power being obtained by dividing the absolute power in the primary frequency domain by the absolute power in the secondary frequency domain.
19. A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the energy is measured by the electrode for each channel, the energy measurement being obtained with reference to at least one other electrode located on the subject.
20. A method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the energy measured by the electrodes for each channel is obtained with reference to multiple electrodes about the head.
21. A method as claimed in claim 1 including normalizing the effect of a selected energy distribution in the brain region, such region being selectively adjacent to at least one of the ears of the subject, the 


 50 normalizing being effected by determining an energy measurement of different electrodes relative to data of at least one other electrode.
22. A method of determining the electrical output of a brain region in the head of a subject comprising obtaining first data representative of energy in the brain region in a primary frequency domain, determining second data representative of energy in the primary frequency domain relative to the energy in a secondary frequency domain, relating the first data with the second data thereby obtaining a value representative of electrical output in the brain region, and obtaining a brain map of the representative value.
23. A method as claimed in claim 22 including obtaining a normalized base value for the first data and a normalized base for the second data respectively, obtaining selected base values from the normalized base values and obtaining the representative value based on departures from the selected base values.
24. A method as claimed in claim 22 including comparing the representative value with a selected base representative of the brain region and assessing from the comparison the physiology in the brain region.
25. A method of determining the electrical output of a brain region in the head of a subject comprising obtaining first data representative of energy in the brain region in a primary frequency domain, determining second data representative of energy in the primary frequency domain relative to the energy in a secondary frequency domain, normalizing the first data, normalizing the second data, selecting a base value relative to the respective normalizations, determining departures of the first data and the second data from the 


 51 respective selected base values, and relating the departures thereby to obtain a brain map representative of electrical output in the brain region.
26. A method as claimed in claim 25 including having multiple primary frequency domains and including effecting mapping for the multiple primary frequency domains.
27. A method as claimed in claim 26 including displaying a topographical map of the representative values in a primary frequency domain.
28. A method of determining the electrical output of a brain region in the head of a subject comprising measuring an absolute power in the brain region in a primary frequency domain, determining a relative power in the primary frequency domain relative to the absolute power in a secondary frequency domain, normalizing the absolute power, normalizing the relative power, selecting a base value relative to the respective normalizations, determining departures of the absolute power and the relative power from the respective selected base values, and relating the departures thereby to obtain a cordance brain map representative of electrical output in the brain region.
29. A method as claimed in claim 28 including obtaining a topographical map of the representative values in a primary frequency domain.
30. A method as claimed in claim 29 wherein the primary frequency domain includes one of a beta region and a theta region, and the secondary frequency domain is selectively at least both of the delta and theta regions. 


 52
31. A method as claimed in claim 30 wherein the absolute power is obtained from selected electrode channels, and locating the selected electrode channels strategically about the brain.
32. Apparatus for determining the electrical output of a brain region in the head of a subject comprising means for obtaining first data representative of an energy in the brain region in a primary frequency domain, means for determining second data representative of energy in the primary frequency domain relative to the energy in a secondary frequency domain, and means for relating the first data with the second data thereby obtaining a value representative of electrical output in the brain region.
33. Apparatus as claimed in claim 32 including means for determining a selected base value, the value being selectively normalized, means for relating the first data and second data relative to the selected base value, and means for determining selectively concordance and discordance conditions of the first data and second data relative to the selected base value.
34. Apparatus as claimed in claim 33 including means for determining a selected base value for the first data and a selected base value for the second data.
35. Apparatus as claimed in claim 32 including means for comparing the first data to a selected base value of the first data and means for comparing the second data to a selected base value of the second data.
36. Apparatus as claimed in claim 35 including means for quantifying an amount of a departure of the first data from a selected base value and the amount of departure of the second data from a selected base value. 


 53
37. Apparatus as claimed in claim 36 including means for mapping the quantified value over the brain region.
38. Apparatus for the method as claimed in claim 36 including means for selecting multiple primary frequency domains and including means for mapping the quantified value for multiple primary frequency domains.
39. Apparatus for the method as claimed in claim 36 including means for displaying a topographical map of the quantified value in a primary frequency domain.
40. Apparatus as claimed in claim 32 including electrode channels for location about the head and wherein the first data are absolute power, and the second data are relative power, the absolute power being power from a selected electrode channel over the primary frequency domain and the relative power being the distri¬ bution of power in the primary frequency relative to a secondary frequency domain in the selected electrode channel.
41. Apparatus as claimed in claim 40 including means for measuring the energy by the electrode for each channel, and means for obtaining the energy measurement with reference to at least one other electrode about the subject.
42. A method as claimed in claim 1 including applying the representative value and assessing an activation task from activity in the brain region.
43. A method as claimed in claim 1 including determining from the representative value selectively the activation, deactivation or absence of activation effect 


 54 during an activation task, such task being selectively at least one of a motor or memory task, or cognitive processing.
44. A method as claimed in claim 22 including applying the representative value and assessing an activation task selectively from activity in the brain region.
45. A method as claimed in claim 2 including applying a cordance value to assess an activation task in the brain region.
46. A method as claimed in claim 2 including applying a cordance value to assess selectively a motor or memory task.
47. A method as claimed in claim 46 wherein selectively the cordance values in an alpha frequency range are selected for a memory task, and the concordance value in a theta frequency range is selected for a motor task.
48. A method as claimed in claim 22 including applying the representative value for assessing an activation in the brain region, such activation being selectively a motor cognitive, perceptual, emotional task or cognitive processing.
49. A method as claimed in claim 48 wherein the representative value in an alpha frequency band is representative of a cognitive memory task, and a representative value in a theta band is representative of a motor task. 


 55
50. A method as claimed in Claim 1 including applying the representative value for assessing perfusion.
51. A method as claimed in Claim 2 including applying a concordance value for assessing normal perfusion.
52. A method as claimed in Claim 51 including applying concordance in an alpha frequency band for assessing normal perfusion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
