<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658474</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Driving device for a bicycle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H2114	B62M902	B62M908	F16H2100	B62M102	B62M100	B62M900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	B62M	B62M	F16H	B62M	B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H21	B62M9	B62M9	F16H21	B62M1	B62M1	B62M9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A travelling driving device for a bicycle capable of 
increasing rotational torque of a chain wheel (6) using 

pedalling cranks without elongating a crank arm is 
disclosed. 
This device is borne by a bearing (2) disposed on a frame 
(1) of the bicycle and has an eccentric plate (5) put on 

a rotating shaft (3) having cranks (4) with pedal (4a). 
This eccentric plate (5) is secured to a frame member (1) 

of the bicycle through a stay portion (8). The chain 
wheel (6) is put rotatably on the outer periphery of the 

eccentric plate (5) through a ball bearing and a working 
plate (9) secured to the rotating shaft (3) is linked to 

the chain wheel (6) by linking members (10, 11). 
When the rotating shaft (3) is rotated by pedalling 
action of the cranks (4), rotation is transmitted to the 

chain wheel (6) through the working plate (9) and the 
linking members (10, 11). Since the chain wheel (6) is 

rotated in an eccentric state with respect to the 
rotating shaft (3), it can be rotated with a rotation 

radius smaller than a chain wheel having no eccentric 
mechanism and as the result, rotational torque of the 

chain wheel (6) is increased, depending on eccentricity 
length. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI KIYOSHI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI, KIYOSHI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI, KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improvement of a
traveling driving device for a bicycle.Conventionally a traveling driving device for a
bicycle has a mechanism, in which a chain wheel is rotated by
pedaling action through a gear crank and rotation of the
chain wheel is transmitted to a rear wheel through a chain.In the traveling driving device constructed as
described above, it is one of the simplest ways to elongate
the arm of the gear crank in order to intend increase of
torque of the rotation by the pedaling action. However,
since the most appropriate length of the arm of the gear
crank is determined from points of view of the human
engineering and the construction of the driving mechanism, if
it is too long, the pedaling action is difficult so that it
is not practicable.The main object of the present invention is to
provide a traveling driving device for a bicycle, in which
rotational torque of the chain wheel by pedaling action can
be increased without elongating the arm of the gear crank.Such a device is known from FR-A-325 640.In order to achieve the above object, a traveling
driving device for a bicycle according to the present
invention comprises the features of claim 1. In the construction as mentioned above, when the
rotating shaft is rotated by pedaling action of the cranks,
rotation of the rotating shaft is transmitted to the chain
wheel through the working plate and linking members. As the
result of the fact that the chain wheel is rotated in an
eccentric manner through the eccentric plate with respect to
the rotating shaft, since the chain wheel is driven rotationally
with a rotation radius smaller than a chain wheel having
no eccentric mechanism, when pedaling force acting on the
cranks is constant, the rotational torque of the chain wheel
rotating eccentrically as described previously is increased
with increasing effective eccentricity length.Fig. 1 is a plan view of the principal part of a
traveling driving device for a bicycle, which is a first
embodiment of the present invention;Fig. 2 is a cross-sectional view of the device
indicated in Fig. 1;Fig. 3 is a diagram for explaining increase of
rotational torque of a chain wheel;Fig. 4 is a plan view of the principal part of a
traveling driving device for a bicycle, which is a second
embodiment of the present invention;Fig. 5 is a plan view of the principal part of a
traveling driving device for a bicycle, which is a third
embodiment of the present invention; andFig. 6 is a plan view of the principal part of a
traveling driving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A travelling driving device for a bicycle comprising:

a rotating shaft (3) mounted on a bearing portion (2)
disposed on a frame (1) of the bicycle ;
cranks (4) with pedal (4a) mounted on two extremities of
said rotating shaft ;
an eccentric plate (5) inserted between one of said cranks
and said bearing portion to be mounted eccentrically with

respect to said rotating shaft and secured to said frame;
a chain wheel (6) which is eccentric like said eccentric
plate (5) ; and
a working plate (9) secured to said rotating shaft between
the one of the cranks and said eccentric plate and linked

with said chain wheel through a linking mechanism ;

characterized in that : said chain wheel (6) is directly
mounted rotatably on the outer periphery of the eccentric

plate (5) ; and the linking mechanism includes a plurality
of linking arms, each of which consists of at least one

linking member (10;11;15) linked with the working plate
(9) and the chain wheel (6) by means of two pins (6a, 9b;

11a, 10a), respectively.
A device according to claim 1, characterized in that
each linking arm consists of two linking members (10, 11),

one (10) of them being linked rotatably with said working
plate (9) through a supporting pin (10a), while the other

(11) of them is rotatably linked with said chain wheel (6)
through a supporting pin (11a).
A device according to claim 2, characterized in that a
stopper pin (13) is disposed on said chain wheel (6) so as

to be engageable with one (11) of said linking members for
each of said linking arms in order to limit movement of 

said linking members to one predetermined direction from a
dead point in the linking angle of said linking members.
A device according to claim 3, characterized in that it
further comprises a plurality of springs (12, 14), each of

which is linked with one of said linking members and said
chain wheel (6).
A device according to claim 2, characterized in that it
further comprises a plurality of springs (12), each of

which is linked with one of the linking members and the
chain wheel in order to limit movement of said linking

members to one predetermined direction from a dead point
in the linking angle of said linking members of said link

arms.
A device according to claim 4 or 5, characterized in
that each of said springs (14) has two arm portions and

one roll-up portion (14a) therebetween, said roll-up
portion being supported by a pin (9a) on said working

plate (9), one (14b) of said arm portions being linked
with said chain wheel (6), the other portion (14c) being

linked with one (10) of the linking members.
A device according to claim 5, characterized in that
each of said springs has two arm portions and roll-up

portion therebetween, said roll-up portion being supported
by a pin on said working plate, one of said arm portions

being linked with said chain wheel, the other portion
being linked with one of linking members.
A device according to claim 1, characterized in that
each linking arm includes a single type linking member

(15) having a slit (15a), one extremity of each linking
member is linked rotatably with said working plate (9)

through a supporting pin (9b), and a supporting pin (6a) 
disposed on said chain wheel (6) is inserted into said

slit.
A device according to claim 1, characterized in that
each linking arm includes a single type linking member

(15) having a slit (15a), one extremity of each linking
member is linked rotatably with said chain wheel (6)

through a supporting pin (6b), and a supporting pin (9c)

disposed on said working plate (9) is inserted into said
slit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
