<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617515</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BINARY COUNTERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K2300	H03K2300	H03K2344	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K23	H03K23	H03K23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fast counter includes a clock generator (18), a 
control circuit (22), and a counting circuit (12). The 

counting circuit is formed of at least one uniform delay 
structure (12a, 12b) having a plurality of counter bit 

cells (58, 60). The uniform delay structure has a 
regular configuration suitable for very large scale 

integration. The fast counter is implemented so as to 
provide minimal propagation delay at relatively low cost. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAGLANI PRANAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAGLANI, PRANAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to binary counters 
and more particularly, it relates to an improved fast 
counter which is formed of uniform delay structures 
having a plurality of substantially identical bit cells 
so that each bit cell thereof has approximately the same 
amount of delay regardless of the order of the bit cell. As is generally well known in the art, one of the 
most common ways to synchronize events occurring in 
digital data processing equipment is achieved by 
utilizing conventional binary counter circuits. These 
binary counter circuits are typically adapted to count up 
to a certain number of clock pulses. Further, such 
binary counter circuits are commonly operated on a 
straight binary counting code. A typical binary counter 
circuit consists of several stages connected in cascade 
each having a one-digit storage device. The successive 
count pulses are applied to the first stage or least 
significant bit storage device. The incoming pulses 
alternately set the first stage to "1" and then resets it 
to "0." On each reset pulse, the first stage sends a 
carry signal to the next stage or higher significant bit 
storage device. As a result, the second stage alternates  
 
between "0" and "1" each second input pulse and also 
transmits a carry signal to the next stage every time it 
resets to zero (i.e., every fourth input pulse), and so 
on for the remaining successive stages. This kind of binary counter is sometimes referred to 
as a ripple carry counter. As is apparent to those 
skilled in the art, each counter stage requires a certain 
amount of time in order to change state and thus a considerable 
amount of propagation delay will occur before 
the final stage or most significant bit receives its 
carry signal. This is especially true when there are 
more than just a few stages involved. For example, in a 
32-bit binary counter this propagation delay may be in 
the order of several microseconds. As is also well known among counter designers, there 
always exists a trade-off in the amount of chip area used 
and the propagation delay. If the clock speeds are slow 
enough, the ripple carry-type counters would be quite 
adequate to provide a low cost solution utilizing less 
chip space. However, the speed of the carry propagation 
delay becomes an important design factor when dealing 
with counters used in high speed digital applications. Various type of circuit arrangements, such as 
"carry-look ahead" schemes, have been employed heretofore 
in an attempt to improve the carry
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fast counter comprising: 
   clock generating means (18) for 

generating non-overlapping first and second 
clock phase signals; 

   control circuit means (22) responsive to 
the complement of said first clock phase 

signal and said second clock phase signal for 
generating a precharge signal and an 

evaluation signal; 
   counting means (12, 14) being formed of 

at least one uniform delay structure (12a, 
12b) and being responsive to said precharge 

signal and said evaluation signal for 
generating output bit signals; 

   said uniform delay structure being formed 
of a plurality of counter bit cells (58, 60) 

each having a corresponding output bit and a 
flip node, and a plurality of ladder networks 

(62) each operatively connected between the 
output of one bit cell and the flip node of 

the next higher order bit cell;
 

   said flip nodes of each counter bit cell 
being precharged to a high level when said 

precharge signal is at a low value; 
   said flip node of each counter bit cell 

being responsive to a corresponding one of 
said ladder networks and being evaluated to 

either maintain the flip node charged or to 
discharge the flip node when said evaluation 

signal is at a high value; and 
   each counter bit cell being responsive to 

said corresponding value of said flip node so 
as to flip or not flip the current state of 

the output bit signal when said first clock 
phase signal is at a high value. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
said flip nodes of the counter bit cells are precharged 

by the precharge signal during the time after said first 
clock phase signal is at a low value and before said 

second clock phase signal goes to a high value. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 2, wherein 
each of said plurality of ladder networks is formed of a 

plurality of N-channel transistors whose sources are connected 
together to receive said evaluation signal and 

whose drains are connected together and to the flip node 
 

of the next higher order of bit cells, the gates of said 
N-channel transistors being connected to a corresponding 

one of the complement of the output bit signals in the 
previous lower order bits. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 3, wherein 
said uniform delay structure is comprised of eight bit 

cells and seven ladder networks which are connected so as 
to define an 8-to-1 uniform delay structure. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 4, wherein 
four of said 8-to-1 uniform delay structures are interconnected 

together so as to form a 32-bit fast counter. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
each counter bit cell includes latch means for storing 

said corresponding output bit signals. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 6, wherein 
said latch means includes a first clocked half-latch (76) 

having an input and an output, a second clocked half-latch 
(78) having an input connected to the output of 

said first clocked half-latch and an output for storing 
said corresponding output bit signal, and an inverter 

(80) having an input connected to the output of said 
second clocked half-latch and an output defining the 

complement of said output bit signal being connected to 
 

the input of said first clocked half-latch, control means 
being responsive to complement of said first clock phase 

signal for transferring the flip node value to a charge/ 
discharge node, said first clocked half-latch being 

responsive to said charge/discharge node so as to permit 
flipping the state of said output bit signal. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 7, wherein 
said first clocked half-latch is formed of a first pass 

transistor (N403) and a pair of first and second 
inverters (INV401, INV402). 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 8, wherein 
said second clocked half-latch is formed of a second pass 

transistor (N404) and a pair of third and fourth 
inverters (INV403, INV404). 
A fast counter having at least one uniform 
delay structure, said uniform delay structure being 

formed of a plurality of counter bit cells, each counter 
bit cell except for the least significant bit cell 

comprising: 
   a first clocked half-latch (76) formed of 

a first pass transistor (N403) and a pair of 
first and second inverters (INV401, INV402); 

   a second clocked half-latch (78) formed 
of a second pass transistor (N404) and a pair 

of third and fourth inverters (INV403, 
INV404); 

   a fifth inverter (80) having an input and 
an output for storing a bit signal at a first 

output terminal; 
   said first pass transistor (N403) having 

a source connected to the output of said fifth 
inverter (80) and a drain connected to the 

input of said first inverter, said first 
inverter (INV401) having an output connected 

to an input of said second inverter, said 
second inverter (INV402) having an output 

connected to the input of said first inverter; 
   said second pass transistor (N404) having 

a source connected to the output of said first 
 

inverter (INV401), and a drain connected to an 
input of said third inverter, said third 

inverter (INV403) having an output connected 
to an input of said fourth inverter and to the 

input of said fifth inverter, said fourth 
inverter (INV404) having an output connected 

to the input of said third inverter; 
   a discharge transistor (N402) having a 

drain connected to a charge/discharge node and 
a source connected to a ground potential, the 

gate of said discharge transistor being 
connected to a first input terminal for 

receiving a complement of said first clock 
phase signal; 

   a third pass transistor (P401) having its 
drain connected to the charge/discharge node 

and its source connected to a flip node, the 
gate of said third pass transistor being 

connected to a second input terminal; and 
   a precharge transistor having its source 

connected to a supply potential and a drain 
connected to a flip node, the gate of said 

precharge transistor being connected to a 
third input terminal for receiving a precharge 

signal. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 10, further 
comprising a reset transistor (N401) having a drain 

connected to the input of said first inverter and its 
source connected to the ground potential, the gate of 

said reset circuit being connected to a fourth input 
terminal for receiving a reset signal. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 11, wherein 
said first and second pass transistors and said discharge 

transistors are comprised of N-channel MOS transistors. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
said third pass transistor and said precharge transistor 

are comprised of P-channel MOS transistors. 
A fast counter as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
a plurality of counter bit cells are connected together 

to form a 32-bit counting circuit. 
A counter cell comprising: 
   latch means for storing binary output 

signals; 
   said latch means formed a first clocked 

half-latch (76) having an input and an output, 
a second clocked half-latch (78) having an 

input connected to the output of said first 
clocked half-latch and an output for storing 

an output bit signal, and an inverter (80) 
having an input connected to the output of 

said second clocked half-latch and an output 

defining the complement of said output bit 
signal being connected to the input of said 

first clocked half-latch; 
   control means being responsive to 

complement of a first clock phase signal for 
transferring a flip node value to a charge/discharge node; and 

   said first clocked half-latch being 
responsive to said charge/discharge node so as 

to permit flipping the state of said output 
bit signal. 
A counter cell as claimed in Claim 15, wherein 
said first clocked half-latch is formed of a first pass 

 
transistor (N403) and a pair of first and second 

inverters (INV401, INV402). 
A counter cell as claimed in Claim 16, wherein 
said second clocked half-latch is formed of a second pass 

transistor (N404) and a pair of third and fourth 
inverters (INV403, INV404). 
A counter cell as claimed in Claim 15, wherein 
a plurality of counter cells are connected together to 

form a 32-bit counting circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
