<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616705</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TIME DELAY BEAM FORMATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F121	G02F200	G02F200	G06E300	G06E300	H01Q326	H01Q326	H01Q330	H01Q330	H04B1010	H04B1010	H04B10105	H04B10105	H04B1022	H04B1022	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G06E	G06E	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F2	G02F2	G06E3	G06E3	H01Q3	H01Q3	H01Q3	H01Q3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESSEX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESSEX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GESELL LESLIE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAFUSE JAMES L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GESELL, LESLIE, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAFUSE, JAMES, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TIME DELAY BEAM FORMATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:1. Field of the Invention:The present invention relates to a system for generating and rapidly changing the time delays of electrical signals for true time delay beam formation and steering.2. Description of Related Art:The use of wide aperture, wide bandwidth phase steered array antennas for transmitting and receiving wideband signals is a known technique. Such known antennas suffer from a problem of beam dispersion or broadening when steering away from the array normal- Attempts have been made to avoid this problem of beam dispersion through the use of time delays between the array elements. One approach for implementing true time delay beam formation is to switch in different lengths of signal transmission delay lines between the common signal source and the antenna array elements. This known approach tends to be bulky and cumbersome for scanning an array with a large number of array elements over a wide range of nearly continuous angles.It is an object of the present invention to provide a system that is simple and that does not require a bulky and complex implementation. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system for implementing true time delay beam formation that may fit into a small lightweight package, that is relatively rugged, and that consumes relatively small amounts of power. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION:In accordance with the present invention, these and other objectives are achieved by providing a system in which time delays may be generated by using an acousto-optic (AO) Bragg cell as a continuous tapped delay line. Selected points in the Bragg cell may be optically mapped to the output. The optical mapping may be controlled using additional optical and acousto-optical devices. The optical mapping may make use of prisms and/or holographic optical elements, in addition to other standard passive optical elements.A system in accordance with the present invention is capable of generating and rapidly changing time delays for true time delay beam formation and steering. A system in accordance with the present invention enables a time delay beam formation array to simultaneously scan multiple beams rapidly over a continuum of angles. A system in accordance with the present invention may be used, for example, in airborne reconnaissance and surveillance, space-based radar, satellite communications, or large space-based arrays, where size, weight and power are major considerations.A system in accordance with the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A system for generating at least one time delay signal from an input signal, comprising: a source of coherent light, beam splitter means for splitting the coherent light into a first leg and a second leg, first modulation means associated with the first leg for modulating the coherent light with a modulation signal and for separating the modulated coherent light into a spectrum, the first modulation means defining a Fourier transform plane, second modulation means associated with the second leg for modulating the coherent light with a steering signal, optical element means associated with the second leg for receiving an input beam from the second modulation means at an incidence angle and for producing a plurality of reference waves having a plurality of orientations that are a function of the incidence angle, an array of photodiodes arranged substantially in the Fourier transform plane of the first modulation means for detecting interference between the spectrum associated with the first leg and the reference waves associated with the second leg and for producing an output signal corresponding to the detected interference, whereby each photodiode produces an output signal corresponding to the modulation signal delayed by a time factor that is a function of the angle of incidence of the reference wave on the photodiode. 


 2. The system as in claim 1 wherein each of the photodiodes in the array of photodiodes is oriented and proportioned for capturing the full spectrum of the modulated light signal illuminating the photodiode.
3. The system as in claim 1 wherein the optical element means comprises a plurality of prisms.
4. The system as in claim 1 wherein at least one of the first modulation means and the second modulation means comprises a Bragg cell.
5. The system as in claim 1 wherein the first modulation means comprises a Fourier transform lens.
6. The system as in claim 1 wherein the optical element means comprises a holographic optic element.
7. The system as in claim 3 wherein each one of the plurality of prisms is associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of photodiodes, and wherein each one of the plurality of photodiodes is illuminated by a reference wave output of a corresponding one of the plurality of prisms. 

8. A system for generating at least one time delay signal from an input signal, comprising: a source of coherent light, first modulation means for modulating the coherent light with a modulation signal and for producing a plane wave output having an angular orientation, the first modulation means having a plurality of points and defining an image plane and a Fourier transform plane, the angular orientation of the plane wave output corresponding to the position of points in the first modulation means, an array of photodiodes arranged substantially in the image plane of the first modulation means, optical mapping means for optically mapping points in the first modulation means onto the array of photodiodes, the optical mapping means comprising: second modulation means for controlling the angular orientation of the plane wave output of the first modulation means with respect to a first axis, third modulation means for controlling the angular orientation of the plane wave output of the first modulation means with respect to a second axis, the first axis and the second axis being substantially perpendicular and the second modulation means and the third modulation means each defining an image plane, a optical element, arranged substantially in the Fourier transform plane of the first modulation means and substantially in the image plane of the second modulation means and the third modulation means, for mapping plane waves at the optical element into points on the photodiode array, whereby the mapping of plane waves at the optical element into points on the photodiode array is determined by the angular orientation of the plane waves at the optical element, and 


 whereby each photodiode produces an output signal corresponding to the modulation signal delayed by a time factor.
9. The system as in claim 8 comprising: beam splitter means for splitting the coherent light into a first leg and a second leg, the second leg providing a reference signal at the photodiode array for heterodyne detection, whereby the output signals of the photodiode array are a function of the modulation signal.
10. The system as in claim 8 wherein at least one of the first modulation means, the second modulation means and the third modulation means comprises a Bragg cell.
11. The system as in claim 8 wherein the optical element comprises a volume hologram. 

12. A system for time delaying a plurality of signals and for summing the plurality of delayed signals, comprising: a source of coherent light, beam splitter means for splitting the coherent light into a first leg and a second leg, first multi-channel modulation means associated with the first leg for modulating the coherent light with a plurality of modulation signals and for separating the modulated coherent light into a spectrum, the first multi-channel modulation means defining a Fourier transform plane, second modulation means associated with the second leg for modulating the coherent light with a steering signal, optical element means associated with the second leg for receiving an input beam from the second modulation means at an incidence angle and for producing a plurality of reference waves having a plurality of orientations that are a function of the incidence angle, an array of photodiodes arranged substantially in the Fourier transform plane of the first multi¬ channel modulation means for detecting interference between the spectrum associated with the first leg and the reference waves associated with the second leg and for producing an output signal corresponding to the detected interference, whereby each photodiode produces an output signal corresponding to the modulation signal delayed by a time factor that is a function of the angle of incidence of the reference wave on the photodiode.
13. The system as in claim 12 wherein the optical element means comprises a plurality of prisms. 


 14. The system as in claim 12 wherein at least one of the first modulation means and the second modulation means comprises a Bragg cell.
15. The system as in claim 12 wherein the first modulation means comprises a Fourier transform lens. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
