<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0555954</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tape cassette
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J3200	B41J3200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J32	B41J32	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tape cassette (10) accommodating at least one 
tape-like member (18, 22, 26) has an accommodation case 

(14) and a cover member (12) for covering the accommodation 
case (14). An exit slit (32) is formed in the accommodation 

case (14), said of least one tape-like member (18,22,26) being fed out of 
the tape cassette (10) through the exit slit (32). A protruding 

portion (36) is formed on the accommodation case (14) 
adjacent the exit slit (32), the protruding portion (36) 

protruding from the case by a predetermined amount in the 
feeding direction of said at least one tape-like member (18,22,26) and 

extending along the exit slit (32). A pair of snapping members 
(102a, 102b) are provided on one of the cover member (12) and 

the accommodation case (14), while a receiving member (100) is 
provided on the other for receiving the snapping members (102a,102b) so 

as to fix the cover member (12) onto the accommodation case 
(14). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHINOMIYA YOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO NOBUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUSHI KOSHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHINOMIYA, YOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO, NOBUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUSHI, KOSHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a tape cassette 
suitable for use with a printing device which is capable of 
printing images, such as alphanumeric characters, onto a 
tape-like recording medium. Previously there has been proposed a printing device 
for creating a printed tape by printing reversed images of 
characters and the like on the backside of a transparent 
tape, and by adhering the transparent tape to a 
double-sided adhesive tape having a release paper on one 
side thereof. The created tape may then be adhered to a 
video cassette and the like as an index and the like. A tape cassette is exchangeably mounted to this kind 
of printing device. In the printing device, there is 
provided a cutter. The tape created as explained above 
passes out from the tape cassette and is cut by the cutter 
provided in the printing device. After the tape has been cut, the extreme end of the 
tape projects outwardly from the tape cassette because the 
tape was cut outside the cassette. If the tape cassette is 
detached from the printing device with the extreme end of 
the tape projecting from the cassette, should the extreme 
end of the tape be inadvertently touched by a finger the 
tape at the exit portion may be pushed inside the cassette 
case. Alternatively, the extreme end of the tape may be 
retracted inside the cassette case due to back tension of  
 
the film tape. The amount of the tape projecting from the cassette 
case is relatively large with respect to the thickness of 
the cassette case. Thus, when the extreme end of the tape 
is retracted into the cassette case, it is not easy to pull 
out from the cassette case the extreme end of the tape and 
it can be a laborious and time-consuming job to draw the 
end of the tape out of the tape cassette. Further, when 
the tape cassette is coupled to the printing device with 
the extreme end of the tape retracted into the tape 
cassette and the tape is fed by the device, a problem 
arises in that the tape cannot be fed out of the tape 
cassette. Previously proposed tape cassettes can also comprise a 
lower case member 16b and an upper cover member 16a as 
shown in Fig. 14. Pins 29 are provided on the under 
surface of the upper cover member 16a. The pins 29 are 
inserted into holes 31 formed in the side wall of the lower 
case member 16b. A tape member 26 is, in this example, 
wound around a spool 28, which is rotatably fitted on a 
shaft 27 projecting from the lower case member 16b. With this construction, if the tape 26 is an adhesive 
tape provided with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tape cassette (10) comprising a case (16) 
having a side wall and a tape-like member (18) contained in 

the case, said side wall being provided with an aperture 
(32) for the exit of said tape-like member from said case 

along a feed path to a cutting position (64) outside the 
case at which position the end of the tape-like member may 

be cut, said side wall also being provided with protrusion 
means (36) adjacent said exit aperture (32) and extending 

outwardly from an external surface of said side wall in the 
general direction of the feed path to terminate short of 

the cutting position. 
A cassette claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
protrusion means (36) extends across substantially the full 

extent of said exit aperture (32) in a direction generally 
perpendicular to the direction of the feed path. 
A tape cassette as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
2, wherein said case includes a main accommodation case 

member (14) and a cover member (12), and said tape cassette 
further comprises engagement means (102) provided on one of 

said cover member and said accommodation case member and 
receiving means (100) provided on the other one of said 

cover member and said accommodation member, said engagement 

means and said receiving means being arranged to cooperate 
when said accommodation case member and cover member are 

put together to fix said cover member to said accommodation 
case member. 
A cassette as claimed in claim 3, wherein one 
of said accommodation case member (14) and said cover 

member (12) is provided with shaft means (98) for the 
fitting thereon of a rotatable spool (20) around which said 

tape-like member is wound, and wherein one of said 
engagement means and said receiving means is provided on 

the end of said shaft means. 
A cassette as claimed in claim 4, wherein said  
 

shaft means (98) is provided on said accommodation case 
member. 
A cassette as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said tape-like member (18) is a 

recording tape for the printing thereon of images by a 
printing device. 
A cassette as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
cassette case further contains an ink ribbon (22) to 

provide a source of ink for the printing of images on said 
recording tape (18). 
A cassette as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7, 
wherein said cassette case further contains an adhesive 

tape (26) for adhering to said recording tape (18) after 
the printing of images on said recording tape. 
A cassette as claimed in claim 8, wherein an 
end of said adhesive tape (26) exits from said cassette 

case through said aperture (32) when adhered to said 
recording tape. 
A cassette as claimed in any one of the claims 
6 to 9, wherein said recording tape (18) comprises a 

transparent tape. 
A cassette as claimed in any of claims 8 to 10, 
wherein said adhesive tape (26) comprises a double-sided 

adhesive tape. 
A cassette as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6, 
wherein said cassette case (16) contains a plurality of 

tape-like members (18, 22, 26), at least two (18, 26) of 
said plurality of tape-like members being arranged to pass 

out of said cassette case through said exit aperture (32). 
A cassette as claimed in claim 3, wherein said 
cassette case accommodates a plurality of tape-like members 

(18, 22, 26) wound around spools (20, 28, 30), 

wherein said accommodation case member (14) is 
provided with a plurality of shafts (98), each said spool 

being fitted onto a different one of said plurality of 
shafts,  

 
wherein said engagement means (102) comprises a 
plurality of engaging members each of which is provided 

either on said cover member (12) or an extreme end of one 
of said plurality of shafts (98), and 
wherein said receiving means (100) comprises a 
plurality of receiving members for cooperating with said 

plurality of engaging means (102), each of said receiving 
members being provided either on an extreme end of one of 

said plurality of shafts (98) or on said cover member in 
correspondence with an engaging member. 
A tape cassette as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
2, wherein said tape-like member (18) is wound around a 

spool (20), said case (16) comprises an accommodation case 
member (14) provided with a shaft, said spool (20) being 

rotatably fitted on said shaft, and a cover member (12) for 
covering said accommodation case member, said exit aperture 

(32) is formed in said accommodation case member, and said 
tape cassette (10) further comprises engagement means (102) 

provided on one of the extreme end of said shaft and said 
cover member, and receiving means (100) provided on the 

other of said extreme end of said shaft and said cover 
member for receiving said engaging means to fix said cover 

member to said accommodation case member. 
A tape cassette as claimed in any of claims 3 
to 5 or claim 14, wherein said engagement means (102) 

comprise at least one pair of snapping members (102a, 
102b). 
A tape cassette as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising tensioning means (70) 

for tensioning said tape-like member (18) when the cassette 
(10) is inserted into a cassette accommodation chamber of a 

printing device (40), said tensioning means (70) comprising 
a pivotable lever arranged to be pivoted to a tensioning 

position by the action of camming means provided thereon 
and further camming means associated with the cassette 

accommodation chamber of the printing device.  
 
A combination of a cassette as claimed in any 
of the preceding claims with a printing device (40), said 

printing device being provided with cutter means (64) for 
cutting said tape-like member at the cutting position when 

said cassette (10) is, in use, mounted to the printing 
device. 
A combination as claimed in claim 17, wherein 
said cutter means (64) includes a movable cutter blade (68) 

positioned on one side of said tape-like member feed path 
and a stationary cutter blade (66) positioned on the 

opposite side of said feed path and said protrusion means 
protrudes from said cassette case side wall on said one 

side of said feed path. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
