<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0499765</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and apparatus for determining and/or evaluating quality characteristics of a body of meat material.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3302	G01N3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to determine and/or evaluate quality 
characteristics of a body of meat material (32) at least 

one probe (10) containing means (24) for emitting 
mechanical vibrations is plunged into the meat body so as 

to position the vibration emitting means (24) therein. The 
mechanical vibrations emitted by the emitting means, which 

may, for example, be a mechanical transducer (24), are 
detected by detecting means, which may also be the 

transducer (24). Quality characteristics of the meat body 
may then be determined and/or evaluated on the basis of 

signals generated in response to mechanical vibrations 
detected by the detecting means (24). As the mechanical 

vibrations may be emitted from a desired location inside 
the meat body (32) within the tissue structure to be 

examined, and as the window of the emitting and detecting 

means or transducer (24) may be arranged in good 
frictional or abutting contact with the meat substance of 

the body, the results obtained may be substantially 
improved compared with known methods. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SLAGTERIERNES FORSKNINGSINST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SLAGTERIERNES FORSKNINGSINSTITUT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HJELMROTH HANS-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HJELMROTH, HANS-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention provides a method of determining 
and/or evaluating quality characteristics of a body of 
meat material, such as a carcass or part of a carcass of a 
pig or an ox, a fish, a slaughtered poultry, a body of 
processed meat, such as minced meat, a piece of pickled 
and/or smoked meat, such as a ham, or the like. It is 
envisaged that the method according to the invention could 
also be used for examining meat quality characteristics of 
a living animal. Methods and apparatuses for determining and evaluating 
tissue structure in a living human body for diagnostic 
purposes and for determining and/or evaluating tissue 
structure or the meat thickness of and/or fat of a living 
animal body or an animal carcass by means of ultrasonic 
vibrations are well known in the art. Thus, methods and 
apparatuses in which ultrasonic transducer means are arranged 
outside the body to be examined or within a natural 
inner cavity of the body are disclosed for example in Us 
patents Nos. 4,928,699, 4,417,583, 4,756,313, 4,359056 and 
4,785,817. In these known methods and apparatuses the 
evaluation and determination of the various types of the 
tissue layers located inside the outer skin surface of the 
body are based on i.a. the delay and intensity of ultrasonic 
vibrations reflected by the various tissue layers. 
Because of "false echoes", for example from the skin surface 
and tissue structures immediately below the outer skin 
surface, the reflected "ultrasonic picture" received by the 
transducer means may be blurred. This is especially true 
when such known method is used for evaluating and classifying 
pig carcasses with outer skin surfaces which have been 
exposed to burners or to a similar heat treatment, for 
example in a singeing furnace.  Furthermore, Danish patent No. 120,003 discloses a method 
of determining the thickness of fat and meat layers in pig 
carcasses. In this known method a probe containing means 
for emitting light and means for determining reflected 
light is plunged into the carcass. The depth of penetration 
of the probe is measured by mechanical means, and the 
reflected light measured indicates whether the tissue 
immediately around the probe is fat or meat. The present invention provides a method enabling an improved 
and more accurate evaluation and/or determination 
of various quality characteristics of the meat material. 
Thus, the present invention provides a method of determining 
and/or evaluating quality characteristics of a body of 
meat material, said method
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining and/or evaluating quality characteristics 
of a body of meat material, said method comprising 

   plunging at least one probe containing means for 
emitting mechanical vibrations into said body so as to 

position the vibration emitting means within said body, 
   emitting mechanical vibrations within said body by 

the vibration emitting means, 
   detecting mechanical vibrations emitted by the emitting 

means by a detecting means, 
   generating detection signals in response to mechanical 

vibrations detected by the detecting means, 
   determining and/or evaluating quality characteristics 

of said body on the basis of signals detected. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the detected 
signals are analog signals, which are transformed and 

converted into digital signals. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said body is 
part of an animal carcass. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-3, wherein 
mechanical vibrations are detected by detecting means 

arranged within said at least one probe. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-4, wherein 
the mechanical vibrations are ultrasonic vibrations. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-5, wherein 
the mechanical vibrations emitted are directed transversely 

to the longitudinal direction of the probe containing the 
emitting means. 
A method according to claim 6, wherein the mechanical 
 

vibrations are emitted substantially at right angles to 
the longitudinal direction of the probe. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-7, wherein 
mechanical vibrations are emitted by the emitting means 

through an angle, the vertex of which is positioned at the 
emitting means. 
A method according to claim 8, wherein said angle is 
defined in a plane extending through the longitudinal axis 

of the probe, which contains the emitting means. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-9, wherein 
mechanical vibrations are emitted by the emitting means as 

a band-like beam along a plane extending through the longitudinal 
axis of the probe, which contains the emitting 

means. 
A method according to any of the claims 6-10, wherein 
the emitting means are rotated about the longitudinal axis 

of the probe, which contains the emitting means, while 
mechanical vibrations are emitted and detected continuously 

or intermittently. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-11, wherein 
mechanical vibrations are emitted and detected continuously 

or intermittently while said at least one probe is plunged 
into said body and moved axially in relation thereto. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-11, wherein 

at least two probes arranged in spaced relationship are 
plunged into said body. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein the emitting 
means are arranged in one of said probes, the remaining 

probe or probes each containing vibration detecting means. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-14, wherein 
mechanical vibrations are emitted into said body by emitting 

means arranged outside said body. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-15, wherein 
mechanical vibrations are detected by detecting means 

arranged outside said body. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-16, wherein 
the frequency of the vibrations emitted is changed. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-17, wherein 
the contour of a tissue interface in said body is determined 

by analyzing detection signals in response to 
detected ultrasonic vibrations reflected by said interface. 
A method according to any of the claims 13-18, wherein 
quality characteristics are determined by measuring and 

analyzing the velocity of propagation of the vibrations, or 
the time for transmitting the vibrations from one probe to 

another. 
A method according to any of the claims 13-19, wherein 
quality characteristics are determined by measuring and 

analyzing impedance of the material between two probes. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-20, wherein 
quality characteristics are determined on the basis of 

analysis of intensity and/or frequency spectra of the 
vibration detected. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-21, wherein 
duration of echoes and/or characteristics of echoes of the 

mechanical vibrations is/are detected, and the evaluation 
of quality characteristics being based thereon. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-22, further 
comprising determining the thrust necessary for plunging 

 
the probe into said body and partly basing the evaluation 

of quality characteristics on the thrust determined. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-23, further 
comprising measuring the temperature of the body of meat 

material at the location of at least one probe and taking 
the temperature measured into account when evaluating the 

quality characteristics. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-24, wherein 
the depth of penetration of the emitting means and/or 

detecting means into the body of meat material is determined 
at one or more depths of penetration, the vibrations 

detected being interrelated to the determined depth of 
penetration. 
A method according to any of the claims 6-25, wherein 
the rotational position of the probe or probes is continuously 

or intermittently determined and interrelated to 
the vibrations detected. 
An apparatus for determining and/or evaluating quality 
characteristics of a body of meat material, said apparatus 

comprising 
   at least one probe to be plunged into said body and 

including means for emitting mechanical vibrations, 
   means for detecting mechanical vibrations emitted by 

the emitting means, and 
   means for generating detection signals in response to 

mechanical vibrations detected by the detecting means. 
An apparatus according to claim 27, wherein the detecting 
means are arranged within said at least one probe. 
An apparatus according to claim 27 or 28, wherein the 
vibration emitting means comprise an ultrasonic transducer. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 27-29, 
wherein said at least one probe has a free end defining a 

pointed end or cutting edge. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 27-29, 
wherein the means for emitting mechanical vibrations are 

positioned in the probe and adapted to direct generated 
vibrations transversely to the longitudinal axis of the 

probe containing the emitting means. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 27-31, 
further comprising means for rotating the emitting means 

about the longitudinal axis of the probe containing the 
emitting means. 
An apparatus according to claim 32, further comprising 
means for interrelating the rotational position of the 

probe to the vibrations detected. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 30-33, 
further comprising means for determining the thrust used 

for forcing the pointed end or cutting edge of the probe 
into the body of meat material. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 27-34 and 
comprising at least two probes arranged in transversely 

spaced relationship. 
An apparatus according to claim 35, wherein the emitting 
means are arranged in one of said probes, the other 

probe or probes each including detecting means. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 27-36, 
further comprising means for determining the depth of 

penetration of the probe or probes in relation to said 
body. 
An apparatus according to any of the claims 27-37, 
further comprising means for processing and/or registering 

said detection signals. 
An apparatus according to claim 38, wherein the processing 
and registering means comprise transforming and converting 

means for converting analog detection signals 
received into digital signals. 
An apparatus according to claim 38 or 39, wherein said 
processing means comprise neural networks. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
