<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647094</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RESILIENT SHEET MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K1015	A01K1015	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K1	A01K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A water-impermeable, resilient and compressible sheet material suitable for use as animal bedding, preferably for horses, is formed from a natural or synthetic rubber or plastics material. It has grooves (54) in its upper surface ans columns (58) to space it above a stable floor. The sheets are linked by plates (see figure 7) engaging the columns adjacent the sheet edges. The linking plates leave spaces between the mats so that urine and other liquids run between the mats. If the stable floor slopes the liquid runsbeneath the mats down the slope. The grooves (54) help prevent splashing and conduction liquids to the mat edges. Other composite materials are shown in figures 1 to 4 and can be used as bedding or for protective purposes.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIELDGUARD LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PELTERS CO LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIELDGUARD LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PELTERS CO LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADEN-POWELL ROBERT CRAUSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSS TIMOTHY NICHOLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADEN-POWELL, ROBERT CRAUSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSS, TIMOTHY NICHOLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
RESILIENT SHEET MATERIALSThi s invention rel ate s t o re s ilient sheet materials . Materials according to the invention can be used as floor coverings to provide bedding for animals , particularly hors es , and al so f or covering other surfaces , particularly where a shock-absorbing property is required.Various materials have been proposed for use as f loor coverings in animal hous ing , particularly stables , in addition to traditional bedding materials such as straw . These materials have been developed with a view to reducing the cleanliness problems and labour which traditional materials involve . The materials include hard rubber mats with ribbed upper surf aces and substantially smooth lower surfaces ; compositions which are coated onto a stable floor and consist of prevulcanised rubber granules supported in a matrix of a material which is solidified in situ after having been applied to the floor as a liquid containing the granules ; and a matting material composed of prevulcanised rubber granules or crumbs which are moulded into a solid material by use of a binding agent . All these materials have disadvantages ; the rubber matting having a smooth lower surface is not suf f iciently compres sible to provide comf ortable bedding and its smooth lower surface means urine and other liquids must drain away over its upper surface ; the coated compositions also have these disadvantages and in addition that of being permanently secured to the floor or other surface; the last material mentioned has the disadvantage of being insuf f iciently compressible and is also porous so tends to absorb animal urine and lead to cleanliness problems .The present invention aims to overcome at least some of the disadvantages of the known materials . 

 The invention provides a water-impermeable, resilient and compressible sheet, with two major outer surfaces, the first of which comprises means on said first outer surface to allow run-off of liquid therefrom and the second of which comprises means on said second outer surface for spacing the main body of the sheet from a support surface to allow flow of liquid between the second surface and the support surface.The sheet may comprise a single solid material. Conveniently such a material is an elastomer such as natural or synthetic rubber, or a suitable durable synthetic plastics material.Alternatively, the sheet comprises a composite resilient material having first and second layers of water-impermeable resilient material and, therebetween, an intermediate resilient
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A water-impermeable, resilient and compressible sheet suitable for use for animal bedding and/or to absorb animal impacts, the sheet having two major outer surfaces, the first of which has means thereon to allow run-off of liquid therefrom and the second of which has means thereon for spacing the second surface from a support surface to allow liquid to flow between the second surface and the support surface.
2. A sheet according to claim 1, formed from a single material.
3. A sheet according to claim 2, in which the said material has an intrinsic compressibility of from 40 psi to 70 psi (about 275 kPa to about 485 kPa) on the ASTM D1056 scale.
4. A sheet according to claim 2 or 3 , having of compressibility of from 25 psi to 50 psi (about 170 kPa to about 345 kPa) on the ASTM D1056 scale. 5. A sheet according to any of claims 2 to 4 , having a hardness of 45° to 75° on the International Rubber Hardness Scale.
6. A sheet according to claim 5, having a hardness of 50° to 70° on the International Rubber Hardness Scale.
7. A sheet according to any of claim 2 to 6, having an overall thickness of from 10mm to 50mm.
8. A sheet according to claim 1, comprising a composite resilient material having first and second layers of water-impermeable resilient material and, therebetween, an intermediate resilient layer of greater compressibility than the first and second layers, wherein the first layer provides the first outer surface, the second layer provides the second outer surface and the material is sealed around its 


periphery t o preve nt ingre s s o f l iquid t o the intermediate layer .
9. A sheet according to claim 8 , sealed around its periphery by further water-impermeable resilient material .
10. A sheet according to claim 9, in which the peripheral seal comprises a portion which is an integral part with at least one of the first and second layers. 11. A sheet according to claim 10, in which each of the first and second layers has a peripheral skirt portion and the two skirt portions are dimensioned to be an interference fit one within the other.
12. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 11, having a hardness of 45° to 75° on the International
Rubber Hardness Scale.
13. A sheet according to claim 12, having a hardness of 50° to 70° on the International Rubber Hardness Scale. 14. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 13, in which the intermediate layer comprises closed- or open-cell foam material.
15. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 14, in which the compressibility of the intermediate layer i
s
 from 5 psi to 25 psi (about 35 kPa to about 170 kPa) on the ASTM D1056 scale.
16. A sheet according to claim 15, in which the said compressibility is from 8 psi to 15 psi (about 55 kPa to about 105 kPa) . 17. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 16, having a compressibility of from 20 psi to 60 psi (about 140 kPa to about 415 kPa) on the ASTM D1056 scale.
18. A sheet according to claim 17, in which the said compressibility is from 30 psi to 50 psi (about 



205 kPa to about 345 kPa) .
19. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 18, in which the first layer is from 2 mm to 10 mm in thickness. 20. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 19, in which the second layer is from 0.5 mm to 40 mm in thickness.
21. A sheet according to any of claims 8 to 20, in which the intermediate layer is from 10 mm to 100 mm in thickness.
22. A sheet according to claim 21, in which the intermediate layer is from 10 mm to 80 mm in thickness.
23. A sheet according to any preceding claim, in which the run-off means on the first outer surface comprise ribs providing grooves for run-off of liquid.
24. A sheet according to any preceding claim, in which the spacing means on the second outer surface comprise ribs providing flow passages therebetween.
25. A sheet according to any of claims 1 to 23, in which the spacing means on the second outer surface comprise an array of projections.
26. A sheet according to claim 25, in which the projections comprise pillars or studs.
27. A sheet according to claim 25 or 26, in which the projections cover 50% or less of the second surface of the sheet.
28 A sheet according to claim 27, in which the projections cover 5% to 25% of the second surface.
29. A sheet according to any of claim 25 to 28, i
n
 which the projections project from 10 mm to 20 mm from the second surface.
30. A sheet according to claim 24, in which the ribs extend in different directions in respective different zones of the sheet. 31. A sheet according to claim 30, in which the 


ribs extend in two mutually perpendicular directions .
32. A sheet according to claim 31 , the sheet being rectangular in plan and its second surface being divided into four equal rectangular zones , the ribs extending in a direction inclined to the edges of the s heet in two diagonal ly oppo s ite z one s and perpendicularly to that direction in the other two zones .
33. A sheet according to any preceding claim, having spacing means at its periphery , whereby a plurality of sheets can be laid adjacent one another with the peripheral spac ing means maintaining a predetermined spacing between the sheets to allow liquid to flow from the first , upper surface of one sheet and between adjacent sheets .
34 . A sheet according to any of claims 25 to 29 , having spacing means at its periphery , whereby a plurality of sheets can be laid adjacent one another with the peripheral spacing means maintaining a predetermined spacing between the sheets to allow liquid to flow from the first , upper surface of one sheet and between adjacent sheets , the spacing means comprising movable plates having means for receiving the projections of adjacent sheets . 35. A sheet according to any preceding claim, having an overall thickness of from 10 mm to 150 mm.
36. A sheet according to claim 35 , in which the thickness is from 20 mm to 10 mm.
37 . A sheet according to any preceding claim, having an area of from 0 .5 m
2
 to 1. 0 m
2
 .
38. A sheet according to claim 37 , having a square or rectangular shape in plan view.
39 . A sheet according to any preceding claim, having a dark-coloured f irst surface speckled in a contrasting colour . 


 40. Use of s heet material according to any preceding claim, in the formation of animal bedding.
41. A use according to claim 40 , in which the sheet material is laid on the floor of an animal house having a floor sloping in a predetermined direction, the sheet material being laid in individual pieces orientated so that the run-off means allows liquid to flow in the direction of the slope between the support surface and the lower surface of the sheets . 42. A method of making a material according to any of claims 8 to 22 , comprising providing a mould having a cavity corresponding to the sheet material to be made, introducing unvulcanised natural or synthetic rubber or plastics material into the cavity so as to form the first and second layers of the finished material and define a space therebetween, introducing unvulcanised material containing a blowing agent into the space defined between the first and second layers , applying heat and pressure to the mould cavity to cause the first and second layers to vulcanise and the intermediate layer to expand, and removing the resulting composite sheet material from the cavity. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
