<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657924</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for analyzing an impurity on a semiconductor substrate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N128	H01L2166	H01L2166	G01N128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	H01L	H01L	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	H01L21	H01L21	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for analyzing an impurity on 
a semiconductor substrate (12). In this method, those 

to-be-measured areas on a surface of a semiconductor 
substrate are exposed with an ultraviolet radiation (22) 

to provide corresponding oxide films (24). By doing so, 
an impurity is trapped in the oxide film at each area of 

the semiconductor substrate. The surface of the semiconductor 
substrate is cleaned with an acid solution to 

remove an impurity on other than the areas on the surface 
of the semiconductor substrate. The surface of the 

semiconductor substrate is exposed with a hydrofluoric 
acid vapor (28) to dissolve the oxide films (24) into 

very fine droplets (30) containing an impurity (26a). 
These droplets are moved on the surface of the semiconductor 

substrate to collect these droplets into a drop 
(32) on the surface of the semiconductor substrate. The 

impurity in the drop is measured by a known chemical 
spectrometer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for analyzing
an impurity present on the surface of a semiconductor
substrate and, in particular, to a method for measuring an
amount of impurity on a semiconductor substrate surface at a
plurality of local areas.It has been known that a metal impurity is present
on the surface of a semiconductor substrate or a semiconductor
wafer and that the metal impurity, even if
being very small in amounts, adversely affects the
electric characteristics of a device. With a recent
tendency toward realizing a high-density device, more
and more exacting demand is made for the analysis of an
impurity. There is also a high demand for the high-accurate
analytical technique.In the conventional analytical method, a solution
for impurity collection, such as an acid solution, is
dropped on a whole surface area of a semiconductor
substrate or on a nearly liquid-drop-size area on the
surface of a semiconductor substrate where an impurity
is collected. Then an amount of impurity collected in
that solution used is measured by a chemical analytic
apparatus such as a flameless atomic absorption
apparatus.It has been known by an accelerated test that, on
a semiconductor substrate having a surface pattern 
similar to a device surface pattern, the surface distribution
pattern of an impurity concentration depends upon the surface
pattern of the semiconductor substrate. The device surface
pattern has become very small with the microminiaturization of
the semiconductor element so that the surface distribution
pattern of the impurity concentration becomes very small.
Recently, the surface pattern of the device is of the order of
a micrometer or submicrometer.On the other hand, the surface resolution by the
conventional analytical method is of the order of a few cm2, an
ordinary size of to-be-collected liquid drops at best, thus
failing to achieve high-accurate analysis.DE-A-3 516 973 discloses a method for analyzing an
impurity on a semiconductor substrate, characterised by
comprising the steps of oxidizing a single to-be-measured area
on a surface of a vertically arranged semiconductor substrate
23 by heating the surface using a laser or UV radiation to
provide corresponding oxide films 26, 26 and trapping an
impurity in the oxide film at the aforesaid area of the
semiconductor substrate, dissolving the oxide films on the to-be-measured
areas into droplets using hydrofluoric acid vapour
which run downwardly, by gravity, along the vertical surface of
the substrate and are received. in tray 25,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for analyzing an impurity on a semiconductor
substrate, comprising the steps of:


oxidizing a plurality of local to-be-measured areas on a
surface of a semiconductor substrate (12) and trapping

impurities (26a) in the oxide film (24) at each said area of
the semiconductor substrate;
removing the impurities (26b) from those areas on the
surface of the semiconductor substrate where no oxide film is

present;
dissolving the oxide films on the to-be-measured areas
into droplets (30) formed on the to-be-measured areas;
collecting the droplets (30) into a drop (32) by dropping
a liquid onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate and

moving the liquid on the substrate surface to form the drop
(32); and
measuring the amount of impurities (26a) in the drop
(32).
A method for analyzing an impurity on a semiconductor
substrate, 
characterized by
 comprising the steps of:

depositing a nitride film (52) on the whole surface of a
semiconductor substrate (12) and trapping impurities (26a) in

the nitride film;
forming a mask (54) of a given pattern on the nitride
film and selectively etching the nitride film using the mask

to leave the nitride film at a plurality of to-be-measured
areas on the substrate surface;
dissolving the nitride film (52) on the to-be-measured
areas into droplets (30) formed on the to-be-measured areas;
collecting the droplets (30) into a drop (32) by dropping
a liquid onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate and 

moving the liquid on the substrate surface to form the drop
(32);
and measuring the amount of impurities in the drop (32).
A method for analyzing an impurity on a semiconductor
substrate, 
characterized by
 comprising the steps of:

oxidising the whole surface of a semiconductor substrate
(12) to form an oxide film (42) and trapping impurities (26a)

in the oxide film;
forming a mask (44) of a given pattern on the oxide film
and selectively etching the oxide film using the mask to leave

the oxide film at a plurality of to-be-measured areas on the
substrate surface;
dissolving the oxide film (42) on the to-be-measured
areas into droplets (30) formed on the to-be-measured areas;
collecting the droplets (30) into a drop (32) by dropping
a liquid onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate and

moving the liquid on the substrate surface to form the drop
(32);
and measuring the amount of impurities in the drop (32).
A method according to claim 1 or 3, further comprising
the steps of:


repeating said oxidizing step to said measuring step; and
plotting the amount of impurity (26a) obtained at each
measuring step in a depth direction of said semiconductor

substrate.
The method according to claim 1 or 4, 
characterised in
that
 the oxide film (24) is formed on the to-be-measured areas
by emitting an ultraviolet radiation on these areas to apply

heat there. 
The method according to claim 1 or 4, 
characterised in
that
 the oxide film (24) is formed on the to-be-measured areas
by emitting a laser beam on these areas to apply heat there.
The method according to claim 1 or 4, 
characterised in
that
 the oxide film (24) is dissolved by exposing the surface
of the semiconductor substrate to a hydrofluoric acid vapour.
The method according to claim 1 or 4, 
characterised in
that
 the collection of the droplets is effected by moving an
acid solution on the surface of the semiconductor substrate in

a scanning way.
A method according to claim 2, further comprising the
steps of:


repeating said nitride film depositing step to said
measuring step; and
plotting the amount of impurity (26a) obtained at each
measuring step in a depth direction of said semiconductor

substrate.
The method according to claim 1 or 4, 
characterised in
that
 the removal of the impurity (26b) is effected by washing
the su
rface of the semiconductor substrate with an acid
solution.
The method according to claim 8 or 10, 
characterised in
that
 the acid solution consists of a hydrochloric
acid/hydrogen peroxide-mixed aqueous solution.
The method according to claim 2, 
characterised in that

the nitride film is dissolved by exposing the surface of the
semiconductor substrate to a hydrofluoric acid vapour. 
The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4,

characterised in that
 the collection of the droplets (30) are
effected by moving these droplets in a scanning way.
The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4,

characterised in that
 the amount of impurity (26a) is measured
by a chemical analysis.
The method according to claim 14, 
characterised in that

the chemical analysis is made by a flameless atomic absorption
spectrometer.
The method according to claim 14, 
characterised in that

the chemical analysis is made by an inductive coupled plasma
mass spectrometer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
