<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625064</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CODED PLAYING CARDS AND OTHER STANDARDIZED DOCUMENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F100	A63F102	A63F906	A63F906	A63F924	A63F924	G06K1900	G06K1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F1	A63F1	A63F9	A63F9	A63F9	A63F9	G06K19	G06K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparently conventional playing card (10) is invisibly coded so that it can only be read face down, by an electro-optic reading means. The card may be of non-laminated conventional card stock which has a substantially white surface conventionally printed with the identification of the suit and value of the card with inks chosen because they are visible but substantially transparent to wavelengths outside the visible range. The face of the card is coded with indicia inklessly marked across its surface with a compound which absorbs wavelengths (outside the visible range) which wavelengths are used by the reading means to read the indicia. The indicia, invisible to the human eye, correspond to a code (11) which uniquely identifies the card. The card may be laminated from top and base sheets and the code concealed behind the front printed face of the top sheet.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECH SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECH SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER BRYAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOULES JACK A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER BRYAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOULES JACK A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CODED FLAYING CARDS AND OTHER STANDARDIZED DOCUMENTSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This application is a continuation-in-part application of Serial No. 07/501,148 filed March 29, 1990 the disclo- sure of which is incorporated by reference thereto as if fully set forth herein.This invention relates to a playing card which is coded with an arbitrarily chosen machine-readable indicia not visible to the human eye. In one embodiment, a card's face is coded in a unique pattern visible only in the infrared or ultraviolet regions, without being visibly defaced. The coded card is an otherwise conventional play¬ ing card formed from a single non-laminated sheet of flex¬ ible material ("card stock") , such as paper, preferably coated with a cured latex of an acrylate-containing polymer.In another embodiment, the card is a laminated playing card comprising an upper lamina of flexible card stock, a lower lamina (base) of the same or another flexible stock, and an intermediate layer sandwiched therebetween. The laminated card is coded in the region between the upper lamina and the lower lamina, which region is referred to as the intermediate layer, in a manner such that an electronic device can identify the value of the card and access what- ever other information the code may have been devised to reveal. In a specific embodiment, the code indicates to an electronic "reader" (of the hidden code) what the value of the card is, and where each card in a deck or set of cards is to be dealt without the dealer knowing the identifica- tion of the card.As one skilled in the art will readily appreciate, coding a deck of playing cards, each with a visible (to the human eye) code, for example a standard Hollerith pattern or "bar code", by which each card is uniquely identified, is a routine task. To code a card without the code being visible to the human eye, so that a deck of cards may be 

 read by a machine viewing only the faces of the cards whic are passed, face downwards, over the reading means of a machine, without defacing the cards and essentially withou regard for the orientation of the card as it is passed ove the reading means, is not a routine task.Coded playing cards coded as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,534,562 to Cuff et al, were conventionally marked with a binary code along its opposite edges so that the code could be seen by the human eye (read by light in the range of visible wavelengths) . Since there was no concern about hiding the fact that the cards were coded the necessity of overprinting the faces of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A rectangular playing card from a suit in a deck of playing cards, each card being a single sheet of non-lamin ated card stock, said card having (a) a substantially whit surface conventionally printed with the identification of the suit and value of the card with visible inks substantially transparent to wavelengths outside the visible range, and, (b) indicia inklessly marked across said surface with a compound which absorbs wavelengths outside the visible range, said indicia corresponding to a code which uniquely identifies said card, said indicia being essentially invisible to the naked human eye, but readable by an electro-optical reading means sensitive to light outside the wavelength in the visible range from about 4000 A to 7000 A, whereby said inklessly coded playing card is essentially visually indistinguishable from a conventional playing card.
2. The playing card of claim 1 wherein said inkless code is defined by contrasting textures of said indicia against said card's face.
3. The playing card of claim 2 wherein said inkless code is defined by contrasting absorptivity and reflectivity of disrupted fibers of said card stock compared with fibers which are not disrupted.
-4. The playing card of claim 2 wherein said inkless code is defined by contrasting absorptivity and reflectivity of a dispersion or solution of a compound having essentially no pig enting value.
5. The playing card of claim 3 wherein said inkless code is textured with microscopically scuffed indicia invisible 


 to the human eye against a background of said card's unscuffed printed face.
6. The playing card of claim 3 wherein said inkless code is textured with microscopic particles of powder defining said indicia which are invisible to the human eye against a background of said card's printed face.
7. The playing card of claim 4 wherein said solution is an organic dye which is invisible to the human eye against a background of said card's printed face.
8. The playing card of claim 1 wherein said indicia are in the form of a conventional bar code having spaced apart wide and narrow bars.
9. The playing card of claim 8 wherein said wide and narrow bars of said bar code are peripherally continuous on at least two sides of said rectangular card, and all the bars are spaced apart from one and another.
10. The playing card of claim 1 wherein said indicia are repeated across said card's entire printed face.
11. The playing card of claim 1 wherein said indicia are repeated along only the edges of said card leaving the printed face of the card uncoded, whereby said card is adapted to be read by said electro-optical reading means when any portion of said card is passed over said reading means in any orientation in a lateral plane.
12. The playing card of claim 10 wherein said indicia are disposed in adjacent, parallel relationship in two adjacent rows, each row having the same set of 8 bars except that each contiguous set is rotated 90° from the other, whereby said card is identified as long as any set of 8 bars in either row is passed over said reading means. 


 13. A playing card comprising, an upper lamina or top layer having front and rear surfaces, said front surface of which is imprinted with th face value of the card with inks which absorb and re lect wavelengths in chosen ranges corresponding to colors characteristic of said playing card, said inks being selected to be transparent in the range of infrared or ultraviolet wavelengths chosen for absorption by concealed coding indicia; and, a lower lamina or base layer having front and rear sur aces; said inks being printed on said upper surface of card stock which reflects substantially all light in the visibl spectrum, and transmits rather than reflects substantially all infrared or ultraviolet light used to read said coding indicia; and, said coding indicia disposed between said upper and lower laminae being provided with a compound which absorbs substantially all infrared or ultraviolet light transmitte through said upper lamina, said compound being deposited between said upper lamina and lower lamina before they are bonded together, whereby said coding indicia are adapted to be read by a device using light in a predetermined wavelength in the infrared or ultraviolet wavelength ranges to which said upper lamina is permeable, said predetermined wavelength being selectively absorbed by said coding indicia but reflected by the remaining area of said base layer.
14. The playing card of claim 13 wherein said rear surface - of said upper layer is coated with a coating which absorbs or scatters visible light.
15. The playing card of claim 13 wherein said front surface of said base layer is coated with a coating which reflects essentially all light not absorbed by said coding indicia. 


 16. The playing card of claim 14 wherein said rear surface of said upper layer is coated with said coding indicia.
17. The playing card of claim 16 wherein said coating is a black ink and said compound is colloidal carbon.
18. The playing card of claim 17 wherein said front surface of said base layer is an aluminized surface.
19. The playing card of claim 13 including an intermediate, selectively light-reflective layer imprinted with said coding indicia which absorbs in the infrared region from about 800-10
4
 nm, said intermediate layer being sandwiched between said upper and lower laminae, said intermediate layer reflecting essentially all light transmitted through said upper layer, whereby said coding indicia imprinted on said intermediate layer are adapted to be read by said device.
20. The playing card of claim 19 wherein said rear surface of said upper layer is coated with a coating which absorbs or scatters visible light.
21. The playing card of claim 13 including an intermediate selectively light-reflective layer imprinted with said coding indicia, said intermediate layer being sandwiched between said upper and lower laminae, said intermediate layer reflecting essentially all light trans¬ mitted through said upper layer and not absorbed by said coding indicia; whereby said coding indicia imprinted on said inter¬ mediate layer are adapted to be read by said device.
22. The playing card of claim 13 including an intermediate selectively light-reflective layer imprinted with said coding indicia, said intermediate layer being sandwiched between said upper and lower laminae, said 


 intermediate layer transmitting essentially all light transmitted through said upper layer and not absorbed by said coding indicia; and, said front surface of said base layer is coated with a coating which reflects essentially all light incident thereupon; whereby said coding indicia imprinted on said intermediate layer are adapted to be read by said device.
23. The playing card of claim 13 wherein up to 20% of said light in the visible spectrum is transmitted through said top layer.
24. The playing card of claim 19 wherein said intermediate layer is coextensive with said upper and base laminae.
25. The playing card of claim 21 wherein said intermediate layer is coextensive with said upper and base laminae.
26. The playing card of claim 24 wherein said base layer is opaque.
27. A method for making a laminated playing card, comprising, positioning first and second sheets of card stock of about equal dimensions, each about 5 mils thick, said first sheet having a front surface to be printed with insignia for the face value of said playing card, and said second sheet having a rear surface to be printed with a design, coating said first sheet's rear surface with a coating which absorbs or scatters visible light but transmits in the infrared region, depositing machine-readable coding indicia on said rear surface, coating said second sheet's front surface with a reflective coating, adhesively bonded together said first and second sheets in 


coated surface-to-coated surface contact with an adhesive which is substantially permeable to wavelengths in the infrared region, to form laminated card stock, and, printing said front surface of said first sheet with said insignia in inks which absorb and reflect in the visible range to produce characteristic colors of said insignia, but which inks are substantially transparent to wavelength in the infrared region. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
