<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651865</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOTION CONVERTER WITH PINION SECTOR/RACK INTERFACE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01B900	F01B902	F01B904	F02B7500	F02B7524	F16H2100	F16H2128	F16H2136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01B	F01B	F01B	F02B	F02B	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01B9	F01B9	F01B9	F02B75	F02B75	F16H21	F16H21	F16H21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for translating rotary to linear motion and vice versa includes a reciprocating linearly moving shuttle (34) with a central aperture (41). The aperture (41) has a pair of opposing gear racks (46, 48) protruding towards the center and which capture therebetween a pair of pinion sectors (52, 54) rotatably mounted to the crankpin (42) of a rotatable crankshaft (44) with the axis of crankshaft rotation perpendicular to the linear path of the shuttle (34). The pinion sectors (52, 54) are free to rotate about the crankpin (42) and articulate independently of each other through a selected angular range. When the crankpin (42), including the pinion sectors (52, 54), is inserted into the aperture (41) of the shuttle (34) with the pinion sectors (52, 54) engaging the racks (46, 48), motion is transferable between the crankpin (42) and the shuttle (34) through the pinion sectors (52, 54).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRACKETT DOUGLAS C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRACKETT, DOUGLAS C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRACKETT DOUGLAS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRACKETT, DOUGLAS C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionMotion Converter With Pinion Sector/Rack InterfaceTechnical Field The present invention relates to devices for converting linear motion to rotary motion and vice versa, and, more particularly, to a scotchyoke type device having an improved slot/crankpin interface.Background ArtThe scotch yoke has been used for many years as a means for converting reciprocating linear movement to rotary motion and vice versa. It has found application in a variety of machines, such as motors, pumps, and compressors which utilize a piston articulated within a closed cylinder, see, e.g., U.S. Patents Nos. 283,558, 813,736, 999,220, and 2,628,602, as well as, in compactors, pumps, punch presses, robots, sewing machines, generators, and material handlers.The essential components of a scotch yoke are a crankpin rotated about a crankshaft center at an axial offset and a shuttle having aslot therein through which the crankpin is positioned. The motion of the shuttle is constrained to a linear path by a guide, frequently, a pair of opposing parallel guide surfaces. The crankshaft and crankpin move in 

rotary motion and may be either the driven elements or the drivingelements. The shuttle moves in rectilinear motion and likewise may be thedriven element or the driving element. Thus, the scotch yoke provides ameans for converting linear to rotary motion and vice versa. The slot within the shuttle must be at least as wide as the crankpin diameter and long enough to accommodate the crankpin dimension and its travel. A pair of competing objectives in the design of scotch yokesis to eliminate friction, as well as clearance at the crankpin/ slot interface. Friction results in energy loss in the conversion from linear to rotary motion or vice versa and also in wear of the scotch yoke. Clearance at the interface results in a loss of motion translation, commonly called "backlash", when converting from rotary to linear and vice versa (i.e., there is no translation during traversal of the clearance gap), and in brinelling, spalling and vibrations when the unrestrained driving element accelerates across the clearance gap and collides into the driven element. As has been recognized for many years, the consequences of clearance and friction at the slot/crankpin interface are energy inefficiency and excessive wear and tear.A variety of methods have been proposed to simultaneously achieve minimum crankpin to slot clearance and friction. For example, in U.S. Patent No. 1,687,425 a spring urged lever presses against the crankpin 

to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A motion converter apparatus, comprising a shuttle having an aperture therein, at least a portion of a peripheral boundary defining said aperture having a trackable profile, said shuttle being moveable along a linear path; a rotatable crankshaft having a crankpin, said
crankpin positioned within said aperture with the axis of rotation of said
crankshaft substantially perpendicular to said linear path; and a pair of
tracking sectors positioned between said crankpin and said trackable profile, said sectors rotatable about said crankpin and independently articulatable through a selected range of degrees, said sectors engaging said trackable profile such that motion is transferable between said crankpin and said shuttle through said sectors.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 , wherein said portion having a trackable profile is divided into a pair of opposing portions disposed on opposing sides of said aperture.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said sectors prevent said crankpin from contacting said peripheral boundary of said aperture throughout the range of motion of said crankshaft.
4. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein each of said
sectors is laterally displaced along said crankpin axis such that throughout 


the range of motion of said crankshaft there exists at least one line
perpendicular to said crankpin axis passing through both sectors.
5. The apparatus of Claim 4, wherein said opposing
portions and said sectors restrict the motion of said crankpin along a predetermined path relative to said shuttle.
6. The apparatus of Claim 5, wherein said sectors pivot upon said crankpin as said crankpin traverses said predetermined path.
7. The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein sectors are counter-rotating.
8. The apparatus of Claim 7, wherein said sectors are pivoted by engagement with said opposing portions, said portions being substantially immovable in a direction perpendicular to said linear path.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions have a trackable profile with a linear pitch line.
10. The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein said opposing portions have uniform hypocycloidal/epicycloidal teeth which mate with uniform epicycloidal/hypocycloidal teeth on said sectors.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10, wherein said pitch line is inclined from a line normal to said linear path. 


 12. The apparatus of Claim 11, wherein said epicycloidal/hypocycloidal teeth are concentrically disposed on said sectors
relative to the axis of rotation of said sectors upon said crankpin.
13. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein said sectors are alike.
14. The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein said pitch line of
said opposing portions are normal to said linear path.
15. The apparatus of Claim 14, wherein said opposing portions have uniform hypocycloidal/epicycloidal teeth which mate with uniform epicycloidal/hypocycloidal teeth on said sectors.
16. The apparatus of Claim 15, wherein said epicycloidal/hypocycloidal teeth are eccentrically disposed on said sectors relative to the axis of rotation of said sectors upon said crankpin.
17. The apparatus of Claim 16, wherein said sectors are alike and said opposing portions are alike.
18. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions have a curved pitch line.
19. The apparatus of Claim 18, wherein said curved pitch line is a simple curve. 


 20. The apparatus of Claim 18, wherein said curved pitch
line is a compound curve.
21. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing
portions include repetitive, uniform surface undulations relative to a base plane.
22. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions include non-repetitive, non-uniform surface undulations relative to a base plane.
23. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions are alike.
24. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions are dissimilar.
25. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions include first surface undulations and second surface undulations disposed at an angle relative to said first undulations.
26. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions have a varying width.
27. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions include hypocycloidal/epicycloidal undulations. 


 28. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing
portions include epicycloidal/hypocycloidal undulations.
29. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said opposing portions include a plurality of dimples.
30. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said sectors are
rotatably secured to said crankpin by U-shaped bearing caps.
31. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said sectors are rotatably secured to said crankpin by tabs extending from said sectors over which retaining rings are slipped.
32. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said shuttle reciprocates at least one piston within a mating cylinder along said linear
path.
33. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said cylinder is that of an internal combustion engine.
34. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said shuttle is guided along said linear path by said piston and said cylinder.
35. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said aperture
extends through said shuttle. 


 36. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein said aperture is
blind, whereby it does not extend through said shuttle.
37. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein each of said sectors has a surface which contacts said opposing portions.
38. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said contact
surfaces of said sectors have repetitive, uniform surface undulations relative to a base cylinder.
39. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said contact surfaces of said sectors have non-repetitive, non-uniform surface undulations relative to a base cylinder.
40. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the pitch line of said contact surfaces are concentric to the axis of rotation of said sectors.
41. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the pitch line of said contact surfaces is eccentric to the axis of rotation of said sectors.
42. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said contact surfaces have epicycloidal/hypocycloidal undulations.
43. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said contact surfaces have hypocycloidal/epicycloidal undulations.
44. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said contact surfaces taper. 


 45. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said contact surfaces include protuberant nodules.
46. The apparatus of Claim 37, wherein said sectors have a bearing surface in contact with said crankpin.
47. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said crankshaft is
rotatable through 360 degrees.
48. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein the arcs subtended
by each of said sectors is equal.
49. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein the arcs subtended by each of said sectors is unequal.
50. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said sectors have a trackable contact pitch line greater than 1 degree and less than 120 degrees in arc length.
51. The apparatus of Claim 1 , wherein said crankpin and said tracking sectors form an interface therebetween and said tracking sectors and said trackable profile form an interface therebetween.
52. The apparatus of Claim 51, further comprising lubricating means for lubricating said interface between said tracking sectors and said crankpin and said interface between said tracking sectors and said
trackable profile. 


 53. The apparatus of Claim 52, wherein said lubricating
means includes a gallery extending in a generally axial direction through
said crankshaft and said crankpin, said gallery forming a conduit for pressurized lubricating fluid.
54. The apparatus of Claim 53, wherein said lubricating means further includes a bore extending in a generally radial direction through said crankpin and communicating with said gallery so as to allow lubricating fluid to flow from said gallery to said interface between said crankpin and said tracking sectors.
55. The apparatus of Claim 54, wherein said lubricating means further includes orifices extending through said tracking sectors, each of said orifices being alignable with said bore so as to allow lubricating fluid to flow from said bore to said interface between said trackable profile and said tracking sectors as said crankshaft rotates.
56. The apparatus of Claim 52, wherein said lubricating means continuously supplies lubricating fluid to said interface between said tracking sectors and said crankpin.
57. The apparatus of Claim 56, wherein said lubricating means intermittently supplies lubricating fluid to said interface between said tracking sectors and said trackable profile. 


 58. The apparatus of Claim 56, wherein said lubricating
means continuously supplies lubricating fluid to said interface between said tracking sectors and said trackable profile.
59. The apparatus of Claim 52, wherein each of said tracking sectors includes a first portion positioned adjacent to said crankpin
and a second portion positioned adjacent to said trackable profile, said second portion being movable relative to said first portion toward said trackable profile.
60. The apparatus of Claim 59, wherein said lubricating means supplies lubricating fluid to a space between said first portion and
said second portion such that said second portion is movable relative to said first portion in response to the supply of lubricating fluid to said space.
61. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein each of said tracking sectors includes a first portion positioned adjacent to said crankpin and a second portion positioned adjacent to said trackable profile, said second portion being movable relative to said first portion toward said trackable profile.
62. The apparatus of Claim 61, wherein each of said tracking sectors includes urging means for urging said second portion toward said trackable profile. 


 63. The apparatus of Claim 62, wherein said urging means
includes at least one coil spring positioned between said first portion and said second portion.
64. The apparatus of Claim 62, wherein said urging means hydraulically urges said second portion toward said trackable profile.
65. The apparatus of Claim 62, wherein said urging means pneumatically urges said second portion toward said trackable profile.
66. The apparatus of Claim 62, wherein said urging means magnetically urges said second portion toward said trackable profile.
67. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein each of said tracking sectors travels along said trackable profile between a first point and a second point.
68. The apparatus of Claim 67, further comprising first inhibiting means for inhibiting each of said tracking sectors from moving beyond said first point and second inhibiting means for inhibiting each of
said tracking sectors from moving beyond said second point.
69. The apparatus of Claim 68, wherein each of said tracking sectors includes a first set of teeth-like elements and said trackable profile includes a second set of teeth-like elements engageable with said first set of teeth-like elements. 


 70. The apparatus of Claim 69, wherein said first
inhibiting means creates increased tooth surface engagement between some of the teeth-like elements of said first set of teeth-like elements and some of the teeth-like elements of said second set of teeth-like elements at said first point and said second inhibiting means creates increased tooth surface
engagement between some of the teeth-like elements of said first set of teeth-like elements and some of the teeth-like elements of said second set
of teeth-like elements at said second point.
71. The apparatus of Claim 68, wherein said first inhibiting means and said second inhibiting means are provided on said trackable profile.
72. The apparatus of Claim 68, wherein said first inhibiting means and said second inhibiting means are provided on said tracking sectors.
73. The apparatus of Claim 68, wherein said first inhibiting means and said second inhibiting means are provided on said trackable profile and on said tracking sectors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
