<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646884</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method for restructuring physical design images into hierarchical data models.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1750	G06F1750	G06T1700	G06T1700	H01L2170	H01L2182	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06T17	G06T17	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for restructuring information stored in 
physical design image form, such as an image of a layer in a 

semiconductor package, into a hierarchical area specification 
model useful in automated design applications. The 

restructuring results in recognizing identical patterns in 
the image and storing common information about the patterns 

in a single location to decrease storage space required and 
improve access efficiency by design application programs 

needing the information. Parameters controlling the method 
can be adjusted to produce a hierarchical model that is 

particularly suited to the needs of a particular application 
program. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZWOD ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAYAH JOHN Y
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZWOD, ROBERT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAYAH, JOHN Y.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to methods of organizing 
information, particularly information related to 
semiconductor integrated circuit layouts, for use by computer 
programs that do automated design. More specifically, the 
invention relates to a method of restructuring and 
reorganizing information previously stored in bitmap or flat 
file physical design image form into a hierarchical data 
model form which provides more efficient storage and faster 
access to the data. Computer assisted design (CAD) is generally well-known and 
relatively well-developed for a variety of applications, 
including general drafting, architectural, and other 
applications. CAD techniques are particularly suited for the 
design of mask or pattern layouts of integrated circuits due 
to the highly repetitive nature of such designs. A particular type of CAD application is an automated design 
program. Such programs automatically select possible 
designs, preferably optimized designs, to meet the many 
critical design constraints which must be observed during the 
design process. Particularly in the integrated circuit 
design field, they are essential in producing reliable 
designs in a timely and cost-effective manner. Because of  
 
their wide use in the integrated circuit design field, this 
invention is described with particular emphasis on that 
field, although the invention finds application in other 
fields of design as well. All automated design programs need to consider the physical 
characteristics of the object being designed. For example, 
in the design of a semiconductor device there may be one 
program to perform placement of semiconductor devices and 
another program to perform wiring between the devices. The 
placement application requires information as to target 
placement area, constraints on the placement area and 
legality information as to what placeable objects can be 
placed in what areas. The wiring program needs to understand 
location information such as pin and via locations, spacing 
constraints, and characteristics such as coupling 
coefficients. The information that each automated design tool needs to 
perform its job is called "image" information. Different 
images are required for different applications, e.g. 
placement and wiring. To facilitate processing of the 
information, it is important that the images be represented 
compactly and in a form that is relatively easy to access. Current design automation tools usually represent these 
images in flat bitmap type structures. In this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
comprising the steps of: 

providing an image; 
identifying leaf areas in the image; 

classifying the leaf areas as being of one or more types 
according to a characteristic of the leaf areas; 

grouping adjacent leaf areas of equivalent type into one 
or more area arrays; 

recognizing equivalent area arrays and forming a set of 
one or more unique area arrays; 

partitioning each unique area array into one or more 
partition areas; 

recognizing equivalent partition areas and forming a set 
of one or more unique partition areas; and 

generating area specifications for each unique partition 
area and for each unique leaf area. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 1 wherein the step of grouping 

adjacent leaf areas of equivalent type into one or more 
area arrays comprises the steps of: 

scanning the image in a first direction; 
grouping leaf areas of equivalent type that are adjacent 

in the first direction to form one dimensional area 
arrays; 

scanning the image in a second direction; and 
grouping equivalent one dimensional area arrays that are 

adjacent in the second direction to form the area 
arrays. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the step of 

partitioning each unique area array comprises 
partitioning each unique area array into a hierarchical 

array of one or more partition areas. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 

according to Claim 3 further comprising the step of 
organizing the unique area specifications into a 

hierarchical area specification model. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the step of 

partitioning comprises recursively partitioning each 
unique area array according to desired partitioning 

criteria to form a hierarchical array of one or more 
partition areas. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 5 wherein the partitioning criteria 

are selected to produce a model for use by a particular 
application. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 5 or 6 wherein regular partition 

areas are created that can be specified in a step and 
repeat fashion. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 5 or 7 wherein partition areas that 

are as close to a square form as possible are created. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to anyone of claim 5 to 8 wherein the number 

of different types of partition areas are reduced by 
identifying identical patterns of leaf areas to reduce 

the number of different area specifications. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 5 wherein the step of recursively 

partitioning comprises a sequence of steps including: 

(a) exiting the sequence of steps if an area of Nx by 
Ny leaf areas has a number of leaf areas within it 

that is within a predetermined Desired Number of 
 

Leaf Areas Range; 
(b) creating a set of area slices of size New Nx, by 
New Ny leaf areas by slicing the area of Nx by Ny 

leaf areas; 
(c) recognizing equivalent slices from the set of area 
slices and removing redundant slices to form a set 

of unique area slices; 
(d) identifying slices from the set of unique area 
slices that have previously been assigned an area 

specification and removing such slices from the 
set of unique area slices; and 
(e) for every remaining distinct slice in the set of 
unique area slices performing the steps of: 


(i) creating a new area specification, and 
(ii) repeating the sequence of steps substituting 
New Nx and New Ny for Nx and Ny. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 10 wherein the step of creating a set 

of area slices by slicing the area of Nx by Ny, 
comprises dividing the area array of size Nx by Ny into 

slices of size New Nx by New Ny, the direction of the 
slices and the number of slices being selected according 

to predetermined partitioning criteria. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 11 wherein the direction of the 

slices is determined by a partitioning criterion equal 
to Desired Minimum Number of Children in One Direction 

at Leaf Level, the slicing being performed in a 
direction such that Nx or Ny will not be sliced if below 

the Desired Minimum Number of Children in One Direction 
at Leaf Level. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 11 or 12 wherein the number of slices 

is determined by a partitioning criterion equal to 
Desired Number of Children at Higher Levels Max and the 

 
number of slices is equal to 2 to maximum of the Desired 

Number of Children at Higher Level. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 10 further comprising the step of 

post-processing grouping to reduce the number of area 
specifications at higher levels of the model. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to anyone of claim 1 to 14 wherein the step of 

identifying leaf areas includes the step of flattening 
the hierarchy and creating leaf areas if the image has 

been previously organized into a hierarchy. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to anyone of claim 1 to 15 wherein the step of 

classifying the leaf areas as being of one or more types 
ignores different characteristics between areas provided 

that such areas have common characteristics relevant to 
an application. 
A method for restructuring an image into a data model 
according to Claim 1 further comprising the steps of 

storing the data model and generating an area tree from 
the stored data model whenever desired. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
