<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641585</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Clarifier
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2100	B01D2100	B01D2124	B01D2104	B01D2102	B01D2124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A clarifier for separating suspended solids from waste water to 
provide clarified water, comprising a generally rectangular tank 

for containing waste water to be separated, the tank including 
generally parallel spaced apart first and second sidewalls, each 

sidewall having upper and lower sidewall portions, and the tank 
also including upper and lower regions; a first influent passage 

extending along at least a portion of the first sidewall and 
comprising an aperture for introducing waste water into the tank; 

a first effluent passage proximate the influent passage and 
including a weir over which clarified water flows for removing 

clarified water from the upper region of the tank. The clarifier 
preferably includes a baffle mounted to define a space between 

the first sidewall and the baffle, and a distribution baffle 
proximate the aperture. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES FILTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES FILTER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYLE WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYLE, WILLIAM H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to liquid treatment apparatus,
and more particularly to clarifiers for use in the separation of
solids suspended in water or waste water to provide clarified
water.Clarifiers are used in water and waste water treatment
processes for the separation of suspended solids in the water or
waste water to provide clarified effluent. As used herein,
"waste water" includes water, waste water, and any other liquid
to be treated. Waste water typically enters the tank of such a
clarifier through an influent trough. In the tank, heavy waste
solids settle to the bottom and form a sludge layer, which is
removed from the tank by collectors. Light waste materials rise
to the surface and are skimmed off. Clarified water flows over a
weir into an effluent trough and is discharged.Clarifiers are commonly either circular or rectangular
in shape. An advantage of rectangular clarifiers over circular
clarifiers is that arrangements of a plurality of rectangular
clarifiers generally require less land area for constructing a
given treatment facility than circular clarifiers because
rectangular clarifiers can be arranged in closer proximity than 
circular clarifiers. For example, a plurality of rectangular clarifiers can be arranged
side by side in a row. Rectangular clarifiers arranged side by side can share common
walls and other common components. Therefore, it is often desirable to utilize
rectangular clarifiers due to space and cost considerations. The prior art rectangular
claarifiers commonly include an influent trough on one sidewall and an effluent
trough located on an opposite sidewall, so that water flows into the tank from the
influent trough on one side, across the tank, and out of the tank through the effluent
trough on the opposite side.Some prior art circular clarifiers have demonstrated advantage over prior art
rectangular clarifiers by providing more efficient separation than the rectangular
clarifiers of a similar surface area. This advantage is primarily attributable to different
hydraulic characteristics between those prior art circular clarifiers and prior art
rectangular clarifiers. A principal cause of their different hydraulic characteristics is
that those circular clarifiers and prior art rectangular clarifiers utilize different influent
and effluent trough arrangements. Some circular clarifiers have included trough
systems wherein the influent and effluent troughs are proximate each other along the
periphery of the clarifier. Such a trough system is described in U.S. Patent No.
3,717
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A clarifier (1) for separating suspended solids from waste water to provide
clarified water, the clarifier comprising a tank (2) having a wall for containing waste

water to be clarified, an elongate influent passage (3) including apertures (17) spaced
apart along its length for introducing waste water to the tank (2), and an effluent

passage (4) including a weir (20) having a weir upper edge (20a) over which clarified
water flows from an upper portion (15) of the tank (2) into the effluent passage (4),

characterised by the tank (2) being rectangular and the tank wall being defined by a
pair of opposed first side walls (11,12) and a pair of opposed second side walls (10),

and the influent and effluent passages (3,4) being defined by troughs extending in
generally parallel side-by-side relation adjacent or spaced from upper portions (13) of

the tank wall, wherein the influent and effluent passages (3,4) extend only in a
direction parallel to the first side walls (11,12) and extend along a length which is

a substantial portion of the length of at least one of the side walls. 
The clarifier according to claim 1 wherein the influent passage (3) includes
an influent outside wall (24) having an influent outside upper edge (24a), an influent

bottom (25) and an influent inside wall (26) having an influent inside upper edge
(26a), and wherein the effluent passage (4) includes an effluent outside wall (27)

having an effluent outside upper edge (27a), an effluent bottom (28, and an effluent
inside wall (29) including said weir (20) and said weir upper edge (20a). 
The clarifier according to claim 2 wherein the weir upper edge (20a) of the
effluent passage (4) is lower than the influent outside upper edge (24a) and influent

inside upper edge (26a) of the influent trough.
The clarifier according to any preceding claim comprising a skirt baffle (21)
mounted in the tank (2) to define between a first sidewall (11,12) and the skirt baffle

(21) a space in communication with a lower portion (16) of the tank (2), and wherein
the aperture (17) of the influent passage (3) are located to admit waste water into the

space.
The clarifier according to claim 4 comprising distribution baffles (18) mounted
in the tank (2) proximate the aperture (17).
The clarifier according to any preceding claim wherein the influent passage (3)
and the effluent passage (4) each have a width, a length and inlet and outlet ends

respectively, and wherein the influent passage width progressively decreases from the
influent passage inlet end (32) along the influent passage length to the influent

passage outlet end (33), and wherein the effluent passage width progressively
increases from the effluent passage inlet end (36) along the effluent passage length to

the effluent passage outlet end (35).
The clarifier according to claim 6 wherein the influent passage inlet end (32) is
proximate the effluent passage inlet end (36), and the influent passage width and 

effluent passage width together comprise a uniform total width along the lengths of
the passages. 
The clarifier according to any preceding claim, comprising a shelf projecting
into the tank (2) from the upper sidewall portion of a first sidewall (11,12), and

wherein the shelf comprises the influent passage (3) and the effluent passage (4). 
The clarifier according to any preceding claim, comprising a primary waste
water feed inlet (5) in open communication with the influent passage (3) and a

primary clarified water outlet (6) in open communication with the effluent passage
(4).
The clarifier according to any preceding claim, comprising a second influent
passage (7) extending along at least a portion of the upper wall portion (13) of the

second (12) of the pair of opposed first sidewalls (11,12) and a second effluent
passage (8) proximate the second influent passage (7).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
