<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615735</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bag for containing fluid
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6900	B29L3100	B29C6900	B29C6502	B29C6502	B29C6574	B29C6574	A61F544	A61F544	B29D9900	B29D9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29L	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	A61F	A61F	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C69	B29L31	B29C69	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	A61F5	A61F5	B29D99	B29D99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A combination of a liquid-containing bag and a tube 28 is 
disclosed. The bag may be a urine drainage bag and is made up of 

a pair of superposed sheets 20, 22, joined by a weld 24 whose 
configuration is chosen to define in a single welding operation 

the outline of the bag and the tube integral therewith. A single 
weld seam 24 defines the bag volume. The tube and portion of the 

weld seam 24 run adjacent to one another and are separated by a 
row of perforations 30 or by a line of weakening. In such an 

arrangement, means are provided for precluding face-to-face 
contact of selected parts of the inner surfaces of said sheets. 

This may be done by effecting heat shrinkage of selected parts of 
one or both sheets. One or preferabl
y both sheets is biaxially 
oriented. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a bag, for supplying or receiving a liquid to or from
a person. In particular, the invention relates to leg bags, urine drainage bags, and fluid
delivery bags for blood supply or parenteral feeding bags, but may also relate to bags
or pouches for other purposes, e.g. solution bags for I.V. sets.Liquid containing bags are normally made from two sheets of plastics film-like
material welded together around their periphery. Efforts have been made, see for
example U.K. Patents Nos. 2,203,125; 2,197,849 and 2,206,169 to attach tubes to
bags in a satisfactory way. There remains, however, a need for an easily-manufactured
bag in which the possibility of leakage is reduced virtually to zero.A device for collection of urine from an incontinent patient is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,559,049
(see preamble of Claim 1).
The device includes a bag integral with an inlet duct. The inlet
duct extends between an inlet valve and the bag and is made of two synthetic foil
portions, the peripheral strips whereof are welded together, and one of them is then
subjected to thermal shrinkage. In this way, the duct is kept open. This US Patent
accordingly shows a bag and tube combination comprising a pair of superposed sheets,
and a weld defines the outline of the bag and tube in a single welding operation. That
is to say, a single weld seam defines the bag's volume.According to the present invention, there is provided a combination of a bag
and tube comprising a pair of superposed plastics sheets, joined by a weld whose
configuration is chosen to define by a single weld seam and in a single welding
operation the outline of the bag and the tube integral therewith, characterised in that
the said weld seam has a first portion which largely encircles the bag volume, a second
portion which defines the external outline of the tube, a third portion which forms a
rounded end of the tube, and a fourth portion which forms the internal outline of the
tube and which runs alongside and adjacent to the first portion, there being a line of
weakening between the first and fourth portions; and in that means are provided for
precluding face-to-face contact of selected parts of the inner surfaces of said sheets.Also according to the present invention, there is provided a method of making
a bag and tube combination comprising the steps of:-
(a) providing a pair of plastics sheets, at least one sheet being biaxially
oriented;  (b) placing the sheets in superposed relationship in a welding machine; and (c) effecting a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A combination of a bag (26) and a tube (28) comprising a pair of superposed plastics
sheets (20,22), joined by a weld (24) whose configuration is chosen to define by a

single weld seam and in a single welding operation the outline of the bag and the tube
integral therewith, characterised in that the said weld seam has a first portion (24a) which

largely encircles the bag volume (26), a second portion (24b) which defines the external outline
of the tube (28), a third portion (24c) which forms a rounded end of the tube, and a fourth portion 24(d)

which forms the internal outline of the tube and which runs alongside and adjacent to
the first portion (24a), there being a line of weakening (30) between the first 24(a) and fourth portions 24(d);

and in that means are provided for precluding face-to-face contact of selected parts of
the inner surfaces of said sheets.
A combination according to claim 1 in which the means precluding the face-to-face
contact comprises crinkles and irregularities provided in one of the plastics sheets

by biaxial orientation thereof followed by application of radiant heat.
A combination according to claim 1 in which the means precluding face-to-face
contact comprises a foraminated or perforated layer or a sheet-like article serving as

a spacer located between selected areas of the sheets.
A combination according to claim 1 in which the means precluding face-to-face
contact comprises a microperforated film interposed between the sheets.
A combination according to any preceding claim in which a spigot (33) is
provided in the region of the distal end of the tube.
A combination according to any preceding claim in which a spigot (34) is
provided on the bag.
A combination according to any preceding claim in which a strengthened loop 
weld (24f) is provided adjacent to the region where the line of weakening (30) ends

when the tube is in use.
A combination according to any preceding claim in which a strengthened loop
weld (24e) is provided adjacent to an end of the tube which will be the distal end when

the tube is in use, whereby the tube can be torn away from the bag volume.
A combination according to any preceding claim which further comprises holes
punched out and surrounded by welds (38), whereby the bag and tube combination can

be suspended on hooks or supports as desired.
A combination according to any preceding claim in which the sheets are
substantially identical and each have a thickness of from about 0.15 to about 0.20mm.
A combination according to any preceding claim in which the line of weakening
is a row of perforations.
A method of making a bag and tube combination comprising the steps of:-

(a) providing a pair of plastics sheets, at least one sheet being biaxially
oriented;
(b) placing the sheets in superposed relationship in a welding machine; and
(c) effecting a welding operation in said machine using a welding and
punching tool which provides an endless weld which defines a bag volume and

a tube which connects with said bag volume, the said weld seam has a first
portion which largely encircles the bag volume, a second portion which defines

the external outline of the tube, a third portion which forms a rounded end of
the tube, and a fourth portion which forms the internal outline of the tube and

which runs alongside and adjacent to the first portion, there being a line of
weakening between the first and fourth portions; and in that said tool being

designed to provide a line of weakening between the first and fourth portions,
and, before or after or simultaneously with step (c), 
(d) applying heat to selected portions of the sheets.
A method according to claim 12 in which, in step (d), said applying of heat is
arranged to cause a deformation of the sheets in a weld zone thereof such that said

tube portion is bent up out of the plane of the bag portion, whereby liquid passage
along the tube and into or out of the bag is facilitated.
A method according to claim 12 or 13 in which the plastics sheets forming

the pair are of substantially equal width, and are pulled off storage rolls by respective
traction mechanisms, are brought into superposed relationship and are then welded.
A method according to claim 14 in which the sheets in superposed relationship
are welded by a multi-headed welding and punching tool designed to provide a plurality

of bag and tube combinations across the width of the sheets.
A method according to any one of claims 12-15 in which hot air is applied to
those portions of the sheets intended to define the tube.
A method according to claim 16 in which the hot air is at a temperature of
approximately 110 to 150°C.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
