<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERMAL CONVERSION PYROLYSIS REACTOR SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J808	B01J808	B09B300	B09B300	C09C144	C09C148	C10B700	C10B710	C10B4700	C10B4744	C10B5300	C10B5300	C10B5307	C10B5307	C10G100	C10G110	C10J300	C10J300	F23K300	F23K310	F23K314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B09B	B09B	C09C	C09C	C10B	C10B	C10B	C10B	C10B	C10B	C10B	C10B	C10G	C10G	C10J	C10J	F23K	F23K	F23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J8	B01J8	B09B3	B09B3	C09C1	C09C1	C10B7	C10B7	C10B47	C10B47	C10B53	C10B53	C10B53	C10B53	C10G1	C10G1	C10J3	C10J3	F23K3	F23K3	F23K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system (10) is provided for use in providing a continuous flow type pyrolysis reaction for conversion of carbonizable input materials (12). The reactor system (10) utilizes a diffusion material (14) which is preheated and admixed with the input material (12) in order to facilitate pyrolysis and to partially catalyze reactions. Subsystems are provided to receive gaseous (30), liquid (32) and solid (34) outputs, the system (10) is particularly adapted for use with tire chips, medical waste and industrial plastic waste input materials. Carbon black and pelletized metallic and alloy materials are preferred diffusion materials (14).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEN SABRINA CHIOU CHAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WU ARTHUR CHENG HSIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEN SABRINA CHIOU CHAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WU ARTHUR CHENG HSIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN SABRINA CHIOU-CHAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU ARTHUR CHENG-HSIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN SABRINA CHIOU-CHAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU ARTHUR CHENG-HSIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THERMAL CONVERSION PYROLYSIS REACTOR SYSTEM' TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates generally to material reaction systems, and more particularly to thermal conversion pyrolysis reactors adapted to convert carbonizable materials into gas, liquid and solid residue. The preferred embodiment of the present invention is a thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system especially adapted for decomposing carbon based materials in an oxygen free reactor environment. The invention is intended for use particularly with respect to pyrolysis of vehicle tires, industrial plastic waste and residential and hospital trash. This is a continuation-in-part of copending application, serial No. 07/863,747, filed by the inventors on 6 April ;i992.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART Pyrolysis is the term utilized to described the process by which carbonizable materials are converted to solid, gas and liquid residues, without combustion or oxidization. Pyrolysis processes are utilized in order to obtain usable component materials from waste products while avoiding production of unnecessary oxygen compounds and polluting materials. Pyrolysis processes generally involve the pyrolytic conversion of carbon containing materials to hydrocarbon products. In order to avoid the introduction of unnecessar oxygen into their reaction process, leading to undesirable b products and side effects, it is important that the inpu feed system for the waste materials be structured so as t minimize the access of oxygen or ambient air. Several prio art patents have indicated mechanisms of preventing exces oxygen input. These have included such devices as air lock or other systems. One of these, U.S. Patent No. 4,235,676, issued to Chambers , shows an inert gases purge operatio which is utilized to continually remove the oxygen from th input to the pyrolysis chamber. However, the use of an inpu 

gas purge operation, even utilizing inert gases, decreases the heating value of f the hydrocarbon gases from the pyrolysis process and can also lead to difficulties in the handling of fugitive vapors from the reaction region. In order to provide a pleasant working environment for the personnel in the vicinity of the reactor, it is important to pay attention to restraining the fugitive vapors which may escape from the input portion of the system. Another area of technology in which attempts have been made to increase the efficiency of pyrolysis processes is in the area of development of high efficiency heat transfer processes to decompose the carbonizable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS
1. A pyrolysis reactor system for use in pyrolyzin carbonizable input material (MW) , comprising: a reactor chamber subsystem including an enclosed reacto chamber; an MW input subsystem for inputting carbonizable materia into said reactor chamber subsystem; an MD input subsystem for inputting diffusion material (MD) into said reactor chamber subsystem; heating means for maintaining the interior of said reacto chamber subsystem at an elevated temperature, the elevate temperature being sufficient to pyrolyze the carbonizabl material; a gaseous phase output subsystem for receiving an processing the gaseous phase products of pyrolysis reactions fro said reactor chamber subsystem; and transport means for transporting the MW and MD from sai associated input subsystem, through said reactor chambe subsystem, and through nongaseous phase output subsystem situated at an end thereof; wherein, the MD is raised to an elevated temperature an mixed with the MW near the location at which the MW enters sai reactor chamber subsystem, such that the MD acts to conductivel heat the MW and enhance the pyrolysis process thereon as the M and MD are carried together through said reactor chambe subsystem.
2. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 1 wherein sai transport means for transporting the MW and the MD include: a pyrolysis transport pipe extending generally horizontally within said reactor chamber for carrying t MW, the pyrolysis transport pipe having an input e adjacent to said MW input subsystem and an output e adjacent to the nongaseous phase output subsystem; an MD transport pipe extending generally horizontal within said reactor chamber for carrying the MD, the transport pipe being disposed above the pyrolysis transpo 


pipe and having an input end adjacent to said MD input subsystem and a terminal end; an MD chute disposed intermediate the terminal end of the MD transport pipe and a location near the input end of the pyrolysis transport pipe; an MD auger extending through the MD transport pipe and being associated with an MD auger motor such that the MD auger is rotated so as to drive the MD through the MD transport pipe to the terminal end and to urge the MD material to be gravitationally delivered through the MD chute to the pyrolysis transport pipe; and an MW auger extending through the pyrolysis transport pipe and being associated with an MW auger motor such that the MW auger is rotated so as to mix the MD entering the pipe from the MD chute with the MW received from said MW input subsystem and to drive the MW and the admixed MD from the input end to the output end.
3. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 2 wherein the pyrolysis transport pipe is provided with perforations on the upper surface thereof to allow the escape of gaseous phase output from the pyrolysis reaction.
4. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 2 wherein dividing means extend from the pyrolysis transport pipe to the walls of said reactor chamber so as to separate said reactor chamber into a furnace space situated below the dividing means and a reaction space situated above the dividing means, the interior of the pyrolysis transport pipe being a portion of the reaction space.
5. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 4 wherein the MD transport pipe is situated within the reaction space and is provided with upwardly disposed perforations to permit gases within the reaction spsce to contact and transfer heat to the MD being carried through the MD pipe. 



 1 6. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 2 wherein
2 exhaust gases from the furnace space are delivered to a
3 heat exchanger associated with said MD input subsystem for
4 transferring heat to the MD. 5
6 7. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 1 wherein
7 said MW input subsystem and said MD input subsystem
8 each include degassing means for substantially removing
9 oxygen and fugitive gases from the MD and MW prior to 10 delivery into said reactor chamber.
11
12 8. The pyrolysis reactor system of claim 1 wherein
13 said gaseous phase output subsystem includes means for
14 delivering recycled combustible gases to said heating means. 15
16 9. A thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system, fo
17 pyrolyzing carbonizable material ("MW") , comprising:
18 a thermal pyrolysis chamber, the interior of which is heate
19 to a temperature ("T") sufficient to substantially pyrolyze th
20 MW in a moderate length of time;
21 MW means for delivering the MW into and through said therma
22 pyrolysis chamber;
23 MD means for delivering a heat diffusion material ("MD") t
24 the interior of said chamber in a manner such that the MD i
25 mixed with the MW and is concurrently therewith delivered throug
26 said thermal pyrolysis chamber;
27 MD preheating means for heating the MD to a temperatur
28 approaching T prior to delivery to and mixing with the MW; and
29 output handling means for receiving and processing th
30 reaction products of the pyrolysis process and the unreacte
31 output of said thermal pyrolysis chamber. 32
33 34 35 "36 37 38 


 10. The thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system of claim 9 wherein said MD means and said preheating means include an MD transport pipe extending substantially within the interior of said thermal pyrolysis chamber, such that the MD being delivered therethrough absorbs ambient heat from the interior of said thermal pyrolysis chamber prior to mixing with the MW.
11. The thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system of claim 9 wherein said thermal pyrolysis chamber is separated into a furnace space wherein combustive heating is provided by turbulent burners to evenly heat the interior and a reaction space in which the MW and MD are situated during the pyrolysis reaction; and said preheating means include delivery of exhaust gases generated in the furnace space to preheat the MD.
12. The thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system of claim 11 wherein said output handling means include means for recycling combustible gaseous reaction products for use in the turbulent burners.
13. The thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system of claim 11 wherein said MW means and said MD means each include degassing means for substantially removing gases from the MW and MD prior to delivery to said thermal pyrolysis chamber, the gases removed by the degassing means being delivered to the turbulent burners.
14. The thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system of claim 9 wherein said output handling means include means for separating the MD from other reaction products such that the MD may be recycled for additional use. 


 15. The thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system of claim 9 wherein the interior of said thermal pyrolysis chamber is maintained at a positive pressure with respect to ambient such that entry of oxygen bearing gases thereinto is minimized.
16. In a thermal conversion pyrolysis reactor system for pyrolyzing carbonizable material ("MW"), including a heated reactor chamber, an MW input assembly, means for transporting the MW through the reactor chamber and output processing means for handling the products, byproducts and residues of a flow-type pyrolysis reaction process, the improvement comprising: providing a preheated thermal diffusion material ("MD") for admixing with the MW such that the MW is mixed and transported concurrently with MD within the chamber such that heat is conductively transferred from the MD to the MW so as to enhance the pyrolysis reaction and reduce the elapsed reaction time to acceptable completion.
17. The improvement of claim 16 wherein the pyrolysis reactor system is made self supporting by recycling combustible reaction products from the output processing means to burner components utilized to elevate the temperature of the heated reactor chamber.
18. The improvement of claim 16 wherein the MD is preheated by being resident for a substantial interval within the heated chamber prior to being admixed with the MW.
19. The improvement of claim 16 wherein the interior of the reaction chamber is maintained to be substantially free of oxygen by degassing the MW and M prior to entry thereinto and by maintaining the reactor chamber at a relative positive pressure. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
