<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620194</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Glassware forming machine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B9447	C03B940	C03B913	C03B900	C03B916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B9	C03B9	C03B9	C03B9	C03B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An individual section glassware forming machine in which 
each section comprises a section module, which supports 

operating mechanisms of the machine, and a piping module 
through which the necessary air supplies are passed to the 

section module. The two modules are both mounted for 
movement into and out of operative position. When in 

operative position the section module is connected to the 
piping module and the piping module is connected to a 

transverse manifold which conveys the air supplies to all 
the sections. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with machines for the
manufacture of glassware.One of the most widely used types of machines for the
manufacture of glassware is the so-called I.S. machine,
which machine comprises a plurality of identical sections
arranged side by side, the sections operating continuously
out of time with each other to produce glassware. The I.S.
machine has developed over the last sixty years from the
original machine of this type described in US Patent 1911119
- Ingle.While during this period of sixty years there have been
many improvements in I.S. machines, e.g. increased number of
sections, increased numbers of moulds in each section,
electronic control mechanisms replacing mechanical
controls, the basic mechanical structure of the I.S. machine
has remained unaltered.Among the features which are common to almost all
existing I.S. machines are the following;
1. The various mechanisms of the machine are integrated
into a machine frame, and access to repair such mechanism is
difficult.2. The various mechanisms are generally pneumatically
operated, and a complex array of piping is necessary to
provide the required supplies of compressed air. This
piping is very time consuming [and thus expensive] not only
to assemble in manufacture but also to repair.3. If any substantial repair is necessary to a section,
the whole I.S. machine [i.e. all the sections] has to be
shut down while the repair is carried out.4. The various sections are mounted side by side in a
machine frame, having upright frame members which support
ancillary mechanisms, for example gob distributors. Air 
supplies to the various sections are provided from piping
leading from these upright frame members. Consequently
there is a risk of different pneumatic conditions obtaining
in sections remote from the upright frame members and those
close to them, a risk which increases with the number of
sections in the machine which is now frequently 12 or more.US-A-4362544 describes an I.S. machine in which an
attempt has been made to reduce the amount of piping which
is involved in the construction of the machine. The machine
comprises a plurality of similar sections arranged side by
side and a base having a manifold which carries various air
supplies for operating mechanisms of the sections of the
machine. Further air supplies are also carried in overhead
longitudinal frame housings and frame members. Thus,
although it is not described in detail, the machine avoids
the proliferation of piping taking air from the manifold and
conveying it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An individual section glassware forming machine
comprising a plurality of similar sections (S) arranged side

by side at section stations, each section (S) comprising a
section module (SM) which supports operating mechanisms of

the section

   and

the machine comprising a base having a manifold (8)
which extends across all the sections and carries operating

air supplies for the sections

   characterised in that each section module (SM) is
mounted for movement lengthways of the section station in

and out of its operating position and means (7,PM) is
provided at each section station for connecting the section

module to the operating air supplies provided from the
manifold (8) when the section module is in its operating

position.
An individual section glassware forming machine

according to claim 1

   comprising means at each section (S) for locating a section
module (SM) in its operating position including a stop (15) for

determining the position of the section module lengthwise of
the station and an orienting member (35) extending

lengthwise of the section station for determining the
alignment of the section module widthways of the section

station.
An individual section glassware forming machine
according to claim 1

   wherein each section (S) also comprises a piping module
(PM) which distributes operating air supplies to the section

module (SM)
 
   and which is mounted for movement lengthwise of the

section station into and out of operating position

the arrangement being such that the section module can
be moved into its operating position from the rear of the

section station, and the piping module can then be moved
into the operating position from the rear of the station and

exit ports (12) of the piping module which carry operating
air supplies mated on such movement into operating position

with corresponding entry ports (148) of the section module.
An individual section glassware forming machine
according to claim 1

   wherein each section also comprises a piping module
(PM) which distributes operating air supplies from the

manifold (8) to the section module (SM)

   and which is mounted for movement lengthways of the
section station into and out of operating position and each

section station being provided with means for
interconnecting the section module, the piping module and

the manifold when the two modules are in their operating
positions, and for providing the passage of the operating

air supplies from the manifold to the section module.
An individual section glassware forming machine
according to claim 1 wherein


the manifold (8) comprises a series of transverse
passages (10) carrying operating air supplies for the

section (S),
each section station comprises a shut off valve block
(14) to which operating air supplies are passed from the

manifold (8),
each section comprises a piping module (PM) which
distributes operating air supplies from the shut off valve

block to the section module (SM),
 
   and is mounted for movement lengthways of the section

station into and out of operating position,
the section module comprising a series of entry ports
(148) for receiving the necessary air supplies, which entry

ports when the section module and the piping module are in
their operating positions, mate with a corresponding series

of exit ports (12) of the piping module,
the piping module comprising connecting means which
comprise a series of entry ports (62) for receiving the

necessary air supplies, which entry ports, when the piping
module is in its operating position mate with a

corresponding series of exit ports (60) in the shut off
valve block.
A glassware forming machine according to any one of the
preceding claims comprising a framework (3) which supports

parallel rails (13),

wheels (11) on the section module (SM) adapted to run on the
rails (13)
recesses (19) in the rails (13) into which the wheels
can drop when the section module is close to its operative

position
and a locating member (15) against which the module is
located when in its operative position.
A glassware forming machine according to claim 6
comprising a bolt (17) mounted in the locating member (15)

which bolt may be engaged in a threaded recess in the
section module (SM) so that tightening of the bolt moves the

section module into its operative position.
A glassware forming machine according to claim 6
wherein the framework (3) is connected to a pipe (4) through

which cooling air may be supplied to the section module (SM), an
upper surface (5) of the framework and a lower surface of the 

section module being in substantial circumferential sealing
relationship when the section module is in its operative

position.
A glassware forming machine according to any one of
claims 4 to 8 comprising a subsidiary framework (6) which

supports parallel rails (40,42)

wheels (54,56) on the piping module (PM) adapted to run on
the rails (40,42)
locating means (276) on the piping module adapted to
engage the section module (SM) and to locate the piping module in

its operating position with the exit ports (12) of the piping
module mating with entry ports (148) of the section module
means (271) for securing the piping module to the
section module when in its operating position.
A glassware forming machine according to claim 9
wherein the said securing means is a bolt (271).
A glassware forming machine according to claim 5
wherein the connecting means comprises a flat downwardly

facing surface (47) which, when the piping module (PM) is in its
operating position, engages with a flat upwardly facing

surface (30) of the shut off valve block (14).
A glassware forming machine according to claim 11
wherein the shut off valve block (14) is mounted in the subsidiary

frame (6) for limited movement relative to the frame.
An individual section glassware forming machine
according to one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the manifold (8)

comprises a series of transverse supply passages (10)
carrying operating air supplies for the section (S), and each

section station comprises a connecting assembly (7) which
comprises 


a series of pipes (12) each connected to a supply
passage (10) of the manifold,
a shut off valve block (14) mounted on the base for
limited movement with respect thereto, and comprising a

series of passages each associated with the air supply from
an appropriate supply passage, each passage of the shut off

valve block leading from an entry port (21) past a valve
member (32) to an exit port (28), each entry port (21) being

connected to one of the series of pipes (12) by supply pipes
(20) capable of accommodating limited relative movement

between the shut off valve block and the manifold.
A machine according to claim 13 wherein the shut off
valve block (14) comprises a plane upper surface in which the

exit ports (28) are provided.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
