<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631574</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCING ISOCYANATE DIMERS USING POLYMER-BOUND CATALYSTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D22900	C07D22900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D229	C07D229	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a process for preparing a dimer by the steps of: (a) cyclodimerizing a polyisocyanate in the presence of a polymer-bound dimerization catalyst by contacting said polyisocyanate with said catalyst at a temperature of between about 20 and about 135 DEG C in a reaction to form an uretidione-containing cyclodimerized isocyanate wherein a portion of the isocyanate moieties comprising said polyisocyanate are converted to uretidione groups, and (b) separating said catalyst from said cyclodimerized isocyanate in order to stop said reaction after a desired amount of isocyanate moieties in said polyisocyanate have been converted to uretidione moieties.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN STEPHEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAUS THEODORE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN, STEPHEN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAUS, THEODORE, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRODUCING ISOCYANATE DI ERS USING POLYMER-BOUND CATALYSTSThis invention relates generally to a process for making uretidione derivatives of isocyanates, and, more specifically, to a process for preparing the isocyanate dimers using a polymer-bound catalyst. Polyuretidione derivatives of polyisocyanates (also called isocyanato uretidiones) are intermediates which can be used in the preparation of high performance urethane coatings, paints, and films. These derivatives provide reduced volatility and an associated reduced toxicity hazard during use, as compared to monomeric polyisocyanates, for example, toluene diisocyanate. In addition, because of their low viscosity, isocyanato uretidiones can be used as reactive diluents for other highly viscous or solid isocyanate-group containing coatings components or as a polyisocyanate component in solvent-free and low solvent coatings formulations.Processes for preparing these derivatives are well known. Examples illustrative of these processes can be found in U.S. Patents: 4,476,054; 4,912,210; and 4,929,724. Generally, the prior art processes involve adding a soluble catalyst which promotes the polyisocyanate to polyuretidione reaction (also known as "dimerization") to the precursor isocyanate, optionally in the presence, but usually in the absence, of a solvent, allowing the reaction to proceed to the desired extent and then stopping the reaction with a suitable quenching agent which destroys the activity of the 

catalyst. Alternatively, in the cases where relatively volatile catalysts are used, the reaction is stopped by distilling the catalyst along with the residual, unreacted precursor isocyanate from the product dimer. After the residual, unreacted precursor isocyanate is removed, the resulting material, in the case where the precursor isocyanate is a diisocyanate, is a mixture of oligomers composed of at least 2 (i.e., 2 , 3, 4, and the like) precursor diisocyanate molecules joined by at least one (i.e., 1, 2, 3, and the like) uretidione rings. Usually, this mixture is simply called "dimer".In the case where the precursor isocyanate is polyisocyanate, the reaction is generally stopped well before all the isocyanate groups have been converted to uretidione groups because, otherwise, the resulting product would be an unusable polymer having a very high (theoretically infinite) molecular weight and viscosity. However, the cost of equipment and energy to remove residual, unreacted precursor isocyanate dictate that the reaction not be stopped too soon.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A process for preparing a uretidione- containing cyclodimerized isocyanate characterized by cyclodimerizing an isocyanate in the presence a catalytically effective amount of a polymer-bound dimerization catalyst to form said uretidione-containing cyclodimerized isocyanate.
2. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst consists essentially of a polymer backbone plus functional groups, wherein said polymer backbone consists essentially of ethylene, propylene, isoprene, styrene, acrylate, and methacrylate moieties, and combinations thereof, and wherein said functional groups consist essentially of polymer bound derivatives of the following: aromatic tertiary amines, especially 4-dialkylamino pyridines; alkyl- and alkylamino-phosphines and their derivatives; and combinations thereof.
3. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst comprises nitrogen containing or phosphorus containing functional groups, or a combination thereof.
4. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst comprises a tertiary amine.
5. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 10%. 


 6. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 5%.
7. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst a number of functional groups in- an amount of between about 0.01 and about 10 milliequivalents of catalytic sites per gram of polymer.
8. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst is employed in an amount of between 0.01 and 10 parts of catalyst per 100 parts of said isocyanate.
9. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said cyclodimerizing is effected in the presence of a co-catalyst being a primary or secondary alcohol employed in an amount of between about 1:1 and about 10:1 molar equivalents based upon the amount of polymer-bound catalyst employed. 

10. A process for preparing and isolating a uretidione-containing cyclodimerized isocyanate characterized by the steps of:
(a) cyclodimerizing a polyisocyanate in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of a polymer-bound dimerization catalyst by contacting said polyisocyanate with said catalyst at a temperature of between about 20 and about 130°C, preferably between about 20 and about 110°C, in a reaction to form said uretidione-containing cyclodimerized isocyanate wherein a portion of the isocyanate moieties comprising said polyisocyanate are converted to uretidione groups, and (b) separating said catalyst from said cyclodimerized isocyanate in order to stop said reaction after a desired amount of said isocyanate moieties in said polyisocyanate have been converted to uretidione moieties.
11. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst consists essentially of a polymer backbone plus functional groups, wherein said polymer backbone consists essentially of ethylene, propylene, isoprene, styrene, acrylate, and methacrylate moieties, and combinations thereof, and wherein said functional groups consist essentially of polymer bound derivatives of the following: aromatic tertiary amines, especially 4-dialkylamino pyridines; alkyl- and alkylamino-phosphines and their derivatives; and combinations thereof. 


 12. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst comprises nitrogen containing or phosphorus containing functional groups, or a combination thereof.
13. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst comprises a tertiary amine.
14. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 10%.
15. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 5%.
16. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst a number of functional groups in an amount of between about 0.01 and about 10 milliequivalents of catalytic sites per gram of polymer.
17. The process of claim 10 characterized in that wherein said polymer-bound dimerization catalyst is employed in an amount of between 0.01 and 10 parts of catalyst per 100 parts of said isocyanate.
18. The process of claim 10 characterized in that said cyclodimerizing is effected in the presence of a co-catalyst being a primary or secondary alcohol employed in an amount of between'about 1:1 and about 10:1 molar equivalents based upon the amount of polymer-bound catalyst employed. 


 19. A process for preparing a uretidione- containing cyclodimerized isocyanate characterized by cyclodimerizing an isocyanate in the presence a catalytically effective amount of a polymer-bound dimerization catalyst to form a uretidione-containing cyclodimerized isocyanate wherein the polymer-bound dimerization catalyst consists essentially of a polymer having an alkyene group-containing polymer backbone and having dimerization catalyst moieties chemically bound to said polymer, said catalyst moieties being selected from the group consisting of: aromatic tertiary amines, especially 4-dialkylamino pyridines; alkyl- and alkylamino-phosphines and their derivatives; and combinations thereof.
20. The process of claim 19 characterized in that said alkene group is selected from the group consisting of ethylene, propylene, isoprene, styrene, acrylates, methacrylates, and combinations thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
