<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633225</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for delivering a selected effective amount of a dry granular antimicrobial composition to an aqueous system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F1502	B01F1502	C02F150	C02F150	C02F168	C02F168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F15	B01F15	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for delivering a selected effective amount of 
a dry granular antimicrobial composition to an aqueous system 

is provided comprising (a) adding the composition into sealed 
rigid container means, wherein the container means has at 

least one resealable opening; (b) establishing sealed 
communication of at least one of the resealable opening(s) 

with discharge means for effecting the delivery of the 
composition from the container means to the aqueous system 

wherein the discharge means has discharge valve means for 
effecting the discharge of the selected effective amount of 

the composition from the discharge means; (c) removing at 
least one seal from at least one of the resealable opening(s) 

that is in sealed communication with the discharge means for 
effecting the discharge of the composition through this 

resealable opening(s), and into the discharge means; (d) 
operating the discharge valve means for effecting the 

discharge of the selected effective amount of the composition 
from within the discharge means and through an open discharge 

valve means for delivery to the aqueous system; (e) completing 
at least one operation of the discharge valve means for 

establishing at least one cycle of delivery of the selected 
effective amount of the composition to the aqueous system; and 

(f) effecting mixing and/or dissolution of the composition in 
the aqueous system. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALGON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALGON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUGG LEROY E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUGG, LEROY E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process for delivering a 
selected effective amount of a dry granular antimicrobial 
composition to an aqueous system. Aqueous water systems are susceptible to 
microbiological growth such as for example bacteria, yeast, 
fungi and algae. This microbiological growth presents a 
problem to many industrial and commercial applications, and 
more specifically includes, but is not limited to the fouling 
of the components of cooling water systems. Aqueous systems 
that become infected with microorganisms experience 
substantial impairment of their efficiency when deposits of  
 
the microorganisms build up in the system. These deposits 
coat the walls of heat exchangers and other vessels, machinery 
and other processing equipment employed, thus eventually 
creating blockages in and/or reducing heat transfer. A variety of processes have been proposed to 
introduce a biocidal agent to an aqueous system for 
controlling this microbiological growth. It is generally well 
known by those skilled in the art to introduce a biocide into 
an aqueous system by manually dumping a quantity of a granular 
biocide, such as for example bromine or chlorine, to a vessel, 
and employing dissolve/erosion type feeders such as for 
example a flow through feeder. The manual dumping process has numerous drawbacks 
including exposing personnel to potentially hazardous 
chemicals. Another drawback associated with the manual 
dumping process is the deterioration of activity of the 
biocide when the dry granular biocide is exposed to ambient 
humidity. It is well known by those skilled in the art that 
dissolve/erosion type feeders are employed to introduce low 
solubility bromine biocides to aqueous systems. Generally, 
the dissolve/erosion feeder operates by establishing a flow of 
water through the feeder to cause surface friction between 
adjacent biocide granules or tablets thus eroding the surface 
thereof and dissolving the displaced particles. The 
dissolve/erosion type feeders have several drawbacks. Because 
the rate of dissolution of the biocide granule or tablet is 
dependent upon the water temperature and the rate of flow of 
the water, it is difficult to monitor the amount of biocide  
 
introduced to the aqueous system. At higher water flow rates, 
the rate of erosion exceeds the rate of dissolution of the 
displaced biocide particles, thus resulting in undissolved 
biocide entering the aqueous system. This latter limitation 
substantially prevents increasing the amount of biocide that 
may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for delivering a selected effective 
amount of a dry granular antimicrobial composition to 

an aqueous system comprising: 

(a) adding said dry granular antimicrobial 
composition into sealed rigid container means for 

containing said dry granular antimicrobial composition, 
said sealed rigid container means having at least one 

resealable opening for permitting addition to and 
discharge from said sealed rigid container means; 
(b) establishing sealed communication of at least 
one of said resealable opening(s) of said sealed rigid 

container means with discharge means for effecting the 
delivery of said dry granular antimicrobial composition 

from said sealed rigid container means to said aqueous 
system, said discharge means having discharge valve 

means for effecting discharge of said selected 
effective amount of said dry granular antimicrobial 

composition from said discharge means; 
(c) removing at least one seal from at least one 
of said resealable opening(s) of said sealed rigid 

container means that is in said sealed communication 
with said discharge means for effecting said discharge 

of said dry granular antimicrobial composition from 
said sealed rigid container means through said 

resealable opening(s) in communication with said 
discharge means, and into said discharge means; 
(d) operating said discharge valve means for 
effecting the discharge of said selected effective 

amount of said dry granular antimicrobial composition 
from within said discharge means and through an open 

discharge valve means for delivery to said aqueous 
system; 
(e) completing at least one said operation of 
said discharge valve means for establishing at least 

one cycle of delivery of said selected effective amount 
 

of said dry granular antimicrobial composition to said 
aqueous system; and 
(f) effecting mixing and/or dissolution of said 
dry granular antimicrobial composition in said aqueous 

system. 
A process according to claim 1, further 
comprising repeating steps (d), (e) and (f) for 

effecting the delivery of said selected effective 
amount of said dry granular antimicrobial composition 

to said aqueous system for achieving an effective 
antimicrobial inhibitory concentration. 
A process according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising employing manual mechanical means for 

effecting said operation and said completion of said 
operation of said discharge valve means. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said discharge valve means is under the control 

of programmable dispensing means for controlling the 
number of said cycles of delivery of said selected 

effective amount of said dry granular antimicrobial 
composition to said aqueous system. 
A process according to claim 4, wherein said 
programmable dispensing means is responsive for 

dispensing said selected effective amount of said dry 
granular antimicrobial composition. 
A process according to claim 4 or 5, wherein 
said programmable dispensing means is responsive for 

monitoring the amount of said dry granular 
antimicrobial composition within said sealed rigid 

container means. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said selected effective amount of said dry 

granular antimicrobial composition delivered per said 
cycle to said aqueous system is at least about 0.10 

pounds. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
 

wherein said selected effective amount of said dry 
granular antimicrobial composition delivered per said 

cycle to said aqueous system is from about 0.10 to 100 
pounds. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said selected effective amount of said dry 

granular antimicrobial composition delivered per said 
cycle to said aqueous system is about 10.0 pounds. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said selected effective amount of said dry 

granular antimicrobial composition is a dry granular 
oxidant antimicrobial composition. 
A process according to claim 10, wherein said 
dry granular oxidant antimicrobial composition is a 

biocide selected from sodium dichloro-s-triazinetrione, 
sodium bromide, and combinations thereof. 
A process according to claim 10, wherein said 
dry granular oxidant antimicrobial composition is 

calcium hypochlorite. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 
9, wherein said selected effective amount of said dry 

granular antimicrobial composition is a dry granular 
nonoxidant antimicrobial composition. 
A process according to claim 13, wherein said 
dry granular nonoxidant antimicrobial composition is 

tetrahydro-3,5-dimethyl-2-H-1,3,5-thiadiazine 2-thione. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said sealed rigid container means is 

transportable sealed rigid container means. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said discharge valve means is valve means 

selected from a rotary air lock valve, a star valve, a 
plug valve, a ball valve, a slide valve, a plunger 

valve, and a butterfly valve, and combinations thereof. 
A process according to any preceding claim, 
further comprising eductor means for transporting said 

 
dry granular antimicrobial composition from said 

discharge means to said aqueous system, wherein said 
eductor means is in communication with at least a 

portion of said discharge means, and wherein said 
portion of said discharge means is located below said 

discharge valve means. 
A process according to claim 17, wherein said 
eductor means provides a unidirectional flow of said 

granular antimicrobial composition from said portion of 
said discharge means located below said discharge valve 

means to said aqueous system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
