<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0565395</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Blood filter optionally resorbable
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F201	A61F201	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implantable blood filter comprising a self-expandable external structure (7) made of a rigid, zigzagging wire (11) which is wound about itself in order to present a closed configuration, and a central screening part (9) connected to the said wire (11) at various points for the retention of possible blood clots. This screening part can be made of a biologically resorbable material. Application to the production of medical blood filters which are self-centring and optionally resorbable. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Blood filter which can be implanted in a 
vessel (3) in the path of the blood, in particular 

in order to halt blood clots, characterised in 
that it comprises: 


a self-expandable outer structure (7) 
which contains at least one relatively rigid 

thread (11) in the shape of a zigzag, which is 
wound about itself in order to provide a closed 

configuration, which on the exterior forms a 
tubular surface which is substantially cylindrical 

in the expanded condition of the structure 
transversely to its cylinder axis; 
a central filtering part (9, 9', 9'') 
which extends towards the interior of this 

structure and is connected to the thread (11) at 
various points in order to halt blood clots; and 
hooking means (19) which are supported by 
the structure (7), to hook the filter to the 

vessel. 
Blood filter according to Claim 1,
 
characterised in that the thread (11) in the shape 

of a zigzag has a series of lines (15) which are 
connected by curved end portions (17a, 17b), and 

can occupy resiliently a first, position which is 
folded under compression, in which these lines  

 
extend substantially side by side, one along 

another, in order to permit insertion of the 
filter in the circulatory system, and its so-called 

expanded position in which these lines (15) 
are distanced angularly from one another in order 

to form the substantially cylindrical tubular 
surface. 
Filter according to Claim 1 or Claim 2,
 
characterised in that the outer structure (7) 

extends exclusively on the periphery of the 
filter, the connection between this structure and 

the central filtering part (9) being disposed on 
the periphery of the latter. 
Filter according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the 

central filtering part (9) is made of material 
which is biologically re-absorbable when the 

filter is implanted, the resistance to biological 
re-absorption of this filtering part being lower 

towards a substantially central area of the latter 
than it is at its periphery, where this filtering 

part is connected to the outer zigzag structure. 
Filter according to any one of Claims 2 
to 4, characterised in that the lines (15) of the 

outer zigzag structure are disposed such that they  
 

come substantially into contact with a wall (3a) 
of the vessel when the filter is implanted. 
Filter according to any one of the 
preceding Claims 2 to 5, characterised in that the 

hooking means are provided on at least some of the 
lines (15) of the thread (11). 
Filter according to Claim 6,
 
characterised in that the hooking means consist of 

hooks (19) which are attached to the lines (15) of 
the zigzag thread by means of plates (21), these 

hooks extending in pairs in opposite directions in 
order to prevent translation of the filter in the 

venous path in one direction or in the inverse 
direction. 
Filter according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the 

filtering part consists of a relatively flexible 
filament or series of filaments disposed in order 

to constitute a mesh net (9), with meshes which 
are smaller towards the centre than towards the 

periphery, where this net is connected to the 
zigzag thread outer structure (7). 
Filter according to any one of Claims 1 
to 7, characterised in that the filtering part (9,  

 
9') consists of a relatively flexible filament or 

series of filaments with a cross-section which 
decreases from the periphery towards the centre of 

this filtering part. 
Filter according to any one of Claims 1 
to 7, characterised in that the filtering part 

(9') comprises a series of relatively flexible 
filaments (26) which extend from the interior of 

the zigzag thread structure, between the two 
opposite axial ends (17a, 17b) of the latter, at 

which the filaments are connected to the 
structure, these filaments being disposed such as 

to meet or overlap in the manner of a bundle, in a 
substantially central area (27) of the filter. 
Filter according to Claim 10,
 
characterised in that between the two opposite 

ends (17a, 17b) of the outer structure (7), the 
bundle of threads (26) is completed by at least 

one band of a complementary thread (29) which 
surrounds these bundled threads (26) locally in 

order at least temporarily to increase the 
filtering power of this filtering part (9'). 
Filter according to any one of Claims 1 
to 7, characterised in that the filtering part 

(9'') is in the shape of a single-piece star with  
 

a plurality of legs (31, 31') which are connected 
to one another towards the centre (33) of the 

star. 
Filter according to Claim 12,
 
characterised in that these legs (31, 31') have a 

reduced cross-section locally in the vicinity of 
the centre (33) of the star. 
Filter according to Claim 12 or Claim 13,
 
characterised in that the legs (31) have 

transverse branches (37) which connected two 
successive legs to one another, between the centre 

(33) and the periphery of the star. 
Filter according to any one of Claims 12 
to 14, characterised in that the star (9'') is 

made by being moulded, cut or stamped. 
Filter according to any one of Claims 12 

to 15, characterised in that the star (9'') is 
made of a substance which is biologically reabsorbable 

when the filter is implanted, this 
substance belonging to the following list: 

polyglycolic acid, polylactic acids. 
Filter according to any one of Claims 8 
to 11, characterised in that the filament(s) of  

 
the filtering part (9,9') is, or are, made of a 

substance used in surgery for re-absorbable 
sutures, such as polyglycolic acid filaments. 
Filter according to any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the zigzags of the 

outer structure (7) have eyelets (23) on at least 
one of their opposite ends (17a, 17b) where they 

change direction, for connection with the central 
filtering part. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
