<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617394</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular illuminated advertising display.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F21V800	F21V800	G09F1304	G09F1304	G09F1308	G09F1308	G09F1314	G09F1314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F21V	F21V	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F21V8	F21V8	G09F13	G09F13	G09F13	G09F13	G09F13	G09F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sign that uses illumination to enhance a message 
on the sign comprises a housing (14) for carrying the 

message and a reflector (66, 68, 70) having a light 
reflective surface. The reflector (66, 68, 70) is 

mounted to the housing (14) so that the light from a 
source (22, 24, 26) projected at the reflector (66, 68, 

70) is directed towards the message. The reflective 
surface of the reflector (66, 68, 70) has at least a 

portion with a parabolic cross-sectional configuration 
to focus a substantial amount of light from a source 

(22, 24, 26) onto the back of the message to be 
displayed. The housing (14) can be constructed to be 

connected to one or more like housings (14) to allow 
the size and shape of the overall sign to be selected 

by the end user. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMAS A SCHUTZ COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMAS A. SCHUTZ COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKOLAY RAY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MODERHACK RANDY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKOLAY, RAY M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MODERHACK, RANDY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to advertising displays and, more particularly, to an 
illuminated display that can be constructed a) with a fixed size and shape and b) 
from a plurality of modules that can be selectively joined to produce a size and 
shape as desired by the end user. For over half a century, neon signs have been extensively used in 
advertising, particularly on store fronts and the like. Neon signs are desired for 
their intensity and their three dimensional look. Bright colors can be observed 
over a wide viewing angle. Neon signs, however, have numerous drawbacks. First of all, the signs are 
constructed by bending glass tubing. Intricate bending steps are often required to 
produce a desired message. As a result, relatively highly skilled labor is required 
to manufacture such signs. Some shapes may be so demanding that cost becomes 
prohibitive. Some shapes cannot be reproduced at all with neon, regardless of the skill 
of the fabricator. As a result, certain shapes, such as those used in well known 
logos, and the like, must be modified. For example, if there are width variations  
 
in lettering, this may not always be possible to reproduce in neon. This precludes 
uniformity in advertising and may detract appreciably from the look of a sign. A further drawback with conventional neon signs is that each colored tube 
must be constructed with its own circuit. This often results in a maze of tubing 
which is unsightly when viewed at close range. A further drawback with conventional neon tubes is that they are prone to 
breakage. The glass tubing must be sufficiently thin to facilitate its bending. 
Further, the tubes, upon being bent, may be stretched so as to become thinner and 
even more brittle. Accidental bumping of the tubes could cause rupture thereof 
that releases the confined gas and requires reconstruction of an entire circuit. 
Breakage is quite common during shipping and handling of signs with neon. In 
fact, some studies have shown that as much as 10% of shipped neon tubes sustain 
some damage. A further drawback with neon signs is that they require transformers which 
are not only unsightly but prone to failure. It is very common to see certain 
circuits of neon signs flickering, which detracts from the appearance of the sign. 
It is also common for a failing transformer to produce an annoying humming noise 
which may be audible from a substantial distance away from the sign. A further problem with neon signs is that they are normally custom made 
with there being no
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sign that uses illumination to enhance a message on the sign, said 
sign comprising: 

   a housing; 
   means on the housing for carrying a message to be displayed by the sign; 

   a reflector with a light reflective surface; and 
   means for mounting the reflector to the housing so that light from a source 

projected at the reflector is directed towards the message carrying means, 
   said reflective surface having at least a portion with a parabolic cross-sectional 

configuration to focus a substantial amount of light from a source on the 
message carrying means. 
The sign according to claim 1 wherein the parabolic surface has a 
focal point, a light source is provided, and means are provided for connecting the 

light source to at least one of the housing and reflector so that the light source 
projects light from adjacent the focal point of the reflective surface towards the 

reflective surface from where the light is directed at the message carrying means. 
The sign according to claim 1 in combination with a light source and 
means are provided for connecting the light source to at least one of the housing 

and reflector, said light source comprising a fluorescent bulb. 
The sign according to claim 3 wherein the fluorescent bulb is at least 
a 20 watt fluorescent bulb. 
The sign according to claim 1 in combination with a light source and 
means are provided for connecting the light source to at least one of the housing 

and reflector, said light source having a tubular configuration. 
The sign according to claim 5 wherein the light source has at least 
a portion with the tubular configuration that is non-straight. 
The sign according to claim 6 wherein the parabolic surface has at 
least a portion that is non-straight corresponding to the non-straight portion of the 

light source. 
The sign according to claim 5 wherein the light source comprises 
a bulb that is formed to define a closed loop. 
The sign according to claim 1 wherein the reflector comprises a 
piece of molded plastic with a light reflective coating thereon to define the 

reflective surface. 
The sign according to claim 9 wherein the reflective coating is 
applied to the plastic through the use of a vacuum. 
The sign according to claim 1 wherein the parabolic surface has a 
center axis and there is a raised rib that interrupts the parabolic surface to redirect 

light, that would otherwise be reflected to be blocked by a light source, against the 
parabolic surface at a location spaced from the rib to be redirected at the message 

carrying means. 
The sign according to claim 1 including first means on at least one 
of the housing and reflector for connecting the sign to a sign of similar 

construction to increase the area available to display a message. 
The sign according to claim 12 wherein the first means comprises 
cooperating clips on at least one of the housing and reflector on each of a first and 

second of said signs. 
The sign according to claim 13 wherein the clip means comprises 
cooperating dovetail connectors. 
The sign according to claim 13 wherein the first means comprises 
means for connecting a first and second of said signs each to the other by aligning 

the first and second signs in a pre-assembly position and relatively moving the first 
and second signs against each other to engage the first means. 
The sign according to claim 12 wherein the housing has a peripheral 
surface that is polygonally shaped and at least part of the first means is on the 

polygonally shaped surface. 
The sign according to claim 12 wherein the housing has one of a 
square and rectangular shape. 
The sign according to claim 1 in combination with a light source 
with means for mounting the light source to at least one of the housing and 

reflector and said reflector has a receptacle defined therein to support a portion of 
the light source to thereby align the light source in operative relationship with the 

reflector. 
The sign according to claim 18 wherein the light source has a 
housing and a light reflective tape is adhered to the housing to reflect light from 

the light source toward the message carrying means. 
The sign according to claim 1 wherein the message carrying means 
comprises at least one panel having at least a first portion that blocks projection 

of light and a second portion through which light can be transmitted to produce a 
message that can be viewed from a position in front of the sign. 
In a reflector for use in a sign to reflect light from a source so as 
to enhance a message on a sign, the improvement wherein: 

   said reflector has a reflective surface with at least a portion that has a 
parabolic configuration to focus light from a source in a direction to enhance a 

message on a sign. 
The improved reflector according to claim 21 wherein the reflector 
includes means for supporting a light source comprising a receptacle for receiving 

a portion of the light source to thereby situate the light source in a predetermined 
position relative to the reflective surface. 
The improved reflector according to claim 22 wherein the light 
source has a tubular shape and the reflective surface has at least a portion that is 

matched to the tubular shape of the light source. 
The improved reflector according to claim 20 wherein the reflector 
comprises a molded piece of plastic with a reflective 
cooling thereon to define the 
reflective surface. 
The improved reflector according to claim 23 wherein the light 
source has a non-straight tubular portion. 
The sign according to any one of claims 1 to 
20, wherein the message on the sign is backlit by the 

light from the source. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
