<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627734</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for manufacturing optical recording medium.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D708	B26D708	B32B4300	B32B4300	G06K1906	G06K1906	G11B724	G11B7257	G11B726	G11B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B32B	B32B	G06K	G06K	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D7	B26D7	B32B43	B32B43	G06K19	G06K19	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for manufacturing an optical recording medium 
having a substrate, a recording film and a protective 

substrate in this order, and having a predetermined size, in 
which the protective substrate is stacked on the substrate 

through an adhesive layer at least outside a recording area 
of the recording film, the process comprises a step for 

cutting out an optical recording medium of a predetermined 
size by using a cutting edge from the optical recording 

medium of a work size, which is larger than the 
predetermined size, said work sized optical recording medium 

comprising a substrate having the recording film on its 
surface, a work sized protective substrate provided on the 

work sized substrate through an adhesive layer at least in 

an outside area of a recording area including an outside 
area of the predetermined size, wherein the cutting step is 

performed in such a way that the adhesive layer positioned 
at least inside a position where a cutting edge is made to 

enter the work sized optical recording medium is 
substantially not deformed. Thus, it is possible to provide 

a process of manufacturing a high-quality optical recording 
medium at a low cost. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMATAKI HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMATAKI, HIROYUKI, C/O CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for 
manufacturing an optical recording medium and, more 
particularly, to a process for manufacturing a high-quality 
optical recording medium. As shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), an optical recording 
medium is known to have a structure in which a recording 
film is formed on a substrate having a preformat on the 
surface thereof and a protective substrate is provided on 
the recording film through an adhesive layer, or in which a 
spacer is mounted in the inner and outer peripheries of a 
substrate by using an adhesive agent and a protective 
substrate is provided through the spacer. The following are examples of a process for 
manufacturing such an optical recording medium: 
(1) A process in which a substrate is molded into a 
predetermined size of an optical recording medium by 
injection molding or the like, and a recording film or the  
 
like is formed on the substrate, after which a protective 
substrate molded into the predetermined size is provided on 
the recording film, thus forming an optical recording 
medium, and (2) A process in which a substrate having a size of larger 
than a predetermined size of the optical recording medium 
(hereinafter referred to as a work size) is prepared, and a 
recording film or the like is formed on the substrate, after 
which the work sized protective substrate is provided on the 
recording film to form a work sized optical recording 
medium. Thereafter, the work sized optical recording medium 
is cut to form an optical recording medium having a 
predetermined size. The above method (2) is preferable in that handling in 
manufacturing steps is easy. As a process for cutting out an optical recording 
medium of a predetermined size from a work sized optical 
recording medium, a cutting edge or a laser beam, a router 
and the like have been proposed for cutting. When a time 
for cutting and a cost for cutting apparatus are taken into 
consideration, the cutting method using a cutting edge is 
preferable to reduce the cost of the optical recording 
medium. However, cutting using a cutting edge has the problem 
that an adhesive agent squeezes out in the cut end portion  
 
of the optical recording medium, as shown in Fig. 3. This 
tendency is conspicuous when a thermoplastic adhesive agent 
is used as an adhesive agent. Further, the squeeze out of 
the adhesive agent is particularly conspicuous when a cut 
portion is heated before cutting in order to prevent a 
substrate from being cracked during cutting. Such a squeeze
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for manufacturing an optical recording 
medium having a substrate, a recording film and a 

protective substrate in this order, and having a 
predetermined size, in which the protective substrate is 

stacked on the substrate through an adhesive layer at 
least outside a recording area of the film, 

   the process comprising a step for cutting out an 
optical recording medium of a predetermined size by using 

a cutting edge from an optical recording medium of a work 
size which is larger than the predetermined size, said 

work sized optical recording medium comprising a work 
sized substrate having the recording film on its surface, 

and a work sized protective substrate provided on the 
work sized substrate through an adhesive layer at least 

in an outside area of a recording area including an 
outside area of the predetermined size, wherein such 

cutting step is performed in such a way that the adhesive 
layer positioned at least inside a position where a 

cutting edge is made to enter the work sized optical 
recording medium is substantially not deformed. 
A process according to claim 1, wherein said cutting 
step is performed without substantially deforming an 

adhesive layer inside and outside the position at which 
a cutting edge is made to enter said work sized optical 

recording medium. 
A process for manufacturing an optical recording 
medium having a substrate, a recording film and a 

protective substrate in this order, and having a 
predetermined size, in which the protective substrate is 

stacked on the substrate through an adhesive layer at 
least outside the recording area of the recording film 

the process comprises a step for cutting out an optical 
recording medium of the predetermined size by using a 

cutting edge from an optical recording medium having a 
work size larger than the predetermined size, and said 

work sized optical recording medium comprising a work 
sized substrate having the recording film provided on its 

surface, a work sized protective substrate provided on 
the substrate through an adhesive layer at least in an 

outside area of the recording area, including an outside 
area of the predetermined size, wherein solid particles 

are contained in the adhesive layer positioned at least 
inside and outside a position where a cutting edge is 

made to enter the optical recording medium. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said work 
sized optical recording medium is formed in such a way 

that a work sized protective substrate is provided on a 
work sized substrate having the recording layer through 

an adhesive layer and a spacer. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said work 
 

sized optical recording medium has an adhesive layer on 
a recording film in said recording area. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said 
adhesive layer does not contain solid particles. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said 
substrate and/or said protective substrate are made of 

an acrylic resin. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said 
substrate and/or said protective substrate are made of 

a polycarbonate resin. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said 
adhesive layer is not substantially deformed in said 

cutting step. 
A process according to claim 1 or 3, wherein a speed 
at which the cutting edge enters said work sized optical 

recording medium is from 2 to 50mm/sec. 
A process according to claim 10, wherein a speed at 
which the cutting edge enters said work sized optical 

recording medium is from 5 to 30mm/sec. 
A process according to claim 1 or 3, wherein after 
 

said cutting edge is made to completely enter said work 
sized optical recording medium along the thickness 

thereof, said cutting edge is separated from the end 
surface of said optical recording medium. 
A process according to claim 1 or 3, wherein after 
said cutting edge is made to completely enter said work 

sized optical recording medium along the thickness 
thereof, said cutting edge is separated from the end 

surface of said optical recording medium without making 
said cutting edge return in the direction in which said 

cutting edge has entered, and then said cutting edge is 
returned to a predetermined position without making said 

cutting edge contact the end surface of said optical 
recording medium. 
A process according to claim 1 or 9, wherein in said 
cutting step, said optical recording medium is cut in 

such a way that the thickness of said adhesive layer of 
said cut optical recording medium becomes 70% or more of 

the thickness of the adhesive layer of the optical 
recording medium before cutting. 
A process according to claim 1, wherein solid 
particles are contained in an adhesive layer inside and 

outside the position at which the cutting edge is made 
to enter said work sized optical recording medium. 
A process according to claim 3, wherein said solid 
particles are contained in the adhesive layer, positioned 

inside and outside of the position at which the cutting 
edge is made to enter said work sized optical recording 

medium. 
A process according to claim 15 or 16, wherein said 
solid particles is at least one selected from a group 

consisting of glass, metals, ceramics and resins. 
A process according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the 
particle size of said solid particles is from 0.1 to 

100µm. 
A process according to claim 18, wherein the 
particle size of said solid particles is from 0.5 to 

50µm. 
A process according to claim 19, wherein the 
particle size of said solid particles is from 20 to 50µm. 
A process according to claim 1 or 3, wherein said 
adhesive layer contains a thermo
plastic adhesive agent. 
A process according to claim 3 or 15, wherein the 
content of said solid particles within said adhesive 

layer is from 20 to 70% in volume. 
A process according to claim 22, wherein the content 
of said solid particles within said adhesive layer is 

from 40 to 60% in volume. 
A process according to claim 14, wherein in said 
cutting step, said optical recording medium is cut in 

such a way that the thickness of said adhesive layer of 
said cut optical recording medium becomes 80% or more of 

the thickness of the adhesive layer of the optical 
recording medium before cutting. 
A process for manufacturing an optical recording 
medium comprising a substrate, a recording layer, and an 

over layer wherein the over layer is attached to the 
substrate by an adhesive layer, and the medium is cut to 

the required size, and wherein the adhesive layer and/or 
the cutting step are such that the adhesive layer does 

not substantially extend beyond the cut edge or edges. 
An optical recording medium manufactured by a 
process according to any one of the preceding claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
