<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655535</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for dredging a trench in a water bed
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02F900	E02F100	E02F100	E02F390	E02F388	E02F906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02F	E02F	E02F	E02F	E02F	E02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02F9	E02F1	E02F1	E02F3	E02F3	E02F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and an apparatus for 
dredging a trench in a bed. 
 
According to the method the cutter head of a cutter dredger 
is moved in a reciprocating motion parallel to the 

course of the trench to be dredged during the dredging, 
wherein the cutter head is moved perpendicular to the 

course after every motion. 
 
The apparatus comprises a seaworthy cutter dredger ship (100), 
which is pulled by cables (11-18) along the course of the trench. 

Advantageously the ship (100) has a shallow draught, and use is 
made of a dish cutter head on a movable vertical bearing 

girder. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAK A NEDERLAND BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
A. HAK NEDERLAND B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE VALCK JOZEF PETRUS ANTONIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE VALCK, JOZEF PETRUS ANTONIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method for dredging a trench in 
a bed with the help of a cutter dredger with a cutter. From Dutch patent application NL-A-77.00999 the use of a 
cutter dredger in dredging and sand dredging activities at 
sea is known, the cutter head being attached to a ladder, 
and the ladder being attached to the front of the cutter 
dredger and extending obliquely forward. At its rear the 
cutter dredger is rotatably connected to a swivel anchor 
at the end of an anchor line attached to the rear of the 
cutter dredger. The cutting motion of the cutter head is 
carried out using two side wires which run from the cutter 
dredger via tipping discs, which are attached to the 
ladder behind the cutter dredger, to two anchors to the 
left and right at a short distance from the cutter 
dredger. With the help of winches on the cutter dredger 
the cutter head is pulled along a part of a circular path 
around the swivel anchor, the anchor line to the swivel 
anchor being pulled taut by another anchor line running 
from the front of the cutter dredger to a front anchor. In practise, the swivel and front anchors and the anchor 
lines are replaced by a spud that is connected to the rear 
of the cutter dredger, and the cutter dredger is swivelled 
around the spud. Such seaworthy cutter dredgers are large 
and have a draught of 4 to 5 m, a length of approximately 
100 m and a width of approximately 15 m. These known seaworthy cutter dredgers are especially 
suited for sand dredging activities, for example, the 
cutter head being able to follow a large part of a circular 
path, in principle always moving transverse to the 
cutter dredger, and dredging taking place up to a relatively  
 
great depth along a substantially vertical plane 
in horizontal paths from top to bottom. With this method 
of dredging the spud or swivel anchor only has to be moved 
now and again. For dredging a trench, this method is not very suitable, 
however. Because of the high cutting forces on the cutting 
head, and to retain the positioning accuracy a spud or 
anchor remains necessary, in order to prop up reaction 
forces. With a relatively narrow trench, with a relatively 
minor depth, the substantially vertical plane along which 
the cutter head dredges is comparatively small. This means 
that to be able to dredge another substantially vertical 
layer, the cutter dredger soon has to be moved again. To 
dredge the whole length of the trench, the spud or swivel 
anchor has to therefore be moved and to be attached very 
frequentl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for dredging a trench in a bed with the help of 
a cutter dredger with a cutter head, 
characterized in that
 
the cutter head is moved in a reciprocating motion parallel 

to the course of the trench to be dredged during the 
dredging, wherein the cutter head is moved perpendicular 

to the course after every motion. 
Method according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the 
cutter head is reciprocated with the help of at least four 

pre-tensioned advancing cables (11, 14, 15, 18), which are 
anchored substantially in the main direction of the trench 

to be dredged and which are wound and unwound with the 
help of winches on the cutter dredger. 
Method according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the 
cutter head is reciprocated with the help of at least two 

pre-tensioned advancing cables, which run substantially 
along the trench to be dredged and are anchored near the 

far ends of the trench to be dredged, and along which the 
cutter dredger is moved with the help of capstans. 
Method according to claim 2 or 3, 
characterized in that
 
at least two pre-tensioned positioning cables are connected 

in a transverse direction with the cutter dredger 
for taking up transverse forces. 
Method according to claim 4, 
characterized in that
 four 
pre-tensioned positioning cables (12, 13, 16, 17) are 

attached to the angular points (2, 3, 6, 7) of an 
imaginary rectangle, of which the short axial line is 

formed by the advancing cables running substantially in 
the main direction of the trench to be dredged, the long 

sides of the rectangle being at least approximately 10% 
longer than the short sides, the positioning cables (12, 

13, 16, 17) are wound with the help of four additional 
winches on the cutter dredger ship (100) so as to take up  

 
transverse forces on the cutter dredger ship (100). 
Method according to claim 4, 
characterized in that
 two 
pre-tensioned positioning anchor cables (20, 21) are used, 

one on each side of the cutter dredger ship (100), that a 
runner (22, 23) is moved along each anchor cable (20, 21) 

and each runner is connected to the cutter dredger ship 
with the help of at least one additional cable (24, 25), 

which cable can be pre-tensioned with the help of a winch 
(26, 27) on the cutter dredger ship, and that the anchor 

cables (20, 21) are each attached to one side of the 
trench in the angular points of an imaginary rectangle, of 

which the axial line is formed by the advancing cables 
running substantially in the main direction of the trench 

to be dredged. 
Cutter dredger ship with a cutter head for dredging a 
trench in a bed according to the method of one of claims 1-6, comprising at least four winches for 

advancing cables and at least two additional winches for 
positioning cables, the cutter 

dredger ship (100) has substantially the shape of a U, 
characterized in that
 in 
which the legs (101) of the U are connected by a horizontal 

bridge (110) extending above the water line, in which 
a substantially vertically extending bearing girder (111) 

projects downwards from the horizontal bridge to below the 
waterline, in which the cutter head is att
ached to the 
vertical bearing girder, and in which means for compensating 

swell are arranged, and that the winches (103) and 
the advancing cables (11, 14, 15, 18) are arranged so as 

to move the cutter dredger ship (100) in a reciprocating 
motion parallel to the course of the trench to be dredged 

during the dredging. 
Cutter dredger ship according to claim 7, 
characterized 
in that
 the apparatus comprises a seaworthy cutter dredger 
ship (100) with a draught of at most 1.0 m and main dimensions 

of approximately 35 x 35 m.  
 
Cutter dredger ship according to claim 7 or 8, 
characterized 
in that
 the means for compensating swell comprise 
an hydraulic apparatus (116) between the vertical bearing 

girder and a ladder (113) to which the cutter head is 
attached. 
Cutter dredger ship according to claim 9, 
characterized 
in that
 the cutter head is a disc cutter head 
(115). 
Cutter dredger ship according to claim 9 or 10, 

characterized in that
 the ladder (113) is rotatable in a 
horizontal plane about the vertical bearing girder (111). 
Cutter dredger ship according to claim 10 or 11, 

characterized in that
 the disc cutter head (115) is 
movable over the bed with the help of a sliding block 

(114). 
Cutter dredger ship according to any one of the claims 
7 to 12, 
characterized in that
 the vertical bearing girder 
(111) can swivel about an axis, parallel to the axis of 

symmetry of the dredger. 
Cutter dredger ship according to any one of the claims 
7 to 13, 
characterized in that
 the vertical bearing girder 
(111) is vertically movable with regard to the horizontal 

bridge. 
Cutter dredger ship according to any one of the claims 
9 to 14, 
characterized in that
 an apparatus is arranged 
between the vertical bearing girder (111) and the ladder 

(113) for swivelling up the ladder with regard to the vertical 
bearing girder. 
Cutter dredger ship according to any one of the claims 
7 to 15, 
characterized in that
 the vertical bearing girder  
 

(111) is horizontally movably along the horizontal bridge 
(110). 
Cutter dredger ship according to any one of the claims 
7 to 16, 
characterized in that
 the cutter dredger ship 
(100) is provided with its own drive. 
Cutter dredger ship according to claim 17, 
characterized 
in that
 the cutter dredger ship is provided with 
four drivable screws (109), one at each corner of the 

ship. 
Cutter dredger ship according to any one of the claims 
8 to 18, 
characterized in that
 the ship consists of two 
substantially equally large parts with a maximum width of 

17.5 m, which, in the case of a ship with substantially 
the shape of a U, of which the legs are connected by a 

horizontal bridge extending above the water line, consist 
of a front part comprising the legs of the U with the 

horizontal bridge and a rear part comprising the rest of 
the ship, both parts being disconnectable. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
