<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0909404</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN OPTICAL HARMONIC GENERATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S3094	H01S3094	G02F135	G02F135	G02F137	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An harmonic generator system for generating at least two output beams (6a, 6b, 6c) of higher order harmonic radiation from an input beam (1) of radiation of frequency  omega  comprises at least two non linear optical crystals (3a, 3b, 3c) arranged in series. Radiation output from each crystal stage has first and higher order harmonic components. Chromatic separators (5a, 5b, 5c) separate beams of radiation output from each crystal and selected beams are then passed through a telescope (9a, 9b) to the next crystal in the series, thereby generating further radiation beams of first and higher order harmonics. Multiple beams of second, 2 omega , third, 3 omega , or fourth, 4 omega , harmonic radiation may be output from the system and may be used to pump various stages of a secondary laser system or an optical parametric oscillator. Alternatively, the output beams of higher order harmonic radiation may be coherently combined to form a single output. The system is capable of yielding considerably high conversion efficiencies, approaching 100 %. The system for generating multiple beams of second harmonic radiation preferably comprises a three non linear crystals, for example potassium titanyl phosphate (KTP) or potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP), such that three beams of second harmonic radiation are generated. The telescope magnifications may be variable so that the relative intensity of radiation output at each crystal stage may be varied.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QINETIQ LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QINETIQ LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOK GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOK, GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an harmonic generator system for efficiently generating higher order
harmonic radiation from an input beam of fundamental frequency radiation. In particular, the
system may be used to generate beams of second, third or fourth harmonic radiation. The system
is particularly suitable for use with lasers which are used to pump a secondary laser system as
multiple output beams may be generated, each being used to drive separate stages of the laser
system.Conventionally, the generation of second harmonic frequencies. 2ω, may be achieved by
irradiating an appropriate crystal with a beam of primary radiation of frequency ω. Some fraction
of the incident energy is converted into the second harmonic within the crystal. For example,
crystals which may be used for the generation of second harmonic frequencies are potassium
dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) and ammonium dihydrogen phosphate (ADP).Second harmonics of a primary laser beam are often used to pump a secondary laser system, for
example a dye laser. It is common in most secondary lasers of this type to sub-divide the
pumping beam (the second harmonic) into a series of lower energy beams, graded in intensity,
which are then used to pump the various stages of the secondary laser system such as the
oscillators and the amplifiers.The efficiency of the second harmonic generation process depends on the crystal material used
and the power of the incident primary radiation. Typically, the efficiency with which second
harmonics can be generated using a conventional frequency doubling crystal is only 50% to 60%
of the primary laser source. The second harmonic may be separated using a prism arrangement or
a dichoric mirror and the remaining fraction of fundamental radiation is wasted. Because of the
limitation of the efficiency with which higher frequencies can be produced, powerful and bulky
lasers may be needed in order to achieve sufficiently energetic second harmonic frequency beams
for pumping applications.The features of the preamble of claim 1 are
disclosed in document JP 05 327100 (A). The present invention relates to a system for generating a plurality of beams of multiple order
harmonic radiation from an input beam of fundamental frequency radiation with a conversion
efficiency approaching 100%. In particular, the system may be used to generate a plurality of
beams of second, third or fourth harmonic radiation.The system is particularly suitable for use with lasers which are used as pump sources for a
secondary laser system as the output
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for generating an output beam of higher order harmonic radiation (11)
from an input beam of fundamental radiation (1; 6a; 4a) comprising;


a first sample of non linear optical material (3a; 3a; 3b) for receiving the input beam
and generating output radiation (4a; 3a; 21a) comprising beams of fundamental and

higher order harmonic radiation (6a; 20a; 22a),
means (5a) for separating the beams of fundamental radiation and higher harmonic
radiation output from the first sample,
at least one further sample of non linear optical material (3b,3c; 3b,3c; 3c,3d),
wherein the first and further samples are arranged in series, each further sample

having associated means (9a,9b) for increasing the intensity of radiation incident on
the further sample and means (5b,5c) for separating beams of fundamental and higher

order harmonic radiation output from the further sample, wherein selected beams of
radiation output from each of the first and further samples pass through the

subsequent sample in the series and generate further beams of fundamental and higher
order harmonic radiation (6b,6c; 20a,20b; 22a,22b),
characterised in that
 the apparatus further comprises a stimulated Brillouin scattering
(SBS) cell (15) and at least one Brillouin amplifier (12a,12b) for coherently

combining the output beams of higher order harmonic radiation (6b,6c; 20a,20b;
22a,22b).
The system of claim 1, the first and further samples (3a,3b) generating at least two
output beams of second harmonic radiation (6a,6b), the two or more output beams of

second harmonic radiation being coherently combined by means of the stimulated
Brillouin scattering (SBS) cell (15) and the one or more Brillouin amplifier (12a,12b). 
The system of claim 2 comprising a first sample of non linear optical material (3a)
and two further samples of non linear optical material (3b,3c) for generating three

output beams of second harmonic radiation (6a,6b,6c), the three output beams of
second harmonic radiation being coherently combined by means of the stimulated

Brillouin scattering (SBS) cell (15) and the one or more Brillouin amplifier (12a,12b).
The system of any of claims 1-3, and also comprising means (2) for supplying the
input beam of fundamental radiation.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means (2) for supplying the input beam of
fundamental radiation is a laser.
The system of claim 1, and also including a sub-system for deriving an input beam
of radiation (6a) from a beam of primary radiation (1) of frequency ω, wherein said

sub-system comprises;

an additional sample of non linear optical material (18) for receiving the beam of
primary radiation (1) and generating output radiation (4a) comprising primary

radiation (8a), ω, and second harmonic radiation (6a), 2ω,
means (5) for separating the beams of primary and second harmonic radiation output
from the additional sample and
means (19) for increasing the intensity of radiation incident on the first sample (3a),

whereby the beam of second harmonic radiation (6a) output from the sub-system is
input to the system, such that that system may be used to generate at least two output

beams of fourth harmonic radiation (20a,20b,20c), the two or more output beams of
fourth harmonic radiation being coherently combined by means of the stimulated

Brillouin scattering (SBS) cell (15) and the one or more Brillouin amplifier (12a,12b). 
The system of claim 6 comprising a first sample of non linear optical material (3a)
and two further samples of non linear optical material (3b,3c) such that three output

beams of fourth harmonic radiation (20a,20b,20c) may be generated, the two or more
output beams of fourth harmonic radiation being coherently combined by means of

the stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS) cell (15) and the one or more Brillouin
amplifier (12a,12b).
The system of claim 7, and also comprising means (2) for supplying primary
radiation to the sub-system.
The system of claim 8 wherein the means (2) for supplying primary radiation to the
sub-system is a laser.
The system of claim 1 or 6 wherein the means (9a,9b; 19, 9a,9b) for increasing the
intensity of radiation incident on any of the first or further samples is a refracting

telescope.
The system of claim 1 or 6 wherein the means (9a,9b; 19, 9a,9b) for increasing the
intensity of radiation incident on any of the first or further samples is system of

reflecting telescopes.
The system of claim 1 or 6 wherein the means (9a,9b; 19, 9a,9b) for increasing the
intensity of radiation incident on any of the first, additional or further samples is

system of anamorphic prisms.
The system of claim 1 or 6 wherein the means (5a,5b,5c; 5,5a,5b,5c) for
separating fundamental radiation and higher harmonic radiation output from any of

the first, additional or further samples (3a,3b,3c;18, 3a,3b,3c) are chromatic
separators. 
The system of claim 13 wherein the chromatic separators (5a,5b,5c; 5,5a,5b,5c)
are any one of dichroic mirrors, prisms or polarisers.
The system of claim 1, and also including a sub-system for deriving an input beam
of radiation (4a) from a beam of primary radiation (1) of frequency ω, wherein said

sub-system comprises;

an additional sample of non linear optical material (3a) for receiving the beam of
primary radiation (1) and generating output radiation (4a) comprising primary

radiation, ω, and second harmonic radiation, 2ω, whereby the beam of radiation (4a)
output from the sub-system is input to the system such that the system may be used to

generate at least two output beams of third harmonic radiation (22a,22b,22c), the two
or more output beams of third harmonic radiation being coherently combined by

means of the stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS) cell (15) and the one or more
Brillouin amplifier (12a,12b).
The system of claim 15, comprising a first sample of non linear optical material
(3b) and two further samples of non linear optical material (3c,3d), such that three

output beams of third harmonic radiation (22a,22b,22c) may be generated, the three
output beams of third harmonic radiation being coherently combined by means of the

stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS) cell (15) and the one or more Brillouin amplifier
(12a,12b).
The system of claim 16 and also comprising means (2) for providing primary
radiation.
The system of claim 17 wherein the means (2) for providing primary radiation is a
laser.
The system of claim 1,6 or 15 wherein any of the samples of non linear optical
material (3a,3b, 3c; 18,3a,3b,3c; 3a,3b,3c,3d) are non linear optical crystals. 
The system of claim 19 wherein any one of the non linear optical crystals (3a,3b,
3c; 18,3a,3b,3c; 3a,3b,3c,3d) is any one of a potassium titanyl phosphate (KTP)

crystal, a potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) crystal, a deurated KDP (KD*P),
caesium dihydrogen arsenate (CDA) crystal, a deuterated CDA (CD*A), a beta

barium borate (BBO) crystal or a lithium triborate (LBO) crystal.
The system claim 1,6 or 15 wherein the means (9a,9b; 19,9a,9b) for increasing the
intensity of radiation incident on any of the first, additional or further samples have a

variable magnification such that the relative intensities of the beams of higher order
harmonic radiation output from the system may be varied by varying the

magnification.
The system of claim 1,6 or 15, and further comprising optical delay lines included
in the beams of higher order radiation (6b,6c; 20a,20b; 22a,22b) to ensure temporal

overlap of the beams in the one or more Brillouin amplifier (12a,12b).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
