<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and assembly for measuring mass flow or velocity flow of a fluid.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F166	G01F166	G01P500	G01P500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01P	G01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	G01P5	G01P5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Mass flow or velocity flow of a fluid is measured 
when passing through a smooth bore pipe (1) by 

transmitting sound at an angle (α) to the direction of 
fluid flow through and across the fluid flow as a 

continuous wave alternately in one direction and in the 
reverse direction. The phase relationship between 

transmitted and received sound signals in one of said 
directions is substantially minimised by adjustment of the 

transmission frequency and the phase relationship between 
the transmitted and received sound signals in the other 

direction is measured. The magnitude of the transmission 
frequency adjustment is combined algebraically with the 

measured phase relationship in the other direction to 
produce a mass flow rate or velocity flow rate value. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH AEROSPACE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH AEROSPACE SPACE SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINE BRENDAN MARK EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINE, BRENDAN MARK EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for measuring mass 
flow or velocity flow of a fluid and to a fluid flow meter 
assembly. Fluid flow meter assemblies and methods for measuring 
velocity flow of a fluid are known which employ 
transducers which project at least partially into the flow 
path of the fluid giving rise to undesirable interruption 
and disturbance of the flow path with consequent reduction 
in accuracy of the fluid flow velocity measurement. Such 
conventional fluid flow meter assemblies generally utilise 
a pair of transducers which project at least partially 
into the fluid flow path and through which different 
frequency sound waves are sent alternately in opposite 
directions. Apart from the problems produced by the 
interference of the fluid flow path the use of at least 
two different frequency sound waves undesirably increases 
the complexity of the circuitry required to produce a 
velocity flow rate measurement and prevents the use of 
such conventional assemblies for producing mass flow 
values. There is therefore a need for a generally improved 
method for measuring mass flow or velocity flow of a fluid 
and for a generally improved fluid flow meter assembly 
utilising such a method which at least reduces or  
 
minimises the foregoing disadvantages associated with the 
conventional methods and assemblies. According to a first aspect of the present invention 
there is provided a method for measuring mass flow or 
velocity flow of a fluid flowing in a substantially smooth 
bore pipe, characterised in that sound of the same 
frequency is transmitted at an angle to the direction of 
the fluid flow across and through the fluid flow as a 
continuous wave alternately in one direction and in the 
reverse direction, the phase relationship between 
transmitted and received sound signals in one of said one 
and reverse directions is substantially minimised by 
adjustment of the transmission frequency, the phase 
relationship between the transmitter and received sound 
signals in the other of said one and reverse directions is 
measured, and the magnitude of said transmitted frequency 
adjustment is combined algebraically with said measured 
phase relationship in said other direction to produce a 
mass flow rate or velocity flow rate value for the fluid 
flow. Preferably the fluid whose mass flow or velocity flow 
is measured is a liquid. Advantageously the frequency of the sound transmitted 
is in the range of from 1 to 5 megahertz (MHz). Preferably the fluid flow is continuous or pulsed.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for measuring mass flow or velocity flow of 
a fluid flowing in a substantially smooth bore pipe, 

characterised in that sound of the same frequency is 
transmitted at an angled to the direction of the fluid 

flow across and through the fluid flow as a continuous 
wave alternately in one direction and in the reverse 

direction, the phase relationship between transmitted and 
received sound signals in one of said one and reverse 

directions is substantially minimised by adjustment of the 
transmission frequency, the phase relationship between the 

transmitted and received sound signals in the other of 
said one and reverse directions is measured, and the 

magnitude of said transmission frequency adjustment is 
combined algebraically with said measured phase 

relationship in said other direction to produce a mass 
flow rate or velocity flow rate value for the fluid flow. 
A method according to claim 1, in which the fluid 
whose mass flow or velocity flow is measured is a liquid. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 or claim 2, 
in which the frequency of the sound transmitted is in the 

range of from 1 to 5 Megahertz (MHz). 
A method according to any one of claim 1 to 3, in 
which the fluid flow is continuous or pulsed. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, in 
which the sound is transmitted at an angle of at least 45 

degrees. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in 
which the sound is transmitted at at least one continuous 

sinusoidal frequency. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, in 
which the phase relationship in one of said one and 

reverse directions is minimised to substantially zero. 
A fluid flow meter assembly, characterised by 
including a substantially smooth bore pipe (1) through 

which fluid whose mass flow or velocity flow is to be 
measured can be passed continuously or discontinuously, a 

transducer device having a pair of spaced apart 
transducers (4a, 4b) between which the pipe (1) extends 

with the longitudinal axis (2) of the pipe being at an 
angled to the longitudinal axis of the device, means for 

generating a continuous sound wave at the same frequency 
and for transmitting said continuous sound wave 

alternately in one direction and in the reverse direction 
across and through the pipe (1) via the transducers (4a, 

4b), means for detecting the phase shifts in said sound 
wave in said one and reverse directions, frequency control 

means operable to adjust the transmission frequency of 
said sound wave so that the phase relationship between the 

sound wave transmitted from one said transducer (4a) and a 
sound signal received by the other said transducer (4b) in 

 
one of said one and reverse directions is substantially 

minimised, means for measuring the phase relationship 
between the transmitted and received sound signals in the 

other of said one and reverse directions, and means for 

combining algebraically the magnitude of the transmission 
frequency adjustment with the measured phase relationship 

in said other direction to produce a mass flow rate or 
velocity flow rate value for the fluid flow. 
An assembly according to claim 8, wherein the two 
transducers (4a, 4b) are aligned with one another face to 

face and are arranged such that the longitudinal axis 
through the two transducers is at an angle of at least 45 

degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the pipe 
(1) and thereby with respect to the direction of fluid 

flow along the pipe in operation of the assembly. 
An assembly according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein 
each transducer (4a, 4b) is a piezo-ceramic disk. 
An assembly according to any one of claims 8 to 10, 
wherein each transducer 4a, 4b) has a diameter less than 

or equal to two-thirds of the internal board diameter of 
the pipe (1). 
An assembly according to claim 10 or claim 11, 
wherein each transducer disk (4, 4b) is housed in a larger 

diameter cylinder (5) and recessed into a plug (6) of 
sound absorbing foamed plastics material also housed in 

the cylinder (5). 
An assembly according to claim 12, wherein the 
surface of each transducer facing outwardly from the plug 

(6) and towards the pipe (1) is in contact with an 
acoustically conductive insert (7) in the cylinder (5) 

which insert (7), at the side thereof remote from said 
surface, extends through the wall of said pipe so as to 

make direct contact, in use, with fluid flowing through 
the pipe(1). 
An assembly according to claim 13, wherein the 
acoustically conductive insert is made of a resin having 

acoustic properties selected to match those of the fluid 
whose mass or velocity flow is to be measured and wherein 

the surface of the insert which, in use, contacts the 
fluid, is smooth. 
An assembly according to any one of claims 8 to 14, 
wherein said transducer device and pipe (1) are mounted in 

a support. 
An assembly according to any one of claims 8 to 15, 
wherein the means for generating a continuous sound wave 

is a sine wave generator (10) operable to produce a 
continuous sinusoidal sound wave. 
An assembly according to any one of claims 8 to 16, 
wherein the detection means includes a phase meter (17) 

for receiving and comparing inputs from the transmitted 
and received sound signals and for outputting an output 

signal representative of the phase difference. 
An assembly according to claim 17, wherein the 
frequency control means includes a zero point controller 

(21) operable to receive the output signal from the phase 
meter (17) and control the sinusoidal wave generator (10) 

operating frequency. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
