<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617914</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for providing dual output signals in a telemetry transmitter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B50428	A61B50402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Telemetry transmitting apparatus and a method are 
provided for reception and transmission of 

electrocardiogram (EKG) waveforms from a plurality of 
electrodes coupled to the body of a medical patient (10). A 

receiving facility of the apparatus receives a plurality of 
analog signals representing the EKG waveforms. An output 

signal representing the EKG waveforms is formed and 
transmitted, via a wireless coupling (50), to a telemetry 

receiver (20). An analog output (118) port is provided on the 
telemetry transmitting apparatus (100). The analog output port 

is also coupled to the receiving facility. A plurality of 
output signals representing the EKG waveforms is provided 

to the analog output port of the telemetry transmitting 
apparatus (100). The analog output port may be coupled to 

buffers at the input terminals of the apparatus. 
Alternatively, the output port may receive signals from the 

amplifier in the telemetry transmitter (100) that are gain 
adjusted to emulate the unprocessed voltage signals of the 

EKG electrodes. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER, JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and
methods for distributing data from a medical patient by way
of a telemetry transmitting device.Telemetry transmitters provide a convenient means
for remotely monitoring EKG signals from a medical patient.
The telemetry transmitter is connected to the patient by
electrodes and wires. The telemetry transmitter includes
terminals for receiving the EKG signals from the wires, and
a wireless transmitter that is typically a radio frequency
(RF) link. Additional circuitry may be provided in the
transmitter device for amplifying, filtering and
multiplexing the received EKG signals. The transmitter
sends the EKG signals to a telemetry receiver, which is
typically in a central station.It is often desirable to monitor the EKG signals
locally. For example, a doctor or nurse may wish to review
the EKG while making his or her rounds. In some Telemetry
transmitters, such as the model 1481T Telemetry transmitter
manufactured by the Siemens Corporation, a display is
provided for locally monitoring the EKG signals. This
provides convenience, but increases the cost of the
telemetry transmitter.An alternative method that allows local
monitoring is to place a telemetry receiver in the
patient's room and connect the telemetry receiver to a 
monitor, as is done at the central station. While
convenient, this is also quite expensive. U.S. Patent No.
3,882,277 to DePedro et al. describes such a telemetry
system. A telemetry receiver is placed in the patient's
room, and the receiver is connected to a modem for
transmission over a conventional telephone system.If the hospital has an EKG monitor available (for
example, a mobile transport monitor), the EKG electrodes
that are attached to the patient could be disconnected from
the telemetry transmitter and reconnected to the transport
monitor for in-room monitoring. This method is cost
effective, but is inconvenient, because the patient's EKG
signal is not received at the central station while the EKG
electrodes are connected to the transport monitor. This
method also requires that the caregiver perform four steps
including: (1) disconnecting the electrodes from the
telemetry transmitter; (2) connecting the electrodes to the
transport monitor; (3) disconnecting the electrodes from
the transport monitor, when local monitoring is completed;
and (4) reconnecting the electrodes to the telemetry
transmitter. Performing these steps takes up the
caregiver's valuable time.Another problem associated with the method
described above could occur
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A portable patient monitoring apparatus of the
type carried by a medical patient and having as its

primary function the continuous reception and then
wireless transmission to a remote patient monitoring

device of medical data acquired from the patient,
comprising:


receiving circuitry(112a-e,102) adapted for
being coupled to said patient for continuously receiving

a plurality of analog signals representing in real-time a
sensed physiological condition of the patient;
wireless transmitting circuitry(104-110),
including a signal processor and a wireless signal

transmitter, coupled to the receiving circuitry for
forming a first output signal representing the patient's

sensed condition and applying said first output signal to
a first output port(110) for transmitting said first

output signal via a wireless transmission to a remote
monitoring device(20,40) which is physically separate

from said portable patient monitor apparatus(100),
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT
:
said portable patient apparatus has a secondary
function of also providing the sensed medical data to a

second output port (118) of the portable patient
monitoring apparatus (100) for facilitating local

monitoring of the medical data, said second function
being carried out by:
a second output port (118) included as part of
the portable patient monitoring apparatus (100); and
output circuitry (128 a-e, 220) coupled to the
receiving circuitry for providing a second output signal 

that also represents the patient's sensed condition, to
the second output port(118) simultaneously with the

wireless transmission of said first output signal to the
remote monitoring device.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 1, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

said second output signal includes an analog
EKG signal, and wherein the receiving circuitry includes

EKG amplifying means (100) responsive to the analog EKG
signal for developing an amplified EKG signal.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 2, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

the EKG amplifier (102) amplifies respective
ones of a plurality of analog EKG signals by a

predetermined factor to form a plurality of amplified
signals (I,II,V);
the wireless transmitting circuitry includes a
radio frequency modulator(108) coupled to receive the

amplified signals and to provide the first output signal;
and
the output circuitry includes means (220) for
attenuating each one of the amplified signals by the

predetermined factor to produce respective attenuated
signals and for providing the attenuated signals at the

second output port (118).
Apparatus in accordance with claim 3, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

the receiving circuitry includes means (122) for
combining the plurality of amplified signals so that each

combined signal represents a respectively different EKG
lead signal; and 
the attenuating means (220) includes:
means for decoding the amplified signals representing the

EKG lead signals to produce a plurality of individual
signals that represent the respective EKG signals, and
means for attenuating the individual signals to
form a plurality of EKG signals as said second output

signal.
Apparatus in accordance with claim 4, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

the means for decoding and means for
attenuating comprise a voltage divider circuit (R1-R8).
Apparatus in accordance with claim 1, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

the receiving circuitry includes a plurality of
buffers (111 a-e), each buffer receiving one of the

plurality of respective analog signals acquired from the
patient; and
the output circuitry includes means (128 a-e)for
coupling the buffers to the second output

port(118).
Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

the receiving circuitry includes an amplifier
and filter (122,124) coupled to the buffers, the

amplifier and filter amplifying and filtering each
respective one of the plurality of analog signals.
A method for operating a telemetry transmitter
of the type carried by a medical patient and having as a 

primary function the reception of medical data acquired
from a plurality of sensor devices coupled to a medical

patient, and for providing via wireless transmission from
a first output port (110), a signal to a remotely located

display device for displaying the sensed medical data,
wherein:


said portable patient apparatus has a secondary
function of also providing the medical data to a second

output port (118) of the telemetry transmitter for
facilitating transfer of the medical data to a local

display device, the method comprising the steps of:

(a) continuously receiving (via 120 a-e) from
the sensor devices a plurality of analog signals

representing in real-time a sensed physiological
condition of the patient, the receiving being performed

by the telemetry transmitter (100);
(b) forming (via 102-108) a first output signal
representing the medical data and transmitting said first

output signal to said remotely located display device
(20,40) via a wireless transmission(110) from a first

output port (110), which remotely located display device
is physically separate from said telemetry transmitter;

and
(c) forming and transmitting (via 128 a-e,220)
a second output signal representative of the analog

signals recited in step (a) to said second output port
(118) of the telemetry transmitter (100), for use by the

local display device (30) located proximate to the
telemetry transmitter (100), simultaneously with the

transmission of said first output signal to the remotely
located display device (20,40) via said wireless

transmission.
A method in accordance with claim 8, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
:

the sensor devices are EKG electrodes,

step (a) includes the step of receiving a
plurality of analog signals representing EKG signals;
step (b) includes the step of forming and
transmitting an output signal representing the EKG

signals; and
step (c) includes the step of forming and
transmitting a plurality of analog output signals

representing the EKG signals.
A method in accordance with claim 9, further

CHARACTERIZED BY
 the step of:

(d) using a cable for coupling the second
output port (118) of the telemetry transmitting

apparatus (100) to the local display device (30), for
locally displaying the EKG signals.
A method in accordance with claim 9, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
 step (b) includes the steps
of:


(1) amplifying the plurality of analog signals
to form a plurality of amplified signals,
(2) combining the plurality of the amplified
signals to form a plurality of EKG lead signals,
(3) multiplexing the plurality of EKG lead
signals to form a single signal, and
(4) modulating a radio frequency carrier with
the single signal;
 
   and f
urther 
CHARACTERIZED BY
 the
step of:
(f) transmitting the modulated signal from the
telemetry transmitter (100) to said remotely located

display device (20,40) via the wireless transmission.
A method in accordance with claim 11, 
CHARACTERIZED
IN THAT
 between steps (1) and (2),
is the step of:


(1a) filtering the plurality of amplified
signals to attenuate signal components having frequencies

outside of a band of frequencies occupied by the EKG
signals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
