<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614425</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60L900	B60L900	B60L1118	B60L1118	B60L1300	B60L1300	B60M100	B60M110	B60M136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60L	B60L	B60L	B60L	B60L	B60L	B60M	B60M	B60M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60L9	B60L9	B60L11	B60L11	B60L13	B60L13	B60M1	B60M1	B60M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transportation system for use with a roadway (14) including conductive sections (300a-300f) along the roadway so that electric vehicles (310) having a motor (320) and two (312 and 314) or three (312, 312' and 314) contact members which contact the conductive sections to provide power. The conductive sections have spaces (302a-302e) therebetween to prevent short circuiting by the contact members. Alternate sections (300b, 300d and 300f) are connected continuously to a reference voltage and the remaining sections (300a, 300c and 300e) are either directly connected to a source of D.C. power (440) or through a switching device (304a-304c) operable to connect them to any suitable power source (308) when the vehicle is proximate thereto. When three contact members are used, the spacing therebetween is such that two of the three conductors always contact oppositely poled sections and no two conductors can contact a space between sections simultaneously. When a D.C. motor (444) is used, unidirectional current flow means (450, 452, 454 and 456) may be also employed to assure that the current flows to the motor always in the same direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MUSACHIO NICHOLAS R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MUSACHIO NICHOLAS R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUSACHIO NICHOLAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUSACHIO NICHOLAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECT ICALVEHICLE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to electrical transportation systems providing an external power source for vehicles.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONElectrically-powered vehicles have a long history. Electrically-powered pantograph trains are used for commuter passenger trains along heavily traveled routes on the east coast of the United States and in the Chicago metropolitan area. Subways and other light rail systems routinely use electrified third-rail systems. Electrically-powered automobiles and delivery vans are in use around major cities. Electrically powered golf carts, fork lift trucks and other such specialized vehicles also exist.Electrical power offers numerous benefits as an energy source in transportation. In railroad locomotives, electric motors offer excellent low end torque, reliability and ease of maintenance. Diesel- electric locomotives use diesel engines to turn generators, which in turn supply electrical power to drive electric traction motors in order to gain these advantages. Still other advantages can be gained by the use of purely electric-powered vehicles. Examples of such advantages include reduced pollution output, reduced mechanical complexity and, where the electrical power source is external, reduced weight.Unfortunately, providing adequate electrical power to vehicles has proven difficult, expensive, or inconvenient, or all three of the above depending upon the application. Pure electrically-powered vehicles 

 have conventionally used one of two sources of electrical power, on-board batteries or external sources such as trolleys. Batteries are inefficient stores of energy, particularly when compared to gasoline, which 5 limit the relative range of vehicles using batteries. The batteries required by a vehicle for even limited ranges of 50 to 100 miles add considerably to the weight of the vehicle using them, adding inherent inefficiency to the vehicle. Providing external sources of power, 10 such as trolley systems, has typically required a prohibitive capital investment and has limited the routing of vehicles.Nonetheless, electrically powered transportation systems employing external power sources15 have been very successful where employed. Electrified rail systems have typically relied on external power.External electric power supplies such as overhead trolleys and third rail systems work well for railroads under certain conditions. However, overhead lines are20 extremely expensive and considered by many to be unsightly.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An electric vehicle transportation system for use with a roadway comprising: a plurality of track sections positioned end- to-end along the direction of travel on the roadway with a predetermined space between adjacent sections, alternate sections being connected to a reference potential while each remaining section being connected to one side of one of a plurality of switches; a motor vehicle having first and second conductors extending from spaced positions on the vehicle in the direction of travel to contact two adjacent track sections; a source of power connected to the other side of the plurality of switches, each switch being operable by the vehicle when located proximate thereto to activate the switch so that its track section is connected to the source of power and power is applied through the first conductor, through the motor and through the second conductor to a track section at the reference potential to drive the vehicle.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the source of power is A-C.
3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein all of the remaining track sections except the one that is 


 connected to the source of power are switched to a floating condition.
4. Apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein the source of power is D-C and the motor includes a current directing device operable to insure that the current flows through the motor in the same direction regardless of the polarity between the track sections which the conductors contact.
5. An electric vehicle transportation system for use on a roadway comprising: a plurality of spaced conductive sections positioned end to end along the roadway in the direction of travel on the roadway; means connecting alternate sections to a reference potential and the remaining sections to a D-C power source, a vehicle containing a motor and a pair of conductors connected to the motor, the conductors extending from the vehicle to contact the sections, the conductors being spaced in the direction of travel so that the contact is made with two adjacent sections on either side of one of the spaces, the width of the sections and the length of the conductors perpendicular to the direction of travel being chosen so that contact is made for all perpendicular positions of the vehicle while traveling on the roadway. 6. Apparatus according to Claim 5 wherein a unidirectional current flow device is connected to the 


 motor and the conductors to assure that current flows through the motor in the same direction regardless of the polarity applied to the conductors.
7. An electric vehicle transportation system for use on a roadway comprising: a plurality of spaced conductive sections with gaps of predetermined size therebetween positioned end to end along the roadway in the direction of travel on the roadway; means connecting alternate sections to a reference potential and the remaining sections to a power source, a vehicle containing a motor and a three conductors connected to the motor, extending from the vehicle to contact the sections, the conductors being spaced in the direction of travel so that the contact is made between at least two of the three conductors with two adjacent sections on either side of one of the gaps, the size of the gaps and the spacing of the conductors being such that no two of the three conductors can occupy a gap simultaneously.
8. Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein each of the remaining track sections is switched to the power source only when the vehicle is in proximity thereto.
9. Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the motor includes a current directing device operable to insure that the current flows to the motor in the same 


direction regardless of the polarity of the track sections which the trolleys contact.
10. Apparatus according to Claim 9 wherein the current directing device comprises three pairs of oppositely poled diodes each pair having a common terminal connected to one of the conductors and the other terminals of each pair being connected across the motor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
