<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612304</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC CONTROL SYSTEM FOR A PHOSACID ATTACK TANK AND FILTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B2500	C01B2518	C01B25225	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B25	C01B25	C01B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMC FERTILIZER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMC FERTILIZER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILAKOS STEPHEN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILAKOS, STEPHEN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATIC CONTROL SYSTEM FOR A PHOSACID ATTACK TANK AND FILTERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention generally relates to an automatic control system for controlling a chemical reaction in order to maximize efficiency, and more particularly to an automatic control system for controlling the operation of the attack tank and filtration unit in a phosphoric acid recovery plant in order to maximize the recovery of phosphoric acid.Phosphoric acid (H3PO4) is an important intermediate chemical product. It is used primarily by the ertilizer industry, but also is useful in a number of other areas such as in detergents, water treatment, and food products.Phosphoric acid is primarily produced by what is known in the art as the "wet process." Using the wet process, phosphate rock, which comprises calcium phosphate [ Ca3PO ] and a number of impurities, is mined, mixed with water and then ground. Typically, ball mills or rod mills are used to obtain the desired size distribution. The ground wet rock then is fed to a reactor, or 'attack tank', and reacted with sulfuric acid. The process is represented by the following equation:A Ca3(P0 )2 + 3H2S04 + 6H20 ■ 2H3P0 + 3Ca(S04)*2H20The phosphoric acid thus produced remains in solution; calcium sulfate, commonly referred to as gypsum, is a crystalline solid under reaction conditions. 

 Although phosphoric acid is represented as H3PO4, plant output is often measured in tons of P2O5, or phosphorous pentoxide. Approximately 3 tons of 30% phosphoric acid aqueous solution is equivalent to about 1 ton of P2O5. It also is common in the trade to use the terms "phosphorous pentoxide" and "phosphoric acid" interchangeably. Thus, throughout the specification, use of the term "phosacid", when describing conditions in the attack tank, will refer to phosphorous pentoxide, and use of the term "phosacid", when describing the product from the filtration unit, will refer to phosphoric acid.The reactor effluent, which comprises the phosphoric acid and gypsum, then is sent to a filtration unit wherein the solid gypsum is separated from the solution. The gypsum forms a filter cake and the filtrate comprises phosphoric acid solution. The filtrate is further treated before shipment.The filter cake is washed with water to recover phosphorous values. Typically, a two or three-stage counter-current washing is utilized. Process water, which contains essentially no phosphorous values, is used to wash the gypsum cake a final time before the cake is removed as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A method for controlling the phosphoric acid product concentration in a continuous phosphoric acid recovery process comprising:
(a) supplying phosphate ore in aqueous slurry to an attack tank in which the ore is subjected to attack in an acidic solution containing sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid;
(b) producing from the attack tank a product slurry comprising an aqueous phosphoric acid solution and calcium sulfate;
(c) separating the calcium sulfate and aqueous phosphoric acid solution by filtration to form an aqueous phosphoric acid solution and a calcium sulfate filter cake;
(d) rinsing said filter cake with water to recover phosphoric acid therefrom and to form a phosphoric acid solution which is returned to the attack tank;
(e) controlling the quantity of water supplied to the attack tank from the addition of aqueous sulfuric acid, returned phosphoric acid solution, and water added directly to the attack tank, wherein said control comprises:
(i) calculating a theoretical quantity of water which, when added to the attack tank, maximizes the recovery of phosphoric acid;
(ii) controlling the quantity of rinse water to maximize the recovery of the returned phosphoric acid solution from the cake by pulsing the flow rate of the rinse water a plurality of times in a predetermined minor amount relative to the rinse water flow for a predetermined interval to determine the quantity of rinse water required to maximize the recovery of phosphoric acid from the cake;
(iii) measuring the amount of rinse water delivered to the attack tank in the returned phosphoric acid solution; and
(iv) adjusting the quantity of water added to the attack tank to achieve addition of the theoretical quantity required in step (e(i)) by controlling the sulfuric acid concentration, the quantity of rinse water from step (e(ii)) and the amount of water delivered to 


 the attack tank measured in step (e(iii)), and the quantity of water added directly to the attack tank.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein any changes of the flow rate of the quantity of rinse water added to the filter are effected over a period sufficient to preclude the filter from discharging water with the filter cake due to the filter's inability to accept more water.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the quantity of rinse water added to the filter to maximize the recovery of the returned phosphoric acid solution is essentially equal to the quantity of the water in the phosphoric acid solution returned to the attack tank.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the quantity of returned phosphoric acid solution of step (e(iii)) is insufficient to provide the theoretical quantity of water calculated in step (e(i)). and the water added directly to the attack tank is provided through a line by-passing the filter.
5. The method in claim 4, wherein any changes in the amount of water supplied through the by-pass line are effected over a period sufficient to preclude excessive dilution of the phosphoric acid concentration in the attack tank.
6. In a method for controlling the concentration of phosphoric acid product from a continuous phosphoric acid recovery process in which phosphate ore is supplied in aqueous slurry to an attack tank in which the ore is subjected to attack in an acidic solution containing sulfuric and phosphoric acids to produce a product slurry comprising an aqueous phosphoric acid solution and calcium sulfate, the slurry is separated by filtration to form aqueous phosphoric acid solution and calcium sulfate filter cake, the cake is rinsed with water to recover additional phosphoric acid therefrom and form a phosphoric acid solution which is returned to the attack tank, and in which the quantity of water supplied to the attack tank from addition of aqueous sulfuric acid solution, returned phosphoric acid solution, and water added directly to the attack tank is controlled, the improvement comprising:
(a) calculating a theoretical quantity of water which, when added to the attack tank, maximizes the recovery of phosphoric acid: 


 (b) controlling the quantity of rinse water to maximize the recovery of the returned phosphoric acid solution f rom the cake by pulsing the flow rate of the rinse water a plurality of times in a predetermined minor amount relative to the rinse water flow for a predetermined interval to determine the quantity of rinse water required to maximize the recovery of phosphoric acid from the cake;
(c) measuring the amount of rinse water delivered to the attack tank in the returned phosphoric acid solution; and
(d) adjusting the quantity of water added to the attack tank to achieve addition of the theoretical quantity required in step (a) by controlling the sulfuric acid concentration, the quantity of rinse water from step (b) and the amount of water delivered to the attack tank as measured in (c), and the quantity of water added directly to the attack tank.
7. The method as in claim 6, wherein the filter is selected from a two or a three-stage counter-current filter.
8. The method as in claim 6, wherein the attack tank comprises a multistage attack tank.
9. The method as in claim 6, wherein any changes of the flow rate of the quantity of rinse water added to the filter are effected over a period sufficient to preclude the filter from discharging rinse water with the filter cake due to the filter's inability to accept more water.
10. The method as in claim 6, wherein the quantity of rinse water added to the filter to maximize the recovery of the returned phosphoric acid solution is essentially equal to the quantity of the water in the phosphoric acid solution returned to the attack tank.
11. The method as in claim 6, wherein the quantity of returned phosphoric acid solution of step (c) is insufficient to provide the theoretical quantity of water calculated in step (a), and the water added directly to the attack tank is provided through a line by-passing the filter.
• 12. The method in claim 11, wherein any changes in the amount of water supplied through the by-pass line are effected over a period sufficient to preclude excessive dilution of the phosphoric acid concentration in the attack tank. 


 13. The method as in claim 6, wherein the filter is selected from a two or a three-stage counter-current filter.
14. The method as in claim 6, wnerein the attack tank comprises a multistage attack tank. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
