<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646245</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING UNIT OPERATIONS INVOLVING LIQUID SAMPLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L314	B01L314	G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3502	G01N3502	G01N3504	G01N3504	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L3	B01L3	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for performing unit operations involving the handling of liquid samples comprises a number of sample containers (32), each having a portion in which a liquid sample can be contained, as well as means (38) for adding liquid to the sample containers and means (40) for removing liquid from the sample containers. When oscillatingly moving the holding means (28) holding the sample containers, some of the samples may be stirred by agitating their containers, while the samples in the remaining sample containers are not stirred to any substantial degree due to the sample containing part of these containers not being agitated to any substantial degree. The oscillating movement preferably takes place at different velocities in the two directions. High precision is obtained when dosing an amount of liquid from a pipette (38) when the pipette is given an upward acceleration at the end of a pipetting procedure so as to release from the pipette tip any part of any liquid drop in excess of an amount determined by the upward acceleration. Low carry-over due to flushing of and removal of liquid from a number of sample containers using the same suction pipette (40) is obtained using suction pipette means for sucking the liquid from the containers in combination with flushing liquid supply means (40) adapted to supply flushing liquid through an outer surface part (214) of the suction pipette means. Furthermore, a suitable pipette holding (36) and moving (422) means is disclosed for holding a plurality of pipettes and for moving any one of these to a position in which the pipette is capable of dosing liquid to a container or removing liquid from a container.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOSS ELECTRIC AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOSS ELECTRIC A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSEN SOREN VINDAHL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALSGAARD JORGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN FLEMMING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORGENSEN HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIELSEN AXEL GRONLUND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIE GUNNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSEN, SOREN, VINDAHL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALSGAARD, JORGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, FLEMMING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORGENSEN, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIELSEN, AXEL, GRONLUND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIE, GUNNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING UNIT OPERATIONS INVOLVING LIQUID SAMPLESThe present invention relates to a novel and precise apparatus and method for performing unit operations involving handling of liquid samples, including very small liquid samples, such as samples of size of about 500 μl. The invention is particularly useful in connection with qualitative or quantitative determinations, such as determinations of components in liquid samples, involving a reaction, such as a chemical, biological, biochemical or immunological reaction which can be detected by a chemical or physical measurement, for example: an optical measurement, such as measurement of absorbance, fluorescence or luminescence (e.g. bioluminescence as in the case of a luciferin/luciferase reaction) ; an electrochemical measurement, such as measurement of pH or redox potential; or another form of potentiometric or electrical measurement, such as measurement of conductivity or resistance. The reaction in question may alternatively result directly or indirectly in a product whose amount is representative of that of the component to be determined and which can be detected by an optical determination; examples hereof are a fluorescein-carrying product, a coloured product, and a fluorescent product (fluorophore) . The apparatus and method of the invention permit a high degree of automation with simultaneous attainment of very high accuracy.Thus, the present invention relates to techniques where carry-over of volumes of sample, reactant or reagent is a critical factor, and where such carry-over should be reduced to a minimum, because any carry-over in any one operation results in an error which is the greater, the smaller the sample is compared with the carry-over volume.One of the features of the present invention is that the number of objects which come into contact with the liquid samples in connection with a measurement is reduced. This is 

accomplished, e.g., by performing agitation of the samples in which reactions are performed in a manner which does not entail the introduction of any agitation bodies or other agitating or stirring means into the samples, and by performing dosing of liquids from pipettes which do not contact the samples.In the present invention, the precision in the measurement is improved because the apparatus makes use of a novel principle for agitating a number of sample containers, a novel principle for avoiding cross-contamination when removing liquid from a number of samples using the same pipette, and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An apparatus for performing unit operations involving the handling of liquid samples, the apparatus comprising:
a number of sample containers, each having a portion in which a liquid sample can be contained,
means for adding liquid to the sample containers, and means for removing liquid from the sample containers,
the apparatus showing at least one of the following features a)-d) :
a) holding means for holding the sample containers, the holding means having container-receiving means adapted to receive each container in male-female relationship with the container-receiving means, and means for oscillatingly moving the holding means and thereby transferring movement from the holding means to the sample container to agitate liquid in the sample container received by the container-receiving means,
b) the means for adding liquid to the sample containers or removing liquid from the sample container comprise a plurality of pipettes arranged in pipette holding and moving means adapted to hold the pipettes and to move each individual pipette to a position relative to a sample container in which the pipette is capable of exerting its function of dosing liquid to the container or remove liquid from the container
c) the dosing pipette means are movable by pipette moving means which are adapted to confer to the pipette means an upward acceleration at the end of a pipetting procedure so as to release from the pipette tip any part of any liquid drop in excess of an amount determined by the upward acceleration, 


d) the means for removing liquid from the sample containers comprise suction pipette means for sucking the liquid from the containers combined with flushing liquid supply means adapted to supply flushing liquid through an outer surface part of the suction pipette means.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1, adapted for quantitative or qualitative determination of a component in liquid samples by performing, on individual liquid samples, a reaction which can be detected by a chemical or physical measurement or which directly or indirectly results in a product which is representative of the component and which can be detected by a chemical or physical measurement, the apparatus further comprising measuring means adapted to perform said chemical or physical detection of the reaction or the product resulting from the reaction.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said measurement is an optical measurement and said measuring means is an optical measuring means adapted to perform optical detection of the reaction or the product resulting from the reaction.
4. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1-3 and comprising holding means a) , further comprising means for moving at least one container axially in relation to the corresponding receiving means between a first position, in which the sample container is received in the holding means with a relatively close fit, and a second position in which the sample receiving part of the container may be moved transversely in relation to the receiving means.
5. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein the outer surface of each container defines' a shoulder between its opposite ends, and each of the receiving means of the holding means defines a support surface for engaging with the shoulder of the container. 


6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the holding means is a plate-like member with a plurality of apertures for receiving the sample containers.
7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein each aperture has a substantially circular outline, the diameter of the aperture at the lower surface of the holding means being smaller than at the upper surface thereof.
8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein each aperture is at least partly defined by a frustro-conical surface part, the shoulder of each of the containers defining a substantially complementary frustro-conical surface part being in abutting engagement with the first mentioned frustro-conical surface part in the first position of the container.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the top angle of the frustro-conical surface parts are within the range of 3°-18°, preferably 6°-13°, and more preferably within 9°-11°.
10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the top angle of the conical surface part of the container is smaller, preferably 0.1°-1° smaller than the top angle of the conical surface part of the aperture.
11. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the top angle of the conical surface part of the apertures is approximately 10.0° and the top angle of the conical surface part of the containers is approximately 9.7°.
12. An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the holding means is adapted to oscillate or reciprocate the receiving means along an arcuate path.
13. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1-12, wherein the holding means comprises a substantially horizontally 


arranged, substantially circular disc which is reciprocatingly movable around its central axis.
14. An apparatus according to claim 13, which comprises a stepping motor drivingly connected to the disc.
15. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the disc is mounted directly on the shaft of the stepping motor.
16. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the first position of the means for moving at least one container axially is a lower position, and the second position is a higher position.
17. An apparatus according claims 4 or 16, comprising magnet holding means adapted to hold at least one set of magnets in a position where they induce a magnetic field in the sample- receiving part of at least one sample container positioned in its second position.
18. An apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the magnet holding means are adapted to bring, in one position, the magnets in direct contact with the sample-receiving part of the sample container positioned in its second position, and arrange the magnets in another position in which they do not contact the sample container.
19. An apparatus according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the magnet holding means comprise at least two sets of magnets, adapted to be brought in contact with at least two neighbouring sample containers.
20. An apparatus according to any one of claims 17-19, wherein each set of magnets is adapted to contact the sample container from substantially dpposite sides. 


21. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the magnets of each set of magnets contact the sample container with opposite magnetic poles.
22. An apparatus according to any one of claims 17-21, additionally comprising a staticnary set df magnets arranged downstream of the magnet holding means.
23. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1-3, which comprises, as means for adding liquid samples to the sample container, pipettes fed by continuous liquid strings extending from containers containing the liquids to the tip of the pipettes.
24. An apparatus according to claim 23, comprising peristaltic pump means for moving liquid from the liquid containers to the pipette tips.
25. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1-3, in which the means for removing liquid from the sample containers comprises suction pipette means combined with flushing liquid supply means adapted to supply flushing liquid to an outer surface part of the suction pipette means.
26. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the flushing liquid supply means is adapted to supply flushing liquid to the outer surface part of the suction pipette means through at least one orifice in the suction pipette means positioned at a distance above the tip of the suction pipette.
27. An apparatus according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the flushing liquid supply means comprises an annular cavity surrounding the suction pipette means along a part of the length of the suction pipette means.
28. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1-3 comprising pipette holding and moving means adapted to hold a plurality of pipettes and to move any one of the pipettes to 


a position in which the pipette tip is capable of entering a sample container.
29. An apparatus according to claim 28, comprising a number of pipette-holding segments each of which is capable of holding at least one pipette, a segment support means comprising a guide surface on which the segments, arranged adjacent to each other, are supported and guided, means for sidewardly moving the segments, a movable member comprising a support surface adapted to support a segment, the movable member being able to occupy a first position in which its support surface replaces and constitutes part of the guide surface, and means for moving the movable member in downward and upward directions, each segment being sidewardly movable by the segment moving means to a position where the guide surface is replaced with the support surface of the movable member, whereby the segment becomes movable with the movable member, the movable member being movable between the first position and a second position in which the tip of a pipette held by the segment is capable of entering a sample container.
30. An apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the guide surface is in a substantially horizontal plane, and the downward movement is a substantially vertical movement.
31. An apparatus according to claim 29 or 30, wherein the movable member comprises an upper guide surface part adapted to engage an upper surface part of a segment supported by the support surface part of the movable member.
32. An apparatus according to any one of claims 29-31, wherein the segment support means comprises a groove having substantially vertical-parallel edges, the movable member being movable from its first position to its second position along the groove, the segment held by the movable member being fixed in sideward direction by the edges of the groove when the movable member is not in its first position. 


33. An apparatus according tc any one of claims 29-32, wherein the guide surface of the segment support means constitutes part of a substantially circular surface, the remaining part of the substantially circular surface being constituted by the support surface of the movable member when the movable member is in its first position.
34. An apparatus according to claim 33, comprising a rotatable top part provided with means for engaging the segments supported by the support surface so that the segments are moved sidewards in a substantially circular path when the rotatable top part is rotated, the engaging means being in slidable engagement with the segments allowing a segment which is moved downward with the movable member to become disengaged from the top part.
35. A sample container, in particular for use in the apparatus according to any one of claims 1-34, the sample container having lower and upper substantially cylindrical surface parts connected with intermediate substantially frustro-conical surface part.
36. A sample container according to claim 35, the diameter of the upper substantially cylindrical surface part being larger than the diameter of the lower cylindrical surface part.
37. A sample container according to claim 36, wherein the top angle of the frustro-conical surface part is in the range of 3°-18°, preferably 6°-13°, and more preferably within 9°-11°.
38. A sample container according to any one of claims 35-37, in which the diameter of the lower substantially cylindrical surface part is in the range of 10-15 mm, and the diameter of the upper substantially cylindrical surface- part is in the range of 13-19 mm.
39. A sample container according to claim 38, wherein the diameter of the ldwer substantially cylindrical part is in 


the range of 11.5-13.5 mm, and the diameter of the upper substantially cylindrical part is in the range of 15-17 mm.
40. A sample container according to claim 39, wherein the diameter of the lower substantially cylindrical part is about 12.5 mm, and the diameter of the upper substantially cylindrical part is about 16 mm.
41. A sample container according to any one of claims 35-40, in which the lower cylindrical part comprises a downwardly extending substantially hemispherical bottom part.
42. A sample container according to claim 41, wherein the total length of the lower cylindrical part is 25-32 mm.
43. A sample container according to any one of claims 35-42, which is made of polyolefin.
44. A sample container according to claim 43, wherein the polyolefin is polypropylene.
45. A method for agitating one or more liquid samples each contained in a sample container having a portion for containing the liquid sample, said method comprising arranging each of the sample containers in a holding means having container-receiving means in such a manner that each container and each container-receiving means are interengaging in male-female relationship and oscillatingly move the holding means and thereby transferring movement from the holding means to the sample ccntainers.
46. A methdd acccrding td claim 44, wherein each container is moved axially in relation to the corresponding receiving means between a first position, in which the sample container is received in the holding means with a relatively close fit, and a second position in which the sample receiving part of the container may be moved transversely in relation to the receiving means. 


47. A method according to claim 45 or 46, wherein the receiving means are oscillated or reciprocated along an arcuate path.
48. A method according to claim 47, wherein the acceleration of the oscillating or reciprocating movement, in one direction is higher than the acceleration in the opposite direction so as to impart a substantially circular movement to the liquid sample in each container.
49. A method according to any one of claims 45-48, wherein the holding means comprise a substantially horizontally arranged, substantially circular disc which is reciprocatingly moved around its central axis.
50. A method according to claim 48 or 49, wherein the acceleration in one direction of the reciprocating movement is at least two times the acceleration in the opposite direction.
51. A method according to claim 50, wherein the acceleration in one direction of the reciprocating movement is at least 6 times the acceleration in the opposite direction.
52. A method according to claim 50, wherein the acceleration in one direction of the reciprocating movement is at about 9 times the acceleration in the opposite direction.
53. A method according to any one of claims 49-52, wherein the reciprocating movement is obtained my means of a stepping motor which is operated to run at substantially constant speed and is drivingly connected to the disc.
54. A method according to any one of claims 45-53, wherein agitation of the liquid sample in one or some of the containers is substantially prevented or reduced while agitating the liquid samples in the remaining containers. 


55. A method according to claim 54, wherein the agitation of the liquid samples in selected containers is substantially reduced or prevented by moving the containers to the second position and then preventing the sample receiving parts of the containers from moving transversely.
56. A method according to claim 55, wherein said first and second positions are lower and upper positions, respectively, one or more of the containers being lifted to their upper position while their lower sample containing parts are being prevented from moving transversely.
57. A method for performing pipetting of liquid into a container by means of a pipette, comprising subjecting the pipette to a movement with an upward acceleration at the end of a pipetting procedure so as to release from the pipette tip any part of any liquid drop in excess of an amount determined by the upward acceleration and allowing any such released amount to be added to the liquid in the container.
58. A method according to claim 57, wherein the movement of the pipette is generated by a motor.
59. A method according to claim 57 or 58, wherein the pipette i i ss Tb~ιvy a -, 


 Yp-πuiTmrvpr..
60. A method according to any one of claims 57-59, wherein, at the end of the pipetting procedures, the pipette is first subjected to a downward movement so as to give any liquid drdp remaining at the pipette tip a ddwnward veldcity, whereupon the pipette is subjected to the upward acceleration.
61. A method according to claim 60, wherein, at the end of a pipetting procedure, the pipette is moved upward to a first position, whereupon the pipette is subjected to the downward movement, which movement is reversed by means of the upward acceleration. 


62. A method according to claim 61, wherein, at the end of a pipetting procedure, the pipette is first moved upward to a first position, whereupon the pipette is subjected to a downward movement to a second position and is thereafter again moved upward to the first position, whereupon the pipette is subjected to the downward movement, which movement is reversed by the upward acceleration releasing from the pipette tip any part of any liquid drop in excess of an amount determined by the upward acceleration.
63. A method according to any one of claims 57-62, wherein the pipette is kept free of contact with the liquid in the container.
64. A method for removing a liquid sample from a liquid contained in a container by means of a suction pipette, said method comprising immersing the pipette into the liquid, sucking the liquid sample into the pipette, and flushing the outer surface part of the pipette having been in contact with the container by means of a flushing liquid.
65. A method according to claim 64, wherein the flushing liquid is supplied through at least one orifice in the pipette positioned above the outer surface part of the pipette which has been immersed in the liquid.
66. A method according to claim 64 or 65, wherein the flushing comprises at least one flushing sequence where the flushing liquid is supplied in an amount which is equal to or preferably larger than the amount of liquid sample which has been withdrawn so as to secure that total outer surface part of the pipette which has been immersed in liquid is contacted by the flushing liquid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
