<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651305</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for positioning a pile driving rig or similar installation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D102	G05D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D1	G05D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
System for positioning a vehicle within a predetermined area, 
which system is provided with a laser transmitter/receiver and 

three or more laser reflectors which are located outside and/or 
inside the predetermined area, the position of the laser transmitter/receiver 

with respect to the laser reflectors being determined 
continuously with the aid of a method known per se. The position of 

a reference point on the vehicle with respect to the laser reflectors 
is determined continuously with the aid of the laser transmitter/receiver. 

The vehicle is provided with movable parts with which 
predetermined work can be carried out and is provided with sensors 

with which the position of a number of movable parts of the vehicle 
is measured continuously, which parts are determining for the relative 

position, with respect to the reference point, of the location 
where the said work is carried out.
 Furthermore, a processor is 
present, which is designed and/or programmed in such a way that 

said processor processes the output signals from the said sensors 
and from the laser transmitter/receiver and on the basis of said 

signals determines the position of the location where the work is 
being carried out, with respect to the laser reflectors. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a system for positioning an
operation performing implement within a predetermined area, said
operation performing implement being connected to the frame of a
vehicle through a number of movable parts, which system is provided
with
a number of sensors installed on the vehicle and/or on the
movable parts to monitor the mutual positions of the movable parts,a processor for receiving signals from the sensors and for calculating
the location of said operation performing implement in
relation to a reference point on the vehicle,a laser subsystem to monitor the position of the vehicle in
relation to an environmental reference.Such a system is known from EP-0288314. In that system the
operation performing implement is embodied as an excavator bucket.
The described system is specifically destined to control the
position of the excavator bucket cutting edge accurately to a
desired depth. Through a number of movable parts the bucket is
connected to the main chassis of the excavator whereby the
attachment point of the last movable part to the chassis forms the
reference point. Based on the received sensor signals the processor
repeatedly calculates the location of the cutting edge of the
bucket in relation to this reference point. The laser subsystem
comprises a laser receiver attached to one of the movable parts and
a rotating laser transmitter installed in the direct environment of
the excavator and transmitting a laser beam in a horizontal plane
which is used as the environmental reference. Every time the laser
receiver is moved into this horizontal plane and is illuminated by
the laser beam the receiver supplies a calibration signal to the
processor.By means of this prior art system only the position of the
bucket cutting edge in vertical direction, i.e. the depth of the
bucket cutting edge in relation to the horizontal plane defined by
the rotating laser beam, is determined. No measures are described
for determining the location of the bucket in a horizontal direction.Another prior art system covered by the definition provided 
in the first paragraph is known from GB 2186460. The operation
performing implement is embodied as a load carrying unit used for
transporting goods in a warehouse storage installation. Through a
number of movable parts the load carrying unit is connected to a
vehicle frame, which is able to move along a rail track. Sensors
are used to monitor the position of the load carrying unit in
relation to the vehicle frame especially in vertical direction. The
laser
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
System for positioning an operation performing implement
within a predetermined area, said operation performing implement

being connected to the frame of a vehicle through a number of movable
parts, which system is provided with


a number of sensors installed on the vehicle and/or on the movable
parts to monitor the mutual positions of the movable parts,
a processor for receiving signals from the sensors and for calculating

the location of said operation performing implement in relation
to a reference point on the vehicle,
a laser subsystem to monitor the position of the vehicle in relation
to an environmental reference,

characterised in that

the laser subsystem comprises a laser transmitter transmitting a
rotating beam in a horizontal plane, a laser receiver combined with

said laser transmitter and at least three laser reflectors located
at positions in or around the predetermined area, whereby either

one of said reflectors or the laser transmitter/receiver combination
is installed at the reference point on the vehicle,
the system comprises a communication link between the laser
receiver and the processor for transferring data about the position

of the reference point in the horizontal plane to the processor,
and that the processor receives the position data from the laser
receiver and calculates the accurate position of the operation performing

implement at least in the horizontal plane.
System according to Claim 1, characterised in that the
vehicle is provided, at the reference point, with a laser reflector,

and in that the laser transmitter/receiver is located at a
predetermined position from where it is able to direct radiation

onto an adequate number of laser reflectors in order to be able to
determine the position of the laser reflector at the reference

point from the measured values obtained. 
System according to Claim 1, characterised in that the
laser transmitter/receiver is located at the said reference point

on the vehicle.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the communication link between the sensors on

the vehicle and the processor for the transfer of measured values
from the sensors to the processor is formed by a cordless communication

path.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the communication link between laser transmitter/receiver

and the processor is formed by a cordless communication
path.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the processor is located on the vehicle.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the system is provided with an indicator or

display panel which is connected to the processor via a communication
link and on which information relating to the specific position

of the location where the predetermined work is to be carried
out can be displayed and, also, one or more specific positions can

be indicated before the specific work is started.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the communication link between the processor

and the indicator unit is formed by a cordless communication path.
System according to Claim 6, characterised in that the
indicator panel is located on the vehicle.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the processor also provides information

relating to the position of the vehicle as a whole on the basis of
the output signals from the laser transmitter/receiver.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the vehicle constitutes a mobile pile driving

rig, drilling rig or similar installation, intended for introducing
elongated objects such as piles, sheet piling elements, screw

piles, pipes and the like, into the ground.
System according to Claim 11, characterised in that the
indicator panel is designed as a two-dimensional display panel on

which the specific position of the location where the elongated 
object is to be introduced into the ground and/or the position of

the vehicle as a whole is displayed as a marking which is superimposed
on a plan of the predetermined area.
System according to Claim 12, characterised in that means
are present for marking at least one predetermined desired position

on the plan which is shown on the display panel.
System according to Claim 13, characterised in that means
are present for zooming in on the plan on the display panel to such

an extent that it becomes possible for the vehicle operators, by
manipulating the vehicle and/or the said parts which are determining

for the position where the elongated object is to be introduced
into the ground, to cause a desired position to coincide with the

said determined position within a predetermined tolerance.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that means are present in order, after an elongated

object has been introduced into the ground, to display a
marker on the screen which indicates that an elongated object has

been introduced into the ground at the position concerned.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the laser transmitter/receiver is mounted in

a cardan mounting in such a way that the transmitter always operates
in a horizontal plane irrespective of any inclination in the

position of the vehicle.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the vehicle is provided with angular position

detectors, with which the angular position or inclination of the
vehicle with respect to the horizontal plane is determined in at

least two mutually perpendicular horizontal directions.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the laser transmitter/receiver is mounted on

top of or on the vehicle a relatively large distance away from the
guides for the elongated object, such that the laser transmitter/receiver

has a field of view of at least 180 degrees and preferably
at least about 270 degrees, and in that the number of laser reflectors

and the location thereof is chosen such that the laser transmitter/receiver
is capable of determining the position of the

vehicle with sufficient accuracy in every location within the area
and in every position of the vehicle. 
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the vehicle is provided with detectors with

which any angular position of the guides for the elongated object
with respect to the vertical can be determined.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the number of laser reflectors is at least

one higher than the minimum number theoretically required in order
to determine the position of the vehicle.
System according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the system is provided with a memory in which

the data relating to a number of specific positions where an elongated
object has been introduced into the ground can be stored.
System according to Claim 19, characterised in that,
following introduction of an elongated object, the position thereof

is calculated once again and the data resulting from this calculation
are stored in the memory.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
