<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623005</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURGICAL IMPLANT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1756	A61L3112	A61B1758	A61L3112	A61B17064	A61B1756	A61B1758	A61B17064	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61L	A61B	A61L	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61L31	A61B17	A61L31	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Surgical implant formed in the shape of an arrow comprises a body (1), whose first end is formed as a stem (2) and whose other end is formed as a head (3) with arresting means (5) intended for arresting the implant in a position according to the use of the implant particularly in a direction opposite to the direction of installation. The stem (2) protrudes from the outer surface of the body (1). The implant is manufactured of a polymer or a polymeric compound which is substantially absorbable in tissue conditions and contains reinforcing structures or the like, also of a polymer or a polymeric compound. The stem is substantially formed of a wing or the like (4) extending in the longitudinal direction of the body, which is at one edge (4a) connected to the body (1). The arresting means (5) are preferably formed at least partially by machining the material, e.g. by cutting the material of the body (1) in a direction substantially parallel and/or diagonal to the body (1).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a surgical implant
formed in the shape of an arrow comprising a body
whose first end is formed as a stem and whose second
end is formed as a head with arresting means intended
for arresting the implant in a position according to
the use of the implant particularly in a direction
opposite to the direction of installation, wherein
the stem protrudes from the outer surface of the body
and wherein the implant is manufactured of a polymer
or a polymeric compound which is substantially absorbable
in tissue conditions and contains reinforcing
structure or the like, also of a polymer or a polymeric
compound.The surgical implant of the invention is particularly
but not solely intended to be used in repair surgery
of traumas of soft and/or tough tissues containing
fibrous structures, such as meniscal tissues.With reference to the prior art in the field it has
been shown that fixation of meniscus trausmas like
ruptures and lesions by suturing with absorbable
sutures gives better results than the removal of
traumatized meniscal tissue (see e.g. N.A. Palmeri,
T.F. Winters, A.E. Joiner and T. Evans, "The Development
and Testing of the Arthroscopic Meniscal Staple",
Arthroscopy, Vol. 5, No. 2, 1989, p. 156 (Ref. 1)).
However, arthroscopic suturing is a complicated
technique where risks for the patient are significant
e.g. because of danger to vessels and nerves. Therefore,
the desire of surgeons has been already for a
long time to have an absorbable meniscus lesion
fixation device like a staple or fastener which should
have the advantages of absorbable suturing techniques 
but which should be more rapid to use and without
complications of suture technique.Several research groups have tried to develop absorbable
meniscus lesion fixation devices like clamps or
the like. However, the demands of such a device are
high. It must be strong enough to maintain the good
contact of lesion tissues after operation so that
rapid healing occurs. The device must retain its
strength long enough for good healing. It must be
biocompatible and it must be absorbed without causing
complications which should prevent the healing of
lesion. Additionally, the installation of the device
should be easy and rapid and should cause minimum
operational trauma. Because of those high demands, a
satisfactory, absorbable meniscus lesion fixation
device has not been developed yet. Palmeri et al.
reported in Ref. 1 the development of a methods of
meniscal repair using arthroscopically applied absorbable
fasteners. However,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical implant formed in the shape of an arrow and made of a
polymer or polymeric compound which is substantially absorbable in tissue

conditions, said implant comprising a body (1) extending along a
longitudinal direction, a head portion (3) at a first end of said body , a

tail portion (2, 4) connected by an edge portion thereof (4a) to a second end of
said body and protruding perpendicularly with respect to the longitudinal

direction of the body, and arresting means (5) for arresting said implant in
position, according to the use of the implant, in a direction substa
ntially
opposite to the direction of installation thereof,

characterized in that said tail portion (2) is formed of at least one wing
(4), each wing being defined by substantially planar major surfaces extending

substantially parallel to a plane containing the longitudinal direction of said
body (1), and in that said body contains a reinforcement structure made of a

polymer or polymeric compound.
Implant according to claim 1, wherein said arresting means (5) are
comprised of portions of said body (1) which are cut in a direction

substantially parallel and/or diagonally with respect to said body such as to
present a free end (5c) and an end (5a) contiguous with said body.
Implant according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the thickness dimension (x)
of the wing (4) does not exceed the maximum dimension (V) of the body

(1) in the direction of the thickness dimension (x).
Implant according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein there are at least
two wings (4) protruding from the body (1) in two or more directions

respectively.
Implant according to any of the claims 1 to 4, wherein there are two
wings (4), protruding in opposite directions from the body (1).
Implant according to any of the claims 1 to 5, wherein the or each wing
(4) has a polygonal, substantially quadrangular and preferably a rectangular

shape; the back edge surface (4b) of said wing(s) (4) which is connected to the
back surface (1a) of the body (1) is in the same plane as the said back surface

(1a); and the front edge (4c) of the wing(s) (4) is transverse to the longitudinal
direction of the body (1).
Implant according to any of the claims 1 to 6, wherein the cross-section
of the body (1) is substantially polygonal or curved, or preferably

circular with even dimensions in the longitudinal direction of the body 
(1), and the thickness dimension (x) of the wing(s) (4) is smaller than the

diameter (V) of the said cross-section.
Implant according to any of the claims 1 to 7, wherein the wing(s) (4)
has (have) substantially an even thickness.
Implant according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the arresting
means (5) are formed as a scutellate structure in the body (1),

substantially on the whole perimeter of the body (1), in connection with
the head (3).
Implant according to claim 9, wherein the arresting means (5), in
connection with the head (3), are formed by cuts (6) made in the material of the

body (1), which are used for separating part of the material of the body
as barbs connected with the body (1), their bodies (5b) and heads (5c)

being directed towards the tail portion (2) of the implant, whereby the said
barbs form the said scutellate structure in line and/or random order.
Implant according to claim 9, wherein the cuts (6) are at least in some
arresting means (5) formed in a manner that they comprise a first substantially

curved section (6a), where the head (5c) of the said arresting means is formed,
and a second section (6b) substantially parallel to the longitudinal direction of

the body, where the body (5b) of the arresting means (5) is formed, or wherein the
cuts (6) are in at least some arresting means (5) substantially straight cuts

diagonally directed towards the inside of the body (1).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
