<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652905</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OLEFIN POLYMERIZATION AND COPOLYMERIZATION CATALYST
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F1000	C08F460	C08F4659	C08F1000	C08F4658	C08F4634	C08F4654	C08F46592	C08F400	C08F4649	C08F4646	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F10	C08F4	C08F4	C08F10	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	C08F4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for making a magnesium-containing supported titanium-containing and a hafnium-containing and/or zirconium-containing catalyst or catalyst component for the polymerization or copolymerization of alpha-olefins.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN STEVEN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARAYANNIS NICHOLAS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEDERMANN JULIE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN, STEVEN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARAYANNIS, NICHOLAS, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEDERMANN, JULIE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a catalyst component or catalyst that is useful 
for the stereoregular polymerization or copolymerization of alpha-olefins and 
more particularly concerns a magnesium-containing supported titanium-containing 
catalyst component or catalyst that is useful for producing a 
homopolymer or copolymer of an alpha-olefin. Although many polymerization and copolymerization processes and 
catalyst systems have been described for polymerizing or copolymerizing 
alpha-olefins, it is highly desirable to develop a catalyst component or a 
catalyst that has improved activity for catalyzing such reactions. It is also 
advantageous to tailor a process and catalyst system to obtain a specific set of 
properties of a resulting polymer or copolymer product. For example, in 
certain applications a product with a broader molecular weight distribution is 
desirable. Such a product has a lower melt viscosity at high shear rates than a 
product with a narrower molecular weight distribution. Many polymer or 
copolymer fabrication processes which operate with high shear rates, such as 
injection molding, oriented film, and thermobonded fibers, would benefit with a 
lower viscosity product by improving throughput rates and reducing energy 
costs. Thus, it is highly desirable to develop a catalyst or catalyst component 
that is useful for producing a homopolymer or copolymer of an alpha-olefin 
having a broadened molecular weight distribution. Also important is 
maintaining high activity and low atactic levels such as measured by hexane 
soluble and extractable materials formed during polymerization or 
copolymerization. Magnesium-containing supported titanium halide-based alpha-olefin 
polymerization or copolymerization catalyst components or catalyst systems 
containing such components are now well known in the art. Typically, these 
catalyst components and catalyst systems are recognized for their 
performance based on activity and stereospecificity. Numerous individual 
processes or process steps have been disclosed which have as their purpose 
the provision of improved supported, magnesium-containing, titanium-containing,  
 
electron donor-containing olefin polymerization or 
copolymerization catalysts. More particularly, Arzoumanidis et al., U.S. 
Patents Nos. 4,866,022; 4,988,656; and 5,013,702 disclose a method for 
forming a particularly advantageous alpha-olefin polymerization or 
copolymerization catalyst or catalyst component that involves a specific 
sequence of specific individual process
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solid, hydrocarbon-insoluble catalyst or catalyst component for the 
polymerization or copolymerization of alpha-olefins, comprising a product 

formed by: 

A. forming a solution of a magnesium-containing species in a liquid, 
wherein the magnesium-containing species is formed by reacting 

a magnesium-containing compound with carbon dioxide or sulfur 
dioxide; 
B. precipitating solid particles from the solution of the magnesium-containing 
species by treatment with a titanium compound or 

complex; and 
D. treating the precipitated particles with a titanium compound and 
an electron donor; 
 
wherein the treated precipitated particles from Step D comprise a magnesium 

component and at least one of a hafnium component or a zirconium 
component, and wherein at least one of hafnium or zirconium is introduced 

into at least one of (i) the aforesaid magnesium-containing species in Step A 
by reacting the magnesium-containing compound or species with carbon 

dioxide or sulfur dioxide and at least one of a hafnium-containing or zirconium-containing 

compound or complex, or (ii) the aforesaid solid particles 
precipitated in Step B by treatment of the magnesium-containing species with 

a titanium compound or complex and at least one of a hafnium or zirconium 
compound or complex; or (iii) the aforesaid precipitated particles treated in 

Step D by treatment of the precipitated particles with a titanium compound, an 
electron donor and at least one of a hafnium or zirconium compound or 

complex. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 1 wherein the 
magnesium-containing compound in Step A is reacted with carbon dioxide. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the atomic 
ratio of magnesium to titanium, both calculated as elemental metals, in the 

treated precipitated particles formed in Step D is in the range of from 
0.3:1 to 20:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the atomic 
ratio of titanium to hafnium, both calculated as elemental metals, in the treated 

precipitated particles formed in Step D is in the range of from 0.05:1 to 
100:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the atomic 
ratio of magnesium to hafnium, both calculated as elemental metals, in the  

 
treated precipitated particles formed in Step D is in the range of from 

2.5:1 to 1000:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the 
hafnium-containing compound or complex employed in Step A or B is a 

hafnium halide. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 6 wherein the 
hafnium-containing compound or complex employed is hafnium tetrachloride 

or hafnocene dichloride. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the total 
amount of hafnium introduced in at least one of Steps A, B and D is introduced 

in Step D. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 1 wherein the atomic 
ratio of magnesium to zirconium, both calculated as elemental metals, in the 

treated precipitated particles formed in Step D is in the range of from 
20:1 to 925:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 1 wherein the atomic 
ratio of titanium to zirconium, both calculated as elemental metals, in the 

treated precipitated particles formed in Step D is in the range of from 2:1 
to 130:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 1 wherein the 
zirconium-containing compound or complex employed is a zirconium 

tetrahalide or a zirconocene dihalide. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 1 wherein at least a 
portion of the total amount of zirconium introduced in at least one of Steps A, B 

and D is introduced in Step B by treatment of the magnesium-containing 
species with a titanium compound or complex and zirconocene dichloride or in 

Step D by treatment of the precipitated particles with a titanium compound, an 
electron donor and a zirconium tetrahalide. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the treated 
precipitated particles from Step D comprise a magnesium component, at least 

one of a hafnium component or a zirconium component and additionally a 
vanadium component, and wherein the vanadium is introduced into at least 

one of (i) the aforesaid magnesium-containing, species in Step A by reacting 
the magnesium-containing compound or species with a vanadium-containing 

compound or complex, or (ii) the aforesaid solid particles precipitated in Step 
B, by treatment of the magnesium-containing species with a titanium 

compound or complex and a vanadium-containing compound or complex; or 
(iii) the aforesaid precipitated particles treated in Step D by treatment of the  

 
precipitated particles with a titanium compound, an electron donor and a 

vanadium-compound or complex that is free of a halide component. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 13 wherein the total 
amount of vanadium introduced is introduced in at least one of Step B or D. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 13 wherein the 
atomic ratio of titanium to vanadium, each calculated as the elemental metal, 

in the treated preciptated particles formed in Step D is in the range of from 
0.05:1 to 10:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 13 wherein the 
atomic ratio of magnesium to vanadium, each calculated as the elemental 

metal, in the treated precipitated particles formed in Step D is in the range of 
from 2.5:1 to 75:1. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 13 wherein the 
vanadium-containing compound or complex employed is vanadium (III) or 

vanadium (IV) halide. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 13 wherein at least a 
portion of the total amount of vanadium introduced in at least one of Steps A, B 

and D is introduced into the solid particles precipitated in Step B by treatment 
of the magnesium-containing species with a titanium compound or complex 

and a vanadium-containing compound or complex. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 13 wherein at least a 
portion of the total amount of vanadium introduced in at least one of Steps A, B 

and D is introduced in Step D by treatment of the precipitated particles with a 
titanium compound, an electron donor and a vanadium compound or complex 

that is free of a halide component. 
The catalyst or catalyst component of Claim 2 wherein the solid 
particles. precipitated in Step B are next dissolved and reprecipitated in Step C 

from a cyclic ether and then the reprecipitated particles are treated in Step D 
with a transition metal compound and an electron donor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
