<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650604</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLIP-UP MOUNT FOR NIGHT VISION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2312	A42B308	A42B304	A42B304	G02B2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	A42B	A42B	A42B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B23	A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	G02B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flip-up mount is provided for a night vision system. The mount comprises a carriage (22) which is configured to engage a coupling device (18) provided on the night vision system and secure the system in place. A pivotal armature (30) is attached to the carriage and extends from a pivot axis. The armature pivots between a first operational position enabling an operator to use the system, and a second stowed position. An anchor (76, 78) secures the pivot point to a helmet worn by the operator of the system. The pivot point further comprises a brace (70) having an axle shaft (62), a sleeve (42) integral to the armature and rotatable about the shaft, and a spring biased locking member (56) securing the sleeve in a selected one of the first and the second positions. A supplemental chin strap (140) is provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOR AMOTZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOR, AMOTZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a night vision
system and more particularly to a mount for a night
vision system.Night vision systems are commonly used by military
and law enforcement personnel for conducting operations
in low light or night conditions. These systems
intensify the ambient light to produce an output image
which is visible to the human eye. Such night vision
systems either take the form of binoculars, having
separate eye pieces for each eye, or monoculars, having
only a single eye piece. It is common for operators of night vision systems
to desire hands-free operation in which the binocular
or monocular systems can be mounted to either a face
mask worn on the operator's face, or to the operator's
helmet. The typical face mask mounting assembly
comprises a rod which is held to the operator's face by
use of a strap which wraps around the head and connects
to the rod at two or more places. At the centre of the
forehead portion of the rod, a mount is provided which
would engage the binocular or monocular system. Helmet
mounting assemblies are also available, in which the
rod mounts directly to the operator's helmet. A helmet
mounting assembly of this kind is disclosed in US-A-5331459.
The components comprising a face mask or
helmet mounting system are referred to as headgear.It frequently becomes necessary for the operator
of a night vision system to temporarily remove the
system from its operational position. For example, an
operator of a vehicle such as a truck or a helicopter
travelling during low light conditions would typically
use a face mask or helmet mounted night vision system.
However, if it becomes necessary to quickly glance at
items within the vehicle, such as a map or an
instrument gauge, the operator would need to either
dislodge the night vision system from within its locked
position, or peek around the edges of the eye piece of
the system. Although installation and removal of the 
night vision system from its carriage on the headgear is
a relatively simple task, it does require a certain
degree of skill and can be hampered by the stress of the
operational environment.A mount for a night vision system which enables the
system to be pivoted from an operational to a non-operational,
stowed position without requiring removal of
the system is disclosed in US-A-4987608, such a mount
being referred to as a flip-up mount.According to the invention, there is provided a
mount for a night vision system, the mount comprising a
carriage configured to engage a coupling device provided
on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mount (20) for a night vision system, the mount
comprising a carriage (22) configured to engage a coupling

device (18) provided on a night vision system (10) and
secure the system thereto, and a pivotal armature (30)

carrying said carriage (22) and extending from a pivot
axis, said armature (30) being pivotal between a first

operational position, enabling the operator to use the
system, and a second stowed position, there being a brace (70)

including means (74) for securing said brace to a head gear
(7; 134) to be worn by an operator, characterised by the

brace (70) having an axle shaft (62) defining said pivot
axis, a sleeve (42) carrying said armature (30) and

rotatable about said shaft, and a spring biased locking
means (52, 54, 58) for securing said sleeve selectively in

respective ones of said first and second positions.
A mount according to claim 1, wherein the sleeve
(42) is integral with the armature (30).
A mount according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the sleeve (42) is arranged to move

relative to the shaft (62) so as to adopt a first axial
position in which said armature (30) is secured against

pivoting when in said operational and stowed positions and
a second axial position for pivoting the armature (30)

between said operational and stowed positions.
A mount according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the
sleeve is movable axially along said shaft and the locking

means comprises a locking member (58) and spring means (54)
biasing the sleeve (42) towards axial engagement with the

locking means (58).
A mount according to claim 3 and 4, wherein the
spring means (54) is arranged to urge the sleeve (42)

towards the first axial position.
A mount according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the

spring means (54) comprises a spring mounted within the
sleeve (42). 
A mount according to claim 6, wherein said spring
is a coil compression spring.
A mount according to claim 4, 5, 6 or 7, wherein
the locking means comprises a finger (58) extending axially

and secured relative to one of said brace (70) and sleeve
(42), said finger (58) having generally bevelled edges, and

the other of said brace (70) and sleeve (42) having an
axially disposed facing surface facing the finger (58) and

a pair of notches (52) extending into said facing surface,
the spring means (54) biasing said finger (58) normally

into direct contact with said facing surface, said notches
(52) being disposed angularly apart so that said sleeve

(42) can be rotated relative said shaft (62) until said
finger (58) engages a selected one of said notches (52) to

secure said armature (30) in place relative to said pivot
axis.
A mount according to claim 8, wherein the first
axial position is adopted when the finger (58) is engaged

in one of said notches (52) and the second axial position
is adopted when the finger (58) is in contact with said

facing surface out of engagement with one of said notches
(52).
A mount according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the
sleeve (42) has the pair of notches (52).
A mount according to claim 10, wherein the finger
(58) extends from the sleeve (42) and the notches (52)

extend into a surface secured relative to the brace (70).
A mount according to any one of claims 8 to 11,
wherein the notches (52) are disposed 180° apart around the

axis.
A mount according to any one of the preceding
claims wherein the carriage (22) is configured slidably to

receive into engagement and supportingly couple with the
coupling device of a night vision system.
A mount according to any one of the preceding
claims and comprising an anchor having means (76, 78; 122) 

for securing the brace securing means (74) to a head gear
(7; 134).
A mount according to claim 14, wherein said
anchor comprises:


a normally-horizontal support rod (76) and a pair of
carriage support rods (78) which extend perpendicularly

from said normally-horizontal support rod, said carriage
support rods connecting to said brace;
a forward hook (82) secured to said carriage support
rods for hooking onto a forward edge of a helmet serving as

head gear; and
a strap (86) secured to said normally-horizontal
support rod for securing to a rearward edge of a helmet.
A mount according to claim 15 and comprising a
ratchet means (92, 93) for varying the length of said strap

(86).
A mount according to any one of claims 1 to 13
and comprising a face mask (134) as head gear to be worn by

an operator, said brace (70) being secured to the face
mask.
A mount according to any one of claims 1 to 16
and comprising a helmet (7) as head gear to be worn by an

operator, said brace being secured to the helmet.
A mount according to claim 18 and comprising a
supplemental chin strap (144) which secures to a back

portion of the helmet, said supplemental chin strap
maintaining the helmet in proper orientation when said

system is in said operational position.
A mount according to claim 19, wherein the helmet
is provided with a chin strap, said supplemental chin strap

being adapted to replace the chin strap provided with the
helmet.
A mount according to claim 19 or 20, wherein said
supplemental chin strap comprises a first chin strap (144)

which secures to said back portion of said helmet, and a
second chin strap (142) which secures on both sides of said 

helmet, said first chin strap and said second chin strap
combining together at an intersecting point (146) at each

side of an operator's chin.
A mount according to any one of the preceding
claims, the armature (30) having a wall member (35) secured

to and extending from the sleeve (42) to define a pair of
spaced apart carriage frame members (38) carrying

respective rails (26) on which the carriage (22) is
slidably mounted, there being manually actuatable means

(28) for selectively locking and unlocking the carriage
(22) to and from the rails (26).
A mount according to claim 23 and comprising a
pair of support webs (36) each angularly extending between

a respective one of the carriage frame members (38) and the
wall member (35).
A mount according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the shaft (62) extends between a pair of

spaced apart arms (68) of the brace (70).
A mount according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the carriage (22) defines a plate receiving

portion configured for receiving a dove-tail plate mounting
of a night vision system.
A mont according to any one of the preceding
claims in combination with a night vision system which is

binocular.
A mount according to any one of claims 1 to 25 in
combination with a night vision system which is monocular.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
