<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628664</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Loader vehicle.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02F328	E02F328	E02F334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02F	E02F	E02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02F3	E02F3	E02F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A loader vehicle (10) comprising a body (11) having a front end (12) 
and a rear end (13) 

and provided with ground engageable propulsion means (14), an operator's 
compartment (22) and a boom assembly (40), comprising a lift arm assembly 

(41) and a pivot 
member (42) which projects transversely from the inner end of the lift 

arm assembly (41) 
on one side thereof and extends transversely across the body from said one 

side of the lift arm assembly (41) and which is pivotally mounted 
on the body (11), 

adjacent the rear end (13) thereof, for movement of the lift arm assembly 
(41) between 

a raised position and a lowered position in which the lift arm assembly 
(41) extends 

forwardly alongside the operator's compartment (22) and means for 
carrying a 

material handling implement at an outer end of the boom assembly (40) 
so as to 

be disposed forward of the front end of the body (11), characterised in 
that the 

pivot member (42) is pivotally mounted, for movement about a first axis, 
on a 

torsion member (44), which extends transversely across the body (11), 
by first pivotal 

mounting means disposed at positions which are spaced apart transversely of 
the torsion member (44) and the torsion member (44) is pivotally mounted 

on the body (11), 
for movement about a second axis which is parallel to the first axis 

and which 
extends transversely of the body (11), by second pivotal mounting means 

disposed at positions which are spaced apart transversely of the body (11). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAMFORD EXCAVATORS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAMFORD EXCAVATORS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAMFORD JOSEPH CYRIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOELLER FRANK THE PADDOCK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAMFORD JOSEPH CYRIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOELLER FRANK THE PADDOCK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a loader vehicle, hereinafter referred to as "of 
the kind specified" comprising a body having a front end and a rear end and 
provided with ground engageable propulsion means, an operator's 
compartment and a boom assembly, comprising a lift arm assembly and a pivot 
member which projects transversely from the inner end of the lift arm assembly 
on one side thereof and extends transversely across the body from said one 
side of the lift arm assembly and which is pivotally mounted on the body, 
adjacent the rear end thereof, for movement of the lift arm assembly between 
a raised position and a lowered position in which the lift arm assembly extends 
forwardly alongside the operator's compartment and means for carrying a 
material handling implement at an outer end of the boom assembly so as to 
be disposed forward of the front end of the body. Hitherto, in such a vehicle, the material handling implement has 
moved in an arcuate path as the lift arm assembly has been raised or lowered. 
This results in drawbacks such as when the implement is in a fully or nearly 
fully raised position it is vertically above or close to the front of the vehicle so 
that dumping of material from the implement into, for example, a truck, is 
difficult. Another drawback is a limitation on the shape of a vertical or 
substantially vertical excavation made by the vehicle. A further disadvantage 
is the change in the position of the centre of gravity of the vehicle as the 
loader arm assembly is raised and lowered which causes large variations in 
lifting ability to occur as well as rendering the vehicle susceptible to instability.  An object of the invention is to provide a new and improved loader 
vehicle of the kind specified wherein the above mentioned problems are 
overcome or are reduced. According to the invention we provide a loader vehicle wherein the 
pivot member is pivotally mounted, for movement about a first axis, on a 
torsion member, which extends transversely across the body, by first pivotal 
mounting means disposed at positions which are spaced apart transversely of 
the torsion member and the torsion member is pivotally mounted on the body, 
for movement about a second axis which is parallel to the first axis and which 
extends transversely of the body, by second pivotal mounting means disposed 
at positions which are spaced apart transversely of the body. The vehicle may have a single operator's compartment which may be 
provided at a fixed location on the body. The operator's
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A loader vehicle comprising a body having a front end and a rear end 
and provided with ground engageable propulsion means, an operator's 

compartment and a boom assembly, comprising a lift arm assembly and a pivot 
member which projects transversely from the inner end of the lift arm assembly 

on one side thereof and extends transversely across the body from said one 
side of the lift arm assembly and which is pivotally mounted on the body, 

adjacent the rear end thereof, for movement of the lift arm assembly between 
a raised position and a lowered position in which the lift arm assembly extends 

forwardly alongside the operator's compartment and means for carrying a 
material handling implement at an outer end of the boom assembly so as to 

be disposed forward of the front end of the body, characterised in that the 
pivot member is pivotally mounted, for movement about a first axis, on a 

torsion member, which extends transversely across the body, by first pivotal 
mounting means disposed at positions which are spaced apart transversely of 

the torsion member and the torsion member is pivotally mounted on the body, 
for movement about a second axis which is parallel to the first axis and which 

extends transversely of the body, by second pivotal mounting means disposed 
at positions which are spaced apart transversely of the body. 
2. A vehicle according to claim 1 wherein the boom assembly comprises 
a unitary generally L-shaped member comprising the lift arm assembly and the 

pivot member which projects from the inner end of the lift arm assembly on 
one side thereof and extends transversely across the body on said one side of 

the lift arm assembly to a position adjacent the opposite side of the body. 
3. A vehicle according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the torsion member 
is pivotally mounted on the body by pivotal mounting means disposed at fixed 

positions which are spaced apart transversely of the body and are adjacent an 
upper rear end part of the body and are on opposite sides of the body. 
4. A vehicle according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
distance between the first and second axes of pivot is substantially shorter than 

the length of the lift arm assembly. 
5. A vehicle according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a 
lifting means is connected at one end to the body at a position between the 

forward end and the rearward end of the ground engageable propulsion means 
and at its other end to the lift arm assembly at a position intermediate the 

forward end thereof and the pivot member so as to extend upwardly and 
rearwardly from the body to the lift arm assembly at least when the lift arm 

assembly is in a lowered position. 
6. A vehicle according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a 
lifting means is connected between the lift arm assembly and the body and a 

guide link is connected between the body and the lift arm assembly to 
constrain the forward end of the lift arm assembly to move in a predetermined 

path that may be substantially vertical as the forward end is moved between 
a lowered and a raised position. 
7. A vehicle according to claim 6 wherein the guide link has one end 
pivotally connected to the body adjacent the forward end of the body and a 

second end disposed rearwardly of the first end and pivotally connected to the 
lift arm assembly at a position between the forward end and the pivot member. 

 
that said included angle increases as the lift arm assembly moves over a second 

portion of said range of movement. 
14. A vehicle according to any one of claims 6 to 13 wherein the lift arm 

assembly comprises a first part which extends generally downwardly from the 
first axis of pivot, a second part which extends forwardly generally horizontally 

from the lower end of the first part, and a third part which extends downwardly 
from the forward end of the second part and the guide link is connected to the 

lift arm assembly in the region where the first and second parts of the lift arm 
assembly meet. 
15. A vehicle according to claim 14 wherein the lifting means is connected 
to the lift arm assembly in said region. 
16. A vehicle according to any one of claims 6 to 15 wherein the position 
of connection of the guide link to the lift arm assembly is disposed below a line 

joining the position of pivotal connection of the forward end of the guide link 
to the body and the first pivotal axis when the lift arm assembly is in a lowered 

position and moves to a position above said line as the lift arm assembly is 
moved to its uppermost position. 
17. A vehicle according to any one of claims 11 to 16 wherein the boom 
assembly comprises an implement levelling ram means hydraulically connected 

to an implement crowd ram means to maintain the material handling 
implement in a fixed orientation relative to the body irrespective of raising and 

lowering of the lift arm assembly and wherein the implement levelling ram 
means has a first end connected to the lift arm assembly and extends 

rearwardly therefrom to have a second end connected to the guide link at a 
 

position adjacent to and spaced from the pivotal connection of the guide link 
to the lift arm assembly. 
18. A vehicle according to claim 6, or any one of claims 7 to 17 when 
directly or indirectly dependent on claim 6 wherein the guide link comprises 

a pair of spaced parallel guide link elements and the lifting means is disposed 
so as to extend between the elements. 
19. A vehicle according to claim 18 when dependent on claim 17 or claim 
18 wherein the implement levelling ram means is disposed on the outer side 

of the lifting means and is pivotally connected to an outer one of said pair of 
link elements. 
20. A vehicle according to any one of the preceding claims wherein an 
access opening to the operator's compartment is provided on the other side of 

the operator's compartment to that alongside which the lift arm assembly 
extends and the mounting means and torsion member are disposed on or 

adjacent a top rear part of the operator's compartment at a level whereby an 
operator can see horizontally rearwardly beneath the torsion member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
