<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611135</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-lingual voice response unit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F316	G06F316	G10L1500	G10L1526	H04M3487	H04M3493	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G10L	G10L	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G10L15	G10L15	H04M3	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-lingual voice response unit apparatus and 
method are disclosed. The apparatus comprises 

selection circuit means for selecting one of a 
plurality of stored spoken human languages in response 

to input in a particular spoken human language received 
from a user and voice response circuit means for 

subsequently responding to the user in the selected one 
of the plurality of spoken human languages. In this 

manner, interaction between the user and the voice 
response unit of the present invention is entirely by 

means of spoken words, relieving the user of the need 
to interact with the voice response unit by means of 

mechanically-produced pulses or tones or by any other 
mechanical means. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERVOICE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERVOICE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYLE DAVID MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYLE, DAVID MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to a multi-lingual 
voice response unit and, more particularly, to a voice 
response unit which has the capacity to respond in a 
selectable one of a number of languages depending upon 
a spoken input from a user.  Voice response units, in the general sense, are 
not new. A voice response unit is defined to be a 
device which has the capacity to respond in a stored 
and prerecorded or synthesized human voice to commands 
received from a user. Voice response units are 
typically coupled to a telephone system to thereby 
allow a remote user to call the voice response unit and 
query it for information in voice form. Voice response 
units typically receive their information to answer the 
user's queries by querying a database coupled to the 
voice response unit and deliver that information to the 
user in spoken voice. In traditional voice response units, the voice 
response unit receives a command from the user in the 
form of pulses or tones created by a standard telephone 
instrument and, with the aid of relatively simple 
decoding circuitry, translates the pulses or tones into 
a machine-processable format. The voice response unit 
then parses the user's query to derive therefrom a 
query suitable for accessing the database attached to 
the voice response unit. Having retrieved information 
from the database, the voice response unit combines the 
data received from the database with stored words or 
phrases to produce thereby a stream of spoken words 
which the voice response unit then transmits, by means 
of a voice synthesizer, to the user over the telephone 
system. In this manner, the user can maintain a type 
of dialog with the voice response unit, enabling the 
user to "ask questions" and receive vocal answers from 
a remote database. One of the problems encountered and solved in the 
prior art arose in connection with the requirement that  
 
the user supply pulses or tones to interact with the 
voice response unit. In recent years, voice 
recognition systems have been designed which integrate 
voice response units and voice recognition units. 
These voice recognition units, when coupled to voice 
response units, allow a true voice "conversation" to 
occur between the user and the voice response unit. 
Unfortunately, unlike in the case in which the user 
communicates via standardized pulses or tones, people 
communicate vocally in many different languages. Thus, 
a voice response unit which has been programmed to 
respond exclusively in English is useless to a user who
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-lingual voice response unit 
apparatus, comprising: 

   selection circuit means for selecting one of a 
plurality of stored spoken human languages in response 

to input in a particular spoken human language received 
from a user; 

   voice response circuit means for subsequently 
responding to said user in said selected one of said 

plurality of spoken human languages; 
   means for retrieving information stored within a 

database coupled to said apparatus in response to a 
user request in said selected one of said plurality of 

spoken human languages; and 
   means for formulating and transmitting a reply to 

said user in said selected one of said plurality of 
spoken human languages, said reply including said 

retrieved information. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising voice generation circuit means for prompting 

said user to provide information regarding which spoken 
human language said user prefers. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising means for parsing said input in said 

particular spoken human language to determine if said 
input is in said selected one of said plurality of 

spoken human languages. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising means for rejecting said input if said input 

is not in said selected one of said plurality of spoken 
human languages. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising means for coupling said apparatus to a 

telephone system, said telephone system enabling said 
apparatus to communicate with remote users over a 

telephone line. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising memory means for storing said plurality of 

stored spoken human languages. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 wherein 
said means for selecting comprises pointer means for 

providing a selectable address offset, said pointer 
means allowing selectable addressing of corresponding 

phrases in said plurality of spoken human languages. 
The apparatus as recited in Claim 1 wherein 
said apparatus is embodied in a programed general 

purpose computer. 
A multi-lingual voice response system 
implemented in a general purpose computer, comprising: 

   voice generation circuit means for prompting a 
user to provide information regarding which spoken 

human language said user prefers; 
   memory means for storing a plurality of spoken 

human languages; 
   selection circuit means for selecting one of said 

plurality of stored spoken human languages in response 
to input in a particular spoken human language received 

from said user, said selection circuit means including 
pointer means for providing a selectable address, to 

thereby allow selectable addressing of corresponding 
phrases in said plurality of spoken human languages; 

   means for converting said input in said particular 
spoken human language into a machine-recognizable form;

 
   means, coupled to said converting means, for 

retrieving information from a database coupled to said 
apparatus in response to a user request for said 

information in said selected one of said plurality of 
spoken human languages; 

   means for formulating and transmitting a reply to 
said user in said selected one of said plurality of 

spoken human languages, said reply including said 
retrieved information; 

   means for rejecting said input if said input is 
not in said selected one of said plurality of spoken 

human languages; 
   voice response circuit means for subsequently 

responding to said user in said selected one of said 
plurality of spoken human languages; and 

   means for coupling said apparatus to a telephone 
system, said telephone system enabling said apparatus 

to communicate with a remote user over a telephone 
line. 
A multi-lingual voice response unit 
apparatus, comprising: 

   selection circuit means for selecting one of a 
plurality of stored spoken human languages in response 

to input in a particular spoken human language received 
from a user; 

   voice response circuit means for subsequently 
responding to said user in said selected one of said 

plurality of spoken human languages; and 
   means for converting said input in said particular 

spoken human language into a machine-recognizable form. 
A method of operation for a multi-lingual 
voice response unit apparatus, comprising the steps of: 

   selecting one of a plurality of stored spoken 
human languages in response to input in a particular 

spoken human language received from a user; 
   subsequently responding to said user in said 

selected one of said plurality of spoken human 
languages; and 

   converting said input in said particular spoken 
human language into a machine-recognizable form. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
