<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634954</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXHAUST TREATMENT SYSTEM AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5332	B01D5332	B01D5356	B01D5356	B01D5374	B01D5374	B01D5386	B01D5386	B01D5394	B01D5394	B01J1908	B01J1908	B01J1912	B01J1912	F01N300	F01N301	F01N308	F01N308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01J19	B01J19	B01J19	B01J19	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLASMACHINES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLASMACHINES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICH STANLEY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICH, STANLEY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXHAUST TREATMENT SYSTEM AND METHODTechnical FieldThis invention relates to apparatus and method for reducing polluting substances such as NOx, hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide emissions in a fluid such as an exhaust gas or stack gas.Background ArtPolluting agents in exhaust gases generated by internal combustion engines and in stack gases generated by power plants burning fossil fuels have seriously degraded air quality in many locations and created acid rain, smog and a host of other environmental problems. Two pollution components commonly found in exhaust and stack gases are nitrogen compounds such as nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide (collectively called NOx) , carbon monoxide and various hydrocarbon compounds which result from incomplete or imperfect combustion of the fossil fuels. Although these components are known to cause pollution problems, recent attention has focused on NOx compounds which are in part responsible for acid rain. Attempts to control, reduce or eliminate the pollutants in exhaust gases have included mechanical, electrical and chemical apparatus.One known method of reducing pollutants is by means of chemical apparatus such as catalytic converters. Such devices are typically used with internal combustion engines such as those found in automobiles. In a catalytic converter system, engine exhaust gases are mixed with air and the mixture then passes through a catalyst bed. In the catalyst bed, pollutants in the exhaust gas react with the air in the mixture to produce more complete combustion. Such devices have drawbacks. For example, they restrict the exhaust gas flow and therefore increase the exhaust back-pressure on the internal combustion engine, resulting in reduced efficiency and fuel economy. 

 - __ -Further, the catalyst must be replaced at regular intervals to maintain conversion efficiency, thus increasing maintenance expense. In addition, such catalytic converters are not known to efficiently reduce NOx pollutants. Consequently, additional techniques are generally used in conjunction with the converter systems to reduce NOx pollutants. These additional techniques generally take the form of recirculating a portion of the engine exhaust gases through the engine to reduce combustion temperatures. However, these additional techniques further reduce fuel efficiency and economy and require additional equipment.Other proposals to reduce pollution to a satisfactory level have involved the application of electric fields to the pollutant-containing exhaust gas. Such proposals
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed 1st
1. A method for reducing pollutants including NOx compounds in a moving fluid, said method comprising the steps of: providing a closed treatment chamber having a length and an input and output and comprised of a conductive material sufficient to make said treatment chamber a first electrode; providing a dielectric insulating element within said treatment chamber; placing within said dielectric insulating element conductive material sufficient to create a second electrode; generating an alternating current electric field between said first and second electrodes; directing said moving fluid through said treatment chamber and said electric field; and adjusting the frequency and strength of said electric field so that a dielectric discharge occurs while said field strength remains low enough that the temperature of said moving fluid remains in the temperature range where the heat of formation of said NOx compounds is negative.
2. The method according to claim 1, further including the step of: adjusting said treatment chamber length and said alternating currency frequency such that said moving fluid is subjected to at least eight half-cycles of said discharge while in said treatment chamber.
3. A method for reducing pollutants, including NOx compounds, in a moving fluid in a closed treatment chamber having a length and at least one pair of 



 electrodes separated by an insulator, said method comprising the steps of: directing said fluid through said chamber; applying an alternating current electrical field across said electrodes to cause a dielectric discharge to occur between said electrodes, said field having a frequency and a strength low enough that the temperature of said fluid remains in the temperature range where the heat of formation of said NOx compounds is negative; and adjusting said treatment chamber length and said alternating current frequency such that said fluid is subjected to at least eight half-cycles of said discharge while in said treatment chamber.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said first electrode comprises said treatment chamber, and said second electrode comprises an electrical conductor located inside a dielectric insulator placed within said treatment chamber.
5. The method according to Claim 4, wherein a portion of the inside of said treatment chamber comprises a catalyst.
6. The method according to Claim 4, further including an ultraviolet light source positioned such that said moving fluid passes through the light emitted from said light source.
7. The method according to Claim 3, further including an ultraviolet light source positioned such that said moving fluid passes through the light emitted from said light source. 


8. Apparatus for reducing pollutants, including NOx compounds, in a moving fluid, said apparatus comprising: a treatment chamber having an inlet and an outlet through which said moving fluid passes and comprised of a conductive material sufficient to form a first electrode; a tubular element within said treatment chamber positioned such that said moving fluid passes between said tubular element and said first electrode, said tubular element comprising a dielectric insulating material and having a conductive material located within said tubular element to form a second electrode; means for generating an alternating current electrical field between said first and second electrodes having a strength high enough that a dielectric discharge occurs between said electrodes, and low enough that the temperature of said moving fluid remains in the temperature range where the heat of formation of said NOx compounds is negative.
9. Apparatus according to Claim 8, wherein a portion of said treatment comprises a catalyst.
10. Apparatus according to Claim 8, further including an ultraviolet light source positioned such that said moving fluid passes through the light emitted from said light source.
11. Apparatus according to Claim 9, further including an ultraviolet light source positioned such that said moving fluid passes through the light emitted from said light source. 


12. Apparatus according to Claim 8, wherein said treatment chamber is cylindrical and said fluid passes longitudinally through said chamber.
13. Apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said insulating material is fused quartz or boron nitride.
14. Apparatus according to Claim 13, wherein said treatment chamber is of a length and said electric field has a frequency such that said moving fluid is subjected to at least eight half-cycles of electric discharge while in said treatment chamber.
15. Apparatus for reducing pollutants, including NOx compounds, in a moving fluid, said apparatus comprising: a cylindrical treatment chamber comprised of an electrically conductive material sufficient to form a first electrode, said chamber having an inlet and an outlet and an axis; a tubular insulator structure located in said chamber along said chamber axis and passing through said chamber; a second electrode located on the inside of said tubular insulator structure; a power supply for generating an alternating current voltage; and means for applying said electrical voltage to said first and second electrodes to create an electric field within said chamber, said field having a strength sufficient that a dielectric discharge occurs between said first and second electrodes, but said field strength being low enough that the temperature of said fluid remains in the temperature range where 


 the heat of formation of said NOx compounds is negative.
16. Apparatus according to Claim 15, wherein a portion of said treatment chamber comprises a catalyst.
17. Apparatus according to Claim 16, further including an ultraviolet light source positioned such that said moving fluid passes through the light emitted from said light source.
18. Apparatus according to Claim 17, further including an ultraviolet light source positioned such that said moving fluid passes through the light emitted from said light source.
19. Apparatus for treating pollutants in a moving fluid according to Claim 17 wherein said insulator structure is comprised of fused quartz or boron nitride. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
