<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651245</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluid delivery apparatus and method having an infrared feedline sensor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1644	C23C1644	C23C16455	C23C16455	C23C1652	C23C1652	C23F400	C23F400	G01N2131	G01N2133	G01N2135	H01L2102	H01L21205	H01L21302	H01L2131	H01L3100	H01L3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23F	C23F	G01N	G01N	G01N	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23F4	C23F4	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (20) for processing a layer on a workpiece 
(26) includes a source (30) of reactant fluid (32), a 

reaction chamber (22) having a support (24) for the workpiece 
and a fluid delivery apparatus (34,36,38) for feeding an 

input fluid into the reaction chamber with the input fluid 
being utilized to process the material. An infrared (40) 

sensor is adapted to cooperate with the fluid delivery 
apparatus for sensing the concentration of a component of the 

input fluid. The infrared sensor includes an infrared light 
source positioned to direct a beam of infrared light at an 

infrared light detector through the input fluid. The 
infrared light detector produces an electrical output signal 

indicative of the amount of light received by the detector 
and therefore not absorbed by the input fluid. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAPPLE-SOKOL JONATHAN DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTI RICHARD ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COTLER TINA JANE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'NEILL JAMES ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PASSOW MICHAEL LANE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINGH JYOTHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAPPLE-SOKOL, JONATHAN DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTI, RICHARD ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COTLER, TINA JANE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'NEILL, JAMES ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PASSOW, MICHAEL LANE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINGH, JYOTHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a fluid 
delivery apparatus and method and more particularly to an 
apparatus and method for monitoring and controlling the 
concentration of a compound of a gas delivered to a chamber 
for manufacturing microelectronic devices. The development and parameter optimization of CVD and 
etch processes used in the manufacture of microelectronic 
devices has heretofore been accomplished to a large extent by 
empirical techniques, such as the use of monitor and send-ahead 
wafers. The use of such techniques has been 
necessitated because no reliable method has existed to 
measure and control certain key process parameters, such as 
the deposition rate and quality of a deposited film, as they 
are changing during the process, i.e., in real-time. This 
problem has been particularly true in those CVD processes 
which use precursor gases derived from liquid or solid 
sources to form the deposited film. For example, CVD 
processes which use tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) to deposit oxide 
films have attained widespread use as described in 
U S -A- 4 849 259. Condensible gases have also frequently 
been used as a source of phosphorous or boron in the 
formation of doped oxide films. Such condensible feedgases 
are frequently derived by bubbling a carrier gas through a 
reservoir of liquid precursor or passing a carrier across a 
solid precursor held at a temperature necessary to maintain 
an adequate vapor pressure. The gas entrained in this manner 
is then delivered to a reaction chamber through heated 
delivery lines (see the aforementioned U S -A- 4 849 259). 
In an alternate method, undiluted vapor may be delivered to 
a reaction chamber without the use of a carrier gas. 
Applicants have discovered that the quality of the film 
deposited and the film deposition rate in such CVD processes 
are a function of the concentration of the feedgas. The 
feedgas concentration is in turn a sensitive function of the  
 
thermal stability of the liquid source and the delivery 
apparatus, the level of the liquid in the reservoir and the 
rate of flow of the carrier gas. Thus in the absence of a 
means to measure the concentration of such condensible 
feedgases in real-time, it has heretofor been necessary to 
employ costly and time consuming empirical techniques to 
control such CVD processes. Accordingly, an apparatus and method are provided for 
processing a layer on a workpiece. The apparatus includes a 
source of reactant fluid, a reaction chamber having a support 
for the workpiece
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fluid delivery apparatus comprising: 
a first conduit adapted to have a fluid flowing liquid 

therethrough; 
an infrared sensor in fluid communication with said 

first conduit for sensing the concentration of a 
component of said fluid, said infrared sensor including 

an infrared light source and an infrared light detector, 
said infrared light source being positioned to direct a 

beam of infrared light at said infrared light detector 
through said fluid, said infrared light detector 

including means for producing an electrical output 
signal indicative of the amount of infrared light 

received by said detector; and 
a second conduit in fluid communication with said 

infrared sensor for permitting the fluid sensed by said 
infrared sensor to flow therethrough. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said infrared light source emits light having a 

wavelength in a predetermined range of infrared 
wavelengths. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 2 
wherein said infrared light source includes a first 

filter in the path of said beam of infrared light, said 
first 
filter having a bandwidth equal to or less than 
100cm⁻¹ centered about a first predetermined wavelength 

in the infrared range. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 3 
wherein said infrared sensor includes means for focusing 

said beam of infrared light on said detector. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 3 
wherein said infrared sensor includes means for 

modulating said beam of infrared light and means for 
demodulating said electrical output signal. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 5 
wherein said means for modulating said beam of infrared 

light is an optical chopper positioned in the path of 
said beam and said means for demodulating said 

electrical output signal is a lock-in amplifier, said 
lock-in amplifier including means for monitoring the 

frequency of said optical chopper and being responsive 
to said monitoring means and said electrical output for 

producing a demodulated electrical output signal. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 6 
wherein said optical chopper is a rotating element 

positioned in the path of said beam of infrared light, 
said element including said first filter and at least a 

second filter having a bandwidth equal to or less than 
100cm⁻¹ centered about a second predetermined wavelength 

in the infrared range, said first and second filters 
being positioned to alternately be placed in the path of 

said beam of infrared light as said rotating element 
rotates. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 7 
wherein light at said second predetermined wavelength is 

not absorbed by said fluid, said second filter thereby 
providing an optical reference signal to said infrared 

light detector. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 8 
wherein said infrared light detector produces an 

electrical reference signal in response to said optical 
reference signal and wherein said infrared sensor 

further includes circuit means for taking the ratio of 
said reference signal and said demodulated electrical 

output signal and generating a ratio output signal 
indicative thereof. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 2 
wherein said infrared light source is a laser tuned to 

a predetermined infrared wavelength. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said infrared light detector is a pyroelectric 

detector. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said infrared sensor includes a first housing 

having said infrared light source mounted therein and 
having an outer wall with a first window contained 

therein for permitting infrared light to pass 
therethrough, a second housing having said infrared 

light detector mounted therein and having an outer wall 
with a second window contained therein for permitting 

infrared light to pass therethrough, and a sample 
chamber mounted between said first and second windows 

for permitting said beam of infrared light to pass 
through said first and second windows and said sample 

chamber, said sample chamber further including a fluid 
inlet in fluid communication with said first conduit and 

a fluid outlet in fluid communication with said second 
conduit. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 12 
wherein said first and second windows are made of a 

material selected from the group consisting essentially 
of ZnSe, ZnS, Ge, KCl, KRS-5, AgCl, AgBr, Al₂O₃, MgF₂ and 

CaF₂. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said infrared light source is a Fourier 

transform infrared spectrometer and wherein said 
infrared sensor includes computer means for computing 

the infrared spectrum from said electrical output signal 
and deriving the concentration of said component of said 

input fluid therefrom. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 1 
further including control means responsive to said 

electrical output signal for controlling the rate of 
flow of said fluid in said second conduit. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 15 
further including means for controlling the 

concentration of said component of said fluid. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 15 
wherein said fluid is a gas and said control means 

includes a valve for controlling the flow of said gas 
through said second conduit and a process controller 

having a library of reference data contained therein for 
comparing said electrical output signal to said 

reference data and controlling the position of said 
valve in response thereto. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 17 
 

wherein said process controller controls the rate of 
processing said layer of material. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 17 
further including a reactant source and means for 

generating said gas from said reactant source. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 19 
wherein said reactant source is a reactant liquid and 

further including a source of a carrier gas delivered to 
said reactant liquid at a first flow rate to generate 

said input gas therefrom, a source of diluent gas 
delivered to said input conduit at a second flow rate to 

mix with said input gas and flow control means 
responsive to said reference data for maintaining the 

concentration of said component of said input gas 
constant. 
A fluid delivery apparatus as set forth in claim 20 
wherein said flow control means maintains the sum of 

said first and second flow rates constant. 
An apparatus for processing a layer of material on a 
workpiece comprising: 

a source of reactant fluid; 
a reaction chamber including means for supporting said 

workpiece; and, the fluid delivery apparatus as 
described by reference to any claim 1 to 21. 
A method of processing a layer of material on a 
workpiece comprising: 

supporting said workpiece in a reaction chamber;
 

feeding an input fluid from a source of reactant fluid 
into said reaction chamber to form said material; and 

sensing the concentration of a component of said input 
fluid by directing a beam of infrared light through the 

direct feed of input fluid from said source of reactant 
fluid to said reaction chamber, detecting the amount of 

said beam of infrared light not absorbed by said input 
fluid, and producing an electrical output signal 

indicative of said non-absorbed infrared light. 
The method of claim 23 wherein said infrared light is 
emitted in a predetermined range of infrared 

wavelengths. 
The method of claim 24 further including filtering said 
beam of infrared light to a bandwidth not greater than 

100cm⁻¹ centered about a first predetermined wavelength 
in the infrared range. 
The method of claim 24 further including focusing said 
beam of infrared light on an infrared light detector. 
The method of claim 24 further including modulating said 
beam of infrared light and demodulating said electrical 

output signal. 
The method of claim 27 further including filtering said 
beam of infrared light to a bandwidt
h not greater than 
100cm⁻¹ centered about a second predetermined wavelength 

in the infrared range. 
The method of claim 28 further including converting said 
beam of filtered infrared light to an electrical signal, 

taking the ratio of said electrical signal and said 
demodulated electrical output signal and generating an 

output signal indicative thereof. 
The method of claim 23 further including controlling the 
rate of flow of said input fluid into said reaction 

chamber. 
The method of claim 30 wherein said input fluid is an 
input gas and wherein said step of controlling the rate 

of flow of said input gas includes comparing said 
electrical output signal to a library of reference data. 
The method of claim 31 wherein said step of controlling 
the rate of flow of said input gas includes controlling 

the rate of processing said layer of material. 
The method of claim 31 wherein said source of reactant 
fluid is a reactant liquid and further including 

delivering a carrier gas to said reactant liquid at a 
first flow rate thereby generating a reactant gas, 

delivering a diluent gas to said reactant gas at a 
second flow rate and maintaining the sum of said first 

and second flow rates constant. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
