<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND MEANS FOR TRANSMULTIPLEXING SIGNALS BETWEEN SIGNAL TERMINALS AND RADIO FREQUENCY CHANNELS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H1702	H03H1702	H03M730	H03M730	H04J400	H04J400	H04L500	H04L526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	H03M	H03M	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H17	H03H17	H03M7	H03M7	H04J4	H04J4	H04L5	H04L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and means are provided of transmultiplexing a plurality of signals between a plurality of signal terminals (17 or 29) and a plurality of selected radio frequency channels. The method includes the step of, and means for, frequency translating and filtering the plurality of signals between the plurality of selected channels and a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank (16 or 21) within a comb filter (15 or 22). The method further includes the step of frequency division multiplexing the plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals and comb filter (15 or 22) within a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank (16 or 21).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON ROBERT MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON, ROBERT, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A METHOD AND MEANS FOR TRANSMULΗPLEXINGSIGNALS BETWEEN SIGNAL TERMINALS AND RADIOFREQUENCY CHANNELSField of the InventionThe invention relates to communication systems, and in specific to multichannel transmultiplexing within communication systems.Background of the InventionDigital signal processing, and the digital signal processors (DSPs) within which such processing occurs, are known. DSPs are typically used whenever significant numbers of sample parameters must be collected and/or communicated. DSPs in such an environment are used to control sampling and encoding of a signal for storage or transmission to a destination. Although the most familiar uses of such systems lie in the area of voice processing for communications systems, significant applications for such techniques exist in other areas such as geologic surveying or other multi-dimensional data gathering activities. Use of DSPs in the context of signal gathering and transmission is often limited to a single input signal. Such single input format is convenient because of the complexity of the multi-input data encoding within the transmission channel and also because of the computational complexity of multichannel signal processing within a DSP.Within the context of a single transmission channel a DSP provides considerable flexibility in adapting to the constraints of the channel. Data samples gathered at a first sampling rate may be reconstructed within the DSP at a second sampling rate without loss of information under the well-known sampling theorem (see pgs. 20-- 21 of Multirate Digital Signal Processing by Crochiere and Rabiner, Prentice-Hall Inc., 1983). Where the sampling rate is increased, the values of the increased sampling rate are generated through a 

process generally referred to as interpolation. As the sampling rate, n, increases (n approaches infinity) a continuous signal (analogous to the originally sampled signal) is generated. Where the sampling rate is decreased, the process is referred to as decimation. The only limit on decimation is that the sampling rate may not be decreased below twice the highest frequency present in the sampled signal, all in accordance with the familiar Nyquist theorem.In addition to decimation and interpolation, a bandwidth of a sampled signal may be translated in frequency from a first frequency to a second frequency. As an example, a sampled signal may be frequency translated from a zero-radio frequency (zero-rf) baseband to an appropriate spectrum for transmission through a medium to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of transmultiplexing a plurality of signals between a plurality of signal terminals and a plurality of selected radio frequency channels, such method comprising the steps of: frequency translating and filtering the plurality of signals between the plurality of selected channels and a discrete Fourier transform filter bank within a comb filter; and frequency division transmultiplexing the plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals and comb filter within a discrete Fourier transform filter bank.
2. The method as in claim 1 further including the step of encoding a plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals to the plurality of selected channels using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank and an interpolating comb filter.
3. The method as in claim 1 further including the step of decoding a plurality of output signals from the plurality of selected channels to the plurality of signal terminals using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank and a decimating comb filter.
4. An apparatus for transmultiplexing a plurality of signals between a plurality of signal terminals and a plurality of selected radio frequency channels, such apparatus comprising: means for frequency translating and filtering the plurality of signals between the plurality of selected channels and a discrete Fourier transform filter bank within a comb filter; and means for frequency division transmultiplexing the plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals and comb filter within a discrete Fourier transform filter bank. 



5. The apparatus as in claim 4 further comprising means for encoding a plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals to the plurality of selected channels using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank and an interpolating comb filter.
6. The apparatus as in claim 4 further comprising means for decoding a plurality of output signals from the plurality of selected channels to the plurality of signal terminals using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank and a decimating comb filter.
7. A method of comb filtering and decimating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such method comprising the steps of: commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality o decimating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels; decimating the commutated signal, by a decimation factor within each of the substantially identical decimating filters; and, commutating an output of the filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate divided by the decimation factor with a new commutated branch number equal to an old branch number plus the decimation factor modulo the number of discrete information channels.
8. An apparatus for comb filtering and decimating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such apparatus comprising: means for commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of decimating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels; means for decimating the commutated signal, by a decimation factor within each of the decimating filters; and, means for commutating an output of the substantially identical filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate divided by the decimation factor with a new commutated branch number equal to an old branch number plus the decimation factor modulo the number of discrete information channels. 


9. A method of comb filtering and interpolating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such method comprising the steps of: commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of interpolating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels with a new commutated branch number equal to an old branch number plus an interpolation factor modulo the number of discrete information channels; interpolating the commutated signal, by the interpolation factor within each of the interpolating filters; and, commutating an output of the substantially identical filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate multiplied by the interpolation factor.
10. An apparatus for comb filtering and interpolating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such apparatus comprising: means for commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of interpolating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels with a new commutated branch number equal to an old branch number plus an interpolation factor modulo the number of discrete information channels; means for interpolating the commutated signal, by the interpolation factor within each of the interpolating filters; and, means for commutating an output of the filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate multiplied by the interpolation factor. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 4 April 1994 (04.04.94); original claims 1-10 replaced by amended claims 1-10 (3 pages)]
1. A method of transmultiplexing a plurality of signals between a plurality of signal terminals and a plurality of selected radio frequency channels such method comprising the steps of: frequency translating and filtering within a comb filter the plurality of signals between the plurality of selected channels and a discrete Fourier transform filter bank; and frequency division transmultiplexing the plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals and comb filter within a discrete Fourier transform filter bank.
2. The method as in claim 1 further including the step of encoding a plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals to the plurality of selected channels using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank as the discrete Fourier transform filter bank and an interpolating comb filter as the comb filter.
3. The method as in claim 1 further including the step of decoding a plurality of output signals between the plurality of selected channels and the plurality of signal terminals using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank as the discrete Fourier transform filter bank and an interpolating comb filter as the comb filter.
. An apparatus for transmultiplexing a plurality of signals between a plurality of signal terminals and a plurality of selected communication frequency channels, such apparatus comprising: means for comb filtering and frequency translating the plurality of signals between the plurality of selected channels and a discrete Fourier transform filter bank; and means for frequency division transmultiplexing the plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals and a comb filter within a discrete Fourier transform filter bank. 


5. The apparatus as in claim 4 further comprising means for encoding a plurality of signals between the plurality of signal terminals to the plurality of selected channels using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank as the discrete Fourier transform filter bank and an interpolating comb filter as the comb filter.
6. The apparatus as in claim 4 further comprising means for decoding a plurality of output signals between the plurality of selected channels and the plurality of signal terminals using a polyphase discrete Fourier transform filter bank as the discrete Fourier transform filter bank and an interpolating comb filter as the comb filter.
7. A method of comb filtering and decimating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such method comprising the steps of: commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of decimating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels; decimating the commutated signal, by a decimation factor within each of the decimating filters; and, commutating an output of the filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate divided by the decimation factor, wherein a commutated branch number is equal to an old branch number plus the decimation factor modulod the number of discrete information channels.
8. An apparatus for comb filtering and decimating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such apparatus comprising: means for commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of decimating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels; means for decimating the commutated signal, by a decimation factor within each of the decimating filters; and, means for commutating an output of the substantially identical filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate divided by the decimation factor with a new commutated branch number equal to an prior branch number plus the decimation factor modulod the number of discrete information channels. 


9. A method of comb filtering and interpolating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such method comprising the steps of: commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of interpolating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels with a new commutated branch number equal to an prior branch number plus an interpolation factor modulo the number of discrete information channels; interpolating the commutated signal, by the interpolation factor within each of the interpolating filters; and, commutating an output of the substantially identical filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate multiplied by the interpolation factor.
10. An apparatus for comb filtering and interpolating an input sample sequence containing a number of discrete information channels, such apparatus comprising: means for commutating the input sample sequence, at a first sample rate, to a plurality of interpolating filters equal to the number of discrete information channels with a new commutated branch number equal to an prior branch number plus an interpolation factor modulo the number of discrete information channels; means for interpolating the commutated signal, by the interpolation factor within each of the interpolating filters; and, means for commutating an output of the filters, at a second sample rate equal to the first sample rate multiplied by the interpolation . factor. 

STATEMENTUNDER ARTICLE 19
This statement is being filed in reply to a communication dated 4 February 1994.
In the search report, claims 7-10 were indicated as lacking novelty because of Morton (US-A-4, 881, 191) . The Morton reference describes a decimating filter, but differs from the invention presently claim in two aspects. The present invention teaches a transmultiplexing by comb filtering and decimating a plurality of signals. In addition, the Morton reference addresses the use of rate change filters operating on time multiplexed channels whereas the present claims filters multiple channels which are multiplexed in frequency. These elements are not shown or taught by the Morton reference. Therefore, Applicants contend that claims 7-10 are novel over the Morton reference .
The search report also indicated that claim 1-6 lack an inventive step in view of Ichiyoshi (US-A-4,785, 47) and the Bellanger IEEE article. Neither of the references consider the use of discrete Fourier transform (DFT) filter banks with comb filters . The use of an interpolating/decimating comb filter re¬ orders the location of the channels in the frequency domain which impacts the design of the DFT filter bank. The comb filters taught by the applicant extends the capabilities of a DFT filter bank in a manner not described in the references . This comb filter allows the DFT filter bank to analyze or synthesize channels which are widely spaced. A decimating comb filter attenuates channels located at frequencies between the desired channels, compressing the spectrum, and allowing the DFT filter bank to operate at a lower sample rate. This lower sample rate enables the DFT filter bank to operate with lower computational effort than the original filter bank (without the comb filter) using a high sample rate input. Similarly, an interpolating comb filter enables the DFT filter bank to operate at a lower sample rate, expands the spectrum, and filters out images between the frequencies where the desired channels are located. This is believed to provide an inventive step over that which is shown in the references cited. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
