<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0390035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ILLUMINATION CONTROL APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B3702	H05B3702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B37	H05B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An illumination control apparatus includes a 
control slave unit (3), a master unit (11), a 

supervisory slave unit (8, 10), and a photosensor slave 
unit (5). The supervisory slave unit (8, 10) has an 

operation switch (7, 9), and outputs a first signal 
representing an operation change of the operation switch 

(7, 9) and the supervisory slave unit (8, 10). The 
photosensor slave unit (5) outputs a second signal 

representing a change of a level of an illuminance 
detected by a photosensor (6) and the photosensor slave 

unit (5). The control slave unit (3) controls at least 
one illumination load (4). In addition, the master unit 

(1) controls the control slave unit (3) assigned in a 
memory in response to the first signal from the 

supervisory slave unit (8, 10) and the second signal 
from the photosensor slave unit (5). When the master 

unit (1) receives the first signal representing the 
supervisory slave unit (8, 10), the illumination load 

(4) is inverted. When the master unit (1) receives the 
second signal representing the photosensor slave unit 

(5), and the illuminance is higher than a preset level, 
the illumination load (4) is turned off. Only when the 

illuminance is lower than the preset level and the oper­
ation switch (7, 9) of the supervisory slave unit (8, 

10) is ON, the illumination load (4) is turned on. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOSHIBA LIGHTING 
&
 TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORITA, MASAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAZAKI, KYOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an illumination 
control apparatus and, more particularly, to an 
illumination control apparatus for controlling an 
illumination load in response to signal outputs from a 
supervisory slave unit and a photosensor slave unit. A conventional illumination control apparatus is 
disclosed in, for example, Published Unexamined Japanese 
Patent Application No. 62-276608, and consists of a 
supervisory terminal for monitoring the ON/OFF state of 
an operation switch and a control terminal for ON/OFF-­
controlling an illumination load, these two devices being 
connected to a central processing unit through signal 
lines. This conventional control apparatus additionally 
comprises a timer terminal which includes a monitor sec­
tion for monitoring the control state of the illumina­
tion load, a comparison and determination section for 
determining whether the state of the illumination load 
controlled in response to a timer control signal is the 
same as the present control state of the illumination 
load, and a response transmitting section for returning 
an inversion request signal only when the states are 
different from each other as a result of comparison and 
determination. In such a control apparatus, it is determined 
whether a control state of the illumination load is the 
same as the present control state of the illumination  
 
load in response to a timer control signal at a prede­
termined time when the illumination load is to be 
controlled. If the control states are different from 
each other, the illumination load is inversion-­
controlled. Even if the illumination load is set in a 
state different from a programmed state by the operation 
switch, a program operation set in a timer is performed 
with high reliability. When illumination is artificially controlled in 
accordance with a program set in a timer, however, a 
person's will is included in the control operation. In 
contrast to this, when an illuminance of natural light 
is detected by, e.g., a photosensor, a person's will is 
not included. When a photosensor is used in place of a 
timer, therefore, an illumination unit is unnecessarily 
turned on in accordance with an exclusive OR relation­
ship between the photosensor and the operation switch. It is therefore an object of the present invention 
to provide an illumination control apparatus which can 
turn on an illumination load only when necessary. In order to achieve the above object, according to 
the present invention, there is provided an illumination

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. An illumination control apparatus characterized 
by comprising: 

a supervisory slave unit (8, 10), connected to a 
transmission line (2) and having an operation switch 

(7, 9) and a signal generating section (61) for outputt­
ing a signal to the transmission line (2), said signal 

generating section (61) outputting a first signal 
representing an operation change of said operation 

switch (7, 9) every time it is operated and said 
supervisory slave unit (8, 10); 

a photosensor slave unit (5), connected to the 
transmission line (21) and having a photosensor (6) and 

a signal generating section (61) for generating a signal 
corresponding to a light amount received by said 

photosensor (6), for outputting a second signal 
representing a change of a level of an illuminance out­

put by a comparison between a preset illuminance level 
and an illumination value detected by the photosensor 

(6) and said photosensor slave unit (5); 
a control slave unit (3) for controlling at least 

one illumination load (4); and 
a master unit (1), which is connected to said con­

trol slave unit (8, 10) through the transmission line 
(2), and has a memory in which said control slave unit 

(3) corresponding to said supervisory slave unit (8, 10) 
and photosensor slave unit (5) is assigned, for control­

ling said control slave unit (3) assigned in said memory 
in response to the first signal from said supervisory 

slave unit (8, 10) and the second signal from said pho­
tosensor slave unit (5) to output a control signal to 

said assigned control slave unit (3) through the trans­
mission line (2) for inverting an illumination state of 

said illumination load (4) when the first signal 
representing said supervisory slave unit (8, 10) is 

input to said master unit (1), to output a control 
 

signal to said assigned control slave unit (3) through 
the transmission line (2) for turning off said illumina­

tion load (4) when the second signal representing said 
photosensor slave unit (5) is input to said master unit 

(1) and an illuminance level change signal representing 
that the illuminance level is higher than a preset level 

is received from said photosensor slave unit (5) through 
the transmission line (2), and to output a control sig­

nal to said assigned control slave unit (3) through the 
transmission line (2) for turning on said illumination 

load (4) only when an illuminance level change signal 
representing that the illuminance level is lower than the 

preset level is received through the transmission line 
(2) and said operation switch (7, 9) of said supervisory 

slave unit (8, 10) is ON. 
2. An apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said first signal generating sec­

tion (61) has a means (61) for outputting a signal 
representing that said operation switch (7, 9) is turned 

on to the transmission line (2). 
3. An apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said master unit (1) comprises a 

current detection circuit (11) for detecting a signal 
representing a change in current from one of said 

supervisory slave unit (8, 10) and said photosensor 
slave unit (5) and signal processing means (22) for 

receiving an output from said current detection circuit 
(11) and generating a digital signal including a start 

signal, an address signal, and a control signal for con­
trolling a predetermined control slave unit (3). 
4. An apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized in that said master unit (1) further com­

prises a zero-crossing detection circuit (24) for 
detecting a zero-crossing point of an AC power source, 

and a DC power source (23) for generating a DC voltage 
of two types from said AC power source (23). 
5. An apparatus according to claim 4,
 

characterized in that said master unit (1) further com­
prises an oscillation circuit (26) for generating a 

drive clock for driving said signal processing means 
(22), and a reset circuit (27) for setting said signal 

processing means (22) in an initial state. 
6. An apparatus according to claim 3, 
characterized in that said supervisory slave unit (8, 

10) comprises an individual switch terminal (8) includ­
ing at least one individual switch (7) and a group 

switch terminal (10) including at least one group 
switch (9), and the signal from one of said supervisory 

slave unit (8, 10) and photosensor slave unit (5) 
includes supervisory data representing whether the indi­

vidual switch (7) or the group switch (9) is operated, 
or a level and the presence/absence of a change of the 

illuminance detected by said photosensor (6). 
7. An apparatus according to claim 3, 
characterized in that the signal from one of said 

supervisory slave unit (8, 10) and photosensor slave 
unit (5) includes an identification code for identifying 

whether said supervisory slave unit (8, 10) or said 
photosensor slave unit (5) is started. 
8. An apparatus according to claim 6, 
characterized in that the supervisory data includes a 

plurality of bits of information and the lower four bits 
represent switch numbers when said individual switch (7) 

or said group switch (9) is operated. 
9. An apparatus according to claim 6, 
characterized in that the supervisory data includes a 

plurality of bits of information and the upper four bits 
represent a sensor level, and the lower four bits repre­

sent sensor numbers when said photosensor slave unit (5) 
is started. 
10. An apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said supervisory slave unit (8, 

10) comprises a signal processing section (61) for 
dete
cting that a desired switch is turned on and 
 

generating supervisory data representing an ON/OFF state 
of said switch, a transmitting circuit (52) for receiv­

ing a transmission signal from said signal generating 
section (61) and transmitting it as a current change to 

said master unit (1), and a receiving circuit (53) for 
supplying a predetermined signal to said signal pro­

cessing section (61) in accordance with a voltage level 
of said transmission line (2). 
11. An apparatus according to claim 10, 
characterized in that said transmitting circuit (52) 

includes resistor (R51) and transistor elements (Tr2), 
said transistor element (Tr2) being turned on when the 

transmission signal (2) from said signal processing sec­
tion (61) is set at logic "1" to connect said resistor 

element (R51) between wires of said transmission line 
(2), thereby causing a current change in said transmis­

sion line (2). 
12. An apparatus according to claim 10, 
characterized in that said supervisory slave unit (8, 

10) further comprises a diode bridge circuit (51) for 
rectifying a signal from said master unit (1) and 

generating a rectified output, and a zero-crossing sig­
nal receiving circuit (62) including a voltage-dividing 

resistor circuit for dividing a voltage of the rectified 
output from said diode bridge circuit (51). 
13. An apparatus according to claim 10, 
characterized in that said supervisory slave unit (8, 

10) further comprises an address switch (63) for 
manually setting a desired address, and a light-emitting 

diode (LED) (94) for displaying an ON/OFF state of said 
illumination load (4). 
14. An apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said control slave unit (3) com­

prises a receiving circuit (53) for outputting a 
predetermined signal in accordance with a voltage level 

of said transmission line (2), a signal processing sec­
tion (61) for receiving an output from said receiving 

 
circuit (53) and outputting a control signal for con­

trolling an ON/OFF state of said illumination load (4), 
means (66) for generating a signal for confirming that 

said illumination load (4) is kept ON, a circuit (52) 
for transmitting the confirming signal as a current 

change to said master unit (1), a diode bridge circuit 
(51) for rectifying a signal from said master unit (1) 

and generating a rectified output, and a zero-crossing 
signal receiving circuit (62) including a voltage-­

dividing resistor circuit for dividing a voltage of the 
rectified output from said diode bridge circuit (51). 
15. An apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said photosensor slave unit (5) 

comprises a photocoupler (67, 68) for receiving a 
detection signal from said photosensor (6) to output a 

predetermined signal, a signal processing section (61) 
for receiving an output from said photocoupler (67, 68) 

to generate predetermined supervisory data, a circuit 
(52) for receiving a transmission signal from said sig­

nal processing section (61) and transmitting the signal 
to said master unit (1), a diode bridge circuit (51) for 

rectifying a signal from said master unit (1) and 
generating a rectified output, and a zero-crossing sig­

nal receiving circuit (62) including a voltage-dividing 
resistor circuit for dividing a voltage of the rectified 

output from said diode bridge circuit (51). 
16. An apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said photosensor (6) comprises a 

photocell (611) for detecting external light to convert 
the light into a current, and a comparator (613) for 

comparing the current with a reference value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
