<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638014</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAFETY RAZOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26B2118	B26B2122	B26B2108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26B	B26B	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26B21	B26B21	B26B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shaving system comprises a cartridge which houses a leading blade member and a following blade member. Both of the blade members have a front cutting edge and a rear cutting edge. The cartridge can be reversed to allow use of the rear cutting edges.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER LAMBERT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER-LAMBERT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEDERSEN JETTE BOLDING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEDERSEN, JETTE BOLDING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a safety razor according to the preamble of 
claim 1. 
Such safety razors are known from the descriptions to DK precept 
No. 144460 and US patent No. 3 786 563. It is a disadvantage of the conventional safety razors that the 
razor blades have been designed with only one cutting edge on one 
side, meaning that the blade cassettes have to be exchanged 
frequently. Furthermore, all conventional safety razors have a 
complicated construction. This invention serves the purpose of procuring a safety razor of 
the sort mentioned in the introduction, where the razor blades 
are provided with a cutting edge on both sides, and a blade 
cassette, which can be turned inside the cassette holder. Thus 
a blade cassette will last twice as long as that of any conventional 
safety razor. According to the invention this purpose is achieved through the 
fact that the safety razor is 
characterized as stated in claim 1. Through this a more simple construction of the safety razor will 
also be reached, and there will be a decrease in tool costs. Claim 2 concerns an embodiment of the invention with special locking 
devices through which the cap section of a blade cassette can be locked 
to the base section. Claim 3 concerns an embodiment of the invention with a special 
construction of both the blade cassette with exterior mating surfaces 
and the cassette holder with interior control surfaces, through which 
a blade cassette can be locked unambiguously in the cassette holder, and claim 4 concerns an embodiment of the invention with special devices 
through which a blade cassette can be locked in position in proportion 
to the cassette holder. A detailed explanation of preferred embodiments of the invention shall 
follow, by way of example, referring  
 
to the accompanying drawings in which: 
Fig. 1 shows a sectional view of a safety razor according to the 
invention mounted with a blade cassette in the cassette holder. Fig. 2 shows on a larger scale and in perspective a cassette 
holder for the safety razor shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 3 shows on a larger scale and in perspective a blade 
cassette for a safety razor according to the invention. Fig. 4 shows a separated blade cassette. Fig. 5 shows a rear view of the blade cassette. Fig. 6 shows a section through a blade cassette. Fig. 7 shows a section through a cassette holder for a safety razor 
according to the invention, and Fig. 8 shows a section through a cassette holder, in which a blade 
cassette has been mounted. The safety razor has, as is seen
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A safety razor comprising : 

a cassette holder (2) attached to a handle (1), the 
cassette holder (2) having a bottom piece (46) and a 

top piece (47); and 
a blade cassette (3) removably mounted in said cassette 
holder (2), 
 
the blade cassette comprising an upper cap section (4) 

and a lower base section (5) between which an upper rear 
blade (8) and parallel thereto a lower front blade (6) 

are firmly mounted at a mutual blade distance (b) defined 
by a distance piece (10) in between of the blades, 

the front blade (6) and the rear blade (8) each having a 
front facing first cutting edge (7,9), the first cutting 

edge (9) of the rear blade (8) being disposed rearward 
of the first cutting edge (7) of the front blade (6), 

the first cutting edges (7,9) defining a first plane 
while being spaced apart in said plane by a cutting edge 

distance (c), the cap section (4) having a front edge 
(12) at a distance (a) rearward of th
e first cutting 
edge (9) of the rear blade (8) and a skin contact face 

(11) rearward of its front edge (12), the contact face 
(11) being transposed backwardly in respect of the first 

plane, the base section (5) protruding forwardly of the 
first cutting edge (7) of the front blade (6) and having 

a longitudinal bearer (13) on the front side thereof, 
the bearer (13) having a wavy top contact face (14) 

transposed backwardly in respect of the first plane, a 
second plane being defined by a plane comprising the  

 
first cutting edge (7) of the front blade (6) and tangent 

to a first wave of the wavy contact face (14), a 
contact-face/cutting-edge distance (d) in the second 

plane being defined between the first wave and the first 
cutting edge (7) of the front blade (6), and a 

cutting-edge/contact-face angle (v) being formed between 
the second plane and a plane comprising the front blade 

(6), the base section (5) having a first row of cut-outs 
(15) provided rearward of the bearer (13) and forward of 

the front blade (6), and a second row of cut-outs provided 
below the front blade (6),
 
characterized by
 
the front blade (6) having a second cutting edge (19) on 

the side opposite to its first cutting edge (7), and the 
rear blade (8) having a second cutting edge (20) on the 

side opposite to its first cutting edge (9), a line of 
symmetry (O) being defined parallel to the cutting edges 

of the front and rear blades (6,8), the line of symmetry 
(O) being centrally between the second cutting edge (20) 

of the rear blade (8) and the first cutting edge (7) of 
the front blade (6) and centrally between the second 

cutting edge (19) of the front blade (6) and the first 
cutting edge (9) of the rear blade (8), the blade cassette 

(3) being fully symmetrical about the line of symmetry 
(O) with the exception of two dowels (24) 

extending upwardly from the base section (5) on the end 
opposite to the bearer (13), the dowels (24) each fitting 

in a corresponding hole (25) in the cap section 
(4), and two further dowels (24) extending downwardly 

from the cap section (4) on the side opposite to the 
bearer (13'), the further dowels (24) each fitting in a 

corresponding hole (25) in the base section (5), each of 
the dowels (24) and further dowels (24) passing through  

 
respective holes (26,27) in the front blade (6), the 

distance piece (10), and the rear blade (8), the 
centrelines of the dowels (24) and holes (25,26,27) lying 

in a plane perpendicular to the plane of the front 
and rear blades (6,8) and comprising the line of 

symmetry (O),
 
the blade cassette (3) being provided with exterior mating 

surfaces symmetrical about the line of symmetry (O) 
and the cassette holder (2) being provided with interior 

control surfaces for allowing the blade cassette (3) to 
be held in a first locked position or, if rotated over 

180 degrees about the line of symmetry (O), in a second 
locked position.  

 
A safety razor according to Claim 1, wherein said base section (5) 
and said cap section (4) each have an end piece (32);
 
   said end pieces (32) each having a mating surface (33) which 

contains a protrusion (34) at one end and a cut-out or recess (35) at the other 
end; and
 
   said protrusions and cut-outs or recesses are constructed and located so 

that the protrusions (34) mesh in a self-locking grip with the cut-outs or 
recesses so that the mating surface of the cap section (4) is in contact with the mating 

surface of the base section.  
 
A safety razor according to Claim 1, wherein the bottom of the 
base section (5) comprises at least one of the exterior mating surfaces (36), said exterior mating 

surfaces extending from the lower edge of the bearer (13) to the rear edge (38) of 
the cut-outs (16) and, over one contact face (11), to near the cutting edge (19);
 
   wherein the exterior mating surface (36) 

further includes a first even mating surface (39) and a second mating surface (40) on the 
underside of the end pieces (32) of the cap section (4);
 
   said cassette holder (2) comprising an interior control surface (42) 

and a lower control surface (43) which correspond with an exterior mating 
surface (36) of the cap section and the exterior mating surface of the base section 

respectively, and a front-lying control surface (44) 
and a rear control surface (45) which correspond with the first mating 

surface (39) of the cap section end piece and a 
mating surface on the front side of the bearer (41) 

respectively;
 
   wherein said blade cassette can be inserted into the cassette holder 

and means are available to lock the blade cassette into position in the blade 
holder; and
 
   wherein a bottom portion (46) and a top portion (47) of the cassette 

holder protrude no further than the rear edge (38) of the cut-outs (16) in the base section (5) 
and the cap section (4) respectively of the blade cassette (3). 
A safety razor according to Claim 3, wherein the bottom portion (46) of the cassette 
holder (2) contains a protrusion (49) and wherein said protrusion is capable of meshing with 

a hole (50) which is located in either the base section (5) or the cap 
section (4). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
