<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638624</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERMAL STORAGE MATERIAL COMPOSITION AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K506	C09K500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K5	C09K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal storage material composition mainly comprising (i) 85.0-99.5 parts by weight of an inorganic salt 
composition containing 1.5-2.5 mol of ammonium chloride and 10-27 mol of water per mole of sodium sulfate (in 

terms of anhydride), (ii) 0.5-15.0 parts by weight of a water-swellable cross-linked polymer or a water-soluble acrylic 
polymer, and (iii) 0.01-5.0 parts by weight of a surfactant with a polyoxyalkylene chain; and a process for producing 

said composition by polymerizing at least one monomer selected from among unsaturated carboxylic acids, organic 
unsaturated sulfonic acids, salts of these acids and acrylamide, and a polyfunctional monomer by using a polymerization 

initiator in the presence of sodium sulfate, ammonium chloride, water and a surfactant with a polyoxyalkylene chain. 
This composition has melting and freezing points both lying in the temperature range suitable for air conditioning and 

cooling, a suitable separation between the melting and the freezing points, and the stability of withstanding repeated 
melting and freezing in the long-term service. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO CHEMICAL COMPANY, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITA KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITA, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a composition for 
latent heat storage material to be used for cooling in the 
air conditioning of buildings, etc., and to a process for 
producing the same. The requirements that a heat-storage material should 
satisfy include to have a large amount of stored heat, to 
function at a given temperature level, to be stable over a 
prolonged period, to be inexpensive, to be non-toxic, to be 
non-corrosive, etc. As substances that meet these 
requirements, salt hydrates undergoing a phase change are the 
most frequently investigated, of which sodium sulfate 
decahydrate is representative. Since sodium sulfate decahydrate has a melting point 
of 32°C and a latent heat of 60 cal/g, a large number of 
attempts to utilize it as a heat-storage material have so far 
been made since 1952 when sodium tetraborate decahydrate 
(Na2B4O7·10H2O) was found to be effective as a supercooling 
inhibitor to be used in combination therewith.  
 A problem encountered in investigations for practical 
use is that sodium sulfate decahydrate shows incongruent 
melting. That is, upon melting, anhydrous sodium sulfate 
forms and precipitates at a bottom of the liquid. When this 
is cooled, the surface layer of the precipitated anhydrous 
salt regains water to return to the salt decahydrate but the 
inner part remains as the anhydrous salt. Since the 
remaining anhydrous salt does not contributes to the phase 
change, amount of the stored heat decreses. In order to 
overcome this, various methods have been investigated for 
dispersing and holding the anhydrous salt in the liquid 
without permitting it to precipitate to the bottom of the 
liquid. In these methods, precipitation is prevented by 
increasing the viscosity by means of an additive which is 
either an inorganic compound or an organic polymer. For example, methods comprising using various 
inorganic compounds were attempted as described in Unexamined 
Published International Application Sho-55-501180 and 
JP-A-53-34687. However, they failed to always achieve the 
sufficient effect of preventing precipitation. (The term 
"JP-A" used herein means an unexamined published Japanese 
patent application.) 
   Further, although methods comprising using a water-soluble 
polymer, e.g., poly(sodium acrylate), or a 
crosslinkable polymer as an organic polymer have been 
proposed in JP-B-57-30873, JP-B-57-48027, JP-A-58-132075,  
 
JP-A-59-102977, etc., these methods have not been always 
sufficient in long-term stability. (The term "JP-B" used 
herein
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat-storage composition comprising, as major 
components, (i) 85.0-99.5 parts by weight of an inorganic 

salt composition containing sodium sulfate and, per one mole 
of the sodium sulfate (in terms of its anhydride), 1.5-2.5 

mole of ammonium chloride and 10-27 mole of water, (ii) 
0.5-15.0 parts by weight of a water swellable crosslinked 

polymer and (iii) 0.01-5.0 parts by weight of a surfactant 
having a polyoxyalkylene chain. 
A heat-storage composition comprising, as major 
components, (i) 90.0-99.5 parts by weight of an inorganic 

salt composition containing sodium sulfate and, per one mole 
of the sodium sulfate (in terms of its anhydride), 1.7-2.2 

mole of ammonium chloride and 10-27 mole of water, (ii) 
0.5-10.0 parts by weight of a water swellable crosslinked 

polymer and (iii) 0.01-5.0 parts by weight of a surfactant 
having a polyoxyethylene chain. 
A heat-storage composition comprising, as major 
components, (i) 85.0-99.5 parts by weight of an inorganic 

salt composition containing sodium sulfate and, per one mole 
of the sodium sulfate (in terms of its anhydride), 1.5-2.5 

mole of ammonium chloride and 10-27 mole of water, (ii) 
0.5-15.0 parts by weight of a water-soluble acrylic polymer, 

and (iii) 0.01-5.0 parts by weight of a surfactant having a 
polyoxyalkylene chain.  

 
A heat-storage composition according to claim (1) or (2), 
wherein the water swellable crosslinked polymer is a water-absorbing 

resin. 
A heat-storage composition according to claim (1) or (2), 
wherein the water swellable crosslinked polymer is a polymer 

obtained by polymerizing at least one monomer selected from 
an unsaturated carboxylic acid, an organic unsaturated 

sulfonic acid, salts thereof, and acrylamide with a 
polyfunctional monomer. 
A heat-storage composition according to claim (3), 
wherein the water-soluble acrylic polymer is at least one 

member selected from polyacrylamide, a partially hydrolyzed 
polyacrylamide, poly(sodium acrylate), and an acrylamide-sodium 

acrylate copolymer. 
A process for producing the heat-storage composition 
according to claim (1), which is characterized in that at 

least one monomer selected from an unsaturated carboxylic 
acid, an organic unsaturated sulfonic acid, salts thereof, 

and acrylamide is polymerized with a polyfunctional monomer 
using a polymerization initiator in the presence of sodium 

sulfate, ammonium chloride, water, and a surfactant having a 
polyoxyalkylene chain. 
A process for producing the heat-storage composition 
according to claim (2), which is characterized in that at 

least one monomer selected from an unsaturated carboxylic 
acid, an organic unsaturated sulfonic acid, and salts thereof  

 
is polymerized with a polyfunctional monomer using a 

polymerization initiator in the presence of sodium sulfate, 
ammonium chloride, water, and a surfactant having a 

polyoxyethylene chain. 
A process for producing the heat-storage composition 
according to claim (2), which is characterized in that at 

least one monomer selected from an unsaturated carboxylic 
acid, an organic unsaturated sulfonic acid, and salts thereof 

is polymerized with acrylamide and a polyfunctional monomer 
using a polymerization initiator in the presence of sodium 

sulfate, ammonium chloride, water, and a surfactant having a 
polyoxyethylene chain. 
A process for producing the heat-storage composition 
according to claim (2), which is characterized in that 

acrylamide is polymerized with a polyfunctional monomer using 
a polymerization initiator in the presence of sodium sulfate, 

ammonium chloride, water, and a surfactant having a 
polyoxyethylene chain. 
A process according to claim (8), (9), or (10) for 
producing a heat-storage composition, which is characterized 

in that the surfactant having a polyoxyethylene chain is at 
least one member selected from a polyoxyethylene alkyl ether 

sulfuric ester salt, a polyoxyethylene alkylphenyl ether 
sulfuric ester salt, a polyoxyethylene alky
lamine, a 
polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid ester, and a 

polyoxyethylene fatty acid ester.  
 
A process according to claim (7), (8), or (9) for 
producing a heat-storage composition, wherein the monomer is 

a water-soluble monomer. 
A process according to claim (7), (8), or (9) for 
producing a heat-storage composition, wherein the monomer is 

sodium acrylate or sodium methacrylate. 
A process according to claim (7), (8), (9), or (10) for 
producing a heat-storage composition, wherein the 

polyfunctional monomer is a water-soluble polyfunctional 
monomer. 
A process according to claim (7), (8), (9), or (10) for 
producing a heat-storage composition, wherein the 

polyfunctional monomer is N,N'-methylenebisacrylamide or 
N,N'-methylenebismethacrylamide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
