<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625834</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and arrangement for arranging an interception-proof optical link
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1012	H04B1012	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention combines pulse position modulation, 
PPM, with the signal being given a high degree of optical 

noise, shot noise. This entails, on the one hand, that a 
minimum amount of light must be taken out of the connection 

and, on the other hand, that a selected code 
according to PPM must be known for the tapped information 

to be interpretable. 
The fact that a large part of the energy must be 
tapped out means that the probability of useful 

information being tapped out of the system is very low. 
If sufficient energy is taken out of the system for 

ensuring correct detection, detection elements in the 
receiver detect that energy has disappeared during the 

transmission. If the receiver lacks such equipment, the 
probability of incorrectly received information is 

increased, as a result of which the interception is 
exposed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to optical transmission
systems with associated optical links.Tapping of information from connections in
different forms of communications networks is a well
known problem. Electrical connections radiate magnetic
and electrical fields which can be tapped by different
means. Optical connections have the advantage that no
magnetic and electrical fields which can be recorded
occur outside an optical fibre.In principle, however, an optical connection can
be tapped by bending the optical fibre which is utilized
for the transmission. Bending results in light in the
fibre leaking out, by means of which tapping of
information is made possible. In a normal optical
transmission link it is necessary for only a small
proportion of the light to be tapped in order to achieve
unauthorized interception. In British Patent 2060869 and
US Patent 4435850, the utilization of shot noise for
rendering any tapping more difficult and increasing the
possibility of discovering said interception is
described. The documents describe the application of the
shot noise method, on application of the on/off method,
for reducing the possibility of illegal tapping of
information from an optical fibre.Transmission of signals with high shot noise proportion is
also known through EP 0 136 271, however in connection with
limitation of this kind of noise.It is also known to utilize pulse position
modulation (PPM) as a modulation method in the transmission
of information. However, the method has not been
suitable for increasing security against unauthorized
interception in an optical link.Furthermore, an error-detecting code in combination
with automatic repeat request is utilized for
obtaining a digital link with few transmission errors.  
This method has not been interconnected with the
possibility of increasing the security on an optical
link.Utilization of pulse position modulation is
described in, among others, Patent Specifications
EP A 102815 and US 4306314. Each pulse is located
in one of a number of time slots and represents a group
of digits. The documents thus provide proposals for more
effective utilization of accessible channels in an
optical fibre. The question of secrecy in connection with
the risks of unauthorized tapping of information from a
fibre is not dealt with in the said documents.To render interception more difficult, encryption
of the transmitted signal is used. For encryption to be
effective, keys are required which will be handled in a
certain manner by the transmitter and receiver. Utilization
o
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method in a communications system for establishing communication
between a transmitter (S) and a receiver (M) for establishing

an interception proof optical link, wherein
optical signals with high shot noise proportion are

transmitted on said optical link; comprising the step
of generating a signal with optical shot noise in such

a proportion that said shot noise dominates over other
noise sources; 
characterized
 by the step of modulating
said signal in accordance with the pulse position modulation

method, PPM.
Method according to claim 1, wherein the signal transmission
is combined with error detecting coding in combination

with automatic repeat request, ARQ.
System comprising transmitting (S) and receiving (M)
elements for establishing interception-proof communication

on an optical link, wherein optical signals with
high shot noise proportion are transmitted on said optical

link and the transmitting element (S) is devised
to send out an optical signal containing optical shot

noise in such a proportion that said shot noise dominates
over other noise sources, 
characterized
 in that
said transmitting element (S) is further devised to

modulate said signal in accordance with pulse position
modulation, PPM.
System according to claim 3, wherein said transmitting
element (S) is devised to utilize an error-detecting

code, and to receive and respond to an automatic repeat
request from said receiving element.
System according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the receiving
element (M) is devised to combine the reception of said

signal with utilisation of an error-detecting code in
combination with automatic repeat request, ARQ. 
Transmitter (S) for transmitting an optical signal with
high shot noise proportion on an optical link, being

devised to send out an optical signal containing optical
shot noise in such a proportion that said shot

noise dominates over other noise sources, 
characterized

in that it is devised to modulate said signal in accordance
with pulse position modulation, PPM.
Transmitter (S) according to claim 6, further being devised
to utilize an error-detecting code, and to receive

and respond to an automatic repeat request from
said receiving element.
Receiver (M) for receiving an optical signal with high
shot proportion on an optical link, being devised to

receive an optical signal containing optical shot noise
in such a proportion that said shot noise dominates

over other noise sources, 
characterized
 in that it is
devised to receive said optical signal being modulated

in accordance with pulse position modulation, PPM.
Receiver (M) according to claim 8, further being devised
to utilize an error-detecting code in combination

with automatic repeat request, ARQ.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
