<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613445</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPENSER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67D501	B67D502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67D5	B67D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser is disclosed which includes a container (10) having a base (14), a cylindrical side wall (12) and a lid (32). A piston (24) is arranged within the container between component (20) and an air space (26) between the piston (24) and lid (32). A diaphragm (50) is arranged within the air space (26) and is sealed to the container between a rim (13) of the container and a rim (33) of the lid (32) so that an enclosed volume (60) is defined between the diaphragm (50) and the lid (32). A rod (38) extending between the base and lid and passing through the piston and diaphragm is provided to reinforce the container. The lid (32) includes an air inlet (36) for allowing compressed air to enter the enclosed volume (60) to expand the diaphragm to thereby move the piston to dispense the component (20) from the dispenser. In a further embodiment the diaphragm is replaced by an air bag located within the air space and bearing against the piston and lid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMM JAMES OWEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMM STEPHEN JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMM, JAMES, OWEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMM, STEPHEN, JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMM JAMES OWEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMM STEPHEN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMM, JAMES, OWEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMM, STEPHEN, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DISPENSERThis invention relates to a dispenser for dispensing one or more components.Dispensers for dispensing one or . re components are known and are made in a variety of different sizes. Conventional methods of expelling material from a twenty litre dispenser comprise pressurising the air space above the component in the dispenser. Usually a piston is inserted between the pressurised air and the component to be dispensed tc prevent cavitation and loss of efficiency of expulsion. However, it is common for the pressurised air to still leak past the piston which is undesirable. Our copending Australian patent application 56206/90 discloses the use of an air bag to contain pressurised air, together with the use of a central rod to prevent bowing of the ends of the container. Whilst the invention disclosed in that application does provide adequate dispensing of components we have found that in some instances the bags burst unless prohibitably expensive materials are used. This bursting can be exacerbated because of the need of the air bag to wrap around the centre rod which causes localised stresses.The object of this invention is to overcome this problem.The invention in a first aspect may be said to reside in a dispenser for dispensing a component, comprising: a container for containing the component to be dispensed and a space in the container, the container having a first abutment portion; a diaphragm arranged in said space and including an abutment section for abutment against said first abutment portion of the container; 

 a second abutment portion for engaging the abutment section of the diaphragm and for sandwiching the abutment section of the diaphragm between the first abutment portion of the container and the second abutment member- a closing means for closing the container to define an enclosed volume with the diaphragm; and wherein the diaphragm is arranged in folded or collapsed fashion in the space in the container and wherein compressed fluid is supplied to the enclosed volume to cause the diaphragm to extend or expand to thereby dispense the component from the dispenser.In the specification and in the claims the term "compressed fluid" should be taken to mean compressed gas as well as liquid under pressure.Since the invention utilises a diaphragm which is arranged in folded or collapsed fashion in the space and is retained between the first abutment portion of the container and a second abutment portion the diaphragm easily expands to expel the component from the dispenser without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. A dispenser for dispensing a component, comprising: a container for containing the component to be dispensed and a space in the container, the container having a first abutment portion; a diaphragm arranged in said container and including an abutment section for abutment against said first abutment portion of the container; a second abutment portion for engaging the abutment section of the diaphragm and for sandwiching the abutment section of the diaphragm between the first abutment portion of the container and the second abutment portion; a closing means for closing the container to define an enclosed volume with the diaphragm; and wherein the diaphragm is arranged in folded or collapsed fashion in the space in the container and wherein compressed fluid is supplied to the enclosed volume to cause the diaphragm to extend or expand to thereby dispense the component from the dispenser.
2. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the first abutment portion of the container comprises an upper rim of the container and the second abutment portion comprises a rim portion of a lid of the container, and the abutment section of the diaphragm comprises a peripheral edge portion of the diapi ag which is sandwiched between the rim of the container and the rim of the lid when the lid is located on the container.
3. The dispenser of claim 2, wherein the closing means comprises the lid of the container and the diaphragm 


 has a side wall and a base, the enclosed volume being defined between the diaphragm and the lid of the container.
4. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein a piston is disposed between the diaphragm and the component in the container.
5. The dispenser of claim 4, wherein the diaphragm has an attachment portion which is connected to the piston and the enclosed volume is defined between the lid of the container, the diaphragm and the piston.
6. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the container includes a channel and a wall of the channel forms the first abutment portion of the container, the second abutment member being a ring which is received in the channel for sandwiching the abutment section of the diaphragm between the wall of the channel and the ring.
7. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the container includes a reinforcing rod which extends between an upper portion of the container and a lower portion of the container, said diaphragm including an opening for receiving said rod and a seal member for sealing the diaphragm to the rod.
8. The dispenser of claim 7, wherein the seal member is movable longitudinally along the rod as the diaphragm moves to dispense material from the container.
9. The dispenser of claim 7, wherein the seal member comprises a strengthening ring having a hole, which surrounds the opening in the diaphragm through which the rod passes, the diaphragm having a peripheral portion 


surrounding the opening and the peripheral portion extending into the hole of the strengthening ring between the washer and the rod, and said strengthening ring being coupled to said diaphragm.
10. The dispenser of claim 9, wherein the washer is coupled to the diaphragm by a patch, having an opening for accommodating the rod, overlapping the strengthening ring so that the strengthening ring is sandwiched between the diaphragm and the patch and diaphragm being adhered together to secure the strengthening ring to the diaphragm.
11. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the dispenser includes an air vent passage which communicates the space in the container with the exterior of the container, so that when the enclosed volume is filled with compressed air to extend or expand the diaphragm, air in the space is expelled out of the space through the vent passage as the diaphragm extends or expands to substantially fully occupy the space.
12. The dispenser of claim 11, wherein the vent passage comprises a bore through the rod, the bore having one end communicating with the exterior of the container and another end communicating with the space.
13. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the dispenser is a dual dispenser for dispensing two components and includes a first container portion and a second container portion, the second container portion being arranged within the first container portion, and the diaphragm having an outer wall and an inner wall, the inner wall defining a cavity for accommodating the second container portion. 


 14. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the diaphragm is folded in concertina fashion in the space prior to expansion.
15. The dispenser of claim 13, wherein both the outer wall and inner wall of the diaphragm are folded in concertina fashion and when compressed air fills the diaphragm to expand the diaphragm the inner wall expands over the second container portion.
16. A dispenser for dispensing a component comprising: a container for containing the component; a space in the container; an expandable fluid chamber arranged within the space for receiving compressed fluid for expanding the chamber to thereby dispense material from the container; and an air vent passage communicating the space with the exterior of the container, so that upon expansion of the fluid chamber air in the space is forced out of the space by expansion of the fluid chamber.
17. The dispenser of claim 16, wherein the container includes a rod which extends from an upper portion of the container to the bottom of the container.
18. The dispenser of claim 17, wherein the air vent passage comprises a bore extending through the rod and having one end communicating with the exterior of the container and another end communicating with the space in the container. 


 19. The dispenser of claim 16, wherein the air vent passage comprises a hose which is arranged within the fluid chamber and which has one end in communication with the space exterior of the fluid chamber and another end communicating with the exterior of the container.
~
-
20. The dispenser of claim 16, wherein the fluid chamber includes a diaphragm arranged in the space and which together with a lid of the container defines an enclosed volume for receipt of pressurised air to enable the diaphragm to expand.
21. The dispenser of claim 16, wherein the air vent passage has a closure plug for sealing the air vent passage after the diaphragm has expanded to expel substantially all of the air from the space to thereby prevent air from entering the space.
22. A dispenser for dispensing a component comprising: a container for containing the component to be dispensed; a space in the container; an expandable fluid chamber arranged within the space for receiving compressed air; and a rod element extending through the container and into the expandable fluid chamber, the rod element having a passage therethrough which communicates with the expandable air chamber to enable compressed fluid to enter the expandable fluid chamber to expand the expandable fluid chamber.
23. The dispenser of claim 22, wherein the rod comprises a reinforcing rod which extends from a top 



 portion of the container to a bottom portion of the container and the passage in the rod extends from an upper portion of the rod, through the rod and communicates with the interior of the expandable air chamber.
24. A dispenser for dispensing a component comprising: a container for containing the component to be dispensed; a space in the container; a piston arranged between the component and the space, said piston having a base portion for contacting the component to be dispensed and upstanding wall portion; an expandable fluid chamber arranged within the space and being folded so that the folded portion of the air chamber is within the confines of the piston defined by the base and upstanding wall of the piston; and wherein when the expandable air chamber is filled with compressed fluid, the piston is forced downwardly and with the folded expandable fluid chamber being drawn out of the confines of the piston as the piston moves downwardly to prevent the folded portion of the fluid chamber from contacting the side wall of the container and adhering to the side wall of the container due to pressure within the fluid chamber.
25. The dispenser of claim 24, wherein the expandable fluid chamber comprises a diaphragm which has an upper portion fixed to the container.
26. A dispenser for dispensing a component comprising: a container for containing the component; a space within the container; 


 a piston arranged within the dispenser between the space and the component; a diaphragm having a first end and a second end, the first end being fixed to the container and the second end being fixed to the piston; a lid for closing the container; and wherein, the lid, the diaphragm and the piston define an enclosed volume for receiving compressed fluid to expand the diaphragm and therefore cause the piston to move and dispense the component from the diaphragm.
27. An air bag for a dispenser which includes a container for housing a component to be dispensed, comprising: a bag body defining a volume for receipt of compressed fluid to enable the bag to expand; a first hole in the bag body and a second hole in the bag body for receiving a rod so that the rod can pass through the first hole, through the volume and through the second hole; and seal means for sealing at least one of the holes to the rod and the other hole to the rod or to the container, when the rod is located in the holes.
28. The air bag of claim 27, wherein the sealing means comprises a respective seal for each hole, each seal having a strengthening ring which has a hole, which surrounds a respective one of the holes in the bag, the bag having a peripheral portion surrounding each hole and the peripheral portion extending into the hole of the respective strengthening ring between the strengthening ring and the rod when the rod is located through the holes, and said strengthening ring being coupled to the bag. 


 29. A dispenser for dispensing a component comprising: a container, having a side wall, for containing the component; a space within the container; a piston arranged within the dispenser between the space and the component, the piston being in contact with the side wall but not forming a seal with the side wall; a diaphragm connected to the container and being arranged in the space; a lid for closing the container so that the lid and diaphragm form an enclosed volume within the container for receiving compressed fluid to expand the diaphragm and cause the piston to move and dispense the component from the diaphragm; and wherein the piston is of such a size and the diaphragm is of such a resiliency that said diaphragm is substantially prevented from lodging between the piston and the side wall of the container and therefore into the area in which the component is retained.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
