<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653565</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tubular shaft motor and pump assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04D1306	F04D1306	F04D2502	F04D2506	F04D3100	F04D3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04D	F04D	F04D	F04D	F04D	F04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04D13	F04D13	F04D25	F04D25	F04D31	F04D31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tubular shaft motor and pump assembly (20) for the transmission of gas, 
liquid, and mixed fluids. The tubular shaft motor (10) comprises a tubular 

housing (12), a union plate (23) at each end of the tubular housing (12); a 
tubular stator mounted within the housing (12); and a tubular rotor coaxially 

mounted within the stator to a rotatable tubular shaft (11). Near each end 
of the rotatable tubular shaft (11), there is a bearing (22) which rotatably 

connects the tubular shaft (11) to the union plates (23) located at each end 
of the housing. At least one end of the rotatable shaft (11) is connected 

to a rotatable seat (24) which houses an impeller (251,261) and an impeller 
support (25,26), both of which rotate along with the rotatable tubular shaft 

(11). A pump assembly (20) is thus defined at at least one end of the motor's 
tubular housing. Preferably, each pump asssembly (20) is contained within 

a tubular housing (201), which tubular housing (201) has the same diameter 
as the tubular housing (12) of the motor. The end of the tubular housing (201) 

of the pump assembly that is not connected to the union plate (23), is closed 
off by an end plate (29). The end plate (29), in turn, is designed to receive 

a joint support (28) which connects a delivery pipe (30) to the pump assembly 
(20). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WU HUNG CHIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WU, HUNG-CHIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU HUNG-CHIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU, HUNG-CHIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a tubular shaft 
motor and pump assembly for the transmission of gases, 
liquid or mixed fluids. Traditional fluid transmitting devices can be 
generally divided into two different types, namely, 
the impeller pump and the cascade pump. Figure 6 illustrates a conventional impeller 
pump. The impeller pump includes an impeller (B) 
inside a delivery pipe (A); and a shaft (C) connected 
to the impeller (B) and passing through the delivery 
pipe (A) to connect with the motor (M). The motor (M) 
transmits power to the shaft (C) which, in turn, 
causes the impeller (B) to turn. The fluids flow up 
as indicated by the arrows in Figure 6. With larger 
transmitting capacity and shorter lift, this type of 
device is usually used in the discharge of fluid, 
irrigation, etc.; but has the following shortcomings: 
1. The coaxial relationship between the motor 
(M) and the shaft (C) is critically important and must 
be maintained precisely in this structure. Any 
imprecision will cause the motor (M) to not work 
smoothly. In order to avoid this problem, universal 
joints, gear couplings or flange joints have been 
added between the motor and the shaft. This, however, 
not only increases production cost but also increases 
the likelihood of machine break-down. 2. The conventional impeller pump is also noisy 
because of noise generated by the contact between 
external moving parts. 3. The conventional impeller pump also requires  
 
a large mounting base for installing the motor (M) and 
pump. Consequently, space in the installation area 
becomes limited. 4. To assure that the impeller pump runs 
properly, a certain gap must be maintained between the 
blades and the delivery pipe (A). Such gaps create 
small vacuum areas which result in a significant loss 
in overall efficiency. In the case of an electrically 
powered motor, this loss in efficiency leads to wasted 
electricity. Figure 7 illustrates a conventional cascade pump. 
The cascade pump includes a rotary vane (E) inside a 
housing (D), and a shaft (F) in the center of the 
rotary vane (E) extending outside the housing (D) and 
connecting with the motor (M). When rotational power 
supplied by the motor (M) turns shaft (F) and the 
rotary vane (E), fluids at the intake (D1) are sucked 
into the housing (D) and are turned by the rotary vane 
(E) and subsequently output from the discharge (D2). 
Because of deflector (D3), fluids are expelled out 
through discharge (D2) in a vertical direction as 
indicated by the arrows shown in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for linearly transmitting any 
combination of gases, liquids and mixed fluids, 

comprising: 
   a motor having a stationary tubular stator, 

a rotatable tubular shaft mounted coaxially within 
said stator, and a tubular rotor connected to said 

rotatable tubular shaft for rotation therewith, said 
rotatable tubular shaft being completely hollow so as 

to define an unobstructed fluid path; 
   at least one rotatable seat having a first 

end connected in a hermetically sealed manner to an 
end of the rotatable tubular shaft for rotation 

therewith, and a second end disposed opposite from the 
first end; 

   an impeller housed in each rotatable seat 
for rotation therewith; and 

   means connected to said second end of each 
rotatable seat, for connecting said rotatable seat to 

a stationary pipe in a hermetically sealed manner, 
while allowing said rotatable seat to rotate with 

respect to said stationary pipe. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
one of said rotatable seats is connected to each end 

of the rotatable tubular shaft. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said motor is contained in a substantially tubular 

motor housing having two longitudinal ends and an 
annular union plate covering at least one of said 

longitudinal ends, said rotatable tubular shaft 
projecting through said annular union plate. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, and 
further comprising a bearing between said rotatable 

 
tubular shaft and said annular union plate to 

facilitate rotation of the rotatable tubular shaft 
with respect to the annular union plate. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein 
said annular union plate includes at least one cooling 

vent. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein 
each rotatable seat is contained within a 

substantially tubular housing having the same diameter 
as the substantially tubular motor housing and being 

connected thereto by way of said annular union plate, 
so that a continuous tubular structure is defined by 

said apparatus. 
An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein 
said substantially tubular housing includes an end 

plate opposite from where the tubular housing connects 
with said annular union plate. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein 
said end plate includes several vent holes. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein 
said means for connecting said rotatable seat to a 

stationary pipe in a hermetically sealed manner, 
comprises: 

   a rotatable section of pipe connected to and 
extending out from said rotatable seat oppositely from 

said motor; 
   a progressively narrowing joint support 

having a wide diameter end and a small diameter end, 
said wide diameter end being connected to the end 

plate, said small diameter end being connected to said 
stationary pipe, and 

   a bearing disposed within said wide diameter 
end of the progressively narrowing joint support, and 

 
circumferentially around said rotatable section of 

pipe, so as to facilitate rotation of said rotatable 
section of pipe with respect to said progressively 

narrowing joint support. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said impeller is a mixed flow impeller. 
An apparatus according to claim 10, and 
further comprising: 

   a somewhat diamond-shaped impeller support 
having a front section and an aft section, said 

somewhat diamond-shaped impeller support being 
contained within said at least one rotatable seat; and 

   a plurality of radially extending fins 
mounted on the aft section of said somewhat diamond-shaped 

impeller support and extending out therefrom to 
connect with said at least one rotatable seat; 

   said mixed flow impeller comprising a 
plurality of equally spaced blades mounted on the 

front section of said somewhat diamond-shaped impeller 
support and connected to said at least one rotatable 

seat. 
An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein 
said at least one rotatable seat comprises a front 

portion and a back portion, and wherein said front and 
back portions have a circular cross section with a 

progressively narrowing internal diameter, said front 
and back portions having means for connecting the 

front and back portions to one another such that the 
front and back portions connect at their widest 

internal diameter. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said impeller is a highly skewed impeller. 
An apparatus according to claim 13, and 
 

further comprising: 
   a ring-shaped impeller support disposed 

around the interior of said at least one rotatable 
seat; and 

   a guide shaft centrally disposed within said 
at least one rotatable seat; 

   wherein said highly skewed impeller 
comprises a plurality of impeller blades radially 

extending out from said guide shaft to connect with 
said ring-shaped impeller support. 
An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein 
said at least one rotatable seat comprises a front 

portion and a back portion, and wherein said front and 
back portions have a circular cross section with a 

progressively narrowing internal diameter, said ring-shaped 
impeller support having means for connecting 

the front and back portions to one another such that 
the front and back portions connect at their widest 

internal diameter. 
An apparatus for linearly transmitting any 
combination of gases, liquids and mixed fluids, 

comprising: 
   a motor having a substantially tubular motor 

housing with two longitudinal ends, a stationary 
tubular stator, a rotatable tubular shaft mounted 

coaxially within said stator, and a tubular rotor 
connected to said rotatable tubular shaft for rotation 

therewith, said rotatable tubular shaft being 
completely hollow so as to define an unobstructed 

fluid path; 
   an annular union plate threadedly received 

in each longitudinal end of the motor housing and 
having at least one cooling vent, said rotatable 

 
tubular shaft projecting through each of said annular 

union plates; 

   a bearing between said rotatable tubular 
shaft and each of said annular union plates to 

facilitate rotation of the rotatable tubular shaft 
with respect to each annular union plate; 

   two rotatable seats, each having a first end 
connected in a hermetically sealed manner to an end of 

the rotatable tubular shaft for rotation therewith, 
and a second end disposed opposite from the first end, 

each of said rotatable seats being contained in a 
substantially tubular housing having the same diameter 

as the substantially tubular motor housing and being 
threadedly connected thereto by way of said annular 

union plate, so that a continuous tubular structure is 
defined by said apparatus; 

   an end plate threadedly received in each 
substantially tubular housing, opposite from where the 

tubular housing connects with said annular union 
plates, said end plate having at least one vent hole; 

   an impeller housed in each rotatable seat 
for rotation therewith; and 

   means connected to said second end of each 
rotatable seat, for connecting each rotatable seat to 

a stationary pipe in a hermetically sealed manner, 
while allowing said rotatable seat to rotate with 

respect to said stationary pipe, said means for 
connecting each rotatable seat comprising: 

   a rotatable section of pipe for each 
rotatable seat, connected to and extending out from 

said rotatable seat oppositely from said motor; 
   a progressively narrowing joint support 

having a wide diameter end and a small diameter end, 
 

said wide diameter end being connected to one of said 
end plates, said small diameter end being connected to 

said stationary pipe, and 
   a bearing device disposed within said wide 

diameter end of the progressively narrowing joint 
support, and circumferentially around said rotatable 

section of pipe, so as to facilitate rotation of said 
rotatable section of pipe with respect to said 

progressively narrowing joint support. 
An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein 
each impeller is a mixed flow impeller, and further 

comprising: 
   a somewhat diamond-shaped impeller support 

having a front section and an aft section, said 
somewhat diamond-shaped impeller support being 

contained within each of said rotatable seats; and 
   a plurality of radially extending fins 

mounted on the aft section of each somewhat diamond-shaped 
impeller support and extending out therefrom to 

connect with each of said rotatable seats; 
   said mixed flow impeller comprising a 

plurality of equally spaced blades mounted on the 
front section of said somewhat diamond-shaped impeller 

supports and connected to said rotatable seats. 
An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein 
each impeller is a highly skewed impeller, and further 

comprising: 
   a ring-shaped impeller support disposed 

around the interior of each rotatable seat; and 
   a guide shaft centrally disposed within each 

rotatable seat; 
   wherein said highly skewed impeller 

comprises a plurality of impeller blades radially 
 

extending out from the guide shaft to connect with the 
ring-shaped impeller support. 
An apparatus according to claim 16, and 
further comprising: 

   a first collar disposed concentrically 
around the rotatable tubular shaft, and between a 

first one of laid bearings and the tubular rotor, to 
maintain separation between said first one of said 

bearings and the tubular rotor; 
   a second collar disposed concentrically 

around the rotatable tubular shaft, and between a 
second one of said bearings and the tubular rotor, to 

maintain separation between said second one of said 
bearings and the tubular rotor; 

   a third collar disposed concentrically 
around a first one of said rotatable sections of pipe, 

and between a first one of said bearing devices and a 
first one of said rotatable seats for maintaining 

separation therebetween; and 
   a fourth collar disposed concentrically 

around a second one of said rotatable sections of 
pipe, and between a second one of said bearing devices 

and a second one of said rotatable seats for 
maintaining separation therebetween. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
