<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643764</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THIN MEMBRANE SENSOR WITH BIOCHEMICAL SWITCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33543	G01N33543	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular biosensor system for chemical or biological agent detection utilizes electrochemical measurement of an ion current across a gate membrane (4) triggered by the reaction of the target agent with a recognition protein conjugated to a channel blocker (2). The sensor system includes a bioresponse simulator or "biochemical switch" module (1) which contains the recognition protein-channel blocker conjugate (2), and in which the detection reaction occurs, and a transducer module (3) which contains a gate membrane (4) and a measuring electrode (5), and in which the presence of agent is sensed electrically. A self-contained direct current voltage source (6) and an indicator means output (7) are connected in a biosensor circuit by means of a poised polarizing electrode (8). The biosensor has applications for environmental, medical, and industrial use.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASE, GEORGE D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WORLEY, JENNINGS F., III
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASE, GEORGE D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WORLEY, JENNINGS F., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THIN MEMBRANE SENSOR WITH BIOCHEMICAL SWITCHThis is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent applicatio ser. no. 481,213, filed February 20, 1990. This invention wa made with Government support under"Contract Nos. NAS8-38470 an NAS8-38965 awarded by NASA, "and Contract No. F33615-90-C-060 awarded by the U.S. Department of the Air Force. ThGovernment has certain rights in this invention.Field of the inventionThis invention relates to the detection and monitoring o the presence of biological agents and immunogenic chemical substances, for foodborne, waterborne, and airborn contamination verification, and the exposure or risk o exposure of persons to such agents or materials in their wor environment, and is concerned more particularly with a simple method of achieving such detection which can be embodied into a small portable element, for example, as a badge or test chip, which can be self-contained and direct acting, thereby pro¬ viding a prompt indication of exposure.A biosensor method to detect quickly the minute presence of chemical or biological agents offers significant promise for early warning hazard evaluation or rapid process or system control. Transduction of the sensing reactions into an electronic readout in this system by means of a biocherical switch is facilitated by the present invention. The present invention offers potential as a portable, miniaturized "first alert" biosensor alarm for chemical or biological materials. Its usefulness is anticipated for laboratory, industrial, or field applications such as detection of environmental pollutants, chemical or biological substances, botulinum toxin detection in food packaging, spoilage indication, pathogen detection in water treatment, biological screening for hepatitis or HIV products or the like, rapid detection of microorganisms or toxins, an detection of fugitive pharmaceutical materials. Background of the InventionPrior art methods for high-sensitivity detection of chemical and biological materials have typically relied on colorimetric or eiectrometric analyses of enzymatic or immu- nological reactions of the test analytes. Enzyme immunoassay 

 (EIA> techniques have been incorporated into a large number of biosensor devices employing colorimetric or fluorimetric analyses, as exemplified in the following U.S. and foreign patents: US 4.343.782; EP 125.554; EP 128.318; EP 231.010; £P 5 288.256; EP 290.269; SU 1.189.224; JP 57.208.457. In a typical embodiment, an enzyme-conjugated antigen admixed with immobilized antibody reacts competitively
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An electrochemical biosensor capable of signalling the presence of a target agent, comprising a. a biochemical switch comprising a hydrophilic film layer containing a recognition biomolecule, the recognition biomolecule having an ion channel blocker and a recognition moiety capable of specifically binding with a target agent, b. a hydrophobic gate membrane comprised of membrane material and ion channel gate material, in contact with the biochemical switch, and c. a measuring device comprising a conductive measuring electrode in contact with the gate membrane and means for measuring a current surge between the biochemical switch and the measuring electrode in response to exposure to a target agent.
2. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the recognition moiety is selected from the group consisting of an antibody to an antigen target agent, hapten to an antibody target agent, and antigen to an antibody target agent. 3. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the ion channel blocker is a polyvalent cation.
4. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the ion channel blocker is ruthenium red.
5. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the channel blocker is a guanidinium compound and the ion channel is a sodium channel.
6. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the ion channel blocker is a trivalent lanthanide.
7. The biosensor of claim 6 wherein the lanthanide is selected from the group consisting of dysprosium and gadolinium.
8. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the recognition moiety is a protein selected from the group consisting of albumin and immur jlobulin. 9. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate membrane is a plastic. 


 10. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate membrane is a mixture of plastic and lipid.
11. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate membrane comprises a solid layer of a mixture of alcohol, carboxylic acid and aldehyde with about 17 carbon atoms.
12. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate membrane material comprises an acrylic polymer.
13. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate membrane material is selected from the group consisting of polylaurylmethacrylate, carboxylated polyacryla ide, and styrene polyvinylpyridine copolymer.
14. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate membrane material comprises a phospholipid or fatty acid derivative. 15. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate material is selected from the group consisting of channel- forming antibiotics, physiological calcium channels, acetylcholine receptor channels, and physiological sodium channels. 16. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the gate material is comprised of a gramicidin antibiotic ion channel.
17. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the measuring device comprises a wheatstone bridge circuit.
18. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the biochemical switch includes gelatin, the recognition biomolecule is an immunoglobulin-lanthanide conjugate, the gate membrane is a carboxylated acrylic polymer latex with gramicidin ion channels, and the measuring device is a resistance circuit capable of measuring a current surge when the biosensor is exposed to antigen.
19. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the indicator means is an audible alarm.
20. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the indicator means is a visible display. 21. The biosensor of claim 1 wherein the measuring device in contact with the gate membrane is constructed so as 


to be able to be regenerated and used with a variety of biochemical switches.
22. The method of using the biosensor of claim 1 comprising placing the biosensor in an environment suspected of containing a target material, allowing the biochemical switch to contact the suspected environment, and determining the presence of the target material.
23. The method of making the biosensor of claim 1 comprising connecting a gate membrane to a measuring device and contacting a biochemical switch, comprising a hydrophilic film layer with a recognition biomolecule, with the gate membrane, such that the measuring device is capable of measuring a current surge through the gate membrane. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
