<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630505</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEANS AND METHOD FOR READING INDICIA ON A SKEWED SUBSTRATE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K701	G06K7015	G07D900	G07D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G07D	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	G07D9	G07D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In one preferred embodiment, a method of reading indicia (22) disposed on a substrate (20) moving relative to a reader (30), the indicia being parallel to and at a known fixed distance from a linear portion of the substrate, and the indicia normally moving relative to the reader along a fixed plane which passes through the reader, the method including; optically sensing the position of the linear portion relative to the reader; and in response to optically sensing the position of the linear portion, adjusting the reader such that the reader can read the indicia when the linear portion is skewed with respect to the reader such that the indicia no longer move along the plane.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIANCO JAMES SALVATORE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIANCO, JAMES SALVATORE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIANCO JAMES SALVATORE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIANCO, JAMES SALVATORE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionMeans and Method for Reading Indicia on a Skewed SubstrateTechnical FieldThe present invention relates to indicia generally and especially to machine readable coded indicia, and more particularly, but not by way of limitation, to novel means and method for reading bar codes on substrates that may be skewed with respect to the means for reading the bar codes. More generally, the present invention relates to sensing the relationship of an edge of the substrate to the reading means.Background ArtA need exists for being able to rapidly and accurately read indicia, such as bar codes, on substrates passing moving relative to a fixed reading head which substrates may be skewed with respect to the reading head so that the bar codes are also skewed with respect to the reading head. Such skewing may result in a portion or all or the bar code not being read.One environment in which such a need exists is in the dispensing of travelers checks from automatic teller machines (ATMs). It is desirable to read identifying bar codes disposed on such checks as the checks are dispensed from the ATM. Such checks are dispensed quite rapidly and, being of fairly light weight and being mechanically handled in the ATM, they can easily become skewed with respect to a fixed bar code reading head in the ATM. 

 A further problem in such an environment is that the travelers checks may flutter as they pass the bar code reading head, which fluttering affects the focal point of the reading device. An additional problem with such reading bar codes on travelers checks is in the physical size of bar code reading equipment that can be retrofitted to existing ATMs. Because of space limitations, conventional scanning bar code reading'equipment cannot be easily employed. Also, scanning types of bar code reading equipment are relatively expensive.Another problem related to size and configuration is that the bar codes on travelers checks are desirably of the invisible or nearly invisible type which require backlighting in the reading thereof. Backlighting cannot practicably be employed with conventional scanning techniques because, typically, the illuminating source moves with the light detector, a near impossibility within the space limitations of an ATM.Accordingly, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide means and method for reading indicia printed on a substrate, which substrate may be skewed with respect to indicia reading means.It is a further object of the invention to provide such means and method that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A reader for reading indicia disposed on a substrate moving relative to said reader, said indicia being parallel to and at a known fixed distance from a linear portion of said substrate, said reader comprising:
(a) reading means for reading said indicia as said indicia normally move relative to said reading means along a fixed plane which passes through said reading means;
(b) optical sensing means for sensing the position of said linear portion relative to said reading means; and (c) adjusting means responsive to said optical sensing means for adjusting said reading means such that said reading means can read said indicia when said linear portion is skewed with respect to said reading means such that said indicia no longer move along said plane. 

2. A reader, as defined in Claim 1, wherein said linear portion comprises an edge of said substrate and said optical means comprises: (a) a photodetector; (b) a light source disposed so as to provide a path of light to said photodetector such that said path of light will be partially broken by said substrate; and (c) said photodetector being able to detect the position of said edge relative to said reading means by determining where said path of light is broken at said edge of said substrate.
3. A reader, as defined in Claim 2, wherein said photodetector comprises a linear array.
4. A reader, as defined in Claim 1, wherein said indicia comprise a bar code and said reading means is an optical detector.
5. A reader, as defined in Claim 4, wherein said bar code is of the low visibility type. 

6. A method of reading indicia disposed on a substrate moving relative to reading means, said indicia being parallel to and at a known fixed distance from a linear portion of said substrate, and said indicia normally moving relative to said reading means along a fixed plane which passes through said reading means, said method comprising;
(a) optically sensing the position of said linear portion relative to said reading means; and
(b) in response to said optically sensing said position of said linear portion, adjusting said reading means such that said reading means can read said indicia when said linear portion is skewed with respect to said reading means such that said indicia no longer move along said plane.
7. A method, as defined in Claim 6, wherein said linear portion comprises an edge of said substrate and said step of optically sensing comprises:
(a) providing a path of light to said photodetector such that said path of light will be partially broken at said edge of said substrate; and
(b) determining where said path of light is broken at said edge.
8. A method, as defined in Claim 6, wherein said indicia are provided as a bar code.- 


 9. An apparatus for preventing fluttering of a thin substrate having indicia thereon as said substrate moves past indicia reading means, said substrate having upper and lower surfaces, said apparatus comprising:
(a) a base member spaced from said reading means, over which base member said lower surface of said substrate passes as said substrate moves past said indicia reading means; and
(b) means to direct a stream of gas against said upper surface of said substrate so as to force said lower surface of said substrate against said base member so as to maintain said substrate at a fixed distance from said reading means.
10. A method of preventing fluttering of a thin substrate, having upper and lower surfaces and having indicia thereon, as said substrate moves past indicia reading means with said lower surface moving over a base member spaced from said reading means, said method comprising: directing a stream of gas against said upper surface of said substrate so as to force said lower surface of said substrate against said base member so as to maintain said substrate at a fixed distance from said reading means. 

11. A reader for reading a bar code disposed on a travelers check being dispensed by an automatic teller machine (ATM) , said ATM having a housing and at least one continuous belt to which said travelers check is loosely adhered as said travelers check is moved by said belt over a platen, said bar code being printed parallel to an edge of said travelers check at a known distance therefrom, said reader comprising:
(a) a linear photodetector array disposed in said housing in a plane parallel to the movement of said travelers check, with the axis of said photodetector array orthogonal to the normal direction of motion of said travelers check, and disposed such that said edge and said bar code will pass thereunder in reading relationship thereto as said travelers check is moved by said belt," said edge and said bar code normally moving relative to said reading means along fixed planes which pass through said photodetector array;
(b) control means connected to said photodetector array to detect the position of said edge and to select a photodetector of said array with which to read said bar code, said control means further to adjust the selection of said a photodetector with which to read said bar code when said edge is detected as being skewed with respect to said linear array such that said bar code no longer moves along a said fixed plane; and 



 (c) a light source to provide a path of light which is partially broken by said travelers check as said travelers check passes under said photodetector.
12. A reader, as defined in Claim 11, further comprising a base member affixed to said platen over which said base member said travelers check passes as said bar code is read.
13. A reader, as defined in Claim 12, further comprising means to direct a stream of gas at the top of said travelers check in the area of said bar code so as to force said travelers check against the upper surface of said base member and maintain said travelers check at a constant distance from said photodetector array.
14. A reader, as defined in Claim 11, wherein said light path is reflected from a mirror disposed in said base member.
15. A reader, as defined in Claim 11, wherein said light path originates from a lamp disposed beneath said platen.
16. A reader, as defined in Claim 11, wherein said bar code is of the low visibility type. 

17. A reader, as defined in Claim 11, wherein said bar code is of the type having areas of less and more reflectivity and said apparatus further comprises: (a) a light source disposed above said travelers check to provide said light path directed toward said travelers check so that said less and more reflected areas will be detected by the reflection of a first portion of said light path from said bar code; and (b) a mirror disposed below said edge of said travelers check so as to reflect to said photodetector array a second portion of said light path which falls outside said edge. 

18. A method of reading a bar code disposed on a travelers check being dispensed by an automatic teller machine (ATM) , said ATM having a housing and at least one continuous belt to which said travelers 5 check is loosely adhered as said travelers check is moved by said belt over a platen, said bar code being printed parallel to an edge of said travelers check at a known distance therefrom, said method comprising: (a) providing a linear photodetector array 10 disposed in said housing in a plane parallel to the movement of said travelers check, with the axis of said photodetector array orthogonal to the normal direction of motion of said travelers check, and disposed such 15 that said edge and said bar code will pass thereunder in reading relationship thereto as said travelers check is moved by said belt, said edge and said bar code normally moving relative to said reading means along 20 fixed planes which pass through said photodetector array; _ (b) detecting the position of said edge and selecting a photodetector of said array with which to read said bar code, and to 25 adjusting the selection of said a photodetector with which to read said bar code when said edge is detected as being skewed with respect to said linear array such that said bar code no longer moves 30 along a said fixed plane; and
(c) providing a path of light which is partially broken by said travelers check as said travelers check passes under said photodetector. 35 


 19. A method, as defined in Claim 18, further comprising a base member affixed to said platen over which said base member said travelers check passes as said bar code is read.
20. A method, as defined in Claim 19, further comprising means to direct a stream of gas at the top of said travelers check in the area of said bar code so as to force said travelers check against the upper surface of said base member and maintain said travelers check at a constant distance from said photodetector array.
21. A method, as defined in Claim 19, further comprising reflecting said light path from a mirror disposed in said base member.
22. A method, as defined in Claim 18, further comprising originating said light path from a lamp disposed beneath said platen.
23. A method, as defined in Claim 18, further comprising providing said bar code of the low visibility type. 

24. A method, as defined in Claim 18, further comprising providing said bar code of the type having areas of less and more reflectivity and said method further comprises: (a) directing said light path from above said travelers check toward said travelers check so that said less and more reflected areas will be detected by the reflection of a first portion of said light path from said bar code; and
(b) reflecting from below said edge of said travelers check a second portion of said light path which falls outside said edge. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
