<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619855</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYDRAULIC RELEASE APPARATUS AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B2300	E21B2304	E21B2306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B23	E21B23	E21B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydraulic release mechanism for retrieving a stuck downhole tool (250) from a well casing (202) having an elongated, cylindrical jack body (216), a piston (208) carried in a bore in the jack body and a latching portion (212) carried co-axially by the jack body for connecting with the stuck tool (250). The piston is movable within the jack body under the influence of fluid pressure from a first position to a second position. The movement of the piston to a position intermediate its first and second positions causes an anchor slip member (234) to ramp over a wedge member (236) and expand radially outward against the well casing to restrain further longitudinal movement of the piston in the casing. A shearable element (244) prevents relative motion between the anchor slip member and the jack body until the anchor slip member is moved radially outward against the well casing. The shearable element shears and releases the jack body for longitudinal motion in the casing relative to the piston when the anchor slip member is expanded radially outward against the casing, locking the piston in place. The latching portion (212) is operatively engageable with the tool in a manner permitting the stuck tool (250) to be lifted loose when the jack body is moved longitudinally relative to the locked piston under the influence of hydraulic pressure until the locked piston assumes its second position in the jack body.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALLIBURTON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COX DON C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COX, DON, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HYDRAULIC RELEASE APPARATUS AND METHODBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention:This invention relates to cable or reeled tubing-deployed pumping systems for use in oil and gas wells, and more particularly, to an emergency hydraulic release for the locking module discharge head in a cable-deployed or reeled tubing-deployed pumping system. A further embodiment of the invention relates to cable or reeled tubing hydraulic release apparatus for loosening a stuck downhole tool from a well casing for subsequent retrieval, or moving a downhole tool longitudinally to perform an operation in the well.2. Description of the Background:Artificial lift systems for use in oil and gas wells are well known. One type of artificial lift system is a cable deployed pumping system as previously disclosed, for example, in U.S. 4,913,239. The cable-deployed pumping system allows electric submersible pumps to be installed and retrieved by means of a crush-resistant electrical cable that can be field-spliced and is designed to withstand the gripping forces of an injector and the rigors of downhole service. This is a cost-effective alternative to conventional tubing deployment and offers faster installation and retrieval with smaller equipment and few personnel.In a standard installation for a cable-deployed pumping system, whether using a conventional pump or inverted pump, an electric submersible pump, motor and locking module discharge head are first connected to the electrical cable using a cable anchor assembly and an electrical penetrator assembly. The pumping system is then injected into the well through production tubing by means such as a modified reeled tubing injector. As the cable is lowered into the well, a collet latch on the locking module engages a locking module landing nipple disposed in the tubing string. After a subsurface safety valve below the landing nipple is opened by control fluid pressure 

exerted through a control line, the electric submersible pump can be activated to begin pumping well fluids to the surface. When it is desired to retrieve the pumping system from the well, the locking module is disengaged from the landing nipple by pulling upward on the electric cable.In using the previously known cable-deployed pumping systems, problems have sometimes been encountered when sand bridges or other trash accumulates around the locking module, making it difficult or impossible to disengage and retrieve the system by pulling on the cable from the surface. The pulling force required to break
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED is:
1. Hydraulic release apparatus for moving a downhole tool longitudinally in a well casing, the release apparatus comprising: a body; piston means in said body movable from a first position to a second position in said body; means for communicating fluid to said body to move said piston means from its first position to its second position in said body; anchor means movable by said piston means from a recessed configuration outward to a second configuration to restrain longitudinal movement of said piston means in the casing; releasable means joining said anchor means and said body to prevent relative motion therebetween until said anchor means is moved to its second configuration, said releasable means releasing said body for longitudinal motion in said casing relative to said piston means and said anchor means when said anchor means is moved to its second position; and latching means carried by said body and operatively engageable with the tool in a manner permitting the tool to be moved longitudinally relative to said piston means, said body being movable longitudinally relative to said piston means until said piston means assumes its second position in said body.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises locating means for locating said body adjacent the stock tool in a position wherein said latching means is operatively engaged with the tool for movement therewith when said body is moved longitudinally relative to said piston means and said anchor means.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said locating means includes a length of coil tubing, said body being attached at the free end of said coil tubing.
4. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said means for communicating fluid includes said coil tubing and wherein said body includes a fluid chamber in 


communication with the interior of said coil tubing, said piston means being sealingly disposed within said chamber such that fluid pressure from the interior of said coil tubing communicated to said fluid chamber acts on said piston means to move said piston means to an intermediate position between its first and second positions, and thereafter against said body to move said body relative to said piston means and said anchor means until said piston means assumes its second position in said body.
5. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said locating means includes a wireline, said body being attached at the free end of said wireline.
6. The apparatus of Claim 5, wherein said means for communicating fluid includes a length of control tubing and wherein said body includes a fluid chamber in communication with the interior of said control tubing, said piston means being sealingly disposed within said chamber such that fluid pressure from the interior of said control tubing communicated to said fluid chamber acts on said piston means to move said piston means to an intermediate position between its first and second positions, and thereafter against said body to move said body relative to said piston means and said anchor means until said piston means assumes its second position in said body.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said piston means is a sleeve shaped member sealingly disposed in a ring shaped bore in said body.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said anchor means includes an anchor slip member expandable radially outward by the movement of said piston means against the well casing to restrain longitudinal movement of said piston means in said casing, the movement of said piston means to a position intermediate its first and second positions causing said anchor slip member to ramp over a wedge member and expand radially outward against the well casing to restrain longitodinal movement of said piston means in said casing.
9. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said releasable means includes at 


least one shearable element which shears at a predetermined fluid pressure to allow relative motion between said piston means and said body when said anchor means is moved to its second configuration against said casing to restrain longitudinal motion of said piston means in said casing.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said latching means includes a ratcheting, latchable head, said ratcheting, latchable head having a threaded collet portion which allows said head to ratchet downward over a threaded portion on the tool while preventing ratcheting movement in the opposite direction to allow operative engagement between said head and the tool to permit the tool to be moved longitudinally when said body is moved longitudinally relative to said piston means.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10, wherein the tool is a packer.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said latching means includes a pulling device connected to said body for movement therewith, said pulling device having a J-shaped slot therein.
13. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein the tool is a packer having a lug member thereon engageable in said J-shaped slot to operatively engage the packer with said pulling device to permit the packer to be moved longitudinally when said body is moved longitudinally relative to said piston means when said anchor means is in its second configuration.
14. Hydraulic release apparatus for moving a downhole tool longitudinally in a well casing, comprising: an elongated, cylindrical body; a piston movable in said body under the influence of fluid pressure from a first position to a second position in said body; an anchor slip member expandable radially outward by the movement of said piston against the well casing to restrain longitodinal movement of said piston in said 


casing, the movement of said piston to a position intermediate its first and second positions causing said anchor slip member to ramp over a wedge member and expand radially outward against the well casing; releasable means for preventing relative motion between said anchor slip member and said piston until said anchor slip member is moved radially outward against the well casing, said releasable means preventing relative motion between said piston and said body when said anchor slip member is moved outward against the well casing and thereafter releasing at a predetermined pressure to allow said body to move longitudinally in said casing relative to said piston and said anchor slip member, said body being movable longitodinally relative to said piston until said piston assumes its second position in said body; and latching means carried coaxially by said body and operatively engageable with the tool in a manner permitting the tool to be moved longitodinally relative to said piston when said anchor slip member is expanded radially outward against the casing.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said apparatus further comprises locating means for locating said body adjacent the tool in a position wherein said latching means is operatively engaged with the tool for movement therewith.
16. The apparatus of Claim 15, wherein said locating means includes a length of coil tubing, said body being attached at the free end of said coil tubing.
17. The apparatus of Claim 15, wherein said locating means includes a wireline, said body being attached at the free end of said wireline.
18. The apparatus of Claim 14, wherein said piston is a sleeve shaped member sealingly disposed in a ring shaped bore in said body.
19. The apparatus of Claim 14, wherein said latching means includes a ratcheting, latchable head, said ratcheting, latchable head having a threaded collet portion which allows said head to ratchet downward over a threaded portion on the tool 


while preventing ratcheting movement in the opposite direction to allow operative engagement between said head and the tool to permit the tool to be moved longitodinally when said body is moved longitodinally relative to said piston and said anchor slip member when said anchor slip member is moved to its second configuration against said casing to restrain longitodinal motion of said piston in said casing.
20. The apparatus of Claim 19, wherein the tool is a packer.
21. The apparatus of Claim 14, wherein said latching means includes a pulling device connected to said body for movement therewith, said pulling device having a J-shaped slot therein.
22. The apparatus of Claim 21, wherein the tool is a packer having a lug member thereon engageable in said J-shaped slot to operatively engage the packer with said pulling device to permit the packer to be moved longitodinally when said body is moved longitodinally relative to said piston and said anchor slip member when said anchor slip member is moved to its second configuration against said casing.
23. A method of moving a downhole tool in a well casing, comprising the steps of: positioning a jack body adjacent the tool and latching the tool to the jack body for longitodinal movement therewith; applying hydraulic pressure against a piston carried by the jack body to lock the piston against the casing to prevent longitodinal motion of the piston in the casing; and applying further hydraulic pressure release the jack body for longitodinal motion relative to the locked piston and thereafter moving the jack body longitudinally in the casing relative to the locked piston to move the tool longitodinally in the casing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
