<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Acoustical isolator and method therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L41107	H01L41107	H03K17689	H03K17689	H04R1710	H04R1710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H03K	H03K	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L41	H01L41	H03K17	H03K17	H04R17	H04R17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for electrically isolating a first circuit (11) 
from a second circuit (12). The first and second circuits 

(11,12) are non-electrically coupled together. A first piezo-electric 
device (13), an acoustic medium (16), and a second 

piezo-electric device (14) forms an acoustic isolator (19). The 
first piezo-electric device (13) couples to the first circuit 

(11) and the second piezo-electric device (14) couples to the 
second circuit (12). For example, an electric signal from the 

first circuit (11) is converted to a mechanical vibration by the 
first piezo-electric device (13). The mechanical vibration is 

transmitted through the acoustic medium (16) to the second 
piezo-electric device (14) where it is reconverted to an 

electric signal that is received by the second circuit (12). The 
acoustic isolator (19) decouples the first and second circuits 

(11,12) electrically, yet allows the transfer of acoustic 
energy. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEMPE HORST A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEMPE, HORST A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates, in general, to isolators for 
electronic circuits, and more particularly to an acoustical 
isolator for electronic circuits. Optical isolators are commonly used to electrically 
isolate two separate or independent circuits. An example 
where isolation is commonly used is when one circuit operates 
at a high voltage (example-110 VAC) and the other at a low 
voltage (example-5 VDC). Another example where isolation is 
necessary is when two circuits have different ground 
potentials, an isolator will prevent ground loop problems. An 
optical isolator used in this circumstance would transfer a 
signal optically, with the signal being converted to an 
electronic signal by the receiving circuit. The problem with 
optical isolators is that optical coupling is extremely 
inefficient in the transfer of power. For example, a light 
emitting diode (LED) of a simple optocoupler may use 10 
milliamperes to generate an optical signal while the detector 
diode sensing the light emitted by the LED may generate 10 
microamperes. The low output by an optocoupler is not 
sufficient for many applications and may cause additional 
circuitry to be needed. Isolators, in general, must meet rigorous standards due to 
the potential hazards that a high voltage circuit presents. The 
isolator must be able to meet specific criteria for packaging, 
electrical isolation, and internal creepage to name only a few. 
It would be of great benefit if an isolator could be provided 
which is efficient in power transfer yet provides adequate 
electrical isolation.  Briefly stated, this invention comprises a method for 
electrically isolating a first circuit from a second circuit. The 
first and second circuits are non-electrically coupled to one 
another. The method couples the first and second circuits 
acoustically with piezo-electric devices for transmitting and 
receiving a mechanical vibration. FIG. 1 is a diagram of two electrically isolated circuits 
coupled together through an acoustic isolator in accordance 
with the present invention; and FIG. 2 is a schematic of a circuit application for an 
acoustic isolator in accordance with the present invention. FIG. 1 is a diagram of a circuit 11 acoustically coupled 
through an acoustic isolator 19 to a circuit 12. Circuits 11 and 
12 are electrically isolated from one another. Many applications exist where circuits need to be 
electrically isolated from one another, yet a non-electrical 
interface must be provided to link the circuits together. An 
example, is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for coupling a first circuit (11) and a second 
circuit (12) wherein the first circuit (11) operates at a voltage 

at least one order of magnitude greater than the second circuit 
(12), the method comprising 

   coupling the first circuit (11) and the second circuit (12) 
acoustically to electrically isolate the first (11) and second 

(12) circuits from one another; and 
   spacing the first (11) and second (12) circuits a 

predetermined distance from one another. 
A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step of 
coupling acoustically includes: 

   converting an electrical signal from the first circuit (11) 
to a mechanical vibration corresponding to said electrical 

signal; 
   transferring said mechanical vibration through an 

acoustic medium (16); and 
   converting said mechanical vibration to an electrical 

signal. 
A method as recited in claim 2 wherein said step of 
converting an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration 

includes: 
   coupling said electrical signal from the first circuit (11) 

to a piezo-electric device (13); and 
   generating said mechanical vibration with said piezo-electric 

device (13). 
A method as recited in claim 3 wherein said step of 
generating said mechanical vibration with said piezo-electric 

device (13) includes
 

   operating said piezo-electric device (13) at a resonant 
frequency to maximize energy transfer to said acoustic medium 

(16). 
A method as recited in claim 2 wherein said step of 
transferring includes 

   filtering out unwanted mechanical vibrations. 
A method as recited in claim 5 wherein said step of 
filtering output unwanted mechanical vibrations includes, 

   forming said acoustic medium (16) having bandpass filter 
characteristics for passing said mechanical vibrations. 
A method as recited in claim 2 wherein said step of 
converting said mechanical vibration to an electrical signal 

includes: 
   coupling said mechanical vibration to a piezo-electric 

device (14); and 
   generating said electrical signal converted from said 

mechanical vibration with said piezo-electric device (14). 
A method for electrically isolating a first circuit (11) 
from a second circuit (12) wherein the first (11) and second 

(12) circuits are non-electrically coupled, the method 
comprising: 

   coupling acoustically the first (11) and second (12) 
circuits with piezo-electric devices (13,14) for transmitting 

and receiving a mechanical vibration through an acoustic 
medium (16), said acoustic medium (16) electrically isolating 

the first circuit (11) from the second circuit (12) and 
physically spacing the first (11) and second (12) circuits a 

predetermined distance from one another. 
A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said step of 
coupling acoustically includes: 

   converting an electrical signal from the first circuit (11) 
to said mechanical vibration with a first piezo-electric device 

(13); 
   transmitting said mechanical vibration through said 

acoustic medium (16); 
   receiving said mechanical vibration with a second piezo-electric 

device (14); and 
   converting said mechanical vibration to an electrical 

signal with said second piezo-electric device (14) wherein said 
second electrical signal is received by the second circuit (12). 
A method for electrically isolating a first circuit 
(11) from a second circuit (12), the method comprising: 

   applying a first electrical signal from the first circuit 
(11) to a first piezo-electric device (13); 

   generating a mechanical vibration corresponding to said 
first electrical signal with said first piezo-electric device 

(13); 
   transmitting said mechanical vibration through an 

acoustic medium (16) to a second piezo-electric device (14), 
said acoustic medium electrically isolating the first circuit 

from the second circuit and physically spacing the first and 
second circuits a predetermined distance from one another; 

   generating a second electrical signal from said 
mechanical vibration with said second piezo-electric device 

(14); 
   applying said second electrical signal from said second 

piezo-electric device (14) to the second circuit (12), said first 
circuit (11) operating at a voltage substantially greater than 

an operating voltage of the second circuit (12). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
