<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A stretchable metallized nonwoven web of non-elastomeric thermoplastic polymer fibers and process to make the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06Q104	D06M10134	D06M10106	D06M1100	D04H142	D06M1100	D06M10120	D06M10118	D06M10100	D04H142	D06M10132	D06Q100	D04H1300	D04H1300	D06M10116	D06M10122	D06M1183	D06M10102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06Q	D06M	D06M	D06M	D04H	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D04H	D06M	D06Q	D04H	D04H	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06Q1	D06M101	D06M101	D06M11	D04H1	D06M11	D06M101	D06M101	D06M101	D04H1	D06M101	D06Q1	D04H13	D04H13	D06M101	D06M101	D06M11	D06M101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a stretchable metallized nonwoven web composed 
of at least one nonwoven web of non-elastomeric thermoplastic 

polymer fibers, the nonwoven web having been heated and then 
necked so that it is adapted to stretch in a direction parallel 

to neck-down at least about 10 percent more than an identical 
untreated nonwoven web of fibers; and a metallic coating 

substantially covering at least a portion of at least one side 
of the nonwoven web. The nonwoven web of non-elastomeric 

thermoplastic polymer fibers can be a nonwoven web of non-elastomeric 

meltblown thermoplastic polymer fibers. The 
stretchable metallized nonwoven web may be joined with other 

materials to form multi-layer laminates. Also disclosed is a 
process of making a stretchable metallized nonwoven web. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KIMBERLY CLARK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KIMBERLY-CLARK WORLDWIDE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to flexible metallized materials and
a process to prepare flexible metallized materials.Metallic coatings ranging in thickness from less than a
nanometer up to several microns have been added to sheet
materials to provide a decorative appearance and/or various
physical characteristics such as, for example, electrical
conductivity, static charge resistance, chemical resistance,
thermal reflectivity or emissivity, and optical reflectivity.
In some situations, metallized sheet materials can be applied to
or incorporated in some or all portions of a product instead of
metallizing the product itself. This may be especially desirable
for products that are, for example, large, temperature sensitive,
vacuum sensitive, difficult to handle in a metallizing process,
or have complex topographies.In the past, such use of metallized sheet materials may have
been restricted by the limitations of the substrate sheet. In
the past, metallic coatings have typically been applied to sheet-like
substrates that are considered to be relatively stretch-resistant
and inelastic so that the substrate would not deform
and cause the metallic coating to detach or flake off.
Accordingly, such metallized materials may possess inadequate
flexibility, stretch and recovery, softness and/or drape
properties for many applications. For example, U.S. Patent Nos.
4,999,222 and 5,057,351 describe metallized polyethylene
plexifilamentary film-fibril sheets that are inelastic and have
relatively poor drape and softness which may make them unsuited
for applications where stretch and recovery, drape and softness
are required. European Patent Publication 392,082-A2 describes
a method of manufacturing a metallic porous sheet suitable for
use as an electrode plate of a battery. According to that
publication, metal may be deposited on a porous sheet (foam
sheet, nonwoven web, mesh fabric or combinations of the same)
utilizing processes such as vacuum evaporation, electrolytic
plating and electroless plating. Thus, a need exists for a stretchable metallized sheet
material which has desirable flexibility, stretch and recovery,
drape, and softness. There is a further need for a stretchable
metallized sheet material which has the desired properties
described above and which is so inexpensive that it can be
discarded after only a single use. Although metallic coatings
have been added to inexpensive sheet materials, such inexpensive
metallized sheet materials have generally had limited application
because of the poor flexibility,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A stretchable metallized nonwoven web comprising:

at least one nonwoven web of non-elastomeric
thermoplastic polymer fibers, the nonwoven web having

been heated and then necked so that it is adapted to
stretch in a direction parallel to neck-down at least

about 10 percent more than an identical untreated
nonwoven web of fibers; and
a metallic coating substantially covering at least
a portion of at least one side of the nonwoven web.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 1
wherein the nonwoven web of non-elastomeric thermoplastic polymer

fibers is a selected from a nonwoven web of non-elastomeric
meltblown thermoplastic polymer fibers, a nonwoven web of non-elastomeric

spunbonded thermoplastic polymer fiber/filaments and
a nonwoven bonded carded web of non-elastomeric thermoplastic

polymer fibers.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 2
wherein the meltblown fibers include meltblown microfibers.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 3
wherein at least about SO percent, as determined by optical image

analysis, of the meltblown microfibers have an average diameter
of less than 5 microns.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 2
wherein the non-elastomeric meltblown thermoplastic polymer

fibers comprise a polymer selected from the group consisting of
polyolefins, polyesters, and polyamides.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 5
wherein the polyolefin is selected from the group consisting of

one or more of polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutene, ethylene
copolymers, propylene copolymers, and butene copolymers.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 2
wherein the nonwoven web further comprises one or more other

materials selected from the group consisting of wood pulp,
textile fibers, and particulates.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 7,
wherein the textile fibers are selected from the group consisting 

of polyester fibers, polyamide fibers, glass fibers, polyolefin
fibers, cellulosic derived fibers, multi-component fibers,

natural fibers, absorbent fibers, electrically conductive fibers
or blends of two or more of said nonelastic fibers.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 7,
wherein said particulate materials are selected from the group

consisting of activated charcoal, clays, starches, metal oxides,
and super-absorbent materials.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 1
wherein the nonwoven web has a basis weight of from about 6 to

about 400 grams per square meter.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 1
wherein the thickness of the metallic coating ranges from about

1 nanometer to about 5 microns.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 11
wherein the thickness of the metallic coating ranges from about

5 nanometers to about 1 micron.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 1
wherein the metallic coating is selected from the group

consisting of aluminum, copper, tin, zinc, lead, nickel, iron,
gold, silver, copper based alloys, aluminum based alloys,

titanium based alloys, and iron based alloys.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 1
wherein the metallic coating comprises at least two layers of

metallic coating.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 1
wherein the stretchable metallized nonwoven web is adapted to

be electrically conductive.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 15
wherein the nonwoven web is adapted to remain electrically

conductive when stretched at least about 25 percent.
The stretchable metallized nonwoven web of claim 16
wherein the nonwoven web is adapted to remain electrically

conductive when stretched from about 30 percent to about 100
percent. 
A multilayer material comprising:

at least one layer of a stretchable metallized
nonwoven web, the stretchable metallized nonwoven web

comprising at least one nonwoven web of non-elastomeric
thermoplastic polymer fibers, the nonwoven web having

been heated and then necked so that it is adapted to
stretch in a direction parallel to neck-down at least

about 10 percent more than an identical untreated
nonwoven web of fibers; and a metallic coating

substantially covering at least a portion of at least one
side of the nonwoven web; and
at least one other layer.
The multilayer material of claim 18 wherein the other
layer is selected from the group consisting of woven fabrics,

knit fabrics, bonded carded webs, continuous spunbond filament
webs, meltblown fiber webs, and combinations thereof.
A process of making a stretchable metallized nonwoven web
comprising:


providing at least one nonwoven web of non-elastomeric
thermoplastic polymer fibers, the nonwoven

web having been heated and then necked so that it is
adapted to stretch in a direction parallel to neck-down

at least about 10 percent more than an identical
untreated nonwoven web of fibers; and
metallizing at least one portion of at least one side
of the nonwoven web so that said portion is substantially

covered with a metallic coating.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
