<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626235</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Centerless grinder and wheel truing device therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24B500	B24B522	B24B524	B24B1500	B24B1504	B24B5306	B24B53065	B24B5312	B24B5314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	B24B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24B5	B24B5	B24B5	B24B15	B24B15	B24B53	B24B53	B24B53	B24B53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stem (24a) and a valve face (24b) of an engine valve (24) are 
ground by first (4) and second (21) grinding wheels respectively. 

A motor (20) for driving the second grinding wheel is mounted 
on a first plate (15) movable by a servomotor in a direction 

perpendicular to the axis of the wheel (21), and under the 
first plate (15), a second plate (14) is disposed to be movable in a 

direction parallel with the axis of the wheel (21). The valve 
face (24b) is ground obliquely by the second grinding wheel (21) by 

moving the two plates (14,13). The first grinding wheel (4) is trued 
by a first dresser (46) movable in directions parallel with and 

perpendicular to the axis of the first grinding wheel (4). 
The second grinding wheel (21) is trued by a second dresser (60) 

provided at the end of a support strut (52). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI VALVE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI VALVE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARADA KATSUHIKO C O FUJI OOZX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARADA KATSUHIKO C O FUJI OOZX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a centerless 
grinder and a wheel truing device for the centerless 
grinder, and in particular, to a centerless grinder and a 
wheel truing device for use in grinding a stem and a head 
simultaneously of a workpiece such as an engine valve. Engine valves are finished by separate mechanical 
processes in which a stem is processed with a centerless 
grinder and a valve face of a head is ground with a 
grinder that uses a chuck. However, when the stem and the 
valve face are ground by different grinders respectively, 
process productivity is poor and the number of machines 
required is increased. Furthermore, errors are likely to 
be caused in the concentricity and size accuracy between 
the stem and the valve face. To overcome these disadvantages, it is suggested 
that the stem and the valve face are ground simultaneously 
using a centerless grinder as shown in Fig. 6. To a rotary shaft 102 of a motor 101, a first 
grinding wheel 104 for grinding a stem 103a of an engine 
valve 103 and a second grinding wheel 105 for grinding a 
valve face 103c of a head 103b are mounted. Between the 
first grinding wheel 104 and an adjusting wheel 107 
rotated at lower speed by a motor 106, the stem 103a of 
the engine valve 103 is held, and the stem 103a and the 
valve face 103c are simultaneously ground by the first and 
second grinding wheels 104 and 105 respectively by 
rotating the motors 101 an 106 in the same direction. However, in the centerless grinder in which the 
two grinding wheels 104 and 105 are mounted to a single 
shaft, the rotation speeds of the grinding wheels 104 and 
105 are the same, so that the stem 103a and the valve face 
103c are ground at different processing speeds owing to 
the difference in circumferential speed which depends on  
 
the difference in outer diameters of the wheels. That is 
to say, if the circumferential speed of the first grinding 
wheel 104 for grinding the stem 103a is set to the most 
suitable grinding condition, the circumferential speed of 
the second grinding wheel 105 for grinding the valve face 
103c becomes too slow, thereby increasing the surface 
roughness of the valve face 103c, which requires a good 
surface finish, so that further finish polishing is 
required. Conversely, if the circumferential speed of 
the second grinding wheel 105 is set to the most suitable 
grinding condition, then the circumferential speed of the 
first grinding wheel 104 is too fast, thereby causing 
burning of the stem 103 and rapid wearing of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A centerless grinder for grinding a workpiece 
which comprises a head and a stem, the grinder comprising: 

   a first grinding wheel which rotates at high 
speed; 

   an adjusting wheel which is movable with respect 
to the first grinding wheel and rotates at speed lower 

than the first grinding wheel, the stem of the workpiece 
being held between the first grinding wheel and the 

adjusting wheel so that the stem may be ground; 
   a second grinding wheel for grinding the head of 

the workpiece, the second grinding wheel rotating on an 
axis in parallel with an axis of the first grinding wheel; 

   drive means for rotating the second grinding 
wheel; and 

   means for moving the drive means in directions 
parallel with and perpendicular to an axis of the 

workpiece so that the head may be ground by the second 
grinding wheel in directions parallel with, perpendicular 

to, and oblique to the axis of the workpiece. 
A centerless grinder as defined in claim 1 wherein 
the means for moving the drive means comprises a first 

moving plate on which the drive means is disposed, and a 
second moving plate along which the first moving plate 

slides in the direction perpendicular to the axis of the 
workpiece, the second moving plate being slidable in the 

direction parallel with the axis of the workpiece. 
A centerless grinder as defined in claim 2 wherein 
the first moving plate is connected to a servomotor via a 

threaded rod and slides on a rail of the second plate 
which is connected to a servomotor via a threaded rod, the 

second moving plate sliding on a guide rail. 
A centerless grinder as defined in claim 1 wherein 
the drive means comprises a motor. 
A centerless grinder as defined in claim 1 wherein 
the workpiece comprises an engine valve which has on the 

head a valve face to be ground by the second grinding 
wheel. 
A wheel truing device for a centerless grinder 
which comprises a first grinding wheel for grinding a stem 

of a workpiece and a second grinding wheel for grinding a 
head of the workpiece, respectively, the device 

comprising: 
   a first dresser for truing the first grinding 

wheel; 
   means for moving the first dresser in a direction 

parallel with an axis of the first grinding wheel; 
   first positioning means for extending or 

retracting the first dresser in a direction perpendicular 
to the axis of the first grinding wheel so that a truing 

surface of the first dresser contacts with an outer 
circumferential surface of the first grinding wheel; 

   a second dresser for truing the second grinding 
wheel; and 

   second positioning means for moving the second 
dresser in the direction perpendicular to the axis of the 

second grinding wheel so that a truing surface of the 
second dresser may contact with an outer circumferential 

surface of the second grinding wheel. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 6 
wherein the first and second dressers comprise rotary 

dressers which are rotated by separate drive means. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 7 
wherein the drive means comprises a motor. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 6 
wherein the means for moving the first dresser comprises a 

first moving plate which is connected to a servomotor via 
a threaded rod. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 6 
wherein the first positioning means comprises a second 

moving plate which is connected to a servomotor via a 
threaded rod, and is mounted on the first moving plate, 

and the motor for driving the first dresser being mounted 
on the moving plate. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 6 
wherein the second positioning means comprises a 

servomotor, a threaded rod connected to a rotary axis of 
the servomotor, and a positioning head which slides on a 

guide rail, the threaded rod being a threaded fit into the 
head. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 6 
wherein the device further comprises means for moving the 

second dresser in a direction parallel with the axis of 
the second grinding wheel. 
A wheel truing device as defined in claim 12 
wherein the means for moving the second dresser comprises 

a moving plate connected to a servomotor via a threaded 
rod, the moving plate being engaged with a support portion 

of a strut to be slidable on the support portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
