<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644185</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sulfonation of fatty acid esters
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C11D102	C07C30344	C07B6100	C07C30314	C07C30900	C11D128	C07B6100	C07C30300	C07C30917	C07C30306	B01F1700	B01F1708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C11D	C07C	C07B	C07C	C07C	C11D	C07B	C07C	C07C	C07C	B01F	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C11D1	C07C303	C07B61	C07C303	C07C309	C11D1	C07B61	C07C303	C07C309	C07C303	B01F17	B01F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sulfonation process includes the process 
steps of air sulfonating a fatty acid alkyl ester 

feedstock, bleaching the crude product with co-addition 
of up to about 40 wt.% of an alcohol based 

upon the weight of the crude product. The 
bleaching/alcohol addition step of the process is 

performed in a non-metallic or low-iron alloy system 
at temperatures above 90°C. The resulting product 

is then neutralized with a liquid base or metal 
carbonate. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMITHON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE CHEMITHON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOVDA KEITH D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOVDA, KEITH D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to the
sulfonation of fatty acid esters and derivatives
thereof and, more particularly, the invention
relates to methods of sulfonation of fatty acid
esters and of bleaching and neutralizing the
resulting sulfonated product.The sulfonates of fatty acids and fatty
acid derivatives are commercially valuable as
wetting agents and detergent components due to their
excellent surface-active properties and resistance
to hard water. A sulfonation process which includes
reacting excess gaseous sulfur trioxide with fatty
acids or fatty acid derivatives to produce a
sulfonic acid is well known in the art. Because the
sulfonic acid containing product resulting from such
a process is typically dark in color and therefore
undesirable for commercial use, it is also known to
bleach the product, for example, by treatment with
hydrogen peroxide. The bleached product is then
typically neutralized with sodium hydroxide.The known bleaching processes are limited
in several ways. For example, prior experiments
teach that the bleaching process should be performed
at a temperature of 90°C or less. Typically, a
bleaching temperature between about 70°C and about
80°C has been utilized. For example, in an 
experiment where methylester sulfonic acid was
reacted with hydrogen peroxide in stainless steel
equipment, heating the bleaching system above 75°C
resulted in product having a darker color than
product bleached at lower temperatures. Operation
at higher temperatures resulted in a rapid exotherm
and the total consumption of hydrogen peroxide.
Once all the hydrogen peroxide was consumed, the
color of the acid increased with time.The prior art teaches that the sulfonation
and bleaching processes may be improved by adding an
aliphatic alcohol to the reaction mixture. For
example, Ogoshi, et al., U.S. Patent No. 3,997,575
(December 14, 1976) discloses utilizing up to about
twenty weight percent alcohol in a sulfonic acid
bleaching process. Although the use of a higher
percentage of alcohol would seem to be desirable
because the alcohol decreases the viscosity of the
reaction mixture, thereby guarding against
undesirable localized temperature increases which
occur in a more viscous mixture, it has generally
been taught that a higher amount of alcohol is
undesirable for several reasons, including
difficulties in removing free alcohol from the
neutralized product and the unpleasant odor of the
alcohol which necessitates deodorization of the
product.The known bleaching processes (and
corresponding
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for preparing a sulfonated fatty
acid ester surfactant including the steps of


(a) sulfonating a fatty acid ester thereby
producing a crude sulfonic acid;
(b) reacting the crude sulfonic acid with a
bleaching agent and an alcohol; and
(c) neutralizing the product formed in step (b);

   the improvement comprising at least one of the
following expedients :


(i) providing process equipment for performing
step (b) made from materials selected from the

group consisting of non-metallic materials and low-iron,
corrosion resistant alloys; and
(ii) performing step (b) with at least 21 wt.%
co-addition of alcohol based upon the crude sulfonic acid

weight.
A process according to Claim 1 wherein the
fatty acid ester is sulfonated with SO
3
 and the ester to SO
3

mole ratio in step (a) ranges from 1:1.1 to 1:1.5.
A process according to Claim 1 wherein step
(a) further comprises digesting the reactants 
at a
temperature range of from 80°C to 95°C.
A process according to Claim 3 wherein the
time and temperature of digesting is controlled to result

in a crude sulfonic acid having from 4 wt.% to 6 wt.%
petroleum ether extractable oils. 
A process for preparing a sulfonated fatty
acid ester surfactant according to Claim 1 comprising :


(a) sulfonating a fatty acid ester thereby
producing a crude sulfonic acid;
(b) reacting the crude sulfonic acid with a
bleaching agent and an alcohol in process equipment

made from materials selected from the group
consisting of non-metallic materials and low-iron,

corrosion resistant alloys; and
(c) neutralizing the product formed in step (b).
A process for preparing a sulfonated fatty
acid ester surfactant according to Claim 1 comprising :


(a) sulfonating a fatty acid ester thereby
producing a crude sulfonic acid;
(b) reacting the crude sulfonic acid with a
bleaching agent with the co-addition of at least 21

wt.% of an alcohol based upon the crude sulfonic
acid weight, said alcohol selected from the group

consisting of primary and secondary alcohols having
from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and mixtures thereof; and
(c) neutralizing the product formed in step (b).
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 5, comprising performing step (b) at a temperature of at

least 91°C in process equipment selected from the group
consisting of non-metallic materials and low-iron,

corrosion resistant alloys.
A process according to Claim 7, wherein step
(b) is performed at a temperature range of from 91°C to

110°C. 
A process according to Claim 7, wherein step
(b) is performed at a temperature range of from 95°C to

105°C.
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 9, wherein the bleaching agent is hydrogen peroxide.
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 10, wherein the bleaching step (b) further comprises

continuously refluxing the alcohol during bleaching and
stripping gaseous by-products from the product formed

during step (b) with said alcohol.
A process according to Claim 11, including
stripping water from the product formed during step (b) and

replacing said water with an approximately equal amount of
alcohol.
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 12, further comprising continuously stripping oxygen and

ethers after the bleaching step (b).
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 13, further comprising reacting residual bleaching

agents and organic peroxides from the product formed in
step (b) with a reducing agent.
A process according to Claim 14, wherein the
reducing agent is selected from the group consisting of SO
2
,
the salts and acids thereof, and mixtures thereof.
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 13, further comprising reacting residual bleaching 

agents and organic peroxides from the product formed in
step (b) with a reducing agent during step (c).
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 16, wherein the alcohol addition ranges from 21 wt.% to

40 wt.% based upon the crude sulfonic acid weight.
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 17, wherein a liquid base is utilized for the

neutralizing step (c).
A process according to Claim 18, wherein the
liquid base is a sodium hydroxide solution.
A process for neutralizing an organic acid according to Claim 1,
comprising :

performing the neutralization with a solid
base in a solution or slurry of alcohol.
A process according to Claim 20, wherein the
amount of alcohol present during the neutralization step

(c) ranges from 21 wt.% to 40 wt.% based upon the organic
acid weight.
A process according to Claim 20 or 21
wherein alcohol is removed and recovered for re-use.
A process according to any one of Claims 20
to 22, wherein the organic acid is bleached prior to

neutralization and further comprising reacting residual
bleaching agents and organic peroxides with a reducing

agent. 
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 17 or Claims 20 to 23 wherein a solid metal carbonate is

utilised for the neutralizing step (c).
A process according to Claim 24 wherein the
solid metal carbonate is sodium carbonate.
A process according to any one of Claims 1
to 25, wherein the alcohol is selected from the group

consisting of primary and secondary alcohols having from 1
to 4 carbon atoms and mixtures thereof.
A process according to Claim 26, wherein the
alcohol is methanol or ethanol.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
