<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626895</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF CLADDING TUBES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2006	B23K2008	B21D2600	B21D2608	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B23K	B21D	B21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K20	B23K20	B21D26	B21D26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of cladding an outer tube (1) with an inner tube (2), wherein the inner tube is made of a corrosion-resistant material, for instance. The invention is characterized by placing a number of explosive charges (3) in mutually spaced arrangement in the inner tube (2), in contact with or essentially in contact with the inner surface of the inner tube; filling the inner tube with a pressure-transmitting medium (4), preferably water; and detonating all explosive charges (3) simultaneously, so as to obtain a local metallurgical bond (6) at the regions of the explosive charges and so as to cause the inner tube (2) to expand into abutment with the outer tube (1).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXPLOWELD AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXPLOWELD AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSSON INGEMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSSON, INGEMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of cladding 
an outer tube with an inner tube by detonating explosive 
charges. It is known to expand a corrosion-resistant inner tube 
into contact with an outer, mechanically strong tube 
by means of an explosion process, so as to obtain a 
mechanical pressure joint between the two tubes. It is 
also known to bind the two tubes metallurgically over 
the whole of their contacting surfaces by means of an 
explosion-welding process, see for instance US-A-3863327, wherein 
explosive charges are set up in a liquid along the central axis of the 
pipes, and simultaneously fired. In the case of the mechanical pressure joint, one 
drawback is that in the case of large diameters and 
thin cladding tubes, there is a risk that the latter 
tube will become inwardly distorted should a vacuum be 
generated in the conduit. In the case of the metallurgical joint, the risk of 
inwardly distorsion does not exist, since a joint of 
this nature has a high mechanical strength, even 
against radially and inwardly acting stresses. An explosion-welding process, however, is expensive, 
particularly in the case of large diameters, which 
require very large quantities of explosives and supportive 
fixtures. In practice, explosion-welding processes 
are restricted to tube lengths of 4-5 metres. These drawbacks are avoided with the inventive method, 
both with solely mechanical joints and also with 
explosion welds effected over the entire surface of 
the tubes. Thus, the present invention relates to a method of 
cladding an outer tube with an inner tube in which the 
inner tube is made, for instance, of a corrosion-resistant  
 
material. The inventive method comprises: 
placing a number of explosive charges 
in the inner tube in contact with or essentially in 
contact with the inner surface of the tube, said 
explosive charges being spaced from one another and 
distributed over the inner surface of said inner tube; 
filling the inner tube with a pressure-transmitting 
medium, preferably water; and detonating all explosive 
charges simultaneously, such as to cause a local 
metallurgical joint in the vicinity of respective 
explosive charges and expansion of the inner tube into 
abutment with the outer tube. The invention will now be described in more detail 
with reference to an exemplifying embodiment thereof 
and also with reference to the accompanying drawings, 
in which 
Figures 1 and 2 are respectively radial and axial section 
views of an outer and an inner tube with 
explosive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of cladding an outer tube (1) with an 
inner tube (2), wherein the inner tube is comprised of 

a corrosion-resistant material for instance, 
comprising : placing a number of explosive 

charges (3) in mutually spaced arrangement in the 
inner tube (2), in contact with or essentially in 

contact with the inner surface of said inner tube; 
filling the inner tube with a pressure-transmitting 

medium (4), preferably water; and detonating all 
explosive charges (3) simultaneously, so as to obtain 

a local metallurgical bond (6) at the regions of said 
explosive charges and so as to cause the inner tube 

(2) to expand into abutment with the outer tube (1). 
A method according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the explosive charges (3) 

placed against the inner surface of the inner tube (2) 
have a circular or oval form. 
A method according to Claim 2, 
characterized
 
by dimensioning the explosive charges 

(3) placed against the inner surface of the inner tube 
(2) in a manner such that subsequent to detonation, 

said charges will result in metallurgical bonds (6) 
having a size of 1-8 cm². 
A method according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 
by placing strings of explosive charges 

(3') against the inner surface of the inner tube (2). 
A method according to Claim 4, 
characterized
 
by placing the strings (3') in straight 

lines which extend axially in the inner tube (2). 
A method according to Claim 4, 
characterized
 
by extending the strings (3') axially 

but helically within the inner tube (2).  
 
A method according to Claim 4, 
characterized
 
by arranging the strings in the form of 

rings (3''), and disposing a number of rings (3'') in 
mutually spaced and mutually parallel relationship 

within the inner tube (2) along the length of said 
tube. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-7, 

characterized
 by locating one or more 
further explosive charges (5, 5') in the pressure-transmitting 

medium (4) present in the inner tube (2), 
either in the centre of said tube (2) or at some other 

location spaced from the wall of said tube, and 
detonating said further explosive charge or charges 

(5, 5') simultaneously with the explosive charges 
(3, 3') placed against the inner surface of the inner 

tube (2), so as to amplify the pressure wave which is 
effective in expanding the inner tube (2) into engagement 

with the outer tube (1) upon detonation of the 
explosive charges. 
A method according to Claim 8, 
characterized
 
by giving those explosive charges (5, 

5') which are located within the inner tube (2) spaced 
from the wall of said tube the form of explosive 

strings which extend along the whole length of the 
tube. 
A method according to any one of Claims 4-9, 

characterized
 by extending the explosive 
strings (3, 3', 3''; 5, 5') continuously in the tube. 
A method according to any one of Claims 4-9, 

characterized
 by extending the explosive 
strings discontinuously in said tube.  

 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-11, 

characterized
 in that prior to 
detonation, the outer diameter of the inner tube (2) 

is smaller than the inner diameter of the outer tube 
(1), so as to define a gap (8) between the tubes; and 

in that air present in the gap is evacuated therefrom 
prior to detonating the explosive charges (3, 3', 3''; 

5, 5'), preferably to a pressure below about 1 
millibar. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-12, 

characterized
 by placing all explosive 
charges (3, 3', 3''; 5, 5') within a plastic, paper or 

rubber hose which fits within the inner tube (2), so 
as to obtain effective positioning of the explosive 

charges. 
A method according to Claim 13, 
characterized
 
by introducing said pressure-transmitting 

medium (4) into said plastic, paper or 
rubber hose. 
A method according to Claim 13 or 14
,characterized
 
by fastening the explosive charges 

(3') which are intended to be placed against the inner 
surface of the inner tube (2) onto a sheet of elastic 

material, for instance a sheet of plastic or rubber 
material; shaping and joining the sheet in a hose form 

which includes a filling opening at one end thereof; 
and filling the hose with pressure-transmitting medium 

at a pressure sufficient to press the hose, and 
therewith the explosive charges (3') fastened thereto, 

radially outwards into abutment with the inner wall of 
the inner tube (2). 
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterized
 
by fastening those explosive charges  

 
which are intended to lie spaced from the inner wall 

of the inner tube (2) to the hose wall by means of 
bands of elastic material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
