<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610365</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CEREBRAL BIOPOTENTIAL ANALYSIS SYSTEM AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5048	G06F1700	A61B50476	A61B50476	A61B516	A61B516	G06F1900	G06F1900	G06F1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	G06F	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	G06F17	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G06F19	G06F19	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method to obtain (19) unipolar EEG signals from electrodes (13) attached to a patient's head (14).  The EEG signals are detected by the electrodes and transmitted over a patient cable (16) to the EEG data acquisition and analysis system (12). The system (12) generates all power spectrum, bispectrum, and higher-order spectrum arrays. These arrays are then used in conjunction with clinically predetermined coefficient arrays to produce diagnostic indices. These indices are sent to the host computer (18) and are displayed on the graphics display (2). Printed output of the diagnostic index is also available on the hard copy output device (22) which is connected to the microcomputer (18). The operator interacts with the acquisition and analysis components of the system by means of a user input device (24) with feedback on the graphics display (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASPECT MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASPECT MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAMOUN NASSIB G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIANG HSING-HSING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEAD PETER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAINI VIKAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAMOUN, NASSIB, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIANG, HSING-HSING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEAD, PETER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAINI, VIKAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a real-time, high-resolution
cerebral biopotential analysis system and method, and more
particularly to a computer-based biopotential diagnostic system
and method for quantitatively determining, in a noninvasive
manner, cerebral phenomena that can be ascertained by analyzing
the properties of cerebral electrical activity.Despite a considerable expenditure of time and effort, current
approaches to the quantitative, noninvasive assessment of
cerebral electrical activity, as displayed in an electroencephalographic
(EEG) waveform, have not been successful
in fully extracting all of the information which is present in
this complex waveform. A great need remains for an accurate,
sensitive, reliable, and practical neurological profiling
technology. In particular, contemporary intraoperative EEG
monitoring techniques have not been widely adopted due to their
inherent limitations. Indeed, large numbers of medical
malpractice suits are believed to be related to post-anesthesia
morbidity and mortality, and if such EEG monitoring techniques
were reliable they certainly would have been adopted.A number of devices known in the prior art are capable of
tracking cerebral activity qualitatively. Techniques involving
the use of the classical conventional analog EEG are
restricted to analyses in the time domain, and require
considerable training for adequate interpretation. Moreover,
since the resolution of the human eye at standard EEG tracing
speeds is limited, much of the fine structure of the EEG is
invisible. Thus, visual EEG assessment is better characterized
as an art rather than a science. The use of frequency (power spectrum) analysis of the EEG in
the 1960s introduced the notion of some basic processing of
the signal prior to visual inspection and led to the application
of frequency analysis of the EEC to various cerebral monitoring
problems. In the past 25 years, over 100 papers have been
published in the medical literature describing applications of
power spectral analysis for purposes such as assessing the
depth of anesthesia and cerebral ischemia under various
intraoperative conditions. United States patent No. 4,557,270
issued to John also describes the use of power spectrum analysis
to evaluate cerebral perfusion during open heart surgery.
Several recent studies, however, have shown many deficiencies
in the use of power spectral analysis to monitor cerebral
perfusion and to determine postoperative neurological outcome.
In addition, neither power spectrum analysis nor any
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena comprising the steps
of:


acquiring electroencephalographic signals through at least one electrode (13)
from a body surface of a subject (15) being analysed;
band pass filtering said electroencephalographic signals to obtain filtered
signals in a desired frequency range and
dividing said filtered signals into a plurality of data records

characterised in that the method comprises the steps of characterising
dynamic phase relations within said filtered signals by processing said filtered

signals to generate Kth-order spectral values, where K is an integer greater than
2 and
deriving from said generated Kth-order spectral values a diagnostic index that
quantifies the detected cerebral phenomena.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the step of acquiring electroencephalographic signals further comprises the step

of attaching electrodes (13) to a head (14) of the subject (15) being analysed in
order to obtain a unipolar electroencephalographic signal from each region of

interest of both left and right hemispheres of the subject's brain to which said
electrodes are attached.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
said Kth-order spectral values generated in said step of characterising said

dynamic phase relations are auto Kth-order spectral density values.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 3 wherein
said auto Kth-order spectral density values are auto Kth-order phase values.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 3 wherein
said auto Kth-order spectral density values are auto Kth-order coherence values. 
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
said step of acquiring electroencephalographic signals further comprises the step

of attaching electrodes (13) to the head (14) of the subject (15) being analysed in
order to obtain bipolar data sets of electroencephalographic signals from left and

right hemispheres of the subject's brain to which said electrodes are attached.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 6 wherein
one bipolar data set is acquired from a frontal left hemisphere of the subject's

brain and another bipolar data set is acquired from a frontal right hemisphere of
the subject's brain.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 6 wherein
one bipolar data set is acquired from a left occipital region of the subject's brain

and another bipolar data set is acquired from a right occipital region of the
subject's brain.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 6 wherein
one bipolar data set is acquired from a left parietal region of the subject's brain

and another bipolar data set is acquired from a right parietal region of the
subject's brain.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the cerebral phenomena being detected are pain responses during surgical stress

in the subject (15) being analysed.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the cerebral phenomenon being detected is the degree of cerebral intoxication of

the subject (15) being analysed.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the cerebral phenomena being detected are normal or abnormal cognitive

processes of the subject (15) being analysed. 
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the cerebral phenomenon being detected is chronic ischemia or infarction in the

subject (15) being analysed.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the cerebral phenomenon being detected are cognitive processes caused by

neurological disorders.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
the cerebral phenomenon being detected are altered evoked potential responses.
A system for noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena comprising:

means (406) for acquiring electroencephalographic signals through at least
one electrode (13) from a body surface of a subject (15) being analysed;

means (406) for band pass filtering said electroencephalographic signals to
eliminate those signals outside the desired frequency range and
means (406) for dividing said filtered signals into a plurality of data records;

characterised in that the system comprises means (408) for generating Kth-order
spectral values capable of characterising dynamic phase relations within

said filtered electroencephalographic signals where K is an integer greater than 2
and
means (410) for deriving a diagnostic index from said generated Kth-order
opectral values that quantifies the detected cerebral phenomena.
The system for noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 16 further
comprising a plurality of said means (406) for acquiring electroencephalographic

signals being connected to said means (406) for filtering.
The system for noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 17 wherein
said plurality of said means (406) for acquiring electroencephalographic signals is

a plurality of electrodes (13) attachable to a head (14) of a subject (15) being
analysed to obtain a unipolar electroencephalographic signal from each of a

plurality of regions of interest on both left and right hemispheres of the subject's
brain. 
The system for noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 16 wherein
said means (406) for acquiring electroencephalographic signals comprises:


a pluralitiy of surface electrodes (13) for mounting on a surface of a head (14)
of the subject (15) being analysed;

means (32) for providing defibrillator protection for limiting voltage to said
amplifier during a discharge;
means (36) for amplifying said filtered signals for a high gain in order to
maximize the dynamic range for high frequency, low energy wave components of

said filtered signals;
means (30) for providing electrosurgery protection for limiting radio frequency
current through said means for amplifying;
means for feeding said signals to an analog-to-digital converter (38) to convert
said signals to digital signals.
The system for noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 16 wherein
means (406) for acquiring electroencephalographic signals is adapted to aquire

signals from different regions of a brain of said subject.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1, wherein
said step of deriving from said generated Kth-order spectral values a diagnostic

index comprises the steps of:

sorting said spectral values into predetermined bins of ranges of spectral
values;
summing all of the spectral values in each bin;
multiplying the sum of spectral values in each bin by a predetermined
coefficient to obtain a bin product;
summing said bin products to obtain a diagnostic index which represents a
degree of presence or absence of said phenomena.
The system for noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 16, wherein
the means for deriving a diagnostic index from said Kth-order spectral values

comprises:

means for sorting said spectral values into predetermined bins of ranges of
spectral values;
means for summing all of the spectral values in each bin; 
means for multiplying the sum of spectral values in each bin by a
predetermined coefficient to obtain a bin product;
means for summing said bin products to obtain a diagnostic index which
represents a degree of presence or absence of said phenomena.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
said step of acquiring electroencephalographic signals comprises acquiring

electro-encephalographic signals through at least one electrode placed near
areas of the brain in which an evoked potential response occurs.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1 wherein
said step of acquiring electroencephalographic signals comprises acquiring

electro-encephalographic signals from one complete evoked potential response.
The method of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 1, wherein
said Kth-order spectral values are third order spectral values.
The system of noninvasively detecting cerebral phenomena of claim 16, wherein
said Kth-order spectral values are third order spectral values.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
