<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611505</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CODING METHOD FOR FDM BROADCAST TRANSMISSIONS, TRANSMITTER AND RECEIVER FOR CARRYING OUT THE METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H6054	H04L2732	H04L2726	H04J1100	H04J1100	H04L2726	H04H2030	H04L2732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	H04L	H04L	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04H	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H60	H04L27	H04L27	H04J11	H04J11	H04L27	H04H20	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of coding broadcast
transmissions so as to carry additional data, such as for example an
identification of the transmitter concerned. The method is
applicable to transmission systems using a frequency division
multiplex technique.Such a technique is used in the system proposed by Pommier,
D. and Ratliff, P.A. in a paper "New Prospects for High Quality
Digital Sound Broadcasting to Mobile Portable and Fixed Radio
Receivers", IBC 88, IEE Conference Publication No.293, pages
349 to 353. The system involves:
(a) a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) for both modulation
and demodulation processes to overcome frequency
selectivity, using many simultaneous narrowband
carriers,(b) convolutional coding in conjunction with a Viterbi
maximum-likelihood decoding algorithm to provide a
large coding gain,(c) two-dimensional, frequency and time interleaving to
realise the large coding gain in all fixed and mobile
receiving conditions, and(d) an outer blockcode concatenated with the
convolutional inner code.The system described has been found to provide excellent
reception quality in mobile use even in the presence of substantial
multipath propagation. The authors of the above paper propose its
use for a single-frequency network of terrestrial digital stereo 
audio transmitters in the 50-250 MHz range. Because the receiver is
able to cope with multipath signals, it does not, in principle, need
to know which transmitter the signals have come from. Furthermore
any 'holes' in the coverage area may be filled in by providing a
local low-power transmitter on the same frequencies as those in the
network. The system has reduced potential to interfere with other
radio communications services because of its uniform spectral
characteristics. All these factors make it an attractive system to
use in an already-crowded broadcasting spectrum.However, we have appreciated that there are circumstances
when it would be desirable to be able to identify individual
transmitters in such a single-frequency network. For the
broadcaster, this would be of assistance for monitoring and
measurement purposes. In a sophisticated receiver, this
information could be of assistance for example in navigation or in
selecting services appropriate to a particular geographical area.However, the whole point of the single-frequency system
described is that the receiver can simultaneously accept signals
from more than one transmitter without differentiating between them.
The same signal emanates from all transmitters which are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of transmitting additional data on a
broadcast transmission which uses a frequency-division

multiplex technique, in which the signal is transmitted on
a plurality of carriers, characterised in that the

amplitudes of the carriers are varied relative to each
other in accordance with the additional data.
A method according to claim 1, in which the
additional data includes data identifying the transmitter.
A method according to claim 1 or 2, in which
the amplitudes of selected ones of the carriers are

reduced by a small amount.
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, in which
the carriers are grouped and the amplitudes of groups of

carriers varied to encode the additional data.
A method according to claim 4, in which the
groups are interleaved in the spectrum.
A transmitter for transmitting additional data
on a broadcast transmission which uses a frequency-division

multiplex technique, comprising means (12-24) for
generating a broadcast transmission signal using a

frequency-division multiplex technique having a plurality
of carriers, and characterised by means (26) for

relatively varying the amplitudes of the carriers in
accordance with additional data.
A transmitter network comprising a plurality of
transmitters, each transmitter comprising means (12-24)

for generating a broadcast transmission signal using a
frequency-division multiplex technique having a plurality

of carriers, and characterised by means (26) for
relatively varying the amplitudes of the carriers in 

accordance with additional data and in that the coding
algorithms used in the different transmitters provide

orthogonality between the amplitude modulation applied to
the transmitters.
A receiver for receiving a broadcast
transmission transmitted using a frequency-division

multiplex technique and carrying additional information,
the receiver comprising means (32-44) for receiving and

demodulating the plurality of carriers carrying the signal
in the frequency-division multiplex technique, and

characterised by means (46) for determining relative
variation between the amplitudes of the carriers to

extract the additional data therefrom.
A receiver according to claim 8, in which the
carriers are grouped, and the means (46) for determining

relative variation is arranged to detect relative
variation in the amplitudes of the groups of carriers to

extract the additional data.
A receiver according to claim 9, in which the
groups are interleaved in the spectrum.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
