<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637834</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ion implanting apparatus and ion implanting method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J37244	H01J37317	H01J3702	C23C1448	H01J37244	C23C1448	H01L2102	H01J37317	H01L21265	H01J3702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	C23C	H01J	C23C	H01L	H01J	H01L	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	C23C14	H01J37	C23C14	H01L21	H01J37	H01L21	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ion implanting apparatus for irradiating a 
material, for example, a semiconductor wafer, with an 

ion beam generated at an ion source, for implanting 
the ion into the material, is provided with a magnet 

at a side of the material opposite to a side into which 
the ion is irradiated. Thereby, the implantation is 

performed without charging thereon and with a high 
yielding ratio. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASHIMOTO HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASHIMOTO, HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ion implanting
apparatus and an ion implanting method, and more particularly
to such apparatus and method adapted for use in the
manufacturing process of semiconductor devices.An ion implanting apparatus for irradiating a
material with a beam of ions comprising the features
indicated in the preamble of claim 1 is known from document
US 5,072,125.EP-A-0 522 962 describes an ion implanting apparatus
with a surface potential measuring system including an ion
beam generator for irradiating an ion beam toward a rotary
drum having a front surface with a number of substrates fixed
and equally spaced circumferentially thereof. The rotary drum
is supported for rotation and reciprocation so that the
substrates are exposed in succession to the ion beam. An
electron supply unit is used to neutralize the charges
induced on the wafer according to the surface
potential measurement. Ion implantation to a material with an ion
implanting apparatus provides following advantages:
1) Concentration, depth and profile of the
impurity to be implanted can be determined and realized
precisely, with the implanting conditions such as
the ion beam current and ion energy;2) Ions can be implanted through another film;3) Selective implantation can be achieved,
utilizing another film, such as photoresist, as a mask;
and4) A low-temperature process is possible.For these reasons, low concentration diffusion
of boron, for example, has become easy, and such
apparatus and method have become indispensable in a
process of injecting an impurity into a material such
as a semiconductor wafer.The outline of the ion implanting apparatus 
is described, for example, in "Ion Implanting
Technology" (Namba, Kogyo Chosakai Co., Ltd., P. 9 -
28, 1975), "Ion Implanting Apparatus" (Hashimoto et
al., Special Edition of Electronic Materials, Kogyo
Chosakai Co., Ltd., P.56, 1988), "VLSI Process
Appratus Handbook" (Maeda, Kogyo Chosakai Co., Ltd.,
P259 - 272, 1990) etc.The ion implanting apparatus is generally
composed of an ion source, a mass spectrometer, an
accelerator and a beam concentrating system. The mass
spectrometer is used for extracting desired ions by
means of a magnet, from ions generated by the ion
source. The accelerator is used for accelerating the
ions to a desired energy level. The beam concentrating
system is used for suppressing the spreading of the
ion beam.In the implantation of accelerated ions into a
material to be implanted, such as a wafer, the surface
of said material tends to be charged
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ion implanting apparatus for irradiating a
material (7) with a beam (5) of ions generated at an ion

source (1) thereby implanting said ions into said material,
comprising

   a magnet (8) positioned at a side of said material,
opposite to a side thereof into which said ion beam is

irradiated,

characterized by

a charge sensor for measuring a charge on the surface
of the material into which the ions are implanted, to feedback

control a magnetic force formed by said magnet (8), according
to a change of the measured charge; and
means for varying a magnetic flux density based on
the magnetic force formed by said magnet, according to a

charge information from said charge sensor.
An ion implanting apparatus according to claim 1,
wherein said magnet includes a permanent magnet.
An ion implanting apparatus according to claim 1,
wherein said magnet includes an electromagnet.
An ion implanting apparatus according to any of
claims 1 - 3, wherein said magnet has a pole (22) at the

center and the other pole (21) concentrically around the
first-mentioned pole.
An ion implanting apparatus according to any of
claims 1 - 4, wherein

   said means for varying a magnetic flux density
comprises means for moving said magnet. 
An ion implanting apparatus according to any one of

claims 1 - 5, wherein

   said means for varying the magnetic flux density
comprises a power source (61) and means (62) for controlling

said power source.
An ion implanting apparatus according to any of
claims 1 - 6, further comprising means (65) for supplying

electrons at a side of said material subjected to
implantation, receiving said ion beam irradiation.
An ion implanting apparatus according to claims 1 -
7, wherein said charge sensor is adapted to detect the

variation in current or the potential.
An ion implanting apparatus according to any of
claims 1 - 8, wherein said magnet is positioned in contact

with said material subjected to implantation.
An ion implanting apparatus according to one of the
preceding claims, further comprising a mass spectrometer (2),

an accelerator (3), a beam concentrating system (4) and a
stage (6) for supporting said material to be subjected to

implantation.
An ion implanting method for irradiating a material
with an ion beam thereby implanting ions into said material,

which comprises applying, at said ion beam irradiation,
magnetic force to a side of said material receiving said ion

beam irradiation,

characterized in that said magnetic force, applied to said
material subjected to implantation, is rendered variable and

that said variation of the magnetic force is
controlled by measuring

a
quantity of charge on

the surface of
said material into which the ions are

implanted.
An ion implanting method according to claim 11,
wherein said magnetic force is applied from a side of said

material subjected to implantation, opposite to the side
thereof receiving said ion beam irradiation. 
An ion implanting method according to claim 11 or
12, wherein said magnet is composed of an electromagnet, and

said variation in the magnetic force is achieved by a
variation in the electric power for driving said

electromagnet.
An ion implanting method according to claim 11 or
12, wherein said variation of the magnetic force is achieved

by a movement of said magnet.
An ion implanting method according to claim 11,
wherein the variation in said amount of charge is detected by

the variation in a current in said material subjected to
implantation.
An ion implanting method according to claim 11,
wherein the variation in said amount of charge is detected by

the variation in the surface potential of said material
subjected to implantation.
An ion implanting method according to any of claims
11 - 16, which further comprises supplying, at said ion beam

irradiation, electrons from the outside to a side of said
material subjected to implantation, receiving said ion beam

irradiation.
An ion implanting method according to any of claims
11 - 17, wherein said material subjected to implantation

includes a semiconductor material.
An ion implanting method according to any of claims
11 - 17, wherein said material subjected to implantation

includes an insulating material.
An ion implanting method according to claim 19,
wherein said insulating material is positioned at a side of

said material subjected to implantation, receiving said ion
beam irradiation. 
An ion implanting method according to any of claims
11 - 20, wherein said material subjected to implantation has

a multilayered configuration.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
