<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARRANGEMENT IN AN ENGRAVING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B44B300	B44B300	G05B19418	G05B19418	G06Q1000	G06Q1000	G07F1700	G07F1726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B44B	B44B	G05B	G05B	G06Q	G06Q	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B44B3	B44B3	G05B19	G05B19	G06Q10	G06Q10	G07F17	G07F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrangement in a completely automated engraving includes stations (14, 22) for effecting engraving and transmitting out information. The system can include a transmission system (1) to which enquiry stations, shops and so forth (2, 3, 4) are connected. A respective shop or the like is provided with a terminal and display unit (5, 12). The engraving station comprises one or more engraving machines (15, 16). The display information station (22) comprises a computerised equipment in which information about articles to be selected and engraved is stored. The enquiry station can request information from the display information station and convey selection information and information about engraving. A respective terminal at a respective enquiry station can include self-service equipment in which a payment card can be applied for automatic payment for a selected and engraved article. Subscribers connected in the transmission system (1) can access and utilise the engraving and display information functions in the completely automatic engraving system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTO ENGRAVING AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AB AUTO-ENGRAVING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSSON MORGAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSSON, MORGAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLEARRANGEMENT IN AN ENGRAVING SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to an arrangement in a completely automated engraving system for articles with a preferably curved surface, by which are primarily meant articles in the form of rings. The curved surface in this context consists of the inner surface of the ring. The engraving system comprises one or more engraving machines to which first signals can be supplied depending on first data relating to the appearance of the engraving, the engraving function and so forth and which are arranged to cause guidance of mutually moving parts contained in the respective engraving machine. The respective engraving machine can in this context be of the type which utilises an engraving element which can consist of an engraving needle, laser head and so forth. By means of the engraving element, engraving or marking is effected on activation of the mutually moving parts. The engraving system also comprises first transmitting or packaging elements for the first signals in order to make possible transfer of the latter from a collecting station via a first connection to a treatment station which comprises the respective engraving machine. Activation of a respective engraving machine can also be effected when the first signals are supplied to or occur at or in the treatment station. The engraving system also comprises the function that the respective engraving machine can be controlled by means of a computer equipment receiving the said first signals, which computer generates control signals for the engraving equipment in dependence on the first signals.PRIOR ART It is already known from the Swedish Patent8902158-8 to arrange for a centralised engraving function in which a station receives information on the different 

appearances of the engravings, articles in question, customer - number and others. The station serves as a collection point for one or a small number of large receiving stations or as a collection point for many smaller receiving stations. The proposed arrangement results in advantages in that the collections can be limited in the shops which sell the articles in question which per se frequently consist of economically expensive articles which are to be engraved. The present invention is also a further development of the arrangement according to Swedish patent application 9102640-1. The said patent and patent application also provide examples of engraving equipment which is utilised in the centralised operation and by means of which signals or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 2. Arrangement according to Claim 1, characterised in that the engraving- and information-providing stations are in mutual connection with one another and/or that the transmission on one or several lines of the said lines is
5 serially and possibly completely digitised.
3. Arrangement according to Claim 1 or 2, charac¬ terised in that a call to the information-providing station (22) over a connection entails the coupling together of the collecting station and the information
10 station and reading out appropriate information from the memory (37) of the information station or camera equip¬ ment of appropriate information which in this manner becomes displayable on the display unit of the collecting station, preferably in the form of a display unit, TV,
15 and so forth.
4. Arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that all engraving styles (10) can be presented separately on or applied onto the surface of a respective article.
20 5. Arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the article can be displayed in its totality on the display unit, TV screen and so forth at the collecting station (2, 3, 4) and can be turned on the screen for showing different
25 perspectives and views (44, 44') of the article with or without engraving.
6. Arrangment according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the engraving station (14) can be dialled up over a telephone network (1) for
30. coupling together the collecting station and engraving station and for transferring engraving data to the engraving station. 


7. Arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the information-providing station (22) can act as receiver for the engraving function, and that the information-providing station is arranged to transfer the said engraving function and selected information about the article to the engraving station, in which production or selection of the chosen article thus takes place, the article is input in the respective engraving machine, and the engraving information is loaded into circuits controlling the engraving function.
8. Arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that, for establishing one or more of the said connections (F, F''), initiation of the transmission system entails a call within it to a register (R) and equipment which is arranged to control the selector equipment (V) in the transmission system (1) in dependence on a call for forwarding to a subscriber or access number which is subscribed to by the collecting and/or treatment stations (14, 22) which are arranged with answering elements (18, 24) for receiving the call, that the answering element connects a line (lines) included in the subscription to the information-providing element in the treatment/engraving station, that sending- out of information can be initiated and transferred on a connection connected through or through-connectable in the transmission system, that the information caused by the treatment or engraving station and initiated via the transmission system as a result of information-provision from the treatment station or engraving station gives rise to signals which can be extracted at the respective receiving terminal and which can be used for starting or effecting signal treatment in the collecting station, which signal treatment actuates information-displaying elements in the collecting station or terminals/subscribers (29) in turn connected to this station via the transmission system. 


9. Arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that one or more of the said information-providing or information-requesting equip¬ ments are provided with scanning equipment (27) for an article and/or engraving or subject, on or at which the article is intended to be applicable and/or that one or more ordering equipments are provided with elements receiving payment-card information or identification-card information (13), to which respective cards are suppliable for reading in connection with payment or identification procedures via the transmission system, to which is connected a unit (34) for validating the card and receiving payment data in connection with the use of the card in the last-named elements, which receiving unit can be activated by means of signals (i7) which represent validation and payment information.
10. Arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that information (3) extracted from the transmission system occurs in connection with the transmission of engraving-related information (il) or on a different occasion which is earlier than the last- mentioned transmission, and/or that article-related information (i3) consists of difference information between an information transferred in a first stage and an information transmitted in a second stage which can quickly follow the first stage, whereby the said transmitted information can be reduced, for example when specifying moving information in the.receiving equipment. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
