<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Structured quantizer for sources with memory.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T900	G06T900	G10L1900	G10L1900	H03M714	H03M714	H03M730	H03M730	H04B1404	H04B1404	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G10L	G10L	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T9	G06T9	G10L19	G10L19	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H04B14	H04B14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved approximation of the desired codebook boundary is achieved,
when quantizing data from a source with memory, by adding a dither sequence,

the samples of which are contained within the Voronoi region of an unpartitioned
lattice or the first level of lattice partitioning used to generate the trellis code. A

sequence of data generated by the source with memory is quantized to a nearest
sequence of a predetermined trellis code which is based on coset partitioning of

a predetermined lattice into translates of a coset lattice. The trellis code sequence
is then filtered with an inverse source filter. A dither sample is added to each

sample of the sequence, such that (1) a sum of the dither sample and the filtered
trellis code sequence sample lies on a super-lattice of the coset lattice, and (2) the

dither sample is inside the Voronoi region of the super-lattice.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAROIA RAJIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAROIA, RAJIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods for quantizing data generated by sources 
with memory and, more particularly, to methods for realizing both boundary and 
granular gains in quantizing data from sources with memory. Realizing both boundary gain and granular gain when quantizing data is 
widely recognized as being difficult to accomplish for a source with memory, in 
which samples output by the source are correlated rather than independent. One 
scheme which achieves both types of gain is described in Laroia et al., "A New 
Structured Quantizer for Sources With Memory," Proceedings of the International 
Symposium on Information Theory, San Antonio, Texas, Jan. 17-22, 1993, p. 169. 
This scheme first quantizes the source to a sequence of a trellis code (to realized 
granular gain). It then uses a memory encoder which removes the source memory 
and adds a dither sequence to the data so that conventional techniques for 
implementing codebook boundaries for the corresponding memoryless innovations 
source can be applied. However, because of the dither sequence, the implemented 
codebook boundary only approximates the desired codebook boundary for the 
innovations source. For low rate quantization, this approximation can lead to  
 
significant performance degradation. Moreover, since the samples of the dither 
sequence are contained in the Voronoi region of the final level of lattice 
partitioning, performance degradation depends on the number of coset partitions 
used to generate the trellis code that achieves the granular gain, and increases 
when a more powerful trellis code is used. An improved approximation of the desired codebook boundary is achieved, 
when quantizing data from a source with memory, by adding a dither sequence, 
the samples of which are contained within the Voronoi region of an unpartitioned 
lattice or the first level of lattice partitioning used to generate the trellis code. 
Since these Voronoi regions are smaller, the dither energy needed to be added to 
the signal points is smaller than could be achieved in the prior art, thereby 
providing the better approximation of the desired codebook boundary. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, a sequence of data 
generated by a source with memory is quantized to a nearest sequence of a 
predetermined trellis code which is based on coset partitioning of a predetermined 
lattice into translates of a coset lattice. The trellis code sequence is then filtered 
with an inverse source filter. A dither sample is added to each sample of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method comprising the steps of: 
   quantizing a sequence of data generated by a source with memory to a 

nearest sequence of a predetermined trellis code, the trellis code being based on 
coset partitioning of a predetermined lattice; 

   filtering the trellis code sequence with an inverse source filter, and 
   adding a dither sample to each sample of the filtered trellis code sequence, 

such that (1) a sum of the dither sample and the filtered trellis code sequence 
sample lies on said lattice, and (2) the dither sample is inside the Voronoi region 

of said lattice. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said data are sampled speech 
data. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said data are discretized data. 
A method comprising the steps of: 
   quantizing a sequence of data generated by a source with memory to a 

nearest sequence of a predetermined trellis code, the trellis code being based on 
coset partitioning of a predetermined lattice into translates of a coset lattice; 

   filtering the trellis code sequence with an inverse source filter; and 
   adding a dither sample to each sample of the filtered trellis code sequence, 

such that (1) a sum of the dither sample and the filtered trellis code sequence 
sample lies on a super-lattice of said lattice, and (2) the dither sample is inside the 

Voronoi region of said super-lattice. 
The invention of claim 4 wherein said data are sampled speech 
data. 
The invention of claim 4 wherein said data are discretized data. 
Apparatus for quantizing data from a source with memory, the 
apparatus comprising: 

   transmitter means for performing a nonlinear, invertible transformation on 
a filtered sequence of a predetermined trellis code that is based on coset 

partitioning of a predetermined lattice into translates of a coset lattice, the 
transformation adding a dither sample to each sample of said filtered trellis code 

sequence, such that (1) a sum of the dither sample and the filtered trellis code 
sequence sample lies on a super-lattice of said coset lattice, and (2) the dither 

sample is inside the Voronoi region of said super-lattice. 
Apparatus for quantizing data from a source with memory, the 
apparatus comprising: 

   transmitter means for performing a nonlinear, invertible transformation on 
a filtered sequence of a predetermined trellis code that is based on coset 

partitioning of a predetermined lattice, the transformation adding a dither sample 
to each sample of said filtered trellis code sequence, such that (1) a sum of the 

dither sample and the filtered trellis code sequence sample lies on said 
predetermined lattice and (2) the dither sample is inside the Voronoi region of said 

lattice. 
Receiver apparatus for processing a received signal that was 
 

generated by adding a dither sample to each sample of a sequence obtained by 
filtering a sequence from a predetermined trellis code, the trellis code sequence 

being obtained by quantizing an output signal from a source with memory, said 
trellis code being based on coset partitioning of a predetermined lattice, such that 

(1) a sum of the dither sample and the filtered trellis code sequence sample lies 
on a super-lattice of said lattice, and (2) the dither sample is inside the Voronoi 

region of said super-lattice, the receiver apparatus comprising: 
   means including a decoder for recovering from said received signal a 

quantized output which is an approximation of the data output by said source. 
The invention of claim 9 wherein the decoder comprises: 
   codebook decoder means for converting a sequence of binary data received 

from the channel into a memoryless uncoded sequence of signal-space points; and 
   memory decoder means for transforming the memoryless uncoded sequence 

into a coded sequence of said trellis codes reflecting said memory of said source. 
The invention of claim 10 wherein the memory decoder means 

comprises a finite-state machine which generates said trellis code, the finite-state 
machine having a current input which is a function of a current sample of the 

output trellis coded sequence representing a quantized output signal from said 
source. 
The invention of claim 10 wherein the memory decoder means 
comprises means for subtracting a dither sample from each sample of said 

memoryless uncoded sequence of signal-space points, wherein the dither sample 
 

lies in the Voronoi region of said super-lattice. 
The invention of claim 12 wherein the memory decoder means 
further comprises a source filter which receives a sequence of signal-space points 

from said means for subtracting. 
The invention of claim 10 wherein the memory decoder means 
comprises: 

   means for selectively rotating the samples of the memoryless uncoded 
sequence to generate a second sequence of samples; and 

   means for subtracting a dither sample from each sample of the second 
sequence, wherein the dither sample lies in the Voronoi region of said lattice. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
