<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646074</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOAD-CARRIER FOR VEHICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R904	B60R900	B60R9058	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R9	B60R9	B60R9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention concerns a load-carrier for vehicles of the kind comprising a load-carrying tubular rail (101) extending across the vehicle roof in the transverse direction of the vehicle, and a foot member (103) at each lateral edge of the vehicle roof, said foot member resting on the upper vehicle roof face (102) and serving as a load-carrying rail support. The purpose of the invention is to provide a load-carrier which is safely anchored to the vehicle roof also when the latter is not formed with safe support against outwardly directed forces, i.e. drip-mouldings, previously commonly provided on vehicle roofs. In a load-carrier in accordance with the invention a clamping element (117, 119) which from the support on the foot member (103) projects into the interior of the load-carrying rail (101) and which may be clamped against the inner face of said rail, is connected with an actuating member (105) mounted in the foot member, in a motion-transferring fashion, said clamping element comprising a finger-like spring (119) which is connected with the foot member and one end of which abuts against the inner face of the load-carrying rail, said resilient finger (119) directed obliquely outwards from said end so that in tightened conditions it tends to move the foot member inwards, towards the vehicle centre.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONT BLANC IND AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONT BLANC INDUSTRI AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANN GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANN, GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention concerns a load-carrier for 
vehicles of the kind comprising a load-carrying tubular 
rail extending across the vehicle roof in the transverse 
direction of the vehicle, and a foot member at each 
lateral edge of the vehicle roof to support said load-carrying 
tubular rail, said foot member resting on the 
upper vehicle roof face and serving as a load-carrying 
rail support. Such a load-carrier is known from DE-A-3 532 170. When load-carriers of the kind outlined above are 
exposed to heavy stress exerted thereon by the load that 
they carry, for instance as the vehicle is driven across 
uneven road surfaces with consequential temporary or permanent 
deflection of the load-carrying rail extending 
across the vehicle roof, or as the vehicle is driven 
through sharp bends, there is an immediate risk, 
particularly in vehicles of the kind having no drip 
moulding at the roof edge, that the lower end of the foot 
member of the load-carrier will tend to move laterally 
outwards with consequential disengagement of the foot 
member from the roof edge. The main purpose of the invention is to eliminate 
this drawback and to provide a load-carrier structure 
which positively maintains its secure and safe engagement 
with the vehicle roof edge, also when exposed to load. This purpose is achieved in a load-carrier of the 
kind defined in the appended claims. The load-carrier in accordance with the invention 
will be described in the following with reference to the 
accompanying drawings, wherein 
Fig. 1 is a lateral view of one end portion of a 
load-carrier in accordance with a first embodiment of the 
invention as seen in the longitudinal direction of the 
vehicle;  
 Fig. 2 is a sectional view through the same load-carrier; Fig. 3 is a sectional view corresponding to Fig. 2 
but showing the upper portion of the load-carrier in the 
position when secured to the vehicle, i.e. corresponding 
to the situation illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2; Fig. 4 is a sectional view corresponding to Fig. 3 
and showing the same load-carrier portion in the position 
of detachment of the latter; Fig. 5 is a cross section along line V-V of Fig. 2; Fig. 6 is a section along line VI-VI of Fig. 2; Fig. 7 is a corresponding section along line VII-VII 
of Fig. 2; Fig. 8 is a lateral view of one end portion of a 
load-carrier according to a second embodiment of the 
invention, the load-carrier being shown in a fastened 
position and the view being taken in the longitudinal 
direction of the associated vehicle; Fig. 9 is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A load-carrier for vehicles, comprising a load-carrying 
tubular rail (1; 101) extending across the 

vehicle roof in the transverse direction of the vehicle, 
and a foot member (3; 103) at each lateral edge of the 

vehicle roof to support said load-carrying tubular rail, 
said foot member resting on the upper vehicle roof face 

and serving as a rail support, 
characterized
 
in that a clamping element (12, 21, 17, 19; 117, 119) 

projects into the interior of the load-carrying rail 
(1; 101) from the support (7, 15a; 107) on the foot 

member, said clamping element, which is arranged to be 
clamped against the inner face of the rail, being 

connected in a motion-transferring fashion to an actuating 
member (5, 28; 105) mounted in the foot member, said 

clamping element comprising a resilient finger (19; 119) 
which is connected to the foot member and one end of which 

is arranged in abutment against the inner face of said 
load-carrying rail, said resilient finger being directed 

obliquely outwards as seen in a direction towards said 
abutting end in such a manner that in the tightened 

position it tends to displace the foot member inwards, 
towards the vehicle centre. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the clamping element is 

arranged to expand vertically. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized
 
in that the clamping element consists 

on the one hand of a first abutment means (21, 17a), said 
means extending from the foot member (3) through a 

downwardly facing opening (46), preferably in the shape of 
a longitudinal slit, formed in said load-carrying rail (1) 

and widening laterally above said opening on the inner 
face of the load-carrying rail, and on the other hand of a 

second abutment means (12, 19) arranged to be pressed  
 

against the upper inner face (20) of the load-carrying 
rail (1) and likewise extending through an opening (46), 

preferably the same opening as above, in the load-carrying 
rail down into the foot member, said second abutment means 

being vertically movable and arranged to be shifted to the 
position corresponding to the expanded condition of the 

clamping means upon operation of said actuating member in 
the foot member. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized
 
in that the actuating member comprises 

a third abutment means (28) arranged on an arm (5) which 
is pivotally mounted in the foot member, and in that said 

second abutment means (12) has a counter-abutment means 
(14) cooperating with said third abutment means. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 4, 
characterized
 
in that said pivotable arm (5) also 

serves to effect securement of said foot member (3) to the 
vehicle roof (2). 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized
 
in that said clamping element comprises 

a rocker means (17) positioned in the interior of the 
load-carrying rail (1), and having close to one of its 

ends a lower pressure point supported adjacent the lower 
inner face of the load-carrying rail by a pin (21) mounted 

in the foot member, and an upper pressure point supported 
adjacent the opposite end portion of the rocker means by a 

pin (12) passing through the foot member support portion 
(7, 15a) so as to be vertically displaceable therein and 

forming said counter-abutment means (14) at its lower end. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized
 
in that the upper pressure point is 

positioned closest to the outer end of the load-carrying 
rail (1) and in that the rocker means (17) is provided 

close to said pressure point with a finger-like spring 
(19) directed obliquely outwards and upwards and intended 

to engage the inner face (20) of said load-carrying rail 
upon movement upwards of the outer pressure point.  

 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 6 or 7, 

characterized
 in that the inner pressure 
point of said rocker means is spaced from the support 

(7, 15a) of the foot member by a distance corresponding to 
or only slightly exceeding the thickness of the wall of 

the load-carrying rail and so devised that upon rocking 
movements towards the expanding position said distance is 

reduced and the lower wall of the load-carrying rail is 
clamped against the foot member support (7, 15a). 
A load-carrier as claimed in any one of claims 
3 - 8, 
characterized
 in that the abutment 
means (28) of the pivotable arm (5) as well as the abutment 

means (14) of the clamping means are rounded and so 
positioned that their highest points of abutment are 

passed as the pivotable arm moves towards its fastening 
position for the purpose of forming an over-centre type of 

locking. 
A load-carrier as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, 
characterized
 in that the 
support face on the f
oot member carrying the load bar is 
arranged to deflect along a vertical plane passing through 

the load bar, also when the load bar is clamped to the 
foot member. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 10, 

characterized
 in that the foot member is made 
from pressed sheet metal and in that its support face 

carrying the load bar is formed by a tongue (7, 15a) which 
is pressed from the foot member web and is directed 

towards the vehicle roof centre, said tongue being 
restricted as to vertical deflection movements. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the clamping element (117, 119) 

is vertically compressible, whereby the portion of the 
resilient finger (119) which from a point of abutment of 

force-transfer means (154, 156) associated with said 
actuating means on the foot member, against said finger, 

extends in a direction outwards, i.e. in a direction from  
 

the venicle centre, tends to press the foot member (103) 
in a direction towards the vehicle centre relatively to 

the load-carrying rail (101) owing to its tendency to 
expand horizontally, calculated from tightening. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 12, 
characterized
 
in that the resilient finger (119, 117) 

is arch-shaped with the inner curve of the arch facing 
away from the inner face of the load-carrying rail and in 

that the force transfer means (154, 156) acts on the 
inwardly curved portion for the purpose of providing 

transverse compression relatively to the load-carrying 
rail (101) and longitudinal expansion by straightening the 

arch of the resilient finger. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 12 or claim 
13, 
characterized
 in that the end portion 
(119) of the resilient finger positioned externally of the 

abutment point of said power transfer means (154, 156) 
against said finger abuts against the inner face of the 

load-carrying rail (101) with a high frictional force 
whereas the opposite end portion (117) of said finger is 

arranged to move relatively to the inner face of the load-carrying 
rail and in a direction along the load-carrying 

rail abuts against an abutment portion (155) associated 
with said foot member. 
A load-carrier as claimed in claim 14, 

characterized
 in that said abutment portion 
is a tongue (155) projecting through a slit formed in the 

inner face of the load-carrying rail and in that the 
resilient finger has an abutment face in contact 

therewith. 
A load-carrier as claimed in any one of claims 
12-15, 
characterized
 in that the force 
transfer means (154, 156) is a depending traction link. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
