<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615654</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIBER OPTICAL MONITOR FOR DETECTING MOTION BASED ON CHANGES IN SPECKLE PATTERNS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5024	A61B50245	A61B508	A61B508	A61B511	A61B511	A61B5113	G01P1300	G01P1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01P	G01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G01P13	G01P13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALAMED CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALAMED CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAFARRATE ANTONIO B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAWSON ERIC G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAFARRATE, ANTONIO, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAWSON, ERIC, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionFiber Optical Monitor For Detecting Motion Baaed on Changes in Speckle PatternsThis application is a continuation-in-part of related commonly owned copending U.S. Patent Application SN 07/802,868 filed December 6, 1991.Technical FieldThe invention relates to a motion monitor based on detection of modal noise produced by minute motions in a single- or multimode-optical fiber illuminated by a coherent or partially coherent light source, and more particularly to such a motion monitor for detecting body motions due to breaths, heartbeats, and determining breathing rate and heart rate.Background ArtA significant cause of death in infants (birth to about 2 years) is "Crib Death" or Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) . Medical authorities generally agree that some infants simply stop breathing during sleep (apnea) or their heart rates fall dangerously low (bradycardia) and that death from these conditions can be prevented if the condition is detected and help is provided within a short time (one or two minutes) by trained personnel or parents.Apnea monitors already exist, but their cost creates an affordability problem that limits their use. Also, the existing monitors tend to be unreliable, typically having high false positive rates. Also, existing monitors are obtrusive and difficult to use because the subject must wear a belt or other device connected to the monitor. This further limits their use.Of interest in the patent literature are U.S. Patents 4,297,684 to Butter, 4,843,233 to Jeunhomme and 4,854,706 to Claus et al.Butter discloses a fiber optic intruder alarm system for protecting the perimeter of an area utilizing a 

 multimode optic fiber as a deformable sensing element, wherein a length of multi ode optic fiber is buried in. the ground, coherent light is directed through the buried optic fiber and the speckled output light pattern of the fiber is rectified, integrated and threshold detected to determine the presence of an intruder.Jeunhomme discloses a fiber optic vibration detecting device, but with no means for quantifying the output of the optic fiber, and suggests that observed vibrations can be' used to trigger an alarm and/or lighting in the case of a breathing deficiency of a monitored patient.Claus et al disclose a modal domain optical fiber sensor for vibration monitoring and as a mechanical motion sensor. Claus et al teach filtering the speckle pattern at the output of an optical fiber to a single lobe, termed a single speckle or a single correlation cell elsewhere in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A fiber optic body motion monitor comprising:
a light source;
an optical fiber waveguide including an input end, an output end, and a sensing section intermediate said input and output ends, said optical fiber being positioned to receive light from said light source at said input end;
movable means for transmitting motion of a body being monitored, said sensing section being coupled to said movable means so as to move therewith;
photodetector means positioned proximate to said output end for receiving a speckle pattern of light therefrom, which pattern changes in response to movement of said sensing section, said photodetector means generating electrical signals representative of changes in said speckle pattern; and
means for identifying electrical signals indicative of normal breathing and heartbeat motion and for differentiating them from electrical signals indicative of deviations from normal breathing and heartbeat motion, comprising,
power determination means for producing a power signal indicative of an amount of power in a frequency band relevant to breathing and heartbeat in the signals generated by said photodetector means,
breathing extraction means coupled to said power determination means for extracting from said power signal signals indicative of breathing of said body and outputting a signal indicative of the breathing of said body, 


 heartbeat extraction means coupled to said power determination means for extracting from said power signal signals indicative of heartbeat of said body and outputting a signal indicative of the heartbeat of said body, and
indicating means for producing at least one of a display indicative of at least one of the extracted breathing signals and the extracted heartbeat signals and an alarm when at least one of the extracted breathing signals and extracted heartbeat signals is indicative of a deviation from normal breathing and heartbeat motion, respectively.
2. The monitor according to Claim 1, wherein said breathing extraction means comprises:
low pass filter means for passing signals in a passband in which breathing signals have significant content;
threshold means for detecting when signals passed by said bandpass filter means exceed a threshold; and
processor means for generating said signal indicative of breathing based on signals detected by said threshold means.
3. The monitor according to Claim 2 , wherein said threshold means comprises an adaptable threshold detector which produces a varying threshold as a function of a difference between maximum and minimum levels of signals output by said low pass filter means.
4. The monitor according to Claim 3, wherein said adaptable threshold detector resets said maximum and minimum levels to new levels at the level of the signal output by said low pass filter means whenever said signal output by said low pass filter means exceeds a present maximum level or falls below a present minimum level, respectively, and 


 thereafter decreases said reset maximum level and increases said reset minimum level at predetermined rates.
5. The monitor according to Claim 4, wherein said power determination means comprises a bandpass filter having a center frequency f
maχ
 at which the breathing signals and heartbeat signals have greatest content and a passband of 0.33 to 3.0 f^, and a rectifier, and the low pass filter of said breathing extraction means has a cutoff frequency of 0.5 Hz.
6. The monitor according to Claim 5, wherein the bandpass filter of said power determination means has a passband of 0.50 to 2.0 f^.
7. The monitor according to Claim 1, wherein said heartbeat extraction means comprises:
bandpass filter means for passing signals in a passband in which heartbeat signals have significant content;
threshold means for detecting when signals passed by said bandpass filter means exceed a threshold; and
processor means for generating said signal indicative of heartbeat based on signals detected by said threshold means.
8. The monitor according to Claim 7, wherein said threshold means comprises:
means for averaging the peak amplitudes of a predetermined number of peaks in the signals passed by said bandpass filter means; and
means for setting a threshold equal to a predetermined percentage of the averaged peak amplitudes. 


 9. The monitor according to Claim 7, wherein said power determination means comprises a bandpass filter having a center frequency f^, at which the breathing signals and heartbeat signals have greatest content and a passband of 0.33 to 3.0 f
(naχ
, and a rectifier, and the bandpass filter means of said heartbeat extraction means has a 0.8-5.0 Hz passband.
10. The monitor according to Claim 9, wherein the bandpass filter of said power determination means has a passband of 0.50 to 2.0 f
^
maχ
.
11. The monitor according to Claim 4, wherein said heartbeat extraction means comprises:
bandpass filter means for passing integrated signals in a passband in which heartbeat signals have significant content;
threshold means for detecting when signals passed by said bandpass filter means of said heartbeat extraction means exceed a threshold; and
processor means for generating said signal indicative of heartbeats based on signals detected by said threshold means of said heartbeat extraction means.
12. The monitor according to Claim 11, wherein said threshold means of said heartbeat extraction means comprises:
means for averaging the peak amplitudes of a predetermined number of signals passed by said bandpass filter means of said heartbeat extraction means; and
means for setting a threshold equal to a predetermined percentage of the averaged peak amplitudes. 


 13. The monitor according to Claim 12, wherein said power determination means comprises a bandpass filter having a center frequency f^, at which the breathing signals and heartbeat signals have greatest content and a passband of 0.33 to 3.0 f,,,^, and a rectifier, the low pass filter means of said heartbeat extraction means has a 0.8-5.0 Hz passband, and the low pass filter means of the breathing extraction means has a cutoff frequency of 0.5 Hz.
14. The monitor according to Claims 1, 3, 8 or 13, wherein said photodetector means comprise a single photodetector positioned at a distance from said waveguide output end so as to intercept 24-74% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
15. The monitor according to Claims 1, 3, 8 or 13, wherein said photodetector means comprises a single photodetector, further comprising:
filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 27-74% of the modes of light transmitted.
16. The monitor according to Claims 1, 3, 8 or 13, wherein said photodetector means comprises:
plural photoconductive elements disposed opposite to the end of said optical fiber waveguide so that said elements are illuminated by said speckle pattern of light, said elements producing a pair of outputs each representing approximately half of the speckle pattern of light incident on said elements; and
differential amplifier means having a pair of inputs coupled to respective of the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements and an output which is a difference 


signal representing a difference between the *outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements, said difference signal applied to said identifying means.
17. The monitor according to Claim 16, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
18. The monitor according to Claim 16, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 45-83% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
19. The monitor according to Claim 18, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 60-70% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
20. The monitor according to Claim 16, comprising: filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted.
21. The monitor according to Claim 20, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 45-83%.
22. The monitor according to Claim 21, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 60-70%.
23. A fiber optic body motion monitor comprising: a light source;
an optical fiber waveguide including an input end, an output end, and a sensing section intermediate said input 


 and output ends, said optical fiber being positioned to receive light from said light source at said input end;
movable means for transmitting motion of a body being monitored, said sensing section being coupled to said movable means so as to move therewith;
photodetector means positioned proximate to said output end for receiving a speckle pattern of light therefrom, which pattern changes in response to movement of said sensing section, said photodetector means generating electrical signals representative of changes in said speckle pattern; and
means for identifying electrical signals indicative of normal breathing and heartbeat motion and for differentiating them from electrical signals indicative of deviations from normal breathing and heartbeat motion, comprising,
power determination means for producing a power signal indicative of an amount of power in a frequency band relevant to breathing in the signals generated by said photodetector means,
breathing extraction means coupled to said power determination means for extracting from said power signal signals indicative of breathing of said body and outputting a signal indicative of the breathing of said body, comprising,
low pass filter means for passing signals in a passband in which breathing signals have significant content,
threshold means for detecting when signals passed by said bandpass filter means exceed a threshold. 


 processor means for generating said signal indicative of breathing based on signals detected by said threshold means, and
indicating means for producing at least one of a display of said signal indicative of breathing and an alarm when said signal indicative of breathing is indicative of a deviation from normal breathing.
24. The monitor according to Claim 23, wherein said threshold means comprises an adaptable threshold detector which produces a varying threshold as a function of a difference between maximum and minimum levels of signals output by said bandpass filter means.
25. The monitor according to Claim 24, wherein said adaptable threshold detector resets said maximum and minimum levels to new levels at the level of the signal output by said low pass filter means whenever said signal output by said low pass filter means exceeds a present maximum level or falls below a present minimum level, respectively, and thereafter decreases said reset maximum level and increases said reset minimum level at predetermined rates.
26. The monitor according to Claim 25, wherein said power determination means comprises a bandpass filter having a center frequency f^ at which the breathing signals and heartbeat signals have greatest content and a passband of 0.33 to 3.0 f^, and a rectifier, and the low pass filter means of said breathing extraction means has a cutoff frequency of 0.5 Hz.
27. The monitor according to Claim 26, wherein said photodetector means comprises plural photoconductive elements positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 



 28. The monitor according to Claims 23, 24, 25 or 26, wherein said photodetector means comprise a single photodetector positioned at a distance from said waveguide output end so as to intercept 24-74% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
29. The monitor according to Claims 23, 24, 25 or 26, comprising:
said photodetecting means comprising a single photodetector; and
filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 27-74% of the speckles of light transmitted.
30. The monitor according to Claims 23, 24, 25 or 26, wherein said photodetector means comprises:
plural photoconductive elements disposed opposite to said optical fiber waveguide so that said elements are illuminated by said speckle pattern of light, said elements producing a pair of outputs each representing approximately . half of the speckle pattern of light incident on said elements; and
differential amplifier means having a pair of inputs coupled to respective outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements and an output which is a difference signal representing a difference between the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements, said difference signal applied to said identifying means.
31. The monitor according to Claim 30, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance 


 from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
32. The monitor according to Claim 31, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 45-83% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
33. The monitor according to Claim 32, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 60-70% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
34. The monitor according to Claim 30, comprising: filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted.
35. The monitor according to Claim 34, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 45-83%.
36. The monitor according to Claim 35, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 60-70%.
37. A fiber optic body motion monitor comprising: a light source;
an optical fiber waveguide including an input end, an output end, and a sensing section intermediate said input and out ends, said optical fiber being positioned to receive light from said light source at said input end; 


 movable means for transmitting motion of a body being monitored, said sensing section being coupled to said movable means so as to move therewith;
photodetector means positioned proximate to said output end for receiving a speckle pattern of light therefrom, which pattern changes in response to movement of said sensing section, said photodetector means generating electrical signals representative of changes in said speckle pattern; and
means for identifying electrical signals indicative of normal breathing and heartbeat motion and for differentiating them from electrical signals indicative of deviations from normal breathing and heartbeat motion, comprising,
power determination means for producing a power signal indicative of an amount of power in a frequency band relevant to heartbeat in the signals generated by said photodetector means,
heartbeat extraction means coupled to said power determination means for extracting from said power signal signals indicative of heartbeat of said body and outputting a signal indicative of the heartbeat of said body, comprising,
bandpass filter means for passing signals in a passband in which breathing signals have significant content, threshold means for detecting when signals passed by said bandpass filter means exceed a threshold,
processor means for generating said signal indicative of heartbeats based on signals detected by said threshold means, and 


 indicating means for producing at least one of a display of said signal indicative of heartbeats and an alarm when said signal indicative of heartbeats is indicative of a deviation from normal heartbeats.
38. The monitor according to Claim 37, wherein said threshold means comprises:
means for averaging the peak amplitudes of a predetermined number of signals previously passed by said bandpass filter means; and
means for setting a threshold equal to a predetermined percentage of the averaged peak amplitudes.
39. The monitor according to Claim 37, wherein said power determination means comprises a bandpass filter having center frequency f
|naχ
 at which the breathing signals and heartbeat signals have greatest content and a passband of 0.33 to 3.0 f^, and a rectifier, and the secondary bandpass filter means of said heartbeat extraction means has a 0.8- 5.0 Hz passband.
40. The monitor according to Claim 39, wherein the bandpass filter of said power determination means has a passband of 0.50 to 2.0 f^.
41. The monitor according to Claims 37, 38, or 40, wherein said photodetector means comprise a single photodetector positioned at a distance from said waveguide output end so as to intercept 24-74% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
42. The monitor according to Claims 37, 38, or 40, comprising: 


 said photodetector means comprising a single photodetector; and
filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 27-74% of the speckles of light transmitted.
43. The monitor according to Claims 37, 38, or 40, wherein said photodetector means comprises:
plural photoconductive elements disposed opposite to said optical fiber waveguide so that said elements are • illuminated by said speckle pattern of light, said elements producing a pair of outputs each representing approximately half of the speckle pattern of light incident on said elements; and
di ferential amplifier means having a pair of inputs coupled to respective outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements and an output which is a difference signal representing a difference between the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements, said difference signal applied to said identifying means.
44. The monitor according to Claim 43, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
45. The monitor according to Claim 44, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 45-83% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
46. The monitor according to Claim 45, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance 



 from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 60-70% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
47. The monitor according to Claim 43, comprising: filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted.
48. The monitor according to Claim 47, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 45-83%.
49. The monitor according to Claim 48, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 60-70%.
50. A fiber optic motion monitor comprising: a light source;
an optical fiber waveguide including an input end, an output end, and a sensing section intermediate said input and output ends, said optical fiber being positioned to receive light from said light source at said input end;
movable means for transmitting motion of an object being monitored, said sensing section being coupled to said movable means so as to move therewith;
photodetector means positioned proximate to said output end for receiving a speckle pattern of light therefrom, which pattern changes in response to movement of said sensing section, said photodetector means generating electrical signals representative of changes in said speckle pattern; and 


 means for processing said electrical signals to identify predetermined variations in said electrical signals, comprising,
power determination means for producing a power signal indicative of an amount of power in a predetermined frequency band in the electrical signals generated by said photodetector means,
extraction means coupled to said power determination means for extracting from said power signal signals indicative of said predetermined variations, a signal indicative of the predetermined variations comprising,
filter means for passing signals in said predetermined frequency band in which predetermined variations have significant content,
threshold means for detecting when signals passed by said filter means exceed a threshold, and
processor means for generating said signal indicative of said predetermined variations based on signals detected by said threshold means, and
indicating means for producing at least one of a display of said signal indicative of predetermined variations and an alarm when said signal indicative of predetermined variations is indicative of a deviation from a predetermined range.
51. The monitor according to Claim 50, wherein said threshold means comprises an adaptable threshold detector which produces a varying threshold as a function of a difference between maximum and minimum levels of signals output by said filter means. 


 52. The monitor according to Claim 51, wherein said adaptable threshold detector resets said maximum and minimum levels to new levels at the level of the signal output by said filter means whenever said signal output by said filter means exceeds a present maximum level or falls below a present minimum level, respectively, and thereafter decreases said reset maximum level and increases said reset minimum level at predetermined rates.
53. The monitor according to Claim 52, wherein said photodetector means comprises a single photodetector positioned at a distance from said waveguide output end so as to intercept 24-74% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
54. The monitor according to Claim 52, comprising:
said photodetecting means comprising a single photodetector; and
filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 27-74% of the speckles of light transmitted.
55. The monitor according to Claim 52, wherein said photodetector means comprises:
plural photoconductive elements disposed opposite to said optical fiber waveguide so that said elements are illuminated by said speckle pattern of light, said elements producing a pair of outputs each representing approximately half of the speckle pattern of light incident on said elements; and
differential detector means having a pair of inputs coupled to respective outputs produced by said plural 


 photoconductive elements and an output which is a difference signal representing a difference between the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements, said difference signal applied to said identifying means.
56. The monitor according to Claim 55, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
57. The monitor according to Claim 56, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 45-83% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
58. The monitor according to Claim 57, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the waveguide output end so as to intercept 60-70% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end.
59. The monitor according to Claim 55, comprising: filter means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber waveguide for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to a range of 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted.
60. The monitor according to Claim 59, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 45-83%.
61. The monitor according to Claim 60, wherein said filter means reduces the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means to 60-70%. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
