<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620305</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR REMOVING AND COLLECTING FIBER WASTE AND THE LIKE FROM A CREEL STAND.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B500	B08B504	B65H4900	B65H4916	D04B1538	D04B1542	D04B3500	D04B3532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	B65H	B65H	D04B	D04B	D04B	D04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B5	B08B5	B65H49	B65H49	D04B15	D04B15	D04B35	D04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for removing and collecting fiber 
waste from a creel stand (10) having multiple, juxtaposed 

creel sections including an air suction/blower (30) blowing 
a first air stream across the top of the creel sections 

and creating a second air stream flowing across the 
bottom of the creel sections. An air deflector (40) 

reciprocating across the top of the creel sections 
deflects the first air stream downwardly through the 

creel sections. A bottom plenum (60) beneath the creel 
sections receives the air stream from the creel 

sections and confines and directs the second air stream 
to the suction/blower (30). A second blower (70) blows air 

through the bottom plenum toward the suction/blower to 
assist the suction/blower in creating the second air 

stream. A plurality of baffles (64-66) are included in the 
bottom plenum (60) to provide laminar air flow therein. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUKUHARA SEIKI SEISAKUSHO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION FUKUHARA WORKS, LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IGARASHI YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWAZAKI MASATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IGARASHI, YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWAZAKI, MASATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for 
collecting lint, dust and similar material, hereinafter 
referred to as fiber waste, from a creel stand 
associated with a knitting machine or machines, and for 
improving thereby the environmental conditions in a 
knitting plant or factory. The number of yarn bobbins typically mounted 
upon a creel stand associated with a knitting machine 
or machines may number from about 30 to over 100. The 
quantity of fiber waste generated from the yarns 
passing from the creel stand is therefore quite large, 
particularly when the yarn is comprised of cotton. 
After the fiber waste has become airborne, it will tend 
to settle upon and adhere to the bobbins or yarns, 
thereby causing yarn breakage and defects in the fabric 
being knitted. This, of course, lowers the quality of 
the fabric, and also impairs the efficiency of the 
knitting operation. It has previously been proposed to direct a 
current of air downwardly from a fan or blower located 
above the creel stand. This approach is of little 
benefit, however, since the air flow merely temporarily 
displaces the fiber waste, and does not collect the 
same or prevent its migration to adjacent creel stands 
and/or knitting machines. It has also heretofore been proposed to 
enclose the creel stand by a hermetic covering, and to  
 
then collect the fiber waste by use of a motor driven 
fan and waste-collecting filters disposed within the 
hermetic covering. However, providing a hermetic 
covering is quite costly, and its presence complicates 
the knitting operation. Creel stands for knitting machines are 
provided in different shapes and sizes. For example, 
circular creel stands having an inner section that is 
substantially empty of bobbins and an outer section 
surrounding the inner section that supports and 
contains the bobbins are quite commonly used. 
Similarly, rectangular creel stands having multiple, 
juxtaposed creel sections are also frequently used. 
Co-pending application Serial No. 07/869,305, filed 
April 16, 1992, owned by the assignee of this 
application, discloses a fiber waste removal and 
collection system for circular creels. However, that 
system is not readily adaptable to rectangular creels 
having multiple, juxtaposed creel sections. The present invention provides a relatively 
simple and inexpensive apparatus particularly suited 
for efficiently removing and collecting fiber waste 
from a rectangular creel stand having multiple, 
juxtaposed creel sections, as a result of which the 
environment
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for removing and collecting 
fiber waste from a creel having multiple, juxtaposed 

sections for supporting and containing yarn bobbins, 
said apparatus comprising air suction and blowing means 

located at one end of the creel for blowing a first air 
stream across the top of the juxtaposed creel sections 

and for creating a suction to draw a second air stream 
across the bottom of said creel sections, filter means 

located in the second air stream between the bottom of 
said creel sections and said air suction and blowing 

means for filtering fiber waste from the second air 
stream, characterized in that air deflection means is 

located above the creel sections for deflecting the 
first air stream downwardly through the creel sections 

to said second air stream to remove fiber waste from 
said sections, means mounts said air deflection means 

for reciprocatory movement across the top of the creel 
sections, and means moves said air deflection means 

across the top of the creel sections to deflect the air 
stream sequentially into and through the creel 

sections. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 further 
characterized by duct means for confining and directing 

the first air stream across the top of the creel 
sections. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 including 
a bottom plenum mounted beneath the creel sections and 

defining a confined path of travel for the second air 
stream across the bottom of the creel sections. 
Apparatus according to Claim 3 wherein 
said bottom plenum includes at least one baffle mounted 

in said bottom plenum and extending longitudinally for 
a portion of the length thereof to provide laminar flow 

of the second air stream in said bottom plenum. 
Apparatus according to Claim 4 wherein 
said bottom plenum comprises a bottom wall and side 

walls extending upwardly from said bottom wall to 
define an open top plenum, said bottom plenum being 

open at one end which communicates with said air 

suction and blowing means, and wherein said at least 
one baffle extends horizontally, parallel to said 

bottom wall, but in spaced relation thereto, from said 
open one end of said bottom plenum toward the other end 

thereof for a predetermined distance less than the 
length of said bottom plenum. 
Apparatus according to Claim 5 wherein a 
plurality of baffles are mounted in spaced relation to 

said bottom wall and to each other, and wherein said 
plurality of baffles are of different lengths. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 
3-6 including second blower means connected to said 

bottom plenum at the other end of the creel from said 
air suction and blowing means for blowing air through 

said bottom plenum toward said air suction and blowing 
means. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein 
said air deflection means comprises at least one air 

deflection member vertically mounted in the top portion 
of the creel above the creel sections for blocking the 

first air stream and deflecting the first air stream 
downwardly into and through the creel section above 

which said air deflection member is positioned. 
Apparatus according to Claim 2 wherein 
said duct means comprises first and second duct means 

for dividing the first air stream into two separate air 
streams and for dividing the first air stream into two 

separate air streams and for directing the first of the 
 

two separate air streams into the top portion of one-half 
of the creel and for directing the second of the 

two separate air streams into the other half of the 
creel, and wherein said air deflection means comprises 

two spaced apart air deflection members, one mounted in 
the path of the first of the two air streams and the 

other mounted in the path of the second of the two 
separate air streams. 
Apparatus according to Claim 9 wherein 
said mounting means for said air deflection means 

comprises a carriage movably mounted on top of the 
creel and supporting said air deflection members 

therefrom. 
Apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein 
said means for moving said air deflection means 

comprises a sprocket chain mounted at its opposite ends 
by sprockets and connected to said carriage, and a 

drive motor connected to one of said sprockets for 
driving said sprocket chain. 
Apparatus for removing and collecting 
fiber waste from a creel having multiple, juxtaposed 

sections for supporting and containing yarn bobbins, 
said apparatus comprising air suction and blowing means 

located at one end of the creel for blowing a first air 
stream across the top of the juxtaposed creel sections 

and for creating a suction to draw a second air stream 
across the bottom of said creel sections, filter means 

located in the second air stream between the bottom of 
said creel sections and said air suction and blowing 

means for filtering fiber waste from the second air 
stream, characterized in that air deflection means are 

located above the creel sections for deflecting the 
first air stream downwardly through the creel sections 

to said second air stream to remove fiber waste from 
 

said sections, and bottom plenum means extend across 
the bottom of the creel sections and communicating with 

the bottoms of the creel sections and with said air 
suction and blowing means for confining the second air 

stream and directing the same across the bottom of the 
creel sections to said filter means. 
Apparatus according to Claim 12 
including second blower means connected to said bottom 

plenum means at the end of the creel opposite to said 
air suction and blowing means for blowing air along 

said bottom plenum means to assist said air suction and 
blowing means in creating the second air stream. 
Apparatus according to Claim 13 wherein 
said bottom plenum means includes baffle means for 

creating a laminar flow of air in the second air stream 
in said bottom plenum means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
