<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623264</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FULLY AUTOMATED RADIO AND TV PROGRAMME SELECTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H6004	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H60	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This System compiles different Radio or Television programme inputs. When the entertainment source begins to fade out, an information tape starts and is mixed over the entertainment input. After the actual end of the entertainment input its source will be stopped. When the information input is about to finish, the entertainment source starts and is mixed under the information. After the actual end of the information input its tape drive will be stopped. When the entertainment input ends again, the process as described above will be repeated. The order of various information inputs can be preprogrammed. The entertainment source can be any kind of signal source. Special provisions (such as a Music Play Back Counter) can be applied. The entertainment source can be controlled by Volume Level Indicators, Pilot Tones or External Commands. The whole System is protected against operational errors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a Fully Automated Radio and TV 
Programme Selection System. (Fully Automated Radio Disc 
Jockey System). A radio disc jockey selects and lines up a record then 
prepares for his next speech input. When the music comes to 
the fade out he switches the microphone on and makes his 
announcement. Shortly before ending he starts the next song 
and finishes the speech during the introduction of the 
current song. Again he has to select and prepare the next 
record. During this procedure, however, he faces a considerable 
amount of spare time. Moreover the actual choice of music 
lies often with another person, the programme producer. Radio programming systems have been invented to function 
automatically when live broadcasting cannot be scheduled. A system according to the preamble of Claim 1 which is 
described in GB,A,1 088 145 provides an alternate selection 
of music and commercial inputs from two different playback 
sources. The programme flow will be interrupted by dead air 
(no sound at all) between the various inputs because this 
system uses silence detectors as sole monitoring means. Most prior art systems do not safeguard against possibilities 
of "dead air" unless they are equipped with complicated 
feedback arrangements which restrict such systems to use only 
specially recorded tapes on expensive multitrack equipment. 
Another shortcoming of prior art systems is the inflexible 
choice of announcements, usually only restricted to a station 
ID. Another system of the above type is known from US,A,3 
896 490. Since only two sources may be activated alternately, those 
systems are not flexible in respect of programme structuring 
and source selection.  
 A system to overcome this disadvantage is known from DE,A,3 
836 597 which includes means for automatically initiating the 
selection and compiling of items in accordance with a preset 
programme schedule. A "schedule" would determine the exact 
running order of individual inputs. RCS Selector by Radio Computing Services New York is a 
software application assisting programme producers to design 
such schedule according to a programme policy by compiling 
manually inserted data about programme items and printing out 
a programme schedule according to certain user defined 
criteria, programme policy. There are no provisions made 
however to combine the RCS system with any of the 
aforementioned. Another shortcoming of the current state of art is that all 
but the first above mentioned systems require some form of 
operator
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System which is able to select, mix and crossfade 

different programme items such as music and information inputs 
which are stored on different playback sources characterised 

by 

a programme selector comprising means to compile items 
according to a user defined programme policy, 
whereby the programme selector contains a combination of 
different monitoring means which do not require any additional 

signal feedback from a music signal source to a controller of 
the system other than the actual recording of the music which 

is broadcast; and 
means to select different information items sorted by 
category, according to the specified policy. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 which comprises means to 

compile items according to a user defined programme policy 
without having prior data about the item itself, without a 

detailed programme schedule provided and without the item 
having specific characteristics such as pilot-tones. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System as claimed in Claim 1 wherein means are 

provided to compile music programmes which contain freely 
selectable speech / information inputs which will be selected 

from two or more independent play-back sources. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein the system 

contains a back up control to reset the whole Fully Automated 
Radio and Television Programme Selection System, should a 

fault occur, 

whereby this back up control monitors if a music / 
entertainment drive is in operation during the occurrence of 

dead air, in which case it will start the next music machine 
and rewind the tape which caused the fault, 
whereby, if the music drive is not in operation, the next 
lined up song will be started and any faulty speech drive will 

be reset and a new speech drive will be scheduled for the next 
information input. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein means are 

provided to monitor music inputs: either by an external 
controller, a pilot-tone decoder or 
volume-level-sensors
,
 
wherein this monitor facility will signal twice, once to 

indicate that the music is fading out and once to indicate the 
actual end of the music input. 
A Fully Automated Radio and TV Programme Selection System 
according to Claim 1 which is adaptable for use with a variety 

of readily available commercial hardware including tape 
drives, record players, CD-players which can either be 

controlled by a single relay or by separate Start / Stop 
relays, or by a Music Play Back Counter. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to
 Claim 5 wherein means are 
provided to playback a prepackaged programme thus overriding 

automated programming until the prepackaged programme has 
finished. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein a source input 

for a live-studio is provided. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein a Music Play 

Back Counter is provided 

to play a certain number of songs on each side of a 
tape, 
to rewind the tape to the beginning after playing a 
set amount of songs on the reverse side, 
to rewind the tape to the beginning after playing a 
set amount of songs on the first side of a tape provided the 

drive is in Single Direction Mode, 
to count songs even if a tape drive does not stop 
between songs / inputs. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein means are 

provided to rewind a source tape automatically after its 
programme input.  

 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein a special unit 

is provided to enable remotely controlled recordings with the 
same tape machine which is connected to the Fully Automated 

Radio and Television Programme Selection System, whereby this 
unit contains means to indicate when the relevant drive is 

available for recording and whereby this unit contains means 
to divert eventual playback commands to other drives, if 

recording is in progress. 
A Fully Automated Radio and Television Programme 
Selection System according to Claim 1 wherein a switch 

determines if a speech / information Drive will be played in 
a programmed order or if this drive may override the order by 

a remotely sent external signal or through a timer, to 
broadcast news on the full hour, in such a way that it will 

not override the current programme output immediately but will 
be scheduled as the next link input, after the end of the 

current song or, if currently a speech input is broadcast, 
after the following song. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
