<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647025</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Delay circuit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K513	H03K513	H03K190175	H03K190175	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K5	H03K5	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digitally adjustable time delay circuit which is able to precisely and 
selectively provide fine delay steps increments, which increments can be 

one nth of the delay time of one CMOS inverter, including means to adjust 
the total range of the delay and size of each delay step. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUO BIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUO, BIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of time delay circuits, 
preferably 
digitally controllable time delays having very high resolution. Synchronization and clock/data recovery operations and related phase 
and timing applications require timing adjustments after a timing or phase error 
is detected. Digital approaches are now starting to take the place of analog 
phase locked loop approaches for data recovery. Due to the advent of 
integrated circuit technology and especially the development of complimentary 
metal oxide silicon (CMOS), inexpensive all digital data recovery circuit are now 
possible. For example, the delay techniques are known which employ a long 
chain of single stage CMOS inverters wherein the delay of the single inverter 
gate is the minimum delay step and the total delay is controlled by selecting the 
length of the chain. As the requirement for increased frequency of data 
transmission advances, a need arises to meet timing requirements having finer 
timing resolution than the delay through a single CMOS inverter stage. 
Currently the smallest achievable inverter stage delay is in the range 
of a few 
hundred picoseconds. It is known that bias control of a gate will vary the propagation time 
through a single gate. This concept has been previously employed with analog 
control but requires expensive noise filtering. We will describe an all digital time delay circuit which does not 
require noise filtering; and provides 
finer delay resolution than is a available from a single stage so that  
 
the propagation delay of a single stage may be subdivided to provide delay 
increments which are a selectable fraction of the progation delay of a single 
stage. We will describe CMOS manufacturing processes and a 
CMOS circuit with a digitally controllable value of resistance and capacitance 
to provide predetermined steps in the fall time of the CMOS output responsive 
to a step input. The described circuit will provide fine delay steps in uniform 
increments. We will describe CMOS manufacturing processes to 
provide flexible designs which permit selection of minimum delay step size and 
total delay range by selection of the ratio of the channel width aspect ratio of 
one of the CMOS transistors. Fig. 1A is a schematic equivalent circuit of a circuit providing 
a preferred embodiment. Fig. 1 is the timing diagram for the circuit of Fig. 1A. Fig. 2 is the circuit of one embodiment of the invention. Fig. 3 is the timing diagram applicable to a circuit according to Fig. 2. Fig. 4 is a code
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A time delay circuit comprising; 
   a first pair of transistors connected as an 

inverter, each said transistor of said first pair of transistors having a gate, 
source and drain, wherein said gates are connected together and said drains 

are connected together, said first transistor having an 
intrinsic transit time delay equal to TD; 

   a digitally variable RC network coupled between the source 
of one of said first transistors and a first reference voltage, 

said digitally variable network including means to provide a first variable 
impedance having n selectable substantially equal increments of said first 

variable impedance in response to a digital code; and 
   a second pair of transistors having gates, 

sources and drains, said gates being connected together and said drains of 
said second pair of transistors being connected together, 

said gates of said second pair of transistor being connected 
to said drains of said first pair of transistors; 

   terminal means for receiving and coupling a pulse to be 
delayed to said common gate of said first pair of transistors, 

said common drain of said second pair of transistors, in 
operation, providing a selectably delayed copy of said pulse to be delayed, 

whereby said selectable delay is TD plus a selectable increment less than TD.. 
The circuit of Claim 1 wherein the number of said selectable delay 
values is n where each step is TD/n, and the total range is kTD where k is 

equal to or less than 1. 
The circuit of Claim 1 wherein said source of the other one of said 
 

first transistors is coupled to a second reference voltage and 
wherein said second reference voltage is at higher potential than said first 

reference voltage. 
The circuit of Claim 3 wherein said digitally variable RC network 
comprises a plurality of FET gates in parallel between said source of said one 

transistor and said first reference potential. 
The circuit of Claim 4 wherein said plurality of FET gates is equal 
to n, wherein n is the number of selectable delay value steps, wherein the total 

delay range possible is TD. 
The delay circuit of Claim 2 wherein said second 
pair of transistors has a trip voltage and wherein said trip voltage is 

adjustable and wherein when said trip voltage is decreased, the time delay 
corresponding to each step TD/n is increased. 
The delay circuit of Claim 2 wherein said second 
pair of transistors has a p-channel and wherein the total delay range of 

said circuit is adjustable by adjusting k, and where k equals the ratio of the 
resistance of the p-channel to the resistance of the n-channel. 
The delay circuit of Claim 7 wherein the ratio of the resistance of 
the p-channel to the resistance of the n-channel is determined by the ratio of 

width of the p-channel to the width of the n-channel. 
The delay circuit of Claim 6 wherein the said resistance of the p-channel 
is reduced by connecting additional p-channel MOS transistors in 

parallel with the p-channel of said second pair of transistors. 
A time delay circuit having a programmable range of time delay 
values comprising; 

   a first potential reference terminal;
 

   a first CMOS pair of transistors, each said transistor of said 
pair having a gate, source and drain, each said gate being connected together 

and said drain being connected together; 
   a digitally selectable impedance, said digitally selectable 

impedance being connected between said source of one of said pair of 
transistors of said first CMOS of transistors and said first potential 

reference terminal; 
   a second CMOS pair of transistors having p-channel and 

n-channel transistors coupled together, each said transistor of said second 
CMOS pair having a gate, source and drain, each said gate being connected 

together and said drain of said second CMOS pair being connected together 
and where said gate of said second CMOS pair is coupled to said drain of said 

first CMOS pair; 
   a second reference terminal; 

   a plurality of parallel p-channel MOSFET transistors having 
source, drain and gates, wherein each said drain of said plurality of parallel p-channel 

MOSFET are connected to said drain electrode of said second CMOS 
pair of transistors; and 

   means for switching, said gates of said plurality of parallel 
p-channel MOSFETs being connected to said means for switching, said switch 

being able to selectively connect each said gate of said plurality of parallel p-channel 
MOSFETs to said common drain connection of 
said second CMOS 
pair of transistors. 
A time delay circuit having a programmable range of time delay 
values comprising; 

   a first potential reference terminal;
 

   a first CMOS pair of transistors, each said transistor of said 
pair having a gate, source and drain, each said gate being connected together 

and said drain being connected together; 
   a first digitally selectable impedance, said first digitally 

selectable impedance being connected between said source of one of said pair 
of transistors of said first CMOS pair of transistors and said first potential 

reference terminal; 
   a second CMOS pair of transistors having p-channel and 

n-channel transistors coupled together, each said transistor of said second 
CMOS pair having a gate, source and drain, each said gate and drain of said 

second CMOS pair being connected together and wherein said gate of said 
second CMOS pair is coupled to said drain of said first CMOS pair; 

   a second digitally selectable impedance, said second 
digitally selectable impedance being connected between the drains of said 

second CMOS pair of transistors and said second reference terminal; and 
   means for controlling said second digitally selectable 

impedance being a circuit which is programmable. 
The delay circuit of any of claims 1 to 10 wherein each 
of said transistors is a CMOS field effect transistor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
